-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unreal Tournament
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/unrealtournament/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 9.4, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 4,964 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Epic Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 30, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unreal Tournament is the most complete first-person shooter available. 

 When Unreal was released back in May of 1998, it turned a lot of heads. But while the game delivered 
 the most immersive and interesting single-player shooter for its time, the multiplayer game was 
 very weak in comparison. The weapons never really seemed to pack a punch. The deathmatch maps were 
 hit and miss. The performance of Internet games took months of patching before it was acceptable, 
 but by the time that happened, most people had already moved on to bigger and better games. In 
 contrast, Unreal Tournament goes in a new direction for the first-person shooter genre by stripping 
 away anything that resembles a single-player adventure mode, and instead, it strictly focuses on 
 the more popular multiplayer aspects of the genre.  

 Rather than spend development time working on a cohesive single-player scenario that most players 
 will only play through once or twice, Epic Games used that same time to refine the multiplayer 
 game. Consequently, the only single-player mode available serves as training for multiplayer matches 
 by pitting you against computer-controlled bots. The bots have good, adjustable artificial-intelligence 
 settings, which let you tailor the game's difficulty to your own personal skill level. On the lowest 
 setting, anyone should be able to defeat the bots with little or no hassle, but once you bump up 
 the difficulty, you'll have an actual challenge on your hands.  

 The single-player mode will also teach you the basics about each different type of game contained 
 in Unreal Tournament. Of course, deathmatch is the old standard free-for-all battle. Capture the 
 flag, the quintessential first-person-shooter team game, is also included. Domination is a different 
 type of team game. Each Domination level has three control points; when you touch a control point, 
 you claim it for your team. The longer you hold a control point, the more points your team scores. 
 So you duke it out to see who can hold the control points the longest. Assault is yet another new 
 team game in which one team plays offense, and the other defends a base. Each map has a different 
 set of offensive objectives (push the button at the front of the train, destroy four computers, 
 and so forth) . If the offensive team completes its mission, the two teams switch sides, and the 
 new offensive team must complete the same objectives in the same amount of time it took the first 
 team to succeed. The selection of weapons in Unreal Tournament is mostly taken from Unreal, but 
 the weapons have all been redesigned to look and sound much better. The new weapons include the 
 impact hammer, which is more or less a portable pneumatic piston that you can use as a last resort 
 when the rest of your weapons are empty. The pulse gun fires small energy shots in its primary 
 mode, but the secondary fire spits out a rail of energy that you can sweep around, like Quake's 
 lightning gun. The redeemer is essentially a portable nuclear missile; the primary fire mode shoots 
 it in a straight line, but the secondary mode switches to a really great-looking guided-missile 
 view that lets you target foes from across the level. The nice thing about the game's weapons is 
 that they seem really well balanced. There isn't a single weapon that causes you to run away in 
 fear when you see it in your opponent's hands. The weapons may seem a little alien to players used 
 to other first-person shooters, but once you get a feel for how each weapon operates, using them 
 becomes second nature.  

 As good as the original Unreal looked, Unreal Tournament looks even better. The character models 
 and skins look excellent, and there are quite a few choices to make when designing your character. 
 First, you'll choose a model, then a skin, and then you'll have a choice of which face to put on 
 the model. The textures throughout the game look great, and the levels that have backgrounds look 
 especially amazing. HyperBlast, the final level in the single-player game, is a good example: It 
 takes place on a speeding starship. Stop to look out a window and you'll see stars zooming by. 
 Hop out of the ship and run around on its roof and you'll be able to see other nearby ships keeping 
 pace with you as you fly through space. Unreal Tournament has consistently ambitious level design 
 throughout, and the entire game benefits from it. The levels feel less like simple first-person 
 shooter maps and more like actual locations, such as starships, old mining facilities, and temples. 
 The game's music lends some atmosphere to the proceedings, but it never overshadows the crucial 
 sound effects you'll need to hear to keep tabs on what items your opponents are picking up.  

 
 The first-person shooter genre is fiercely competitive. But Unreal Tournament rises above the rest 
 with its solid multiplayer performance, from its good weapon balance to its great level design. 
 The numerous game types and mini-mods that ship with the game give you plenty of options right 
 out of the box, and the large variety of great maps ensure a fast-paced and exciting game, no matter 
 how many players you've got. Even considering its lack of a solid single-player adventure, Unreal 
 Tournament is the most complete first-person shooter available.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (125 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DukeMorpheus
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 3:11 am PT
Review:  I've played many games over the years, and next to Dune 2 and X-Wing, UT99 is still on my hard 
 disk. It's one of the games I would pick up if I had to spend time on an island.
  
  By modern standards it looks a bit dated, but so do Dune 2 and X-Wing. It's the gameplay that I 
 find to be unbeatable by any other FPS game. Loads of user made maps and mods to choose from. Some 
 mutators are really sick. My favourites have always been the Strangelove Redeemer and the Crotch 
 Shot ones. Yeah the last one sounds nasty and it is, but it's great fun and a nice addition to 
 the gore which the game already has.
  
  The follow ups of this game are, apart from the cartoony UT2004, not that great. UT2003 could have 
 been skipped, and UT3 doesn't really give me the UT99 feeling either. I've played this game from 
 day 1, and it will remain on my hard disk for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I was streaking across the map with my guns blazing. The two pistols I had picked up by my base 
 back home were doing rather nicely, and they were mutilating every Red Commie son of a biscuit 
 that passed my path. A beeline for the red base... it was the only way.
  
  I picked up a barrel o' health on my way through the volcano (this was CTF-Lava, for those who 
 don't know already) and emerged from the caves undaunted by the mass of red-teamed jerkfaces that 
 were waiting on the defense. I pressed the automagic "swear" button that every Unreal game has 
 (manually mapped not only to P, but Q, Y and B as well) a few times, just to make sure they new 
 not only my attitude, but also my location. It was go time.
  
  I ran forth, spouting prerecorded unspeakables nearly at the rate my bullets left their chambers. 
 Two enemies dropped down within a few seconds, but there were a few more veterans closing in that 
 had obviously remembered the armor the newbies had neglected. Thankfully, their dead bodies offered 
 ammo aplenty for the battle; I grabbed a razor-disc launcher and aimed for the neck  an automatic 
 KO on contact.
  
  After a healthy beheading or two, I dashed past the last batch of reds and ran around the side 
 of the red base, which was incidentally a large castle, hiding within its depths a nefarious purpose 
 of some sort. Regardless of the fact that the base was identical to my own back on the blue side 
 of the map, I spun around as if I didn't know where I was going, aimed my cursor at thin air, and 
 watched as the stalkers turned around the corner. The air was hot with the battle, but I remained 
 relatively, and miraculously, unscathed as they walked into my trap unwillingly.
  
  I darted around the side of the castle and into the front door, running up the fort's ramp and 
 grabbing the glowing red flag. What gloriousness is there today! And yet... something was not right. 
 I had killed six reds, and yet none of them had bothered with me within their own base.
  
  There he was, below the ramp. He stood with the single-player unlockable skin "Xan," which meant 
 this man was here to tussle. Or he had very poor taste in skins. Either way.
  
  He reloaded without moving. Watching me.
  
  I looked around for something; anything that could 
 help me in this fight. And there they were; a pair of moon-boots (or whatever the heck they're 
 called) at a thirty-degree angle from my position. Right behind that Xan jerk, too. Well, we have 
 to make sacrifices sometimes, for the good of the flag. I looked straight into Xan's eyes, and 
 I knew both of us were prepared to go down.
  
  I ran. No, I didn't run, I flew, pounding bullet after disc after grenade at this guy. He just 
 wouldn't die. He was dodging and picking up all kinds of nonsense lying around the base as he moved 
 in an arc around my location. His accuracy was no better than mine, but he had the means to kill 
 me if I did not reach that pair of moon-boots.
  
  I grabbed them, and I pressed the space-bar madly.
  
  I can fly!
  
  "He can fly?" demanded 
 the Xan character madly. He ripped out a rocket launcher and flung the projectiles at me, and I 
 twirled around in midair as the moon-boots propelled me over the fort's walls.
  
  He dashed up the nearby stairs and leaped down the walls, still fending off my barrage of bullets. 
 There was only one way to end this, I knew. Only one way out.
  
  I ran down to the lower ramp of the volcano level, knowing that the Redeemer lay in wait for me. 
 I only had two more jumps left in my moon-boots, so I had to use them well. I found the path  
 and there it was, the redeemer, sitting for any old bot to come along and take its prize.
  
  I grabbed the monstrosity, and turned around to watch Xan walk in calmly after me, his rocket 
 launcher still aglow. I couldn't fire the Redeemer in here; the shot would kill me and everyone 
 in the volcano as well.
  
  I dashed out of the case, into blue territory, and he still did not stop. So once in open air, 
 I calmly faced him and pressed the swear button once more.
  
  "You fight like Nali," my character uttered, and I pressed the space bar.
  
  I bounced up on 
 another ledge, and then fired, and pressed the space bar again. The redeemer missile hit Xan right 
 in the face, just as I climbed up onto the upper levels of the volcano. The splatter was enough 
 for me, I decided, to claim my victory.
  
  There I saw a few blue teammates milling about on the top of the ledge, and I began to wonder what 
 they had been doing all this time. Then I saw the sniper rifles, and I knew  they had drawn off 
 the blue team while I was in their base. I thanked them silently by turning around and heading 
 back to the blue base, the flag in my hand.
  
  Unreal Tournament is old, crusty, and dated. But I'll be damned if it isn't worth every dollar 
 I spent on it again on GOG. com, and I'll tell you why: while Unreal Tournament 2004 may have supplanted 
 the rest of the series with intricate and complex fights and pretty graphics, there is no game 
 that will ever stand up to the power of Unreal Tournament Original in Deathmatch and Capture the 
 Flag.
  
  The reason harks back to the Quake days, and even the Doom and Wolfenstein 3D era: the concept 
 of feeling overpowered, just like everyone else. UT was aided by an ingenious design that was simple 
 and unadulterated, yet still felt so good. Every weapon felt like its own little game in and of 
 itself, with primary and secondary fire modes and different functions they each possessed. While 
 guns have been getting physically more and more interesting and intricate on the screen of shooters 
 everywhere, I've never felt a gun that has felt more right in my virtual hands than the set that 
 UT Original gave me.
  
  These unquantifiable measures of quality are an indicator of how deeply satisfying Unreal Tournament 
 has always been throughout the entire series  one of my greatest complements of the 2004 version 
 is that it never bothers to interrupt the action to reward the player, because the gameplay is 
 reward enough. The entire game is balanced, but it's like turning up every frequency on in equalizer; 
 everything is much louder and in the end more enjoyable. Having five players alone makes a party; 
 sixteen locked in a Deck16 deathmatch is simply divine. That's not adding in the customization 
 elements  imagine how epic the above battle would have been if there was low gravity and automatic 
 moon-boots for everyone. Hooked yet?
  
  The biggest problem for Blizzard is that they've been having to find ways to "upgrade" the Diablo 
 idea, which is an issue alone. If you started adding layers and complications onto the mess, is 
 it still the Diablo game anymore? Unreal Tournament is like this; when games are attempting to 
 make their Capture the Flag modes more and more convoluted and complicated, it's good to go back 
 to the past, where there were ten guns and they all acted as they used to. Especially the Redeemer. 
 I'm a simple gamer with simple needs, yes, and sometimes I don't need anything but a few good bots 
 and a great map (CTF-FACE) to get me through a tough day.
  
  That's what I like about Unreal Tournament; it's over the top, balanced, and yet refined and untouched. 
 The mass market appeal hasn't corrupted this one as it might have done with Unreal Tournament III 
 as the fans may claim (I wouldn't know, I haven't bothered  this game alone is enough) , it's simple, 
 yet hard to master in the ways the best games are. It's filled with excellent, intricate maps that 
 still entertain me to this day, and a fair set of graphics that walk the line between bleeding 
 eyes and reasonable system requirements, which make everyone happy, I suppose.
  
  A shorter story to leave you with, I suppose.
  
  The leader of the board was running amok, 
 and I saw him pass below me as I stood on the rail above.
  
  "Something needs to be done about him," I intoned to my monitor, which thankfully did not intone 
 back.
  
  So, I stepped off the ledge and fired straight down, splitting his skull open and landing in his 
 bounding gibs and guts. The perfect end to the perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 4:39 am PT
Review:  I was initially unsure about getting this game, as I'm more of a single-player gamer, but I ended 
 up with it as part of an Unreal boxset. I'm glad I got it though, as even 10 years on, I've yet 
 to play another FPS that's so relentlessly entertaining.
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Brutality: Most FPS games are fairly violent, but I've never played one that was quite as savage 
 as this: so much as touch an enemy, and you'll send giblets flying! More than just the gore though, 
 you really do feel the power of your weapons and their effects on others, which is always a plus.
 
  
  + AI: This game set the standard for AI, and you can customise the bots to be anything from confused 
 idiots to merciless killers. They can reliably take orders from you and show a good degree of strategic 
 sense: much like me, you can never play it online and you'll still have a brilliant time.
  
  + Content: There's such a massive amount of maps, game modes and mutators, that you can play 
 it for years on end and you'll never be stumped for things to try. And that's not even mentioning 
 the community content available online...
  
  + Imagination: Some of the level designs and weapons were really novel at the time, and still hold 
 up well today: the variety on offer is unparalleled.
  
  + Feel: There's just something about the movement, speed and action in this game that feels perfect 
 and cohesive, and no other FPS has achieved it quite like Unreal Tournament.
  
  + Weapons: The weapons (admittedly largely unchanged from Unreal) were pretty original and innovative 
 for the time, especially with their alternate firing modes; but they are also the best balanced 
 set of weapons I can think of in a game like this. Of course you'll do better with the top few 
 guns, but you'll always feel like you have a fair chance of killing your opponents, no matter what 
 you're carrying.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Bitty Experience: The game was built with multiplayer firmly in mind, and from this standpoint 
 it works perfectly. However, it does make it slightly bitty in single-player, essentially progressing 
 between endless unconnected games, with no particular ultimate goal apart from being the Grand 
 Champion.
  
  - Longveity: While it's still massively playable and will keep you occupied for a huge amount of 
 time, eventually the lack of story and immersive experience will mean there's little to return 
 for. You'll have to truly play it to death before that happens though...
  
  ~
  
  This would definitely be one of my 'desert island' games - it just feels right viscerating your 
 opponents with a flak cannon while leaping across the hull of a spaceship in zero gravity. The 
 gameplay is as perfect as a FPS can ever achieve, and only the lack of some kind of immersive story 
 mode for single player holds it back from perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is a shooter you will never forget by the time you play it, due to its features 
 and other factors which make it a unique FPS. And as it title says, the game focuses on multiplayer 
 action.
  
  There is not such emphasis on the single-player mode. In fact, there is no need to even look at 
 it, on condition that you are familiarized enough to play the multiplayer. But for the newbies, 
 these scenarios work like a training mode, where you will learn every aspect and secret of shooting 
 games. Furthermore, the difficulty of the game can be set, and indeed there is much difference 
 between low and high difficulty levels, a factor which makes the game very realistic.
  
  Both in single-player and multiplayer modes, there are different types of battles. The player can 
 participate in a Deathmatch, which is the old and classic battle where everyone fights for himself, 
 or in a team battle where two teams fight each other. There are also modes like Capture the Flag 
 and Domination mode, which give the player a fantastic variety to play in reasonably good battle 
 modes.
  
  Another interesting thing to mention about the game is the very good and customizable weapons you 
 can use. in Unreal Tournament, the weapons not only look and sound better, but they also perform 
 better and more realistic than almost every other FPS game. There is also a great balance between 
 the weapons: none of them is amazing or useless. Of course in the beginning you may face problems 
 using these weapons, but after a while there will be no problem.
  
  Unreal Tournament also offers great graphics and visual effects, detailing every environment and 
 character to the maximum level, while there is no problem with the system requirements nowadays, 
 so you can see the game at its best. And the music of the game gives you inspiration and rythms 
 your play.
  
  Unreal Tournament is a game different from the ones of its genre, perhaps due to its perfect performance 
 which gives you a great time, if not total satisfaction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: utdagny
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  
  Unreal Tournament (also known as UT99 or UT-GOTY -- Game of the Year Edition) is the greatest online 
 multiplayer FPS game of all time. As evidence, enthusiastic players have taken it upon themselves 
 to create tens of thousands of custom maps and mods.
  
  At one time, it was possible to find over 3000 people playing Capture-the-Flag 24/7. The game also 
 had an extensive and active clan scene with competitive ladders and numerous communities and discussion 
 forums, often centering around servers, sprang up.
  
  Sadly, this name never received a proper sequel. UT 2004 is a good game in its own right, but because 
 the movement is floaty-dodgy, creating an emphasis on hitscan ability, ti's just not as good as 
 the Original. UT3 has a good feel to its movement and the game play itself isn't too bad (though 
 not perfect) but, sadly, everything surrounding the game play was heavily consolized, especially 
 the pathetic user interface.
  
  Anyway, the Original Unreal Tournament was a spectacular and very special game and IMHO the best 
 computer game of all time. It was released at a time when the Internet was still coming to fruition 
 and when people were just discovering the potential of the Internet to serve as a vehicle for online 
 multiplayer gaming. UT99 will always hold a special place in my heart and the years after its release 
 were an amazing time to be a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament was a game that came free on a disc and I used to play this for a while on my 
 parents new computer. Its an amazing engine coming from quake (but with a redesigned graphics engine) 
 Smoother than Quake, Speedier than Quake and you can see further than in Quake. The difference 
 too is that whilst quake had single and multiplayer. Unreal tournament was only a multi player 
 combat game. First person Perspective shoot em up with the option to play against CPUs but essential 
 nothing more than an arena full of combatants. The idea was complex, the gameplay was simple. It 
 was a great game that was spawned from Unreal, and lead to other Unreal games being released.
 
  I enjoyed the playing through the tournament. Arming up and employing different tactics to coherse 
 the enemy out or to just go in fighting. 
  There was no real looking after your team mates in the CPU action, it was just if they suffered 
 you played harder and sharper.
  The multiplayer games were interesting and good fun often being hampered by the "tactics" of a 
 few but the general polulace of Unreal Tournament knew what a real scrap was about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Hello ladies and germs. Your king of review is back in full force with a game so addicting you 
 will find yourself halucinating and filling out divorce papers. In all seriousness this game is 
 absolutely beautiful. Not to mention this is truly one of my favorite games and series that ive 
 played. I remember when this game first was released. I was very impressed however I felt as if 
 though it was trying to knock off of quake 3 arena. 
  
  Now this game is truly wonderful and offers many hours of murder and mayhem. Its just that it is 
 not the best on the market. It is the second best. Wether or not you agree with me is your own 
 problem. I still entered and won many tournaments through this game so I know what im talking about. 
 This game is second best because quake 3 arena for the pc is the top dog. This game however to 
 its credit is one of the only games that couldve stood up to quake at that time as many other knock 
 offs were thrown under the bridge with the police unable to identify the disk.
  
  Honestly you need to get this game. Even now that it has been so long. It is still highly addictive 
 and fun. I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  UT is a good game, but now, it is not worth your time, because, there are way better UT games out 
 there, and not a lot of people play this game.
  
  You basically get into these intense online battles, and play a couple of game modes. There is 
 a bot mode, but that is no fun. The multi player can be fun, but it takes a little while to get 
 use to the weapons. The weapons can be hard to use at first, if you have played other UT games. 
 There is also not a lot of people that play this game.
  
  The graphics look good, for 1999. NOw they look terrible, but back then they looked pretty good.
 
  
  The sound is good, but it does sound funny now compared to other games.
  
  Over all, if you want to play a UT game, then pick up UT 2004 or UT 3. You may want to skip this 
 one, unless you like the old UT games, then this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAL0030
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is a defining moment in PC FPS gaming. Has the lot when it comes to modes, bots, 
 skins, maps, addons as well as great sound and graphics. Unreal Tournament has a single player 
 campaign and multiplayer which can be single player. There are modes like 'Capture the Flag', 'Deathmatch', 
 'Team Deathmatch', 'Assault' and many more (with addons) . Configuring the game modes and limits 
 also makes for entertaining time wasting.
  
  The game not only has AI in the game which is highly intelligent but it also has incredible visuals 
 (textures, graphics and explosions) , sound and design. There are an enormous amount of maps and 
 styles for which to entertain you every need. You can also make your own maps and edit other maps. 
 You can have over 15 players in makes which makes great assaults and CTF battles. Non-stop, heart 
 pounding action is what you can say describes a lot of the epic fights you can have (and also tag-teaming 
 can be fun) .
  
  The story is unique in its own right and it is great when you play old foes again in the Tournament. 
 Weapons are great and so is the sound track to the game. Difficulty ranges, but it has a difficulty 
 ('godlike') which is highly hard to beat. Unreal Tournament is definitely up there with great Multiplayer 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedre123
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the original halo it comes and truly originates this genre and is the best at the time. 
 also one of the truly great things is the originality of the whole thing like the weapons, like 
 the goop gun is soooooo great i dont even know if it is a good gun but its cool and thoughtful 
 and original like no other the game is soooo cool this is a really really great game that paved 
 the way for all the games in that genre i mean today there are so many of that type of game now 
 like literally every game you find now a days has to do with war and most of those have to do with 
 future war like halo sooooooooo sooooooooo sooooooo soooooooooooo soooooooooooooo soooooooooooo 
 soooooooooo soooooooooooooooo sooooooooooooo sooooooooo soooooooo this is a great game for its 
 genre and time and it is very very good value because it is now old 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucianu
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  well, i've played Counter-Strike, it suckes bigtime, and i've played Diablo II online, good fun, 
 gets booring after a few hours... and a LOT of online games.... but i can onestly say that Unreal 
 Tournament may not have good graphics in the present (but they dont look that bad, they look VERY 
 cool) but it is one of the most action packed games that i have ever played.. okei, the singleplayer 
 is great and if u dont have an internet connection, u can play the single mode a lot of hours, 
 there r a lot of modes, deathmach, capture the flag, domination, and some other i cant really remember 
 :P ^^, there really fun, there IS a story in the game, u can find that out wen your playng, and 
 overall the singleplayer mode is GREAT! and now for the multiplayer mode, well.... i've only played 
 it for like 1 hour, but... ITS VERY FUN!, omg, its so great, i think i'm gonna play it for a long 
 time now :D ^^ , i dont care about the graphics, ofc the graphics is not as great as Crysis LOL, 
 but there were the best back in 99', and still look prety good... i've played UT2003 and UT2004.. those 
 games r prety great and down right FUN, but i dunno, UT 1 has a diferent atmosphere to it, but 
 still... 
  
  9/10 sounds and music (very good sounds and music)
  10/10 gameplay ( incredible FUN, very addictive, in singleplayer or multiplayer )
  8/10 graphics 
 ( does NOT look bad at all)
  overall: great game, great fun, a LOT (i mean a LOT) of servers online whit a lot of players, so 
 i dont think u will ever get boored of the multiplayer, and there r a lot of maps to ... peace! 
 :D: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leofiregod
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Back when this game came out it was the first online multiplayer game that I ever played. For that 
 reason it'll always be dear to me. That and the fact that the game is really awesome. My roommates 
 all had the game and they'd network the computers throughout the house so all four of us could 
 all play each other. They gave me a little time to design my character from the many skins and 
 faces that the game offers and play the single person mode long enough to get the feel for the 
 controls and the game play which was simple enough. Then they'd use me for target practice for 
 a while. They'd all gang up on me since4 i was the new guy, but that just made me better in the 
 end. then we all started getting online and playing against other teams in the several different 
 multiplayer options that were offered. The best of which is capture the flag. You and your team 
 set out to take the other teams flag from their base and bring it back to yours. There is no telling 
 how many hours each night we'd sit and play this.
  
  There is a wide variety of weapons to choose from. Several of which have secondary fire to them. 
 
  
  The great character graphics, the scenery, the multitude of weaponry and many other people to play 
 with all made this game so fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This is about the best multiplayer game ever. Among FPS games it simple blew the genre and competition 
 away.
  It's singleplayer has NO story whatsoever and is not supposed to. Its merely practice for you when 
 you go up against other human players. Thats where the game gets fun. With such complex yet flowing 
 maps, players blast through corridoors and outdoor settings pumelling enemies with firepower that 
 leaves you shaking.
  The guns have an excellent balance providing powerful weapons for the more less skilled players, 
 like the Flak Cannon or Rocket Launcher and much more difficult to use but devastating guns like 
 the Bio Rifle and Shock Rifle.
  The cast array of game types brings a good mix of gameplay, each different from the other. You 
 could pit your team of friends against another human team or custom build a devastating unit of 
 bots to challenge the best FPS players around the world.
  The addition of mods like the Rocket Arena, Insta-gib etc. force players to use the cover accordingly. 
 For example, when facing a sniper or insta gib, a little shuffle left right is more than enough 
 to avoid damage. But if you are staring down the barrel of a Flak Canon with an enforcer (pistol) 
 in hand, RUN!!!
  This is a multiplayer game that has to be part of every gamer's collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkplayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Unreal is and always will be synonymous to incredible multiplayer and this is due to Unreal Tournament, 
 the incredible game that started the series. Ironically though what made this game great wasn't 
 its multiplayer, it was the single player. When Unreal Tournament was released it was the first 
 game to feature the single player campaign by turning it into a multiplayer campaign. A shootout 
 between you and the bots, which were completely adjustable difficulty wise, both of which were 
 firsts. No game prior to Unreal Tournament had bots emulating human players in this way, thats 
 what made Unreal unique and that is what the game was known for. Additionally Unreal Tournament 
 also featured some of the best graphics ever seen on the PC at the time of its release, Unreal 
 Tournament had truly jaw dropping visuals however the hardware requirements were quite steep but 
 it was a step many were willing to go through to get to play this great game. This game was beyond 
 addictive when it was out, people played literally millions of matches online and off and they 
 couldn't get enough, the games visuals, incredible selection of unique weapons and fun multiplayer 
 online or off kept people playing for years after the game came out. 
  
  Unreal Tournament without a doubt changed the FPS genre in drastic ways, in fact Unreal was so 
 successful that the new Unreal games Unreal 2007 and Unreal 3 are basically the same game to the 
 original Unreal Tournament, except for the technological upgrades of course. Few games have done 
 for the FPS what Unreal Tournament has, others that come to mind are Doom, Wolfenstein and Quake 
 and that is some company to be in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aroonie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  This is about the best multiplayer game ever. Among FPS games it simple blew the genre and competition 
 away.
  It's singleplayer has NO story whatsoever and is not supposed to. Its merely practice for you when 
 you go up against other human players. Thats where the game gets fun. With such complex yet flowing 
 maps, players blast through corridoors and outdoor settings pumelling enemies with firepower that 
 leaves you shaking.
  The guns have an excellent balance providing powerful weapons for the more less skilled players, 
 like the Flak Cannon or Rocket Launcher and much more difficult to use but devastating guns like 
 the Bio Rifle and Shock Rifle.
  The cast array of game types brings a good mix of gameplay, each different from the other. You 
 could pit your team of friends against another human team or custom build a devastating unit of 
 bots to challenge the best FPS players around the world.
  The addition of mods like the Rocket Arena, Insta-gib etc. force players to use the cover accordingly. 
 For example, when facing a sniper or insta gib, a little shuffle left right is more than enough 
 to avoid damage. But if you are staring down the barrel of a Flak Canon with an enforcer (pistol) 
 in hand, RUN!!!
  This is a multiplayer game that has to be part of every gamer's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alext_b
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  This game is a classic. A must for FPS lovers. Released in 2000, it was the newest and best FPS. 
 Since then many new FPSs have come out but this game still retains its edge.
  With a total of 8 different skill levels, the game has a pretty satisfying campaign mode for newbies 
 as well as UT veterans. Even after completing the campaign, the game offers excellent gameplay 
 that could keep you playing this game for almost forever. The 'practice session' mode allows you 
 to customize the bots' strengths and weaknesses as well as their playing styles, allowing to develop 
 your skill along certain lines, concentrating on your weaknesses or simply for amusement.
  If you don't appreciate bot AI, you could try playing this game online. Despite the oldness of 
 this game, the servers are still highly populated, giving you a great choice or games. 
  Many mods/maps are also available for this game, some official, others fan-made, which make this 
 game worth playing even today.
  Modern-day cutting edge graphics may be absent, but you won't have much time to think about graphics 
 with the high-speed gameplay. You may also be pleased to know that you don't need NASA equipment 
 to run this game at high settings.
  The soundtrack of the game also adds decent excitement to the fast and furious gameplay.
  All 
 pros and cons considered, this game is certainly a worthy buy, despite the old release date. FPS 
 lovers, if you haven't got this game yet, get it as ASAP. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_killer_man
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game on PC and wish my PC could keep on playing it but it wasn't that kinda of 
 pc and it ate up my resources! never the less I had lots of fun playing this game! 
  Sound was great! You could hear the steps and they were on que most of the time! The people voices 
 sounded different from other races and so did the guns.
  Gameplay was great if you had a fast pc that could keep up the action and the game. It looked great. 
 No spots or slowness unless of course you had a crappy pc like me. You have a lot of things to 
 get invloved in like Capture the flag and defend the base just to name a couple. The guns are unreal! 
 My favorate is the Redeemer or Warhead Launcher!
  Cheaters will be happy because you can put in cheats and fly around, but you can also be telefragged! 
 This sucks as to when in Ghost mode you are invincible to bullets and the like up until you get 
 telefragged. That's when the game goes crazy! Unlimited ammo is my fav! Online is so bad if only 
 I could've played someone. I just managed to download some more platforms which were fun to play 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zubidoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest - I re-installed Unreal Tournament a couple days ago with very low expectations. 
 I remember that I had played it almost religiously when it came out, but that was almost 9 years 
 ago! Certainly Half-Life and Quake (both released around the same time) are still amazing today, 
 but I was curious to see how well Unreal Tournament would hold up today with games like Halo and 
 Half-Life 2 dominating the market. Needless to say, the result was way better than I expected - 
 to think that a game so old would still be so fun to play online is pretty crazy. If you think 
 Halo has the best deathmatch or capture-the-flag around, you have clearly never played Unreal Tournament.
 
  
  Just looking at the old screenshots here on Gamespot for UT, I wasn't expecting much out of the 
 game's graphics engine. Considering it came out in 1999 you couldn't ask for more than the visual 
 quality of the original Half-Life with some slightly better graphics. While this is kind've the 
 case (with some levels that look way better than others) , some of the graphics are even better 
 than most games I have played today. The best example I could give here is to check out CTF_Face 
 and NOT be impressed. I remember being incredibly wowed at the space environment within which both 
 teams played capture the flag, but 9 years later it still looks just as awe-inspiring. The level 
 actually rotates in space, and the huge 3D planet and asteroid art is simply a sight to behold. 
 This is easily the best-looking level in the game, and although the rest of the levels don't look 
 AS good they are all a blast to play in for the most part. Another shining example of just how 
 well Epic used their engine is the intro *video* (with in-game graphics) that is essentially a 
 camera that moves through a futuristic city and has a voiceover talking about how Unreal Tournament 
 started in the UT universe. It just somehow manages to look as cool today as it did in 1999. The 
 greatest part about the graphics, though, is the consistently great and clearly inspired art direction. 
 Despite their low polygon counts and slightly blurry textures, ALL of the guns and their corresponding 
 effects just LOOK amazing. They are seriously some of the best designed weapons EVER, if not THE 
 best. Add to this the fact that they are all pretty original in design and use (i. e. what they 
 actually do is pretty unique for the most part. Even the sniper rifle, which is a standard for 
 FPS games, is just way more fun to use than in 99% of shooters I've played) . There is absolutely 
 nothing in this game that doesn't look great, even from a 2007 perspective. These graphics are 
 like the online FPS equivalent of a Mario game (that is, they are timeless) .
  
  Obviously, being a multiplayer only title (not counting playing with bots which includes the singleplayer 
 tournament mode) , the gameplay NEEDS to be good, and UT delivers in spades. EVERY gun is just a 
 blast to use. To start, it needs to be said that, no matter what you have equipped, you will always 
 move at the same speed. This is a seemingly minor thing to point out, but it really helps make 
 the action more enjoyable and fast-paced. Anyways - you start off with a pistol that you can shoot 
 regularly or sideways like a gangster, and you can actually get another pistol and dual-wield them. 
 You also start with a teleporter device that shoots a pod into the air, and when you right click 
 it you are teleported to wherever it landed. If an enemy happens to step on the pod when you teleport, 
 he dies, but its' main use is to scale walls or move faster. You have your sniper rifle which is 
 self-explanatory, but it is easily the most satisfying sniper rifle in any online shooter I've 
 ever played. Hearing *headshot* after a well-placed sniper shot is simply awesome. Then there is 
 the railgun which fires, well, a line of energy that travels at a certain speed. It's alternate 
 fire mode is a ball of energy that, if you shoot it with its primary fire mode, will explode and 
 instantly kill an enemy (although the ball by itself will do damage too) . There is a bio-cannon 
 that spews toxic waste that can make a dangerous toxic pool on the ground (walking on it will hurt 
 you) . The flak cannon makes a return from the original Unreal, and it either shoots, well, flak 
 or it can double as a grenade launcher. There is an auto-plasma rifle that fires slow-moving plasma 
 projectiles, and its secondary fire is a green laser that projects itself out in front of you (the 
 laser moves when you move - it's not a projectile) . You have the rocket launcher which doubles 
 as a grenade launcher for its alternate fire, and if you hold either button long enough you can 
 fire X amount of rockets or grenades (up to a certain amount) . The melee weapon you can get is 
 pretty lame comparatively, but basically it's like a spring action gun that you charge up and release 
 next to an enemy to do a lot of damage. There is another melee weapon in some of the levels that 
 is a chainsaw, and that one is pretty fun to use in comparison to the other. The best and most 
 original weapon is the nuke which can fire like a regular gun OR can be controlled by the player. 
 By this I mean that you fire it and your camera-view suddenly becomes the missle's as you can move 
 the missile around the map as long as you want until you explode it with a mouse-click or by ramming 
 it into something. There is a disc-launcher ala Tribes that either has the disc bounce off the 
 surface it hits (and ricochets for a while which looks VERY cool) or has it explode on contact. 
 The last gun is the minigun which is a little boring as well, but is still fun to use. You can 
 also pick up anti-grav boots that make you jump really high, invisibility power-ups to make you 
 go unseen, and damage amplifiers that, well, make you do more damage. The most important thing 
 about the weapon selection is that they are all perfectly balanced. You can kick major ass with 
 any of them if you're good and accurate enough, although the melees ones are the only exceptions 
 as they don't really count for much anyway. The various modes you have to play in are Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Capture The Flag (if you have the flag and use the teleporter to move around, 
 then the flag drops) , Domination and Assault. They are all pretty self-explanatory, although Assault 
 is like objective-based where one team has to push back the other team into the level, and Domination 
 is where you try to push a ball further into the map until you shoot it into the enemy's goal to 
 score. Not every level or game-mode is great, but enough are to really give this game the replay 
 value it needs (not to mention the fact that there are TONS of new maps and mods out that are really 
 fun to play) . You can have 16 computer-controlled bots to play with you if you have noone else 
 to play with, and you can set each of their difficulty levels from very easy to impossible-to-kill. 
 Needless to say that they are probably the best bots in any FPS game currently made. The last bit 
 of gameplay to note here is that you can introduce *mutators* into your matches that are basically 
 like Goldeneye's man-with-the-golden-gun kind of customizations. You can have all rocket matches, 
 all sniper rifle matches, and a ton of other things that you can customize or download. Also, all 
 of the voice-commands and taunts you can give during the game are very helpful as well as incredibly 
 funny. The fact that the bots also make use of them a LOT adds SO much personality to the game. 
 As you can probably guess by now, UT is great enough to warrant me having to explain all of this.
 
  
  The soundtrack is one of the most inspired and innovative of any FPS shooter ever. It spawned every 
 FPS deathmatch cliche sound effect you can think of, from "Headshot!" to "Multi-Kill!", UT invented 
 it all. Not only did it invent this, but the actual sound quality of the voiceovers, the music 
 and the guns is on part with any recent game today (and in some cases even better) . Every gun sounds 
 satisfyingly deadly and unique, and the thrill of hearing the announcer yell to every player that 
 you are "Godlike" after having had X amount of kills (forgot the number) in a certain amount of 
 time is just so so cool. The music is also surprisingly good and original a lot of the time, with 
 CTF_Face's being the most noteworthy. It just perfectly fits the atmosphere and is a great tune 
 in its' own right.
  
  There is basically no noteworthy story or characters to speak of, although each of the models you 
 can choose from look fantastic for a game this old. Single-player is basically the tournament from 
 the game's title, and the story is that you are trying to win it. It's not disappointing at all 
 as it is basically just an excuse for you to play the game offline.
  
  If you love deathmatch or capture-the-flag and haven't played Unreal Tournament then you are truly 
 missing out on an amazing experience. I was definitely surprised to see just how well the game 
 held up after 9 long years, but despite my hesitation it is without a doubt still one of the best 
 games I have ever played. It just has so much personality, and that's what elevates it above the 
 rest of the competition. It's a perfect game for LAN parties considering the fact that just about 
 every computer today can run it extremely well (plus it's for PCs AND Macs. As an added bonus, 
 you can play it without the CD in your CD-Drive if you have the latest patch installed) , and you're 
 bound to have a great time with it any time you load it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dalmanimous
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  For me one of the best FPSs if not the best to ever came out!!! If u dont have it u must BUY IT!!! 
 You wont regret it trust me because i know of FPSs:-) It isnt difficult nor easy it has the perfect 
 difficulty it's a great way to start playing FPSs because even the most unexperienced players can 
 play it! it is also good for experienced players but in godlike difficulty :-) although it doesn't 
 have great graphics it's the least you will have to worry about when you play! And as for the characters 
 they are awesome for the time it was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect even now the graphics aren't dissapointing and the gameplay is as fresh as 
 ever. The story line is good, there is no twists or anthing like that but it is passable and makes 
 for great gameplay. If you have played any of the other Unreal games recently then you know why 
 they are so popular and this is the on that started it all. I know what your thinking right now 
 probley along the lines that Unreal tournement 3 is coming out soon and your right but this game 
 is still a must buy. First of all the game is cheap so you can find it for $5. Second, this game 
 is old enough to run on your older laptop so you can play anywhere. Thridly it is just plain awesomr 
 and fun the game has next to unlimited replyablilty and you can still find thousands of servers 
 to play online. Anything bad? No, this is one of the few games that I can't find a single thing 
 with a drawback. This game is superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KlOwNiN1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest First Person Shooter game ever... I still play the hell out of this game. 
 If the chance I become even the slightest bored of the board I am on ever arises, then there are 
 hundreds of different mods and boards to add on... You can even create your own boards if you so 
 choose. Excellent Game... It beats all modern games to a bloody pulp. I always install this on 
 my machines before any other program. I totally agree with the reviewer that said this should come 
 installed on pre-built machines along with Word. The PC game that is truly a MUST HAVE. Awesome, 
 Awesome, Awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I played Unreal Tournament first in 2001; played it in Singleplayer mode again and again till I 
 had some other new game to shoot and kill. But I never forgot how good the game was. Then late 
 last year the guys in my office was playing the tournament -- in the LAN. At first I smirked at 
 them -- hey I played that game long long ago! You bore me. After a few months, the guys challenged 
 me in a LAN match... when I joined them, I lost badly. Ever since, I keep on taking their challenge -- 
 and now I am playing this again and again, not bored and looking forward to yet another round tomorrow. 
 This is my testimony of how great this game is.
  You probably know that why Unreal is so cool. Its one of the fastest game on PC; the graphics is 
 one of the best of its time and is still acceptable as good; the sounds and voices are most appropriate 
 (including the insulting remarks from your bot opponents) and above all it has the perfect game 
 design element that makes you come back again and again without getting bored. The weapons are 
 absurdly diverse and they make you feel so good that you would want to try them out in as many 
 ways as possible. For example, though a rocket launcher is powerful -- you might prefer a pulse 
 gun while fighting in corridors because a rocket launcher might also kill you in small space.
 
  The concept of this game was surely taken from Mortal Kombat; but modified in all aspects. You 
 are playing an inter-galactic death tournament against all sorts of fighters in different arenas. 
 You can die many times and respawn while scoring as you kill your opponents again and again under 
 different game rules.
  The single-player mode takes you to a tournament covering death matches to capture the flag and 
 four -five other kinds of matches. Your opponents are increasingly difficult to kill and the maps 
 as diverse as one could imagine. But its the multiplayer mode that makes the game a true sport 
 where fighting your friends can be as intense as playing a real life round of football. If you 
 have not played it, go out there in the world of Unreal Tournament and kick some bottoms. Its Unreally 
 Cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erebus
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Do you remember the original Unreal Tournament (UT) ? It was the first first-person shooter (FPS) 
 to be released as an online-only game. While it could be played offline in single-player mode against 
 bots that essentially mirrored the online mode against actual players, it was the first FPS to 
 focus entirely on designing its levels for online competitive play.
  
  After playing the dozens of quality FPSs that have been released in the last eight years since 
 UT, it has become clear to me just how balanced and noteworthy the weapon and level designs were 
 back in UT.
  
  While UT has a myriad of ways to play the game, by personal preference, its best mode is its classic 
 "Deathmatch" which puts players in a free-for-all to rack up the most kills against their opponents. 
 To this day, UT's Deathmatch is responsible for making most any other Deathmatch released in the 
 plethora of other lesser-inspired games obsolete. UT was built for this, and it still shows vibrantly 
 after all these years.
  
  In fact, you might even be surprised that if you were to install the game now, you could probably 
 run it at a significently higher resolution and color depth than you could 8 years ago. The graphics 
 any dynamic lighting the game engine was known for have aged remarkably well.
  
  The sound effects are top notch, too. Every item, weapon, footstep, and other subtle sound effects 
 in the game are absolutely perfect (minus the grainy voiceover that commentates the brief intro 
 when you first start up the game) . Played in surround sound, the game's sound will help the player 
 determine exactly what is going on all around.
  
  The game's music was clearly inspired and designed to integrate into specific levels, of which 
 some scores are repeated. The tunes are generally intense and carry a fast beat, but also have 
 a stylistic flavor that mixes well into the art of thinking on one's feet. Quite simply, UT's music 
 is the best to be found in any online FPS. Most similar games nowdays do not use music at all and 
 expect the player to run through his or her MP3 collection if desired. As someone who loves his 
 MP3s, I assure you that you will want the UT music playing for the first 100 hours. It's just that 
 good. When playing this game with a small group of friends via a Local Area Necwork (LAN) connection 
 (which I highly recommend) , it is wise to include a single bot to keep players on their toes. The 
 bot AI is remarkable and eerily human-like in its movement, aiming, weapon use, and situation handling. 
 There are almost a dozen skill levels available with further options to customize the bots individually, 
 such as if they have a preference for using a specific weapon or camping highly coveted locations 
 on the map.
  
  Speaking of maps, these are some of the best FPS levels ever designed. They're easy to pick up 
 and play, and the level size generally feels just right. While some levels feel better suited to 
 16 players, they are still highly playable with just 3 or 4. Much like the maps, the weapons in 
 the game are varied and easy to understand. Each weapon has two completely unique methods of fire. 
 For example, the flak cannon can act as a sort of rapid-fire shotgun or as a small proximity grenade 
 launcher. Furthermore, in addition to two primary fires per weapon, many weapons allow you to charge 
 up their attacks for different results. For example, let's look at the rocket launcher:
  
  First off, keeping your targeting reticle over an opponent for a good second without pressing or 
 holding any fire button will cause the crossier to turn red. At this point, one should quickly 
 fire a single rocket which will act as a homing missile to your opponent. Or, instead of waiting 
 for any sort of lock, one could charge up to six rockets into the launcher by holding in the primary 
 fire button, or up to six grenades by holding in the alternate fire button. The combinations are 
 quite fast.
  
  Each weapon has multiple unique uses, and there are absolutely no useless weapons in the game. 
 The only weapons that could be argued disadvantageous are the two starting weapons: the pistol 
 and the gibber. However, both of these can absolutely dominate given the right circumstances. On 
 the flipside, the rocket launcher might feel extremely powerful to a newer player, but over time 
 one will understand how rockets are easily dodged and predictable. That being siad, however, their 
 payload is still remarkable.
  
  There are a handful of other weapons including the shock rifle, railgun, sniper rifle, plasma gun, 
 dual wielding pistols, and more. Then, there's the Redeemer. This is the epitome of an overpowered 
 weapon. For those who played Doom, it is the BFG 9000 on steroids. However, it's overpowered in 
 a fun gameplay sort of way; everyone will have their day with the redeemer. You can literally fly 
 a single, giant missile manually through a level until it collides with an object or player. The 
 blast radius is massive, and the sound of a redeemer missile in transit is unmistakable. However, 
 unless the missile travels far from the player who shot it, the redeemer will claim that life as 
 well. While I cite this weapon as overpowered, it is so overpowered that it can easily backfire 
 against the person shooting it if used improperly. Generally speaking, it can double as a suicide 
 button.
  
  As if this wasn't enough for an amazingly fun game, there are several "mutators" and mods available 
 immediately upon installation, and many more available for download. Every time you connect to 
 a server that runs a specific mod you don't have, your computer automatically downloads it before 
 you begin playing. These mutators and mods include all sorts of fun and unique settings including 
 low gravity, sword weapons, absence or addition of specific weapons, new maps, giant levels, bigger 
 players, and many, many more.
  
  Ultimately, the weapons all feel excellent, and set a nearly impossibly high standard for the chaoticly 
 fun FPS. That's UT, and that, is a perfect game. Even its sequals don't quite have the uniquely 
 inspired balance of weapons, gameplay, and level design.
  
  Even by today's standards, UT feels cutting edge. You may also very well find yourself saying, 
 "they just don't make 'em like they used to." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  OK if you are reading my review just to make sure if UT is worth playing.... dont bother reading! 
 Everyone needs UT in there game collection. Online or Offline this game delivers in both rounds 
 doubled with a headshot!
  The story is not important overall in gameplay but i just love it! Being in a futuristic tournament 
 with cameras everywhere, with familys and pubs probebly watching every game on a sky sports type 
 channel! if your satifyed with the maps or you have played them countless times there are so many 
 to download and choose from so this game will never get boring!
  
  why are you still here.... GO GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS_Deathis
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  This is the best FPS ever! The game play is fast pace and constant action you most likely fall 
 in love with this game once you play it. One of the best things about it is the fact it has so 
 many dificulties makes it one game to keep working at until you are godlike (hardest difficulty) . 
 the fact you can customize the bot settings is AWESOME! who dosen't like to mix things up. it is 
 the best first person shooter I have ever played (better than Halo 1 and 2 and Quake!) the Campaign 
 is fun and long. you can cusomize your onw charicter which is cool. it also comes with a map maker 
 with in the game to so you can make your own maps (vary confusing to use though. go to the FAQ's 
 for a walk through for it.) . alot of guns are at you disposal to. thay are all unique in their 
 own way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ogthang
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  this is the best game ever made, i'm playing this game for already 7 years... it is still played 
 by many people UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
 UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power UT Power 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1katron
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  When Unreal Tournament came out alongside Quake III, both games brought fourth an interesting new 
 style of fast paced and chaotic gameplay which now has become an absolute standard in multiplayer 
 gaming. Unreal Tournament definitely stands out from the rest due to its higher number of gameplay 
 options and its very satisfactory animation and sounds. Unreal Tournament is a solid entertaining 
 game thanks to its many options and gameplay mechanics. Its multiplayer is a wonderful experience 
 for all players and definitely offers addictive fast paced action that is fun entertaining. This 
 game is definitely a pure enjoyment and there are really no complaints that can be made aside from 
 maybe the player getting blown to bits during an intense match. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm in the middle of the enemies' base, with opponents on all side. They mock me through the voice 
 acted auto-taunts, and some even type them out themselves. I throw my ripper gun in their faces 
 and blow through, the game's animated blood falling to the floor like confetti, and I grab their 
 flag and run for the exit. Suddenly, a little message pops up informing me I now have Anti-Grav 
 Boots I must have picked up in a rush, so I flip back and leap out the side of the castle wall, 
 sprinting for the nearest crevice.
  
  All in a day's work in Unreal Tournament.
  
  Now, I am a huge fan of First Person Shooters. I played Half-Life in a weekend, I loved Halo to 
 death, and I still play Quake III on a regular basis. So I found this old game in the bargain bin 
 a little while ago and grabbed it, knowing the storied past and having played demos of the sequels, 
 I was interested in the game. I powered up UT for the PC, expecting it to be a simple, older version 
 of the deathmatch games of lore; boy was I surprised.
  
  Unreal Tournament is by far the best FPS game I have played in years. Combining amazing level, 
 weapon, and architecture design, the game went far beyond my wildest expectations, creating and 
 expanding the genre of FPS into pure bliss. Not only is it required playing for FPS fans, but it's 
 mandatory to own if you have a computer at all; the polish, value, and general tone of the game 
 is simply outstanding.
  
  Okay, sure, the game is old; let's just get that out of the way. The graphics are blocky and the 
 textures are blobby; the sound feels tinny and everything is very compressed for an eight year 
 old game. The game looks very much like an N64 game, abet a clean, higher resolution one, but in 
 the end most people who play anything recent will not be impressed by the face graphics of this 
 game. Thankfully it doesn't take anything down, but the game does look considerably ugly at points.
 
  
  But that's actually a positive note, because the game can run on anything. If you have a piece 
 of cardboard and it can run Windows to any extent, there's a very good chance that the game can 
 run UT. That means that you can bring the disc along with you and throw it on Grandma's old Windows 
 95, because the game simply does not take much power to run; nor does it take a lot of internet 
 to connect either, with stable code and well implemented battling. From any computer this game 
 excels, and Epic has always done a fantastic job at making their games run well for anyone.
  
  If you do have the extra power that the game might be able to use, however, then you have quite 
 the game ahead of you. Unreal Tournament has some of the most amazing designs in both the levels 
 and maps, and in the buildings, locations and bases. You'll be fighting your enemies inside of 
 volcanoes, in the middle of an army base, on a derelict spaceship and more, and it all looks stunning 
 to behold, even if the edges are still choppy and poor. There are so many different places to go 
 and see; the game feels different with every map just in the way everything is presented. One moment 
 you are playing a Quake game on an asteroid, and the next you're playing Half-Life in a laboratory. 
 Big jump there.
  
  And the levels themselves cannot be described in words. Legendary is the best way, because all 
 of these maps have been copied and "improved" in other online shooters. They're always the very 
 best in their respective games, and here's the main collection of the most fun, ambitious, and 
 successful pack of maps that have been time tested and still to this day entertain its online community. 
 Some people even bought the game for a single map, AS-Overlord, back in the day when the game first 
 came out for its D-Day style beach-rush. That's how awesome these maps are; simply legendary, and 
 very very fun.
  
  The shooting isn't so bad either. With a whole bunch of gloriously wicked weapons that feel powerful 
 yet fully balanced, UT has a full arsenal of guns that will have any FPS game drooling. From the 
 blast from the Shock Rifle to the accuracy and power of the sniper, everything has its place and 
 sits in it proudly, waiting to be used by the right user. The only two exceptions are the BioRifle 
 and the Redeemer. The former is a wimpy piece of sludge that is a broken mess when in the wrong 
 hands, and the Redeemer is basically a nuke in your hand, making is fun but overpowered.
  
  All this comes down to the modes. Capture the Flag, Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch are simple enough, 
 but with the polish the rest of the game has it's just as fun. Assault is an objective based mode 
 that's brilliantly enjoyable with some really good friends, and Domination is a fight over a bomb, 
 and plays a lot like football. There are also tournaments that automatically set themselves up 
 for fast online matchmaking, as well as a little bunch of miscellaneous options called "mutators" 
 that balance or make the game wild, like making good players fat or letting everyone have Anti-Grav 
 Boots. All these options add up to a lot in the end.
  
  For the internet-challenged, there are a whole plethora of offline computer controlled characters 
 (known as bots) that have some of the amazing AI that the Unreal series is known for. They'll support 
 you when you need it in Capture the Flag or other Team games, but as an enemy they can be downright 
 diabolical. They'll dodge your attacks and make you wish you've never been born... though if you're 
 good enough or bad enough they will rise or fall to your playing level. Though they won't last 
 you forever, the bots are a great group to play with for good practice.
  
  As for a single player campaign, there is only a measly tournament that can be played through to 
 challenge the other bots, which can be fun when it gets intense but gets old fairly quickly. But 
 with a little mod called "Oldskool" UT suddenly has the capability to play single-player maps from 
 the original Unreal. With fan made campaigns, such as the 36-level epic Operation Na Pali, who 
 needs anything more? Some of the downloadable games can better-up full campaigns that you pay for 
 these days.
  
  Well, the game comes built in with an editor for map and model making, so there's no shortage of 
 games, maps, and modes to play on the internet. But if you don't like any of the brilliance that 
 Epic has thrown into this game, then make your own material and show everyone why you are the best. 
 Simply put, the value for this game is fantastic, no matter what price you get it at.
  
  As for the PS2 and Dreamcast versions, a problem is the lack of downloadable content, which makes 
 the game much shorter-lived than the PC one, and the controller versus the keyboard and mouse. 
 With the very large UT maps, the mouse is better for swinging the camera to face your enemies, 
 which is a little too slow on a DualShock controller. Of course, even this game can't go wrong, 
 but when faced with the choice the winner is the PC version, hands down.
  
  From the sound, as well, there's plenty of brilliance. The voice-overs sound good, with an announcer 
 telling you what's up, and the bots and players alike have great taunts that get fired over the 
 radio transmissions. The guns sound plenty powerful and live up to their in-game performance. All 
 of the effects are nice and clean, though the voices can give off a crackling noise at times. The 
 music itself doesn't sound amazing when you first hear it: it appears at first ear to be a simple 
 quality and a few undertones. As you play the game more, the music really blooms into a mood maker, 
 making the matches more exciting and enjoyable. The composition is on the level of Halo, with only 
 a few dull tracks mixed in with a lot of good, quick winners, making the soundtrack an overlooked 
 album.
  
  Overlooked. When Quake III Arena came out, it was the talk of the town; A new game in the legendary 
 Quake series. Unreal Tournament came out about the same time, and they were direct rivals, and 
 because of this a lot of Deathmatch fans missed out when they didn't give this game a try, because 
 the maps, locations, and community all stand out as some of the best in the video game business. 
 For the first time in my video game career, I am claiming this game to be perfect, thus earning 
 my only 10/10 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooster2991
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Ah, one of my personal favorite games, and one of the first games that I ever played, that i truly 
 loved.
  
  Gameplay10/10
  I cant give it anything less than a 10. Honestly, its great, fast paced, fun and addicting. Graphics 
 9/10
  To be honest, they dont look GREAT today, but from what i remember when i first played it, they 
 were amazing, not to mention the character models are still cool, and watching a body blow into 
 20 pieces from your rocket launcher is always satisfying
  Sound 8/10
  The bots will trash talk you. Its really funny and cool, and the guns make pretty cool sounds. 
 Unfourtanelty, theres not much else there.
  Value 10/10
  Still play it, my favorite UT game.
  Tilt 10/10
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Game play is quite similar to most other FPS but epic games went that one step futher 
 and made this feeling and this theme to it that other FPS just diden't have. Online play is what 
 realy makes it great there is more than one thousond server to be found thats right one thousond. there 
 CTF witch is what you think it is Asult witch is kind of like counter strike Team Death match whipe 
 out the other team before they do the same to you Death Match u can figure that out ^^ and loads 
 more including the recently made on "Bunny tracks" [10]
  
  GRAPHICS: well back in 1999 this was the best you could do and even in 2001 games were using the 
 engine the grapghics are truly impressive for there time but soometimesm connecting to servers 
 can crash due to alot of activity going on. [8]
  
  SOUND: There is an incredibly amout of detail in the games sound from walking from jumping from 
 hitting a rocket there sounds are all there. Music realy fits the level its like cool but evil music 
 that will sound awesome [9]
  
  VALUE: due to the fact that its realy old this casn be as cheap as 5 bucks and its full of online 
 and gameplay fun that will entertain you for mounths posibly years [9]
  
  RESULT: Unreal Tournerment is a big game full of valure and fun that is great for pople looking 
 for FPS thats cheap or just dont have a high end PC this is great choice remeber this game and 
 get it youl love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinyRabbit
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  ok, where to begin? there's just so much in this you won't know where to start. The game is very 
 well designed, features some of the best levels in any multiplayer FPS and it's generally a whole 
 lot of fun.
  
  If you havn't played a multiplay FPS before in your life, then this is the place to start, you 
 can play against bots to build up your skill, they have very good AI so higher skills can bare 
 a challenge for even the most skilled players, there are well detailed tutorials that bring the 
 newbies up to speed and before long, you can start playing online with other players. Even now 
 in 2007, everything holds out quite nicely exept the graphics which while still very nice, textures 
 look a bit ugly close up. Which is the only thing stopping this getting a 10 from me, but for a 
 game made in 99, you can't really expect more, but still visually appealing. The sound is a different 
 story, very nice, easy on the ear and great atmospheric music that compliments the setting of the 
 map. There are tonnes of mods out there and even today, there are new ones being made and the community 
 is still very active, there are about 2000 servers running online, deathmatch alone at any given 
 time, you cannot go wrong with this.
  
  gameplay:10 flawless gameplay, fun weapon balance make this a winner
  
  graphics: 9 if the 
 textures were just a little bit sharper, this would have got a 10, but still very nice
  
  sound:10 nice sound effects, good taunts, and some nice music that compliments the atmosphere
 
  
  value:10 with all the mods out there, multiplayer, lots of gametypes, there's lots to keep you 
 busy
  
  buy it? why havn't you already? TRACK DOWN A COPY  
 lolz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3ruler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game in the most incredible bargain you will ever find. Since it has been out for quite a 
 while it will not be hard to find this game for a very cheap price. Its easy to install and incredibly 
 easy to get into. It clearly revolutionized the shooter genre. Before Unreal i had never really 
 tried many shooters but after a short death match bot game i was hooked. Spending countless hours 
 beating the single player story was a blast and then it only get better when you set up your own 
 games with your own rules. The replay ability is incredible and the community has grown to be one 
 of the best for any PC game. With downloadable levels and mods that even computer novices can install 
 this game will have you yearning to learn programming code in no time. Playing online is a blast 
 with friends. If you can LAN then it makes it all the better. The old look and sound effects may 
 turn some new age shooter fans away but that is a mistake. Play this game at least once and you 
 will be hooked. Objective team - Everyone for themselves death match you name it this game has 
 it. It's what every online shooter should hope to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  even seven years on this game is still very very very fun to play. It is without doubt my favourite 
 game in the series. UT2004 was good but the levels were a bit too big for my liking and the vehicles 
 were good too.
  
  it's not the same as pulling out a Flak cannon and getting to rampages. The weapons pack much more 
 of a punch than in UT2004 and they have better effects such as the pulse rifle being a green laser 
 beam that shoots forth at a limited distance but melts anything
  
  i got this game off my uncle for my birthday a couple of years ago and until then it has remained 
 one of my favourite games.
  
  This is cheap to buy now in shops so take my advice GET IT you will love it. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antisma08
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 19, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  for some reason this version of the UT series still remains my favorite, i played 03 and 04 and 
 still i like the origional better than them all, it's not as complicated as the other games but 
 it's not simple enough to suck.. it combines fast paced action with just the right sized maps and 
 the characters can still be moded to look cool where as the newer UT games, it's very restricting 
 and the maps are actually too big for my taste, yeah you get vehicles but what's the fun of that 
 when you die more in a tank than you do on foot, in this version your skill is prooven to other 
 players by your own tactics and movement, in the new ones it relys on who's got the tank and who 
 doesn't it becomes annoying after a while, plus the sniper in this one is way more effective at 
 killing than in the newer ones, so for me the origional Unreal Tournament is still my favorite 
 of the series, i wish epic games would make me change my mind, i have a few suggestions.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walla1963
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  I Think Its Good Game Because Its Had A Very Action And I Think 1 Word Can Say That WOW Cuz Its 
 Good Game they Need To Do More Games Like That 1 And To Mack The Game Better For Core 2 Or More 
 Then That The Ati And Geforce Can Get Allot Of Game But If They Gonna Mack Game For Jast Geforce 
 Or Just For Ati So They Have Alot Of Game To All Of Them
  So Just Keep Play Allot And Have A Nice Play . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 
 . . .. . . . .. .. . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . .. . . . .. .. . . . . . .. . . . 
 . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I guess this is for the GoTY edition of UT since I do distinctly remember UT99 being released pre-quake3.. 
 and in fact quake 3 ripped off UT in terms of gameplay.. some feel Quake 3 is a better game.. I 
 am not one of those people.. I found Quake 3 to be a toned down version of UT... Also because I 
 was expecting a continued storyline to Quake 2.. which I had to wait until Quake 4.. but I digress.. 
 UT is such a great game today as it was in the past that it spawned even more UTs .. 03 n 04.. 
 and now a new one on the way.. But this was the first game of its kind.. a tournament style FPS.. 
 with what I feel is better music and graphics than Quake 3 Arena/Team Arena had/has. For such an 
 old game the game still to this very day has aged VERY well ... and I recommend it to any FPS fan... 
 now for what I feel is the genuine breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: excellent.. I still play this game today and still enjoy it tremendously even on singleplayer.. 
 in fact I find it extremely challenging especially in the final tier.. There is still a strong 
 on-line presence.
  
  Graphics: Still look damn good today as they did then.. in fact it looked killer back in the day!
 
  
  Sound: Still one of my favorite soundtracks next to 04's.. :) Even the sounds brought back memories 
 of Unreal 1.. Value: excellent replay value.. with the amount of user maps and bonus packs available.. 
 the value is through the roof.. Tilt: a solid 9 for still being a superb game and should NOT be 
 passed up by any FPS gamer :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paganinio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  We Say: 9.5
  You Say: 9.3
  They Say: 9.3
  I Say: 9.5
  also check out the Unreal Tournament 2004 scores, even more amazing.
  The only other FPS better 
 than Half-Life seems to be System Shock 2. Love that one too.
  Half-Life sucks. They can't even call it HL. But when you mention UT , yeah, everyone knows what 
 you're referring to.
  the CRACKED version of UT actually works online! Though this game pretty much represents all my 
 multiplayer-gaming experience, I still think playing with bots (especially in G. O. T. Y. edition) 
 is more fun, because, it pretty much represents all my playing-with-computer experience too.
  
  The bots will return to my computer screen this summer.
  Unreal Tournament season 2, premieres 
 June 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midfingr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  One of the best UT games, if not the best. When this game was first released, I spent hours playing 
 through the various maps, just with the bots. What really impressed me was the magnituted of 3rd 
 party mods, maps available, free for download, enough to keep you busy even if you don't play online. 
 The SDK add on was and still is great for creating your own modifications and maps. Even now some 
 seven years later, it's fun to pull out of the vault and play; it's that good.
  
  Kudos to Epic Games for it's commitment to this game through subsequent patches, furthering compatiblity 
 and gameplay. That along with generous community map packs and add-ons. For it's time the graphics 
 were great. As were the sounds and taunts from the bots, some being very funny. Speaking of sounds, 
 the game is so flexable, you can easily add in your own taunts when playing against bots. It was 
 also one of the first games to offer commands via voice to team memebers.
  
  The configuration was very unique in that there's a graphical interface you can use to adjust just 
 about every aspect of the game. As time went on, they even built in extra graphic and sound enhacements 
 to make the game look and sound better.
  
  Even if you're not in to modding or tweaking, you can still enjoy this game for hours online, or 
 through lan play. Although, some online servers had so many players at once, it was hard to jump 
 in to the middle of a match. You literally become lost as verteran players would hunt you down 
 and add to their frag total. With that said, joining a clan made the game more manageable and you 
 could learn some nice tricks from the more advanced players.
  
  Aside from Quake III Areana, Unreal Tournament was the best of what multiplayer, online shooters 
 had to offer - longevity, scalabilty, and of course, hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biohazard112
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game is just so good. It's really easy everyone can play this because everything is really 
 thought trough. It's just shoot and try to kill as many people. or take the flag. You also can 
 do the domination mode. This mode is the coolest because you can defend or attack and you got to 
 do some things before you win. The defending team has some advantage's but that not much. So if 
 you've got a good team you can defeat this advantage. The graphic's in this game are not really 
 good even not for this age. But the gameplay is really great. And this is an old-time favorite 
 for me.
  
  Biohazard112 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj-feltersnatch
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament was one of the first FPSs I ever played, and still one of the best. It just feels 
 so good to get the sniper and blast someones face off and hear the announcer say HEAD SHOT in his 
 cool deep dark voice. Playing Unreal Tournament Is not that hard at all. Probably the easiest controls 
 to learn. The guns are kick@$$ too. Ranging from the Pressure Hammer to the Ripper. Each weapon 
 has its own cool secondary fire too. The Ripper for example fires buzz saws out that bounce off 
 of walls and the secondary fire is and explosive saw blade. Sure, the graphics aren't that great, 
 but still you can't beat a classic. I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys FPSs and is in to 
 classic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Multiplayer based shooters are far too common these days for my liking, a new one seems to come 
 out every few months. Along with Quake III: Arena, the original Unreal Tournament helped pave the 
 way for these games, but none of them come close to this classic.
  
  Unreal Tournament, building upon the success of the original Unreal's multiplayer, comes with improved 
 Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch modes. Along with these classics, Capture the Flag an older FPS 
 game mode that was left out of Unreal for one reason or another makes its grand entry into the 
 series, plus two unique new modes: Domination and Assault.
  
  Every gamer who has played a shooter online knows what Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch is about, 
 and Unreal Tournament does both well whether it's with others online, or with bots offline. Since 
 the bot AI in this game is very nice (especially if you raise the bot skill level) UT won't expire 
 even when no one plays it online, anymore. Fortunately at the date of this review, UT's online 
 community is still going strong.
  
  Capture the Flag doesn't try to differ from the idea set down by the shooters that had it before, 
 such as Quake II and Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight. The idea is the same, get to your enemy's flag, 
 steal it, and return to your base while gunning down any opposing team members. Domination is something 
 that was new to the scene when UT came out. In Domination your objective is to capture the three 
 objectives that are scattered around the map to reach a score limit before the opposing team (s) . 
 The more objectives your team holds, the faster your score will go up. Domination isn't the most 
 exciting game mode as it mostly involves going from one point to another repeatedly, but it's still 
 solid to this day.
  
  Assault is a fan favorite, and rightfully so. In Assault one team attacks, and the other defends. 
 The attackers are tasked with accomplishing certain objectives before the timer expires. The defenders 
 are, obviously, trying to prevent the attackers from completing their objectives. Once the round 
 is finished one way or another the teams switch roles, and the former defenders have to complete 
 their objectives in (at least) the same amount of time as the now defenders. Assault is a very 
 fast paced, and fun, game mode.
  
  The graphics in UT aren't much of an improvement over the ones found in Unreal. This isn't a bad 
 thing since Unreal had beautiful graphics, but UT's competitor at the time, Quake III: Arena, was 
 a nicer game to look at overall. Despite this, UT had very nice textures, water effects, and of 
 course the amazing skies.
  
  The audio is great. The voice acting can get a bit repetitive since you hear the same four voices 
 over and over again, but the Mortal Kombatish announcer is to this day an unforgettable character 
 (if you'd call him that) who adds a lot of style to the game. The music is a new age\techno combination 
 like the one present in Unreal, though the music in UT aims at being faster paced than Unreal, 
 and it succeeds.
  
  Unreal Tournament is a classic shooter in every respect. It's fun, fast paced, and it offers a 
 lot of variety. The single player isn't as strong as Unreal's since it is primarily a multiplayer 
 game, but even if you don't like playing online the bots will offer you a decent offline experience. 
 I recommend Unreal Tournament to anyone, no FPS fan's collection is complete without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  if you havent played Unreal Tournament yet, quit putting it off. It's one of the best games for 
 PC. If you arent big on graphics of today, it was made in 2000. Dont expect it to be amazing in 
 the graphics department. I dont know if many games in 2000 had the graphics of Unreal Tournament. 
 Still, if you want shiny graphics, its a little too late to be playing this game for you then.
 
  the gameplay, though, rises above a lot of the competion. The online features were amazing. The 
 sound wasnt used much with music and talking but it sounds good. I dont know where you could find 
 it, but i bet when you find it, itll be cheap. The only problem is that noones really online anymore, 
 but it mustve thrived when it came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdcw9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  For me, this game really did tick all the boxes. For its time, this game had all of what you wanted 
 from an FPS. action, action AND MORE ACTION. Five years ago seems such along time ago, and of course, 
 it is for the ever expanding gaming community, but the new releases based on such a popular game 
 have kept it alive, and i still find myself digging back into my draw to find this classic every 
 now and then. If you havn't ever played this, then shame on you and buy it now, even though it's 
 very old, it still brings a smile to my face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrekolost
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Unreal tournament is the most advanced game of the 20th century .The thing that makes it work the 
 best is the fps part of it , the diffrent items such as weapons are amazing you can use a rocket 
 launcher in space use a grenade launcher on top of a submarine and etc: The campaign mode is the 
 only real dissapointment such as it took me a day with around 9 hours sleep .If you were to play 
 it the onhly thing you would find hard is the last level such as defeating exan which i confess 
 i still havent done : ( but i got close lol .
  
  Single match mode is awesome you can customize the characters , create their names , pick there 
 hardness , add stuff to the game like extra gravity sniper mode , fat players , and much much much 
 more
  
  I havent really been online but i can really amagine it . My overall opininon of this game is please 
 buy it this is what real game are made of and this game is more than made of i havent played the 
 2004 ,2007 ior any more but personally it cannot top the oringinal unreal tournament MASTERPIECE 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebbderelict
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  When much of the world was sleeping, I was playing Unreal Tournament. It's a phenomenal FPS.
  The goal is take out the other participants in the tournament. No monsters to take out, and no 
 vehicles to ride in this one. There is a story mode, which has you compete in all the different 
 game modes to continue and take on the boss at the end. Story mode is really just good practice 
 for the heart of the game.
  
  It comes complete with many standard game-play modes (Death-match, Assault, CTF, etc.) , as well 
 as a wide range of options to tailor the modes. There's lots of everything in this one. Lots of 
 teams, characters, maps, and weapons. The locations are large and unique. The maps, although big, 
 do not leave you with a lost-in-a-maze confused feeling, and are of supreme design. A grand selection 
 of creative weapons is enhanced with 2 firing modes each. The graphics even today, are still not 
 bad on the eyes either. Controls are smooth, and the movement of the whole game is faced paced 
 and non-stop.
  
  The entire development team put together an excellent package, where the gamer gets great quality 
 from all angles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmandes
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Shoot to kill and avoid being shot to stay alive alll that might seems simple and common-senseical, 
 but that is essentially the essence of the entire game. Of course, there could also be opportunities 
 for player in multiplayer to work together to achieve the objective. In the single player gam play 
 although there is still the option to play in team, but the AI team member are relative uncontrollable, 
 going around shooting own time own target. Prehaps the best part of the game is the sniper rifle, 
 once a sniper is preach in a advantageous position, there is basically just a matter of time to 
 shoot and kill off all your ernemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmatt253
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Now this game is perfect in nearly every way its a shooting game (duh) and it gets bigger. the 
 domination capture the flag assault team death match and a program that allows you to make you 
 own stages and it goes online where you play or make your own stage and servers or just play with 
 some friends on a kick ass stage this game is granted to keep you wanted more for hours and make 
 sure when playing online you can find a server that supports you country (runs better and faster) 
 or if you have fast internet it dose not really matter but don't try playing on an other country's 
 server and have slow intenet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TenFootMidget15
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that got me back into FPS's. The first game was GoldenEye 007 for the N64 and 
 none of the other FPS's really tickled my fancy. So, I was without FPS's for a couple of years 
 &amp; my thoughts of them were growing dimmer &amp; dimmer. Then Unreal Tournament came out &amp; 
 I was hooked on FPS's again. This game will keep you hooked for hours. It has tons of awesome weapons, 
 some pretty interesting characters &amp; has my favorite part of FPS's - Capture the Flag. This 
 game is a must have for any PC owner! My friend gave it to me for my birthday years ago &amp; it 
 was only $10 so it is everyone's budget. This game is the most addictive FPS ever made and you 
 should dipped in chocolate &amp; then ate by a fat man if you don't have this game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatPainTypo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I have played this game all the way thru. Most games never hold me that long. I enjoy racking up 
 headshots with the sniper rifle best. Flak Cannon is my 2nd favorite weapon. Followed by Dual wielding 
 Enforcers. I played with a few different Mods for UT. The assault pack, downloadable from this 
 site, is a good, stable mod. I enjoyed the UTFortress mod, but it seemed a little buggy on my computer. 
 I think it was the map size, they were beautiful maps that made my computer wheeze as it tried 
 to render them. My favorite map: Facing Worlds. I like setting up a practice game, loading it down 
 with bots, filling up on ammo, and seing how many headshots I can accumulate before my team's bot 
 characters capture 10 flags. With enough bots, I can manage several Monster Kills throughout the 
 match.
  
  I love the volatile ammo and volatile weapon modifiers. Nothing like fraggin' one person that explodes 
 and frags 2 others.
  
  I highly recommend this game if you don't have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kc0lcs04
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I'd been playing Quake I for over a year, and quite enjoyed it. Though the graphics weren't that 
 good, it was a lot of fun. I recently wanted to get a more updated game, so I downloaded several 
 demos (including Quake III and UT) . Quake III was good, but all I can say for Unreal Tournament 
 is... wow! The graphics are phenomenal, the gameplay is intense, and there are SO many different 
 gametypes to choose from! I especially like Domination, though since I don't have the full game 
 I really haven't played all of them.
  Flat out, this game rocks!!! Don't buy Quake, buy UT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Already a fan of FPS? If so then you obviously know what Unreal Tournament is, if you haven't played 
 it then you really really need to. There was always arguments over which game was better, Unreal 
 Tournament or Quake III Arena. I believe both games are amazing and pretty much started my love 
 of FPS offline aswell as online, it's the same for countless others. I hadn't played any FPS which 
 were anything as good as these games.
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  
  There are many game types you can play. The maps are split into 5 sections, deathmatch , domination 
 , capture the flag , assault and challenge . The first four sections are named after the game type 
 played in them and after the first few maps of each are completed the next section unlocks. When 
 all four of these sections are complete the challenge section unlocks. This section is deathmatch 
 but with slightly different rules settings and leads the player through a number of tough matches 
 before finally facing Xan (Current champion) himself. As you can imagine this is amazing to play 
 online. I've always believed a good PC is better than any console, the amount of mods and maps 
 for this game is unreal ... offline is good to get used to the game and the rules of each type of 
 game. The real excitement is online play. Teaming up with other users to fight another team, or 
 team up to assault a fortress. Even with the sequels to this game there are still many users who 
 play this one online. There are a variety of weapons, from the classic Rocket Launcher to the Sniper, 
 plus many unconventional weapons. Alternate fires which can help you in certain situations, pick 
 up another pistol and you will wield two. It's small things like this which make this game even 
 better. The A. I. should be praised, you can pick from Novice all the way to Godlike. Plus a nice 
 option called Auto Adjust, levels will increase or decrease depending on your current performance. 
 GRAPHICS 8/10
  
  Quake III had better graphics I believe. But these graphics are still great, they still look half 
 decent to this day and as you can imagine were incredible at the time. Weapon animations look very 
 nice, loading several rockets into the launcher, you can see them spin round and lock into place. 
 Maps look amazing, some are massive and look like they go on for miles. Theres a player edit facility, 
 which lets you change your characters appearance, this isn't as detailed as the latest games but 
 is good enough.
  
  SOUND 9/10
  
  Taunt your opponents after a kill, dodge that rocket you hear from behind. The sound is nice in 
 this game. Hear the voice shouting Godlike or Double Kill ... it gives you that extra boost to 
 your confidence. Music is alright but you can have it on a low volume so thats good enough.
  
  VALUE 10/10
  
  For any FPS fan, UT99 is highly recommended. Just starting FPS? Then buy 
 the latest game. This is very cheap nowadays, with the amount of material online you can download, 
 you will have hours and hours of enjoyment. Theres an online fanbase of a few thousand, which is 
 very impressive for a game released before the year 2000.
  
  ------
  
  9.6. There really isn't anything to complain about. This is a classic game and along with Quake, 
 Unreal spawned a massive amount of FPS for the PC. One of the best FPS you will ever play... seriously 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth-Revan45
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Story: You are just killing people for a prize.
  
  
  Gameplay: Great AI, You can customize them and you have a few modes to play on as well as some 
 cool weapons. And doing a pelvic thrust with Fat Boy on is hillarious. You can also order your 
 bots and do several fun modes. Ypu can also select the difficulty of the bots and levels.
  
  Controls: You can make your own controls so whats the point! You jjust map every thing to where 
 you are content, the controls are very sharp
  
  Graphics: Great job, the textures and polys are done well. The splatering of a decapitated head 
 and the blood is done well. But some characters look blocky. But that is no problem. Also all of 
 the Weapon effects look great, it is amazing to see a redeemer vaporise some people and see their 
 bodies fly at you splattering blood on the ground. Sound: All the weapons sound great. Music is 
 great and fast paced, really gets you into the action. All the AI also have voices and give taunts 
 [put on Auto Taunt for yourself] , it is fun to hear them but it gets old after a while. Multiplayer: 
 Why people bought the game, a 16 player deathmatch between pros and even a CTF match can be as 
 exciting as the Superbowl.
  
  Replayability: The incredible Multiplayer can keep you coming back over and over again.
  
  
 Overall: It earned a GOTY award, now that is DAMN good, if that dosent get ypu, you don't need 
 a powerful computer to run ths game, so just buy it. Single player blows but multiplayer is great!
 
  
  Rent or Buy: Are you stupid?!?! Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie_killer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is the follow up to 1998 bug buster shooter called Unreal. This time this no 
 really a sequel. This time it is a multi player blood sport first person shooter. It takes ideas 
 from quake 3 but this one has all lot more to offer. Unreal Tournament got 5 unique game types:
 
  Deatmatch (DM) : Kill everything that moves most frags wins.
  Teamdeathmatch (TDM) : Work with your teammates against the enemy.
  Domination (DOM) : Capture 3 
 control points and hold em to score.
  CaptureTheFlag (CTF) : grab the enemy flag and return to base to score.
  Assault (AS) : One team 
 start as the attacker and they have to complete diffrent objectives for example: use the main switch 
 to open the doors 
  and they have to assault and interact with diffrent things to open doors or shoot specific things 
 and so on. The other team is the defender and they have to prevent the attackers from doing this. 
 Once the attackers or the defenders has won a match the rules get changed. The team who was the 
 attacker in the last match is now the defender and the defender is now the attacker. If a team 
 both succesfully attack and defend the base they win.
  But if they win as the attackers and lose as the defender. The team that attacked the fastest time 
 wins. This gametype is really great and is one of the reasons why this became the game of the year 
 1999. But this instead of Quake III 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Av177
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is by all means, the best first person shooter ever produced. 
  
  This game looks beautiful, even now - going on 8 years after its release. The levels still look 
 amazing. Some are vibrant and colorful, while others are dank, dark and produce a sense of evil. 
 The characters are clean cut, and easily deciphered from the non-stop fast paced action. 
  
  Then there's the sound. This game is never quiet, and sometimes that would be a bad thing, 
 but in this case, its not. Each weapon sounds purposeful, loud and destructive, not like some wimpy 
 ass *pew pew* gun. Everything sounds satisfying and meaty, everything. The soundtrack is amazing, 
 comprised of mostly fast paced techno, it really sets the mood. There are a few mellow tracks in 
 their too, for those space/ancient themed levels.
  
  The gameplay though, is what really makes Unreal Tournament, Unreal Tournament. Pick this up now 
 if you already haven't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  Do you have any friends? Well, do you? If the answer to this dubious and revealing question is 
 'yes', then you simply cannot do without playing Unreal Tournament. But I am not good at First 
 Person Shooter games! You whine, clearly unimpressed (and most likely hiding your negative response 
 to the first question!) . To this I say, it doesn't matter! like The Rock before he hung up his 
 spandex briefs. I have played this game with players of all skill sets, running the gamut as they 
 say, and though some were reluctant in admitting it, all were thoroughly enthralled by the UT experience. 
 That even goes for those who claim, and rightly so, that UT isn't as smart as games like Half-Life. 
 It most certainly does not try to be; it tries to be faster, and it succeeds at that in a big way. 
 Playing by yourself against computer opponents can be very exciting, and will tax your reflexes 
 and your ability to be aware, especially in the frantic later missions. All by your lonesome, you 
 may also join an existing match on the net, by any number of ways. Search ongoing blood-filled 
 tournaments by I. P. address, modes of play and more. You'll be able to immediately identify if 
 the arena you are interested in is currently active and determine the number of players and the 
 number of bots (read: computer controlled opponents) running amok inside. Naturally you will need 
 internet access for online play, and as is the case with the computer itself - the faster the better. 
 However, I've played UT with a dial-up connection with a Pentium II and found it to be a sufficiently 
 engaging experience. But for the truly harrowing, eye-blurring multiplayer time of your life, a 
 cable or DSL connection with at least a PIII is recommended. Now. About those modes of play. Choose 
 from the ever-present Deathmatch, the Team Deathmatch, Domination, Capture the Flag, Last Man Standing 
 and Assault games. What's all this then? Deathmatches are 'every man for themselves' frag-for-alls, 
 where it's kill or be killed. The top kill getter wins when he has reached the predetermined about 
 of kills or frags. Team Deathmatches combine the deathmatch experience with team solidarity. Team 
 blue versus team red, and so on. Once again, the top killing team wins the match. Domination also 
 features teams, where the goal is to locate and 'hold' various checkpoints that will garner points 
 toward victory. A bit of planning is crucial to success here, and much of this should be facilitated 
 by 'talking' through a secure, team-only channel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  With Unreal Tournament's release, Epic Games made it's way into a small club of elite game studios. 
 Why? Because UT99 was voted game of the year 1999 and gathered a huge community via it's engaging 
 gameplay, stunning graphics and excellent level editor.
  
  The technology that powers Unreal Tournament was impressive in 1999, probably the most advanced 
 on the gaming scene at that time. The Unreal Engine gave level designers the possibility to create 
 breathtaking environments. Indoor, outdoor, you name it, Unreal Tournament has it all. You will 
 get the chance to do battle in a variety of locales like space stations, floating asteroids, exotic 
 beaches, islands surrounded by lava and even underwater.
  
  If you thought that was impressive, wait till you try playing (either single-player or multi-player, 
 the differences are not very big thanks to the brilliant bot AI) . You can play the classic Deathmatch 
 or Capture the Flag plus Domination and Assault. There's a wide range of weapons to choose from 
 (snipers, medium range, close range and even small nuclear devices) and a few power-ups to compensate 
 for the huge fire-power. It's all perfectly balanced, very straight-forward and manages to feels 
 unique and fun every time, online or off.
  
  UT99 also gives users the chance to make their own arenas of combat via Unreal Editor, which comes 
 with the game. It's a powerful tool for editing, combine this with a few other programs and you 
 can do just about anything (from arenas to mutators and other mods) . This gives the game extra 
 reply value.
  
  Needless to say, Unreal Tournament simply is one of the best shooters ever so go buy it if you 
 haven't done that yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insaneassclown
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok I'll admit it: I never REALLY liked any 1st person shooters. I perfer 3rd person anyday. But 
 when I played this game... my views, thoughts, and opinions on FPS has changed dramatically. Yeah, 
 this game is THAT good. I started playing so many FPS than I could count. However none of them 
 can ever be as good as Unreal Tournament. F. E. A. R., Fry Cry, Half Life are all crap comparing to 
 UT:2000. Maybe the only game that's in UT's legend is Quake. Quake is pretty damn good. Other UT 
 games in this series are definitely not as good at all again compaing to UT:2000. This is very 
 easy game to pick up and play. It's so fast paced, exciting, and oh just so fun.....
  The only complaint I have about this game is that all of it's environments look very dull and not 
 at all destructible. The levels looked kind of bad and just really boring. But that doesn't stop 
 this game from being the best FPS yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf720
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Fast Paced, Original, Action Packed, Simple Rules......... Kill or Be Killed.
  
  .... Get in there with your team and steal that flag, running for your life with a hail of bullets, 
 flak shrapnel and rockets whipping around your head. You stagger into your base covered in your 
 foes blood and that of your fallen comrades to place the enemy flag on your plinth to gain those 
 valued points......
  
  .... Placed in an arena and given a Pistol and Piston Hammer. Your only chance to survive is to 
 find hidden caches of weapons around the arena. Picked a rocket launcher and blasted a few other 
 players you will rise to the top of the ranks in the hallowed halls......
  
  Awesome...........
  
  An absolute classic that will NEVER DIE !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holland01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 26, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is in one word great. This is the best Unreal Tournament there is because it is a First 
 Person Shooter with Speed. The gameplay is Superb and the Graphics are great. There are a lots 
 of lvl's to play and the modes Deatmatch, Team Deathmatch, Domination, Capture the Flag and assault 
 are a all great fun to play. In this game the story is simple, be number 1 all the time and you 
 are the champion this game is playable for skilled players and beginners so don't worry about that.
 
  
  Online is this game also great the same games are there and if you think you are good enough go 
 go play online to see how good you are. There a lots of weapons and you can create you own player 
 sort of.
  
  if you like FPS and if you like speed this game is something for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viruszero0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the world of Unreal Tournament, where you battle it out for fame and glory. This game complete 
 in almost every way, from the actoin to the levels. 
  
  If your looking for a story, theres one here...... somewhere. Ok the storys there, but you dont 
 have to know a bit about it to play. The universe has turned to gladiator death matches as its 
 main sport, and your ready to kick some ass.
  
  As you first jump in you'll notice that the graphics are definently dated, but who cares. I like 
 seeing big bulky chucks of people flying at me after I've blown them up! But If your looking for 
 great graphics, buy one of the newer tournament games.
  
  Now to the gameplay. As you get through the first few levels or start up an online game, you almost 
 immediatly find the fun factor. Each gun is different, so you to really choose which ones your 
 going to use most. You could duel weild pistols, or be a stealthy Sniper, or just run Rambo style 
 with your rocket launcher! Thats all up to you my freind.
  
  Its a must have for anybody who loves a good shooter, or a good multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acetylcholine
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  An excellent FPS game featuring Tournament style gaming. 
  
  Gameplay types: Deathmatch, Capture the flag, Assault, Last man standing, Team deathmatch and Domination.
 
  
  Artificial Intelligence: This game has awesome enemy and friendly AI. There are several difficulty 
 levels from skilled to godlike (about 8) and all are well balanced. But at each level the game 
 is challenging because of wide variety of gameplay and its cute AI.
  
  Inventory: All Weapons are available right at the beginning. These include Melee weapons and ranged 
 weapons e. g. flak cannon, rifle etc. There are also shield belts, armor, health packs, jump boots 
 etc.
  
  Addons: Several mutators are available which make this game a lot more fun. And these add to its 
 replay value e. g. Relics, instagib, fatboy etc. There are hundreds of Mods available for download. 
 Some of them are still in development.
  
  Plot: There is a minimum of plot, Only one movie at the beginning.
  
  Graphics and animation: 
 DirectX 7.0. Yet extremely good. Animations of bots are cute, animation of objects are good as 
 well.
  
  Music: Very engaging.
  
  Speech: Bots will keep chatting about there own situation or about general situation. But its entertaining 
 e. g. if you get the enemy flag they will say something like "Lets Rock" :) etc. There is a big 
 list of taunts, commands and gestures which every player can do even bots!
  
  Humour: Limited, only visible to a player who has played this game a lot.
  
  Sound effects: 
 Nice
  
  Save game: Automatic save game feature. If you have played the map the game will automatically 
 save it and next time you play you will start from the next level.
  
  Multiplayer feature: There are more than 2000 servers online even after 6 years of its release. 
 The players are good. If you do not want to play online do not worry because this game defines 
 FPS offline mode with its Practice mode. There you can choose to play on any Map, any Gametype, 
 any Difficulty, any amount of bots you like (1-16 even 32) and you can change almost all settings.
 
  
  Personal random Views: This is the only game which has been on my computer since i first bought 
 it, one year ago. I play it all the time and yet i have not grown tired of it. I only play this 
 offline and it really is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsterjoe1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most amazing games i have ever played. But enough about my opinions, I 
 will tell you why this game is great regardless of my opinions. Ok so to get started lets talk 
 about the graphics, ok for a 2000 game this game is amazing. Then there is the music and sound, 
 and like everything else in the game its amazing, from the announcer, to the great music, to the 
 sounds from the guns, are really great and make the game feel alive. So moving on, the gameplay, 
 ahh, well the gameplay this is the highlight of the game ( obviously) and this is one of the first, 
 if not the first, games to put the single player portion of the game and made it feel and play 
 like a real online multiplayer game. Well you know that if a game that tried for the single player 
 to be a multiplayer experiance, the AI would have to be perfect and they seriously are they behave 
 almost exactly like a human being would, its great. The tilt of the game is great and the value 
 is even better, still playing the game.... 
  
  OK so yeah sorry this was my opinion on the game and i didnt stick to my word, but really, since 
 everyone in the world who has played this has given it at very least a 8.0 ( from what i've seen) 
 you ca ncount on it that you will not be wasting your money on this one. And speaking of the cost 
 this game now only costs somthing like 10 buck at most ( you can problly get it for less) so there 
 is no reason not to pick this game up. Oh and one more thing, I think that this game is far better 
 than the two sequals that came after it, UT 03, and UT 04. thats just my opinoin (and, yes, i am 
 aware that i said that like 5 million times) Hope you do yourself a favor and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has changed the way I view FPS multiplayer games. Introduced to the series thanks 
 to the Dreamcast. I eventually got my hands on the PC version. Though I'm not a big fan of mouse 
 and Keyboard, it still doesn't stop me from enjoying the game. Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Assualt, 
 Domination is fun to play in this game.
  
  Highspeed gameplay, fierce fire fights and deadly maps keeps everything frantic. The PC community 
 is great too with mods and support which have continued since the day of it's release. I love having 
 this game and it's always fun too play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m3ss
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about Unreal Tournament? I discovered the game as a freshman in college in the year 
 2000, and I've been playing it almost daily ever since.
  
  Obviously, the most attractive feature of Unreal Tournament is the online multiplayer gameplay. 
 Fast-paced. Check. Action-packed. Check. Addictive. Double check.
  
  What really makes UT stand apart from its predecessors and even the imitators that have tried, 
 and failed, to emulate since its release, are the weapons and the dodging system. By double-tapping 
 a direction button, your player will dodge in that direction adding velocity to your movement as 
 well as a nice animation to "juke" your enemies out of their shoes. The dodging system adds a whole 
 new dynamic and flow to the old Quake formula of simply strafing back and forth. But the game designers 
 didn't stop there; They also revolutionized the weapons with the invention of the shock rifle and 
 the translocator.
  
  The shock rifle is one of the most original and versatile weapons in first-person shooter history. 
 With the ability to produce a "shock combo" by combining the alt and primary fires, players have 
 the ability to effectively attack enemies from almost any angle and with any combination of dodging/strafing. 
 New players will often be using "stand-still combos" as they are often referred to, but advanced 
 players will find the possibilities infinite with the shock combo.
  
  The third and final key to Unreal Tournament's greatness is the translocator. The "trans" is mainly 
 used in the Capture the Flag mod for UT, allows players to shoot a disc to any location and "translocate" 
 to the disc's location. Once again, players can really get creative and downright surgical with 
 the translocator, even using it as a weapon to disintegrate their opponents if they are allowed 
 to get close enough.
  
  Once you add these revolutionary gameplay elements together, and throw in some great maps, you 
 are left with easily the best multiplayer FPS on the market, even 6 years after its release. I 
 still play UT to this day, which is a true testament to this game's longevity and replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Translation: Unreal Tournament is an extremely fast paced, FPS game which almost guarantees a heart 
 attack which requires a triple bypass once played for more than three minutes.
  
  'Engage according to operational parameters' - Ivana (Dark Phalanx Leader)
  Translation: There 
 are in total four different styles of play being deathmatch (which incorporates deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch and last man standing) , domination (capturing of three key points) , assault (team based 
 objectives with a time limit) and capture the flag (do I really need to explain this...) .
  
  The above styles can be played in single player which is more like a tournament style game 
 (funny that) where you can climb up the ranks in all four styles then compete in the final challenge 
 or better still, as a multiplayer where you can pit against your pet goldfish, Johnson the reviewing 
 monkey, bots or all of the above.
  
  'Are you talking to me? I see no one else here. You must be talking to me...' - Vanessa (Psychotic)
 
  Translation: The graphics and sounds for this game are almost surreal. It's not just a campaign 
 map; you can almost 'feel' it. Hence there are literally millions of locations to choose from. 
 From ancient temples to city skyscrapers to under water action - it has it all! Also the bots have 
 great voices. You can hear them yelling commands, taunts, ask for assistance etc. A great feel 
 for a multiplayer game.
  
  'I will bust your head between my biceps' - Slain (Raw Steel)
  Translation: One of the stronger points in this game is the AI. It's extremely freaky. There are 
 8 levels of bots 'intelligence' to choose from. However the 'top 3' has an almost 'human' counterpart. 
 I have seen bots covering other bots to achieve an objective! Freaky stuff for the lonely gamer. 
 Of course you can mix-match human players to bots or even adjust the bots level of intelligence 
 individually. Oh, and watch out for Loque...
  
  Are you my wife?!? - Othello (Thunder Crash)
  Translation: All controls can be altered to suit 
 any player; adjust mouse sensitivity, colour your player, add skins, adjust bot's level of accuracy, 
 virtually anything can be altered. You want a bot to play a cautious role? Go ahead. What about 
 left handed view? No problems. How about changing the voice of your character? Too easy. Almost 
 anything can be changed hence no two games will be the same.
  
  Overall this game can be as challenging or exiting as you want it to be. Yes, it's a FPS however 
 with all the options, you can mutate the game to your liking. How can that be boring?
  
  'Run, human' - Xan Kriegor
  Translation: Run, human.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  My friends and I played this game all the time freshmen year of college. We would be shouting at 
 each other across and down the hall when we made a kill or got killed. There is a lot of excitement 
 and intensity to this game.
  
  It is pretty much your basic chaotic shooter with tons of bad guys around every corner, except 
 that it is the same bad guys respawning just where you don't want them. Get used to it! You have 
 a number of weapons, from the machine guns to the rocket launchers and sniper rifles. What really 
 makes this game over everything else is the multiplay. You have all the classic game types with 
 team, free for all, and capture the flag.
  
  There have been good sequels since this, but I remember how much fun it was and I have to say that 
 it was well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AINISA
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  This game is just excellent fun and it only took them a year and a half to make this brilliance!. This 
 game is also the predecor to ut2003 and ut2004 which you should get too
  
  Gameplay - pure entertaining multiplayer deathmatch
  with a dozen tools of death and destruction. The 
 best of the tools are the dual enforcers, flakcannon, minigun and redeemer (nuclear warhead that 
 CAN BE RIDE!!
  
  Sound- Good soundtrack with Good voices and taunts. The best tracks are colossus, course, run and 
 a few others
  
  Graphics - 6 years old and still pretty damn cool with good textures and awesome levels. The best 
 levels are hispeed, phobos, healpod and some others
  
  I giw 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -AirHendrix-
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Unreal, one of the most interesting games to lay eyes upon since play Wolfenstein Enemy Territory 
 for free of course :) , it is Deathmatch supreme. Armed with several space-age weapons, a player 
 must kill and destroy all to achieve victory in this game. The community is very immerse and obviously 
 competitibe in today's standards with players like Fatal1ty mastering it completey. You'll keep 
 playing it again and again, and im serious. So, if you're looking to kill someone or something 
 in a locked Deathmatch to the finish, then Unreal is for you. Though, I gotta mention this: The 
 only drawback on Unreal is that you have to practice ALOT. Many players take advantage of noobs 
 and would do anything to get better so either A.) : play with friends or B:) Go one on one in Training 
 sessions. Either way, you'll get better and have more fun in the meantime. Without the practice, 
 it would be a hard game to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRiderX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  The story is plain and simple, and really is not much to talk about. It takes place in the future, 
 and there is a tournament, that is about killing you'r opponent. It is kind of a weird stupid story, 
 but hey, it IS called "Unreal Tournament". The graphics are okay. The game play rocks! You enjoy 
 every bit of blowing your enemies to pieces! The weapons are cooled designed, and many of them 
 very futuristics. The action is very well paced, and you just can't stop playing it! The levels 
 are also pretty cool. It is easy to get to...
  There are different things you have to complete, to become the new master of the tournament. One 
 of them is Death Match. It says itself, and is of course just about killing everything that moves.
 
  There is Domination, where you have to work as a team, and take over certain areas...
  There is Capture The Flag, where you again are on a team, and you have to take the other teams 
 flag, while protecting your own...
  There is Assault, where you have to (again on a team) destroy something in a certain amount of 
 time. When you have done that, it is the other teams turn, to do the same thing, in the same amount 
 of time it toke you to do it.
  And last but not least there (I'm not quite sure if it is called that) Challenge, which is just 
 like Death Match, just a lot harder...
  I strongly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexSempf3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  One day, I was looking for a cool game that would run on my crappy windows 98, and then it hit 
 me... BAM!!! Thats when i stumbled apon the demo of UT #1, and boy, was I happy. This game has 
 exxelent graphix and amazing sound. ANd its pretty gory too, but dont worry, you can reduce the 
 gore in the options menu. This game comes LOADED with a ton of cool weapons, levels, and level 
 mutators (which is pretty creative, they "mutate" the level so it is zero gravity, or so you use 
 only the rocket launchers, etc.)
  
  
  So if you are looking for a great game for an old PC, buy UT #1 because my windows 98 cant even 
 run halo 1, and the fastest game it can run is NFS 2, but when I play this great game, I can put 
 all the settings to high, and run it at the highest resolution, and it STILL runs smoothly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centrosaurus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  I have played this game nearly 15 times start to finish on different skill levels and still i am 
 playing. This game has great AI players. System requirements are very low as compared to todays 
 standards and it beats Quake III in every field; Variety, AI, Graphics.
  
  The gamespot score tells all about it. This game has a huge variety of mods and there are still 
 few mods upon which people are still working.
  
  Varieties of gameplay: Single player ladder + Deathmatch, CTF, Assault, Domination, Last man standing
 
  
  AI: I only play with bots as i have no broadband yet. They are programmed very nicely. And they 
 offer a great challenge at all difficulty levels. We can command them to attack, defend, or cover 
 you or to freelance.
  
  Graphics: Directx 7.1 makes even the slowest system play it at a high frame rate.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeraphWrath
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 24, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament or UT99 as some refer to it is as, is one of the best FPS games of all time with 
 a lot of support from Epic Games and a great community with tons of mods, players, and enough custom 
 maps and content to keep you up at all hours of the night. UT99 won several GOTY (Game of the Year) 
 awards for excellence in its Genre. Epic Games are one of the best game companies out there. Epic 
 continually strives to create extras, patches, and new content for the game. If that wasnt enough 
 you can open up Unreal Edit and create your own custom maps and upload it to a fansite for everyone 
 to play and review. UT99 is Unreals past and future because recent previews reveals that UT 2007 
 is going back to its roots (UT99) . Buy the game and see how it all started, and then go to Epics 
 official site and download several expansion packs, community packs, skins (custom player models) , 
 and the latest patch. You can also check the forums for new content that is chalked full of custom 
 content. Ive dealt with a lot of companies in my long gaming experience and let me say it again, 
 Epic is one of the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masta_Pimp
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is an instant classic. One of the best FPSs ever made Ill take that to the 
 bank all day. No faults (except) you die as soon as you spawn when you play me!! I love the sniper 
 & the rocket launcher the two best guns in the game if you ask me. All the guns are good, & most 
 have an alternate firing mode. 
  I also like the worlds they look great for the time the game came out. So I give this game a big 
 fat 10 because I love this game so much.
  
  Have Fun Playing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meischris39
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  Ut has been in the works for over 6 years basically since the dawn of doom on pc, secret level 
 wanted their hand at an oline fps of their own. They gave us unreal, which was a relatively good 
 fps with average online great for the time though, but there was something missing. 2 years later 
 they release unreal tournament a game which would define a genre for many years to come.
  The game takes place across different galaxies and basically tournaments have been set up to find 
 the ultimate warrior, the player of course participates and it is your goal to win the tournament 
 with as little ease as possible.
  
  Gameplay -
  
  The gameplay is your traditional shooter it is very well adapted to the dreamcast controller which 
 is a far cry from quake 3 which took hours to get used to. The best results for this game are with 
 a specialised gaming keyboard and mouse as aiming above or below you with a controller sometimes 
 be very very difficult. Ut features many modes including deathmatch capture the flag, assault, 
 domination, team deathmatch, and more, and as these modes are specifically designed for heated 
 online play, they are still a tonne of fun on single player. Speaking of single player the levels 
 are varied the ai is very tuned which can sometimes make you forget you are playing against a cpu, 
 the ai is just incredible. There are over 10 weapons which are totally different from each other, 
 unlike most shooters the guns on this game are totally different to anything you have every seen 
 as it is a futuristic shooter, some of the things have to be seen to be believed. Anyway onto the 
 multiplayer, this is where the bulk of the game takes place, and by god its worth every penny. 
 You can play up to 8 players in one game running on the 56k dreamcast modem there is absolutely 
 no lag whatsover as secret level specifically designed it to be lag free. The game is one of the 
 fastest created and with no lag its pretty amazing that the dreamcast or pc doesnt blow up, your 
 eyes have a harder job keeping up with the action. On a down side to the game they dont have level 
 specific servers so any noob who goes into a game first time will be blown to pieces in a matter 
 of nano seconds thanks to player created mods and just immensly skilled players.
  
  Graphics -
  
  Whilst not rendered as smoothly as quake 3, ut still does a very very high class 
 job of bringing action to your screens. Everything is running smoothly aside from when you encounter 
 5 people in one room or do the 4 person split screen which then the frame rate drops rather sharply, 
 so stay away from them. Textures are beautiful unmistakable for similar jaggy games ut has a look 
 of its own. Character models are full of polygons although a little more wouldnt of gone a miss. 
 Gore is displayed fantasically with bodies blood and brains exploding everywhere in a frenzy of 
 killing. Overall on the graphics side ut is a dark, yet colourful game with some of the best visuals 
 on the dc.
  
  Sound - 
  
  The sound effects on this game are out of the world, easily as influential as doom back in 93. 
 From shooting to screaming ut has it all. THe soundtrack on the other hand which was pretty decent 
 in the pc version seems to be a miss in this game and is a sure miss. Sometimes the sound can become 
 unsynched from the incredibly fast gameplay which can be rather confusing yet amusing. The effects 
 are where this game really shines on the sound front with it using every channel the dreamcast 
 has to spare.
  
  Value -
  
  Value is a difficult thing to measure on this game, as far as single player goes this game is uncomfortably 
 designed not for this so if your without an internet connection this game is surely not for you, 
 and same with the ps2 version. Its the multiplayer that counts though, and that will keep you addicted 
 for a couple of weeks wheras the single player modes you can blast through in about a day, yet 
 loose interest in about 2 hours.
  
  Overall ut is fun for all ages well the higher ages anyway, and must be played in a dark room with 
 lights off with speakers on full its brilliant. Of all the many 1st person shooters from this era 
 once you have played this one the others will be surely forgotten and youll be fragging for a long 
 long time to come 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshOMEN
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is the best game eva so funny so fun so original and it craps on quake 3 i love 
 the levels the hundreds of MODs the great selection of custom content and alot of funny downloadable 
 charaters like bender and homer and naked chicks plus funny swearing voice packs and the bunny 
 track and Monsterhunt UT is a timeless classic that never gets borin cos of its endless content 
 and humor blood and guts galor LOL very fun shooting dead bodys with rocket launchers and watching 
 them explode and Nalis are funny too the wepons are great tooo to fill space ill do this  
 end of review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_mad
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  BEST: Fun, original and the addiction to it.
  WORST: The graphical quality and the realism could be better.
  
  This game is all about accuracy 
 and instincts. The graphics are horrible, but the sound and the scenarios are great. 
  I don't like futuristic games, but this one is masterpiece. The laser guns, the rocket launcher, 
 all the guns are fake, but very truthful and fun. The maps are very original and the game types 
 are many.
  The menu interface is not so good, but the game is small and works in almost all the computers.
 
  So, if you want to kill, this is the right game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Once in a blue moon, there is a game that comes around and changes a certain genre forever. After 
 playing said game, we never perceive that genre the same way again.
  At the turn of the millennium, one such game did just that. Upon it's release in 2000, it revolutionized 
 the online First Person Shooter genre forever.
  
  Unreal Tournament, the first installment in the ultra-popular "Tournament" series, and the very 
 first quasi-exclusive online title in Epic Games' Unreal series, is a testament to true FPS online 
 gaming.
  I wrote "quasi-exclusive" because UT did have a single player campaign, which can be summed up 
 as "UT Boot Camp": you would go head-to-head with bots to get a feel for the game, it's weapons 
 and, most importantly, it's maps. The skill level of the bots can be tweaked, so you always get 
 a great challenge (bots on Godlike are almost unbeatable!) .
  
  But where UT really shines is it's online gameplay. You have 4 different mods that ship with the 
 original game for the multiplayer: the traditional Deathmatch, the quintessential Capture the Flag 
 and the team-oriented Domination & Assault.
  Deathmatch is self-explanatory. It's a frag-fest where you shoot anything that moves in hopes of 
 scoring the highest total of points.
  Capture the Flag, another standard in multiplayer FPS, sees the team that captures the highest 
 amount of flags at the end of the time limit wins.
  Domination is a little different. You have 3 control points per level. As soon as one of your team 
 members touches the control point, it's yours. You then have to defend that control point. The 
 longer you hold a control point, the more points your team scores. The highest score at the end 
 of the level wins.
  Assault sees each team playing offense while the other plays defense, and vice-versa, once per 
 level. The offensive team is given objectives to complete while the defensive team tries to stop 
 them.
  Those are the original mods, but that didn't stop the huge online community from concocting several 
 other exciting and popular mods, including Fortress and Infiltration.
  
  Speaking of the online community, Epic has always supported them with exciting development tools 
 that they can use and exploit at their leisure. To this day, Epic still continues to support the 
 original UT, which is an incredible testament to their undying fanbase.
  Even though there are 2 other installments in the series, with a third one coming shortly, there 
 are still people playing the game online and developing new maps for it. That is just incredible 
 for a nearly 6 year old game.
  
  The weapons in UT are some of the most recognizable ones out there. Any well learned FPS fan will 
 know what the Redeemer is. The weapons are incredibly well balanced, so no matter which one you 
 have, you still stand a fighting chance of fragging your opponent.
  
  The graphics in the game are absolutely amazing. Keep in mind that this game was released in 2000 
 and used the original Unreal engine. The character models looked sharp and still look pretty good 
 today.
  The maps are amongst the classics in FPS. Any avid UT player knows of the map titled Face. Each 
 one was well designed and looked sharp, whether you'd be fighting inside a mining facility or outside 
 in the bright sun.
  
  The sound was also a great feature in UT. The ambient music wasn't anything special, but it never 
 overshadows the gunfire or other effects. The guns are easily identifiable by the sound they produce.
 
  But, to me, the highlight of the game is the announcer. That deep male voice booming out the words 
 "Killing Spree!!" is something you'll never forget for the rest of your life. It makes you feel 
 like you're in the middle of a sporting event and that you're the star.
  
  A true classic can be defined by it's longevity and on how it is perceived by the gaming population 
 even after it's glory days are long gone. Seeing as there are still some people playing Unreal 
 Tournament online, almost 6 years after it's release, is an example of that.
  Unreal Tournament is a game that you owe yourself to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setsuna_pg
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  How to review my favorite game of all time? It's hard to think of descriptions for it..
  
  First and foremost, Unreal Tournament beat the hell out of any other shooter in the genre at its 
 time, I remember still playing Quake 2 during the time UT came out, and I was seriously blown away.. 
 I didn't capture its beauty until Q3 came out, as I was a Q2 player I thought it would kick ass.. 
 but it only helped in my realization that UT was an extremely complete game, from the stunning 
 (at the time) graphics, to the chaotic sound and great music, and finally the gameplay, oh the 
 heavenly gameplay.. you can never get tired of this game with the endless possibilities of the 
 game types..
  
  Deathmatch.. the classic style, just pick up a weapon, shoot like mad at hope not to die.. if you 
 get tired of that, you can play it in teams, which adds a little spice to the whole thing, especially 
 with friendly fire activated.. if it still doesn't make it for you, you can play InstaGib, everyone 
 armed with one-hit-kill shock rifles for frantic action.. or Last Man Standing, everyone armed 
 with EVERYTHING and limited lives.. Domination, which gives you a real sense of teamplay as you 
 need to defend certain points in the map.. Assault, which is excellent when in hard difficulties 
 (Experienced and over) , as you need to take over an enemy base then defend it, the harder it is, 
 the more stalemates you'll come to, giving you delightful frustration and just gets you more eager 
 to kill them and get it over with.. and perhaps the favorite game type of many, Capture the Flag, 
 which is the most arcade-ish of all the styles, it sounds simple, go to the enemy base, get the 
 flag, and return it to your base, HAH! try that with 8 GOOD players on the enemy base! How can 
 I describe CTF? Amazingly fun, that's how..
  
  With all this variety, how can someone get bored with UT? In any case you can download more maps 
 for your enjoyment! BONUS PACKS people!!
  
  But in order to get the real feeling of the game, you can't limit yourself to playing with mere 
 bots, as they have these horribly predictable patterns that you get used to after a while.. you 
 need to play with REAL people, especially on a LAN.
  
  Now anyone can see why I continue to play this game even to date.. I still prefer this one over 
 2k3 and 2k4, we'll see when 2k7 comes out.. but until then, this one stands the highest on my rankings, 
 and continues to be my overall favorite game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I wont even try to count how many hours I spent playing this game on all the maps against the computers. 
 Unfortunetly, I never got this game to work online, im sure the gaming experience was awsome, because 
 the computer kept me quite occupied for a long time. The graphics are really good and the blood 
 and gore is quite satisfying. I liked the weapons in this game, the ripper, the machine gun, its 
 just funny filling their bodies with bullets and watch them still standing while they take those 
 bullets. And its funny the way they described the kill too, like this one "Taarga got turned into 
 a leaky piece of meat with the machine gun" Man that and other quotes just crack me up big time. 
 My favorite weapons though were the sniper rifle, which I have got countless headshots and the 
 redeemer, which is the best and most powerful weapon of all time. The gameplay is excellent, with 
 plenty of weapons to use and if you put them in the game quite a few power ups that makes the game 
 more interesting. They had some very fun modes to play in this game, Assault mode was really fun, 
 especially the D-Day invasion map, that one is always fun to play. And my favorite is Capture the 
 flag, which I have spent more time playing that mode alone, than some entire games that i have. 
 But this game is just great, the team play, the graphics, the sound effects and music. There is 
 nothing wrong with this game as far as I am concerned. A great game that all first person shooter 
 games should aspire to achieve this games status. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  Yeah, this is the best first person shooter there is, it's where you participate in a tournament 
 where you have to end up beating the rest in a awesome shoot out in different settings
  
  GOOD: Great graphics, great fun there is so much of stuff to try out from mods to guns. My personal 
 favourite typ of game would be capture the flag and my favourite gun would be the Pulse Cannon. 
 There is a hidden story as well.
  
  BAD: There isn'nt any
  
  The game's so AWESOME that untill this day I still play Unreal Tournament, the game is one of the 
 best multiplayer games I have played to this day. With Unreal Tournament 2007 planned to come out, 
 the game is growing to be one heck of a popular game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectronicPest
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game is just excellent fun and it only took them a year and a half to make this brilliance!. This 
 game is also the predecor to ut2003 and ut2004 which you should get too
  
  Gameplay - pure entertaining multiplayer deathmatch
  with a dozen tools of death and destruction. The 
 best of the tools are the dual enforcers, flakcannon, minigun and redeemer (nuclear warhead that 
 CAN BE RIDE!!
  
  Sound- Good soundtrack with Good voices and taunts. The best tracks are colossus, course, run and 
 a few others
  
  Graphics - 6 years old and still pretty damn cool with good textures and awesome levels. The best 
 levels are hispeed, phobos, healpod and some others
  
  lifespan - forever, with a great modding community aswell as all of this you should keep this on 
 your drive aswell as ut2004 and the upcoming ut2007 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dd99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, by now almost eveyone in the gaming world has heard the word, Unreal Tournament. Heck, even 
 developers know its a great engine for moding and creating a hole new game off of. This is also 
 the only game I know that I like playing plain old deathmatch, for some reason it never get repeditive, 
 be it all the wepons, secret locations for armor, and the all time favorite redeemer. Map, man, 
 unrealtournament has a heap of maps, and not just quantity over quality, each map is very nicely 
 designed, and have there own speachal features. It ranges from crazy over the top maps (try morphious, 
 4 big buildings, and low gravity) to simple lenear maps, that arent to symple, yet easy for beginers 
 (facing worlds, 2 huge buildings, and a spliting bridge in the middle, sniping ponts and botomless 
 pits) a balance of wepons, no single wepon rules all. (with the exseption of the redemer) every 
 gun has its own place, flack canon for long corridors, minigun for mowing down people, and reaper, 
 shoot them all over the place and confuse the heack out of people. Each wepon also has secondary 
 fire, whitch adds alot of replay value. The graphix are amasing for its time, and even now, it 
 is very compatable with future cards, and looks amazing in opengl, it may be a old game, but the 
 graphix sure dont show age. The sound is also great, its got good 3d positioning and the sound 
 acualy is very good for its time, and the background music realy sets the mood. Multyplayer is 
 awsom aswell, and with all the mod's out allready you have alot of fun ahead of the acual game 
 itself. Difficulty ranges for extremely easy to extremly hard (depending on the setting it is at) 
 and is good for all range of player. Right now it is very cheap and worth the 10$ if you can find 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  There are certain games that lead in a new gaming era, Doom, Wolfenstein 3d, and late 1999 had 
 Unreal Tournament.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is all dependant on the flow of every level, a mapper myself I've seen dozens 
 of bad maps, decent maps, good maps and amazing maps. The best maps out there are so incredible 
 fun to play. The game is very fast, there are a lot of different weapons, a lot of different game 
 types, trule a revolutionary game. If the map you're playing is set up well gameplay doesn't get 
 any better, ever, than Unreal Tournament.
  
  Graphics: Wow! Do the graphics ever look good. Understand that this game is already seven years 
 old. A tribute to how good the game looks is the amount of games that followed with the unreal 
 engine. Take a look at the latest maps that are still being released, the graphics seem ever increasing 
 in quality. Along with the great looking maps we've got some great weapon and player skins, as 
 well as very good projectiles, the game featured a level of detail never seen before.
  
  You can order your teammates around (wether they be the great AI or humans) , there are countless 
 taunts, and quite a lot of voices you can choose from. The weapons have great sound as well, and 
 there is an almost infinite choice of ambient sounds for avaible for the mapper. As well as pretty 
 good music.
  
  Value: You can get this game for ten bucks! And so many people still play it, or map for it. UT 
 has an amazing and still thriving community.
  
  Tilt: This game is incredible fun. And hey, this game deserves that 10. In my opinion UT is the 
 best game ever created. And it will stay that way. Never again will I give a game a flawless ten. 
 Because nothing compares to Unreal Tournament. All hail to GT Interactive and Epic Games
  
  Buy the UT99 Game of the Year edition now! Noone who has never played it may call him/herself a 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  I still play this game :D another best. This is the first game and the only game of this type. 
 I love this game played all the difficulty levels. The game mods are interesting specially capture 
 the flag and assault i can remember each corner of the maps this has. I never get tired of playing 
 this game. There not much of a story tho but it automatically takes you into an unreal world where 
 you do nothing but killing. Great multi-player game i still play this in our campus. The graphics 
 engine is pretty good doesn't need that much of hardware support can run in almost all the computers. 
 Not very complicated, it takes only few hours for a newbie to learn this game. They released several 
 version after this Unreal Tournament 2003 and 2004. And they are planning to release 2007 this 
 year. The 2003 was not a hit al all, I personally didn't like it but 2004 was not so disappointing. 
 But comparing all three games I still love this. The 2004 graphics are pretty good but it doesn't 
 have the speed as much of this has. Since maps are huge you really can't put the blame on the developers. 
 This is a must to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummerboykhari
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournamnet!!!! with this game you'll be blown AWAY! the graphics are good (depends on ur video 
 card) and sound is off the hook!. so you want to know why it's so good? well i'll number them down 
 to make it easy .1. the weopons are awesome .you start off with 10 weopons. then that's when you 
 download new weopons from the site or from clan sites.2. no there's no vehicles.3. yes there'smods. ranging 
 from matrix stle, bullet time, hella powerful weopons,
  skins, and snipers map,.4. multiplayer rocks .you can trash talk wit idiots and clan. you can join 
 these clans and battle against other clan to see who's best!
  and if i were you i'd never get mad at the admins they can sometimes be nice and mean. but yea if 
 your looking for some really bloody combatr then get a more gore mod! so get this game and u won't 
 regret it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bestlaker
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  This is a great first person shooter. This game is way better than Halo. They have so many locations 
 to battle at. Like in a space place and the gravity really takes effect. Also a WWII atmosphere, 
 but yeah, there are a lot of places to fight at. There are different types of matches, about 5 
 I think. You get like 10 weapons. Including Sniper rifle, Mini gun, Rocket Launcher, etc. They 
 have ok options for making a person. The graphics could have been better, but this is an older 
 game. The sound is great. Just get this game. Its a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  This game is one that i will never forget. The graphics for the time are the best, unreal is just 
 great at releasing next-gen graphics and still having the great feel that the game always has. 
 This game has a pretty good single player just for shooting people up, but what really brought 
 it to the top was the amazing multiplayer. No other game does what unreal does in the multiplayer 
 sense, they are amazing games and i would recommend them to anyone wanting to try a great multiplayer 
 game. The guns are another thing that was really brought out, they provide different options for 
 you to become good at a specific gun or so excel in them all, its an amazing game, try it out! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is getting all sorts of different editions and sequels these days: the incredible 
 2003, the great 2004, and the Xbox-exclusive Championships, but actually the original is the best. 
 Nobody can explain why, or how, or when, or who, or where, it just IS. Like you can't explain why 
 Sony is an evil corporation that wants to kill Nintendo and Microsoft, they just ARE. Like you 
 can't explain why the Earth is round. It just IS. Like you can't explain how overrated the Grand 
 Theft Auto series are. Its just something that IS. This game's just so unbelievable and satisfying, 
 that it outclasses the other ones and stands tall in a class of its bloody own, repeating the same 
 words: 'I am the best PC game ever created. I am better than Half-Life 2.' 
  
  This game's brutal, in a word. And the whole point of the Tournament isn't a very good idea: it's 
 just a series of matches where everyone tries to win eternal life or something. Speaking of life, 
 your life will be lost a few million times over the course of this game. People will exploderize 
 you with oversized rocket launchers, compress you in pressure chambers, decapitate you with a well-aimed 
 spinning blade... the possibilities to see the red splashes are endless. 
  
  And all those possibilities are open to you. YOU can shred people up in a rain of shrapnel. YOU 
 can electrify people with shock rifles. YOU can bathe people in radioactive goo. The game's just 
 so simple and basic that it's unbelievable. The matches are just a chaotic free-for-all where everybody 
 frantically tries to kill each other. 
  
  There are six types of match to be had in this game, though sadly four of them feature in the core 
 single-player. Seven difficulties are available, ranging from pipsqueak [Novice] to impossible 
 [Godlike] with a bunch of other assorted ones bunged in the middle: Average, Experienced, Skilled, 
 Adept, Masterful, and Inhuman. There are customizable bots that allow you to create your own set 
 of cannon fodder. And you can make yourself look cool and intimidating. The matches are Deathmatch, 
 a selfexplanatory trip round arenas trying to kill the most people and hit the score limit, Team 
 Deathmatch, which sets you down in the same manner with a bunch of allies accompanying you, Capture 
 The Flag, where you nick the enemy's flag and take it to yours to score, Last Man Standing, where 
 if you lose all your lives you're out, Domination, where you and your team have to control specific 
 points by touching them, and Assault, where you have to infiltrate the enemy stronghold and complete 
 a set of objectives. Each match category has its own unique varying set of arenas, some better 
 than others. Some are admittedly crap. 
  
  The graphics on these different arenas are good even by today's standards, they're very detailed 
 and actually deliver you into the place. Some, like the CTF match Facing Worlds, where you're on 
 a faraway asteroid with two huge towers on either end, are stunning. Even today, and we're talking 
 old here. 
  
  The audio is great too, the music tags along in the background amidst all the futuristic gunfire 
 without ever getting annoying. 
  
  The gameplay is mindblowing. It's a fast-paced blend of shooting, shooting, shooting and more shooting. 
 It's even better with a huge amount of players in on a fairly hard difficulty, where the tension 
 is unbearable and the bots really make you work hard to hit the score limit or touch their flag. 
 The guns are satisfying and they're all different. 
  
  The Impact Hammer is your bog-standard melee weapon that never runs out of ammo and is always there 
 to provide one last stand. This can be altered to the Chainsaw. And everyone loves a bloodsoaked 
 Chainsaw. 
  
  The Enforcer is aso a bit boring, a single-shot pistol. But you can dual-wield with them Lara Croft-style, 
 and on lower difficulties, this can do surprising damage. 
  
  The BioRifle is a bit on the crappy side too. It spurts out green lumps of radioactiveness that 
 are a bit useless when enemies are the jumpy sort that strafe around a lot. Alternate fire is a 
 bit better in the more cramped arenas: hold down rightmouse and release a bigger wad of green goo 
 that explodes on contact with a surface and blobs of it go everywhere. 
  
  The Shock Rifle bolts out forward shots of lightning that can knock enemies backwards and at least 
 slow their progress. Alternate fire releases a sphere of plasma that does a bit more damage but 
 moves a hell of a lot slower. Because of this, these two can be combined to create a mega-explosion 
 that absolutely pulverizes anyone near it. EAT THAT, YOU DUMBASS! 
  
  The Pulse Gun mincemeats enemies. It's kind of like a machinegun that emits spinning balls of lightning 
 at enemies. Rightclick activates a laser-style weapon. 
  
  The Ripper is cool. It releases spinning, razor-sharp circular blades that can decapitate people. 
 In cramped levels, this can earn you streams of headshots. The other fire releases explosive blades. 
 
  
  The Minigun is the minigun of the game and quite boring next to the more unique guns, but it's 
 still a powerful rapidfire weapon that doesn't seem to overheat. 
  
  The Flak Cannon is my alltime favourite. There's nothing more satisfying in the game by going upclose 
 to someone and ripping them apart with whitehot shrapnel. It's a bit like a shotgun, but can also 
 spit out bombs. 
  
  The Rocket Launcher is a bit like any other rocket launcher, unleashing those explosive projectiles. 
 Only this one can fire up to six at a time. 
  
  The Sniper Rifle is just a sniper rifle. 
  
  The Redeemer can easily turn the tide of any battle. 
 This fires a small nuclear weapon that explodes and emits a pulverizing wave that implodes anyone 
 unfortunate enough to be near it. Alt-fire lets you control it and fire it up the ass of your least 
 favourite person in the match. That is so fun online, when you laugh at all the people who type 
 in threatening messages to you. 
  
  But that's enough now. This review's already longwinded, but to do this game the justice it deserves 
 it'd have to be double this length. Buy it now. It's a satisfying blast that is easily the most 
 amazing game known to man. On PC, anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickoooo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Fun
  
  Story = 0/0 No story worth bothering about.
  
  Game play = 10/10 This game is just plain fun everyone can find something fun to do while playing.
 
  
  Graphics = 10/10 Very Good graphics for me. i have 64 MB geforce2 and this game ran very well on 
 1024 by 768 with everything maxed which increased the score quite a bit.
  
  Sound = 7/10 I found the gun sounds very appealing but sometimes the music didn't seem to fit the 
 level. Like slow music on a small level where as soon as you spawn your in danger.
  
  Replay = 10/10 There is always something to do or game to join.
  
  My Score = 8.8 Just Plain 
 Fun.
  
  Rent/Buy Rent then buy if you like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been wondering to myself why I didn't review this game sooner. It's been the dominator of 
 my life since it's release way back when, and I haven't stopped playing since then. Even though 
 it's a bit outdated these days, it's still a messianic shooter that spits in the face of tactical 
 games and even Halo, before shredding them all with a Flak Cannon. What I'm trying to say is that 
 this is the best first-person-shooter ever, on any format, platform, or console, ever. Maybe the 
 epic-looking Unreal 2007 will turn the tables, but nothing has ever topped Unreal Tournament. Never. 
 It proves that old-school is better than anything else. 
  
  This is up-front in-your-face blasting, all right. Absolutely no tactics or strategic elements 
 are in this game; the whole game is based around running around and shooting everything that moves. 
 And without all the microscopic features and little elements that are in games these days, Unreal 
 Tournament proves less really is more. There is no feeling like blowing somebody up with a locked-on 
 rocket and watching their internal pulp go soaring into the air. No feeling in gaming is more satisfying 
 than a well-earned bloodied kill in Unreal Tournament. None at all. 
  
  Maybe I'm overrating this game by awarding it with a hefty 9.6. But in my eyes, this is the most 
 enjoyable shooter ever, and I'm going to explain why in the epic review that's to follow...
  
  Unreal Tournament doesn't have much of a background story. There's no twisty plotlines or sophisticated 
 storytelling. The only cutscene in this game is the intro, as far as I know, and in it it briefly 
 explains about the Liandri Corporation working with the NEG to establish a grand tournament, and 
 warriors from all over the universe are selected to fight in it for an ultimate prize. It's not 
 very intriguing, but who cares, because this is one hell of a grand tournament. 
  
  Unreal Tournament's game modes are very simple and are very individual as well. The standard Deathmatch 
 is self-explanatory, it's just you and a number of other dim-witted gun-wielding idiots dashing 
 around a space-age arena grabbing weaponry to disintegrate each other with. Then there's the obligatory 
 Team Deathmatch, see above, but with your own squad to issue basic orders to like Attack or Cover. 
 If you want something slightly less freeform, there's Assault, which has you working with your 
 team to push through the enemy's defences while completing a series of objectives, before telling 
 you to defend against the enemy, because they will assault you. Last Man Standing has you competing 
 against numerous other veterans to stay alive the longest, and Domination has you fighting to control 
 strategic control points throughout a level. That only leaves the classic Capture the Flag, which 
 is the basic version of CTF where you have to steal the enemy flag and bring it back to yours.
 
  
  I admit there's not much innovation or unique features in the core gameplay itself, but Unreal 
 Tournament quite frankly doesn't need it - its execution of classic FPS game modes is almost flawless. 
 Deathmatch is the best example of freeform gunplay in the gaming industry as of now, mainly because 
 it's just so damn intense and addictive. If you need a meaty shooter to wear out some of your social 
 frustration, you really should raid your bargain bin, just for the Deathmatch mode. Seriously, 
 this game could just be a long slog of Deathmatch arenas and it still would be one of my favourite 
 games. Last Man Standing is very tense on harder difficulties, where you're cautiously streaming 
 through the arena looking for the elusive other player, and Capture the Flag can lead to some serious 
 air-punching moments. 
  
  To add even more enjoyment, the weapons in this game are tops. Some of the most memorable guns 
 in the industry are in Unreal Tournament, from the radioactive-blob firing GES BioRifle to the 
 kickass Pulse Gun, from the ASMD Shock Rifle to the Redeemer [which is one big missile full of 
 ownage at the best of times] Each and every one of them are satisfying to use and really make you 
 feel like a bona fide killing machine, especially when you're rampaging online with a fully loaded 
 Flak Cannon in hand. If you want to be a psychopath with an extremely powerful gun, you know where 
 to come - your bargain bin.
  
  Even if you're not an online multiplayer sort of person, which is obviously the focus of this game, 
 there's still a wealth of single-player content. It's easy in places but there is seven difficulty 
 settings and a hellish final challenge. Each difficulty setting feels very individual and can often 
 make you feel like you play a different game every time you amp it up - on Novice and Average the 
 AI is quite forgiving and can easily get surprised when you run round the corner with a Ripper 
 in hand, but on Godlike if you done that they would immediately spring to sense and lob a bombful 
 of shrapnel your way quite instantly. And you won't have even had time to blink, so it goes without 
 saying that Godlike is recommended for hardcores and afiocanados only.
  
  And if you are an online multiplayer sort of person, and you have a good network connection, an 
 expensive gaming mouse, a tolerance to ownage, and quick finger reflexes, get ready for some of 
 the most explosive social action ever... it's just so unbelievably addictive if played online. 
 All the fun single-player can give you [if you skipped the above paragraphs, there's a hell of 
 a lot of fun] gets amplified. It just goes to show that games like these are more fun when CPU 
 bots are replaced by real players with the same experience level as you.
  
  The now outdated graphics might put off players used to visual masterpieces like Doom 3, Half-Life 
 2, and Call of Duty 2, but back in the day these were definitive graphics. There's some excellently 
 done levels on show here and some decent special effects that wowed more people than just me five 
 years ago. Character models could be better, but there really is some great visuals on offer here, 
 even if they don't measure up to the otherwise inferior UT2004.
  
  Sound reaches similar greatness. The musical score is widely ranged and varies between arenas, 
 and they really do stick in your head and become associated with that particular mission, from 
 the screeching guitars from arenas such as Morpheus to the ambient sounds of arenas such as Facing 
 Worlds. The taunts are very amusing, especially if played online. Highlights are the sarcastic 
 "I'm sorry, did I blow your head apart?!?" and the obvious "Die, **** Don't be surprised if people 
 look at you strangely if you say these out loud on the train. "Medic!"
  
  I've wasted precious time of my Saturday night typing possibly my longest review yet, just to tell 
 you how mind-bogglingly good this game is. Even if it's outdated in some areas these days, it's 
 still the finest example of a multiplayer shooter in this fickle industry, and has done for shooters 
 what Ocarina of Time did for RPG's. Old-school and explosive, Unreal Tournament is a fast-paced 
 assault on the senses and can prove highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitargamer1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't already played UT then you need to go to EB games or where ever you buy your games 
 at and get it. The one that started it all is what I refer to it as. All these new ones may have 
 better graphics but UT is a fun frag fest ride that doesn't stop untill match is over. Graphics 
 aren't great but they aren't an eye sore for me. With all the mods, skins and other stuff made 
 for this game it has a very high replay value and of course it's very, very, very cheap right now. 
 UT 2004 is also a great game but this is the daddy of all of the great games. With great gameplay, 
 sound, community and just about everything you have to appreciate this classic FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakichiel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has been my favourite shooter ever since it came out in '99. The massive online 
 community makes this game great. You don't have any big pro's in comparision to the new players 
 like experience points, better weapons, more life or better defence, something that is starting 
 to become a trend in the gaming scene. instead it's just you, your opponent and a pair of guns. 
 especially when you are playing instagib, a mode where it's 1 shot - 1 kill. your score will only 
 be based on how good you are, whose reflexes are better and who has a better aim --and that's the 
 way I like it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: david465
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournament is the best first person shooter ever, i think i was stuck playing it for over 
 6 months non-stop, i would've played it more, but my brother deleted it off of our computer!!!!: ( 
 
  
  The gameplay: The gameplay is so action packed and so thrilling, that it will keep you playing 
 for alot more then 6 monts!!!! With all of the different game modes and pick the weapons in the 
 battle, there is an unlimited amount of possiblilites to have fun! 
  
  The graphics: The graphics are pretty good for unreal tournament, the explosions are realistic, 
 weapons are pretty realistic looking, etc. The only problem that i had were the triangle-shaped 
 faces and if you were to look at a team mate up close, who would be holding a rocket launcher, 
 it would look like the rocket launcher is 2 feet long! But besides that, graphics rock.
  
  Sound: Sound is pretty good, some pretty good and memorable tracks, good blood gushing sounds and 
 death crys. The tracks weren't that good, but they were still ok.
  
  Value: This game is worth full price! You get unlimited customizable battles, very addicting gameplay, 
 lots of action and thrills that will make you want to pay triple for this game. 
  
  Tilt: Ummmmm... I guess the tilt is good, everything functions properly, i didn't find any flaws 
 what so ever and/or glitches, and the crosshair is not to accurate and not to ummm.. what's the 
 word, well let's just say that at least a rocket doesn't miss a guy if it's 2 feet away. The crosshair 
 is in the middle of those 2 categories.
  
  Overall, Unreal Tournament should not be missed by any first person shooter addict, pc gamer, gore 
 lover, or anyone that just loves a kick-a** game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avpget
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is one of those games which all you do is to kill things using a variety of weapons. 
 The levels are well done and full of traps and well placed scenery. In the first few minutes I 
 was hooked and played non-stop for weeks. The weapons all have their advantages and disadvantages, 
 like the rocket launcher is powerful but it can hurt you in close range. The single player the 
 bots get tougher and tougher but in instant action the bots will remain dumb or smart depending 
 on what level you put them at. The sound for its time was excellent but the taunts get annoying 
 after a while. If youre bored fighting the bots multiplayer can entertain you for long time. Overall 
 this game is worth every dollar you put into it. If you like killing things for entertainment then 
 this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  unreal tournament is sooo oooooo ooooo oooooo good game
  the multyplayer is so fun and many kinds of games . . . .
  as capture the flag , death match 
 , team death match and more . . . .
  i think the one player is not so fun . . . . but ther multyplayer is realy fun
  so gett this 
 game and you want be sorry . . . .
  and if you gett that game . . . . i reccomend to play with the rockets (not all the servers have 
 that game) its really fun and its the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  this game is brilliant, revoulutionery, cool, and also has some of it's little black humor (some 
 may not notice) .
  the game, although is a bit fast, is great, looks like it was meant to be multiplayer-only game, 
 but the single mode is great by itself.
  the game let you create your own character, visuals, voice, name, team.. it's just cool, when you're 
 enetering a tournament you have a great arsenal of weapons, big, destructive, and cool. different 
 locations have different gravity and look, and also, obstacles, tou would find a preasure room, 
 that if you will enter it by yourself, the NPC's out side may push a btton and the room will be 
 closed and there will be, well, vaccum, means youl get blown.
  another cool place is the buildings that are super high... there are three of them, and the gravity 
 is very low so you can jump like a rocket rabbit lol.
  anyway the most annoying thing is that if you have a fast computer (that today most of us have) 
 the game will be too fast so there is a BIG chance that the NPC's will run madly and blow you in 
 a sec :- ( any way it's a great game and a medium computer is fine to run it.
  until next time.. Habuji. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edimus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  To start off, i downloaded the demo from the UT website, and i was adicted after my first match! 
 I very quickly bought the game and was far into the tournament within the first game. To start 
 off it has to be said, it is too easy and is quite tedious, but once you've unlocked new aspects 
 of the game it gets exciting. The tournament, once youve unlocked team deathmatch and domination 
 game modes, is amazing! Its more than just running around wasting people, you have to be rather 
 tactical. 
  The once you've completed the single player modes, theres not much really to do, so you venture 
 on to the world of UT ONLINE!
  There is a wide range of servers, and clans to join, its amazing. It may be old but stil very popular 
 online. You may find servers with no rules, these are often very fun, and there are many servers 
 with special "mutators" like ridable rockets, so its worth getting online if you can.
  Unreal Tournament, to round up, is an amazing game, with so many hours of gameplay its unbelievable. 
 Anyone who is a fan of first person/action games, this is a must!
  
  Edimus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: systemofakorn1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game ive ever played especialy for the multiplayer the one player basicaly is 
 multiplayer but you face bots but its amazing way better than the other unreal tournament games 
 and the other unreal games
  
  the graphics are great the weapon models are my favroite out of all series and the player models 
 are my favorite for this one as well
  
  the sound is great the music does get to you but its not as bad as the other unreal games and the 
 weapon and other noices are great 2
  
  you should get this if you dont all ready own it and you can probably get this for $10-20 and i 
 think for $20.00 you can get unreal tournament, unreal, and unreal mission pack 1.
  
  the set up for this game is great to there are tons of options for multiplayer and tons of add 
 ons (new content) that people have made for it.
  
  if you play online try out instagib or the sniper servers there great and my favorite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacob669
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  no no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no 
 nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no 
 no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no 
 no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono 
 no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no no no nono no 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonphoenix123
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  best game of it's era
  
  awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortel3
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:00 am PT
Review:  Yeah its good... but the basis of the game is kind of boring. Its just a team deathmatch with twists 
 every level. I like the weapons, sure, but really it could have done better with overall thought. 
 Better story, WAY better sound needed... and yeh.. other than that a great game.
  
  ----------------Review 
  
  aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa aa 
 aa aa aa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 2:41 am PT
Review:  Don't let the fact that this game is older fool you. The game offers really unlimited replay value 
 because of Unreal's infamous team-based game engine. Anyone in their right mind would go out right 
 now and buy this game.
  
  The graphics may look a tad dated, but they make up for it big time when you actually play it. 
 Weapon models look absolutely gorgeous and AI models look terrific as well. You'll enjoy just stopping 
 sometimes and looking at the fluid lava effects or just stand in the water and watch it ripple. 
 They're that good.
  
  The sound is probably the coolest thing about UT because all the players in the field can vocally 
 taunt either after kills or just to hear their own voices. However, that's not all! Along with 
 the taunt options you can order specific bots to do specific things like "search and destroy" or 
 order your team to defend your flag during CTF (capture the flag) matches. Also, the guns make 
 some of the best "gun sounds" you'll ever hear as you fire off the handy enforcer or the terrible 
 redeemer.
  
  Controls are easy to manipulate and give the player the ability to navigate the UT battleground 
 with ease. And for some reason if the controls don't fit your liking or style, you can go to preferences 
 and change them.
  
  Unreal Tournament offers the best in PC gaming and really you'll never find the time to do everything 
 the game has to offer. The ownership of this game is a must, no questions asked. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freakytreats
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  this is simply the best 1st person shooter that ive seen for 6 years... this game is 6 years old 
 and it still has at least 2000 servers still on my name is X2FeZ one of the biggest clan member 
 of low gravity and i have played this game for 4 years and never got sick of it yet and im pretty 
 sure i never will. this is the only unreal tournament that has the perfect gameplay mark and is 
 so addicting that everyone around the world has played for years i think anyone that likes 1st 
 person shooter should by this great game ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranger_waha
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournament is a testament to the revolution in graphics design for the PC. There are no 
 FPS's that can stand up to this one, it truly stands alone. From it's amazingly challenging single 
 player, to it's endlessly entertaing multiplayer, this game will never go out of style. Everyone 
 loves Capture the Flag, which on certain levels like face and lava giant can be extra difficult 
 and oodles of fun. Beware the sniper rifles and people who train with them, they are almost as 
 bad as Redeemer wielding players, who enjoy nothing more than chasing you across the map with a 
 big slogan slapped rocket. An endlessly fun game, all should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominic_daluz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:59 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game years ago, I thought that the game will be slow because at that time, my 
 pc was really old. I was wrong... This game looks great even on an old pc/ a pc not meant for gaming... this 
 game is loads of fun... trust me... do not cheat like I did. When I first played the game, I put 
 the difficulty on novice enabled God mode and shot everything! Sure it was fun for a few days, 
 the it got old. Cheats just ruins the game. I suggest playing a few practice sessions with auto 
 adjust skill enabled to see what skill level you are in. Currently I am at inhuman, the second 
 hardest difficulty setting. This game is fun because of the great AI. The bots won't charge at 
 you with a sniper rifle ,they will simply hang back and shoot at you at a proper distance. Graphics 
 were really good when this game was released and still good enough to make the game playable. Sound 
 is good. Gameplay is top-notch! Buy this game, it's quite cheap nowadays... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  Good shooters are hard to come by, but this game is superb. Absolutely brilliant.
  To start with, the graphics are some of the best I have ever seen. So much detail is added everywhere. 
 Every arena has detail beyond the imagination, complete with worlds floating around and jam packed 
 full of high level AI.
  The gameplay is excellent. It is a strange plot ( if you can say it has one) , but that doesn't 
 bring the game's score down at all. It's fun, action packed and thrilling and will have you shouting 
 at it whether you win or lose.
  The sounds for each arena fit the surroundings really well, create atmosphere, tension and suspense. 
 Which, of course, are key elements in games.
  The game is really worth playing, worth buying and keeping for years with any other amazing shooters 
 that you own. 
  Excellent for the money you can get it for today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devouring_One
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament isn't like any other FPS game you played. This game is all about action. It may 
 not have a good story, but everything else about it is really good. The game is about you entering 
 a tournament and you compete by killing each other in game modes.
  
  The game is divided into 4 different game modes. The four are Domination, Capture the Flag, Deathmatch, 
 and assault. In Domination, you play in a team and you have to capture four areas and gaurd them 
 for a certain amount of time. In Capture the Flag, you have to take the opponent's flag and bring 
 it back tou your home base with the flag in it. In Deathmatch, you just kill each other in an arena 
 and the ones with the most kills wins. There is also team deathmatch which can be subcatergorized 
 with deathmatch. In assult you just do missions which inolves defense and assault.
  
  In this game, you can play with computer partners or human players online. You can play with up 
 to 32 players in a map. There are hundreds and hundreds of maps you can choose from to keep the 
 game interesting. You can download mods, levels, skins, and voices to customized your gaming needs. 
 The game graphics in this game are really good. The sounds are just fast paced techno music in 
 levels and computer voices that responds in insults to you or trash talk.
  
  This game is extremely addictive, and to add with that, this game also has alot of replay value. 
 You can play this game online and still find hundreds of people playing this game, but they are 
 insanely good, If you dont have any experience playing this game then you might not find it fun 
 as you are constantly killed. So you're probably better off practicing against the life like computers 
 until your ready.
  
  This game has to be considered one of the greatest games ever because of its innovative game style 
 and fast paced arcade sryle gameplay. Anyone who likes games should definately try this game out, 
 and anyone who likes computer games should definately pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostgamer05
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is a first-person shooter game. Unlike many FPS games, including the one that 
 it derived from  Unreal, Unreal Tournament is not story based but is a tournament based action 
 game. This makes you want to play it over and over again  just so that you can be champion of 
 this tournament set in the far future.
  
  UT consists of two game types: Tournament and Practice mode. You can think of Tournament as the 
 campaign mode of UT while practice mode is pure free-play practice. They consist of different 
 game types and a different selection of skins and maps to choose from. In Tournament mode you must 
 first choose a team and skin to use. The teams include Thundercrash  a streetwise team and very 
 popular with UT viewers, Iron guard  consists of veteran elite warriors who were once bodyguards, 
 Blood Reavers  mercenaries and ex-military specialists who are out for fame and fortune, Black 
 Legion  Necris Phayder assassins who seek to dominate the tournament, Dark Phalanx  honorable 
 military specialists who just want glory from the tournament. Then there is Raw Steel, which comprises 
 of only men and combines strength and power and Venom, which consists of only women  an elite 
 faction of warriors and athletes.
  
  Many tournamentbased games remind you of the classic game type  Deathmatch, were you must kill 
 as many opponents (or bots as they are known in UT) and dying as little as possible though respawning 
 when you get killed. UT obviously uses this type of competition but includes other types, such 
 as Domination, Capture the Flag, Assault and the Challenge mode. Practice mode includes also Team 
 Deathmatch and Last Man Standing. In tournament mode you must work your way up different matches 
 which get harder and harder. Once you finish a number of Deathmatch matches you unlock Domination, 
 then Capture the Flag, Assault and finally the hardest part of the game  Challenge, which includes 
 the final showdown of the whole tournament  a duel with the corrupt champion of the tournament 
 Xan Kreigor, in his very own spaceship. Practice mode also offers some extra maps, extra skins 
 (where you can play as robots or even Xan Kreigor himself) and mutators. Some mutators are funny 
 such as Fatboy were you get fatter according to how many people you kill, others are useful such 
 as Chainsaw melee were you get a chainsaw as a weapon, though there are loads more. 
  
  UT not only gives you a massive selection of maps, skins and game types, but also of weapons. The 
 weapons are: Translocator  this has to be the niftiest weapon for any FPS, it teleports you to 
 any place on the map that you want; Impact Hammer  its not actually a hammer but it is a melee 
 weapon; the Enforcer  a pistol taken from Unreal, only it was called Automag; GES Biorifle  shoots 
 toxic slime balls also taken from Unreal; ASMD Shock rifle  shoots balls and rays of pure electricity, 
 also taken from Unreal. Whats cool with this weapon is that if you shoot the ball (which is slow-moving) 
 and shoot a ray at it (very fast) , it makes a massive explosion, causing instant death to anyone 
 who is in its diameter  including you. Pulse rifle  shoots balls and rays of plasma, one of my 
 favourite weapons; Ripper  in Unreal this was known as the Razorjack, it shoots shuriken-like 
 blades; Minigun  yes, the greatest hand-held machine-gun of any FPS is included in UT; Flak cannon 
  shoots extremely powerful flak shells with a smiley face on them, this is my favourite weapon. 
 Also found in Unreal. Rocket Launcher  standard rocket launcher, Sniper Rifle  very rare but 
 very powerful and finally the biggest, greatest and most powerful weapon in UT  the Redeemer. 
 This shoots mini-nuclear warheads that have ADIOS! written on the side. They can also be guided 
 and the diameter of the explosion is massive.
  
  So there you have it, my review of Unreal Tournament. It made such a success that it is game of 
 the year and is also found on PS2. You should also check out Unreal and the other games from 
 the series that are found on PC, PS2 and XBOX. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sPiT_iT_oUt_515
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament was one of the 1st, First - Person Shooter games Ive ever played when my cousin 
 let me try the game out. I still have and play the game today. Its so fun and addictive. Any fan 
 of the whole 1st - Person Shooter series should play this game or at least greatly consider it. 
 Its a kick ass game ...
  
  Gameplay : Very, very fun! This game is super addictive. The Multiplayer gameplay is really fun. 
 Online is super exciting . I cant really describe why its so awsome. The blood, the gore, the taunting 
 and its pretty funny ( dont know why) for a fisrt - person shooter. The story mode doesnt really 
 have a "story" to it. Its just a Tournament but in the end its really cool.
  
  Graphics : Well since this game came out in the year 2000, I have to go back to the technology 
 of 2000. To tell you the truth I barely paid any attention to the graphics because the gameplay 
 kicked to much ass! 
  
  Sound : Its a pretty normal soundtrack for a 1st -person shooter. Pretty much what you would expect. 
 But for some arenas thier are some pretty cool sounding stuff.
  
  Overall : I would recommened this game to anyone that likes to have fun!, That likes 1st person 
 shooters and that likes to let out thier anger on computer simulated robots!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Same concept like quake 3, except the AI in this game are a little much better than 
 quake 3. Unreal Tournament is an extreme multiplayer game ever because knowing how many fun game 
 modes there are like: Deathmatch, team deathmatch, domination ( quake 3 doesn't have that) , CTF 
 and Assault (another that quake 3 doesn't have) . UT is very fast paste and fun that's what makes 
 the game fun.
  
  Graphics - Awesome for a 1999 game. 
  
  Sound - Totally extreme, the sounds of people chatting are very clear to hear, the sounds of all 
 weapons are awesome.
  
  Value - Single player will keep you going and multiplayer will keep you going so how can this game 
 not have a awesome value.
  
  Tilt - Pretty obvious 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agefreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  
  Down the line of all the so called must-play games comes along a title every now and then, which 
 holds a class of its own. Its these titles which are classic Game of the Year material, a gem 
 amongst the rocks, which combine the best of their genre, add in their own spices, and voila! A 
 recipe for success!! Yeah, I know Ive sort of revealed the conclusion at the beginning of this 
 review, but frankly speaking, Id rather go and have another one-on-one than write up this review 
 (something thats quite an irony!!!) Anyway..
  
  Unreal Tournament comes across as another mindless shoot-everything-that-moves FPS, but its got 
 much more than that. It can be easily mistaken as a Quake III rip-off, but couldnt disagree more. 
 Well come to that in a moment, but for those of you whore still in the dark ages, UT is a gladiatorial 
 combat themed game, which puts you in an arena with equally bloodthirsty opponents, and lets 
 you fight your way to dominance. A crappy storyline does exist behind this entire theme, something 
 about such combats being legalized and you being the one whos supposed to dethrone the champion, 
 but thats not worth mentioning anyway..
  
  The theme of the game has been well implemented through 6 modes  Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Domination, Capture the Flag, Assault and Last Man Standing. While the basic gameplay in each mode 
 remains the same (i. e., kicking your opponents a$$) , there are subtle modifications for each style 
 which make gameplay that much more enjoyable. While Deathmatch is a free-for-all mindless slugfest 
 in which the person with the maximum kills (frags) wins, Domination throws in a new twist by forcing 
 you to control certain strategic points on the map. The greater no. of control points you have, 
 the greater are the increments in your score. Capture the Flag needs no introduction. It is something 
 which plenty of games have implemented with reasonable success. The mode involves capturing the 
 enemy flag from their base and returning it safely to your own base, all the while defending your 
 own flag, obviously!! The Last Man Standing mode is a variant of the deathmatch mode, in which 
 players are required to survive rather than score frags in order to win. You are given a certain 
 no. of lives and you have to ensure that you dont run out of them!
  
  The icing on the cake is, of course, the Assault mode. This mode throws you in a huge map, requiring 
 your team to complete certain objectives in a particular order, all the while
  dealing with the opposing team, which, obviously, guards these objectives. Objectives vary from 
 throwing switches, opening gates, destroying turrets etc., and must be completed within a time 
 limit. If you manage to complete the objectives, you need to defend them in your turn, for the 
 same amount of time your team took while assaulting the base. whew!!! Plenty of fireworks, I 
 can assure you!!!
  
  Coming to the maps, they are absolutely spectacular! The creativity of these guys really shows 
 in these breathtaking arenas. Maps are both open and closed, and both kinds have been rendered 
 to utmost detail. They are complete with strategically placed weapons and power-ups, convenient 
 spawn points, sniper points, secret areas and of course, absolute eye candy! The weapons have been 
 superbly modeled as well. There are in all 10 weapons, ranging from the accurate bursts of the 
 Shock Rife to the raw power of the Rocket Launcher and the absolute dominance of the Redeemer. 
 Each weapon offers two firing modes, and all of them have their uses. With powerups like Mega Health 
 and Double Damage, each match has the potential to turn head over heels in an instant.
  
  The sound department lives up to the expectations as well. Effects for all the entire game, including 
 gunshots, groans, taunts et al have been accurately presented. The sound in such a fast paced game 
 is of utmost importance, as you need to know whos creeping up behind you, ready to blow you away!! 
 The game offers full support for the EAX standard, which satisfies the best in the business. As 
 far as the background score is concerned, it is generally fast paced rock/metal in most cases, 
 and blends well with the gameplay.
  
  The game features a Single Player mode, in which you create a player and move him through the stages 
 in the tournament, unlocking further game modes as you move along. Theres a Practice Mode, which 
 pits you against AI controlled bots in any arena and Game mode you choose. However, the real fun 
 comes when you take the game online and pit yourself with players of equal, if not greater intelligence. 
 The game supports a max. of 16 simultaneous connections. And owing to the immense popularity of 
 the game, youll find someone online even at the oddest hours. There are a plethora of servers 
 to choose from. Latency rates are generally low, and fragging your best friend was never so much 
 fun. Tired of beating up the dumb computer?? Pit yourself against the pros waiting to slaughter 
 you online!!
  
  Its really difficult to point out flaws in such a damn perfect game. Personally, apart from the 
 horrible opening sequence, and the crappy storyline, theres nothing much you can crib about. Full 
 marks to Epic for making their stand in a genre so dominated by the Dooms and the Quakes, and for 
 coming forward with a game to stand the test of time. An awesome singleplayer, an even better multiplayer, 
 great graphics, great sound and voiceovers. What more could you ask for??? If you havent played 
 this gem, you should be ashamed of calling yourself a gamer! 
  
  
  In a Nutshell :-
  
  Pluses
  
  Awesome gameplay
  Great graphics and sound
  Superb Multiplayer
  Possibly 
 too addictive!!
  
  
  Minuses
  
  Crappy storyline
  Just too addictive
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2005 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that will either stand the test of time and live forever, or be remade 
 horribly. But for right now, its still the king of shooters among my games. 
  
  The gameplay was completely original. Shoot anything that moves. That was the only rule. Oh and 
 slaughter or be slaughtered. The bots were easy on easy, a little too easy sometimes. And on godlike. 
 Lets just say I never lasted 2 minutes on Godlike. Game Of The Year Edition, which is what I have, 
 has so many modifiers on it that you can play the same game twice, but it probably wont be the 
 same. 
  
  The graphics are just beefy even for a game released in 2000. Doesnt even seem like that long ago. 
 The levels range from small to huge. And the best part os with GOTYE, you can play in maps made 
 for other versions like Assault or CTF. The character models are full, that is, on this competer. 
 The computer I had when I bought it was just crap and I could barely see anything.
  
  Even once youre done with the tournament mode, you'll still want to just play the levels in practice 
 and learn the secrets of the game. If you ever get bored doing that, the game is young enough to 
 have multiplayer. Which I cant play right now because I need the first disc. 
  
  This game is probably 4th or 5th in my all-time favorites. If you ever find this game in a used 
 bin, buy it. You will NOT be disappointed. Unlike Unreal Championship. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt-UnReaL
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 30, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game could not have been any better. It has the best multplayer out of any game. It is 5 years 
 old now and people play this game more than Unreal Tournament 2004! You can create your own maps 
 with X, Y, and Z axis, practicly make anything thing you want in your map. People have been playing 
 this game since 1999 and will not stop until a better FPS online game comes out. You can make mods 
 and mutators and host them on sites too. There is so many different gametypes it's unbelievable! 
 There is:
  Capture the Flag There are 2 flags, 2 teams, you run around in the level and get the opposite teams 
 flag and bring it back to yours, I am sure everyone knows that.
  Jailbreak There are 2 teams, the first team to frag [kill] all the players on the other team wins. 
 Each time you die, you go to jail. Your team can find a switch to release you out of jail. Then, 
 when you win, it shows a cool little cutscene of your opponents dying in jail, they die mostly 
 all different ways in every map. Like get eaten by monsters, monsters shoot stuff out you, lasers 
 come out of the walls, very, very, loud music.
  Monster Hunt In this gametype you run around and find weapons and go threw places to kill monsters, 
 it gets harder and harder as you go. Then when you get to the end there is a boss. Also, in some 
 maps you have to go threw obstacles and jump over things to unlock certain weapons.
  BunnyTrack I know this sounds very weird, but it is my favorite of all the gametypes. There are 
 2 teams, and in this you have to jump over things, go threw obstacles, shoot things and press buttons 
 to open doors, dodge things, and run threw the map as fast as you possibly can. Sometimes things 
 will crush you, you will fall in lava, get lost in a maze [which I truly hate mazes] Then when you 
 get really far you get the flag and capture it. You get timed to see how long it took you to capture 
 the flag. There are over 300 BunnyTrack maps. Then it shows your time right by your name. You can 
 also see everyone else's times. There are world records of times. For example, the world record 
 for CTF-BT- (LU) EnvoyOfTheEnd is 2:13 by me! The CTF indicates Capture the Flag, BT indicates it 
 is a BunnyTrack, the (LU) is who created the map. Lt. UnReaL is (LU) , my initials.
  DeathMatch I think you all know what this is, up to 18 players or so, all out killing each other 
 and the first one to get to a certain score limit wins.
  Team DeathMatch Same thing as ^^^ except there are 2 teams. 
  Domination In this you have to 
 control 3 points around the map. For each 2 or 3 seconds you control them you get a point. So say, 
 for example, The Red Team controls 1 place and the Blue Team controls 2 points. The Blue team would 
 be getting 2 points every 2 or 3 seconds since they control 2 points. This gametype is not very 
 popular online though.
  Last Man Standing Same as DeathMatch except you have lives. Say you start with 20 lives and you 
 get killed 20 times you are down to 0 lives. This means you are out of the game. Then you keep 
 going until there are only 2 people left then somebody wins.
  Assault In this there are 2 teams, 1 attacking and 1 defending. The team attacking has to complete 
 objectiives and the other team has to defend, they must stop them. There are 3-6 objectives in 
 every map. Then when the team completes there mission, they have been timed for how long it took 
 them. Say on AS-Frigate it took them 3:03, both of the teams switch attacking and defending and 
 now the people who defended, who are now attacking have to beat 3:03, if they do they win!
  There are many other gametypes like Unreal Fortress, Tactical Ops, Monster Arena and others. Now 
 mutators are very fun. You can have low gravity, instagib, this is a shock rifle with a laser that 
 shoots a one hit kill. You can have BinSlayer weapons, Strangelove mutator, you shoot a big missle 
 and ride it threw the level controlling how fast it goes, if you crash a big explosion happens. 
 You can put 2 people on it with you. On every server there is a Map Voting System at the end of 
 the game. People can vote for the next map and the map with the most votes wins! There are so many 
 other mutators, mods, gametypes, maps, or anything, it is great. This game is the best online game 
 and will stay that way unless Unreal Tournament 2007 is any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyt66
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  A departure from the original Unreal's story driven first person adventure Unreal Tournament sets 
 the player in as the title suggests a tounament and there is so much that makes Unreal Tournament 
 so great.
  
  Graphically obviously things have moved onwards and upwards since the release of U. T. but the graphics 
 still hold up well to give a crisp view and allow immersive gameplay. 
  
  You can create your own character from a wide selection of different races and appearances since 
 you only really see your character on occasion it wont make much difference to you but it will 
 be how other players see you so it's worth putting some thought into. 
  
  The weapons are varied and all well balanced and feel great to use right down to the sounds they 
 make when you fire the weapon presentation is flawless right from the old faithful sniper rifle, 
 to the radio controlled mini nuke. Other items also serve to spice up the combat my personal favorite 
 are the anti-grav boots which allow you three super high jumps perfect for leaping over the walls 
 of an enemy fortress to grab thier flag , reaching that high sniping spot or grab that all powerful 
 super weapon. 
  
  The maps are also sublime there are very few maps you wont like one that still stays with me to 
 this day is a capture the flag map called Facing Worlds.... two fortresses a long run over rocky 
 paths between the bases makes this map simple but at the same time brilliant there is no greater 
 joy than sniping an enemy from the roof of your base as they make a run for it with your flag. 
 
  
  There are so many game modes the standard deathmatch... team deathmatch... capture the flag and the 
 great assault mode. Assault mode sets you a mission like challenge ... first your team plays attack 
 and you must complete the missions which take you to all sorts of locations... one map sees you 
 running across a speeding train fighting to apply the brakes... another sets you raiding a large 
 ship in an attempt to use its cannons to blast open some harbour walls.. another starts you in a 
 submarine where you take a short swim to an underwater lab which you must proceed to destroy. Whatever 
 the mission you must accomplish once you have done it you play defence and must prevent the opposition 
 from completing the mission in a faster time than you did.
  
  as well as league play Unreal Tournament allows you to play quick matches against bots of your 
 choosing a variety off mutator factors such as one hit kills.. stealth mode and others give it even 
 further long lasting appeal. 
  
  A great first person shooter that has a lot of features no game before of since has featured and 
 it has aged well too making this an absolute classic title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 2, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is probably the best multiplayer focused game on the pc. The great multiplayer 
 mode is a good reason to purchase the game. So you can consider the good offline campaign as a 
 fine bonus. This game is the best in the Unreal Tournament series, because the others were more 
 of the same. 
  
  The gameplay is just like any other FPS. It plays good. It has no surprises in its gameplay but 
 that doesn't mind. But it's a little bit strange that you don't have to reload your gun.
  
  The graphics are great. The unreal-engine is one of the best engines ever made. The character models 
 are detailed but they have no facial animations. You don't see no damage on the character models. 
 And the explosions sometimes look very fake.
  
  The sound is ok. With one touch of a key you can say some things like Medic! and I'm on fire! But 
 it is a little bit repetitive. The explosions and all the guns just sound great. But like I said 
 by gameplay it's strange that you don't have to reload your gun. With the reloading sounds the 
 sound probably would get a 9.
  
  Unreal Tournament is one of the best multiplayer focused games ever made. You can play Deathmatch, 
 Capture the flag, Assault, Last Man Standing, Team Deathmatch and Domination. These modes are great 
 and fun to play.
  
  Unreal Tournament is a very fun game to play. The multiplayer is the strongest point of this game. 
 I don't think Unreal Tournament would be this good without the multiplayer. It's one of the best 
 games ever made and if you're looking for a game for the pc that has a great multiplayer and a 
 good offline campaign this is the game you should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roleplayer2004
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is what you could possibly say is the expansion or updated version of the 1998 
 classic Unreal. Unreal was the start of the successful Unreal series of games which have came out 
 in the past six years. But Unreal Tournament had some big shoes to fill but it took it up to an 
 extra couple of sizes. This was the beginning of a legendary game and quite possibly the greatest 
 first-person shooter to date. This game is the revolution of first person shooters in my opinion 
 but if it wasn't for games like like Half-Life and Quake III Arena this would've been the revolution 
 for online gaming in the 21st Century.
  
  The main story in the game it's about the year 2291 if I'm right. (sorry if corrected) . And the 
 violence and crime in the galaxy is getting out of hand, so there's a tournament held where the 
 best warriors are gathered to slaughter it out until somebody because the champion. Which this 
 is meant to help stop the violence and crime in the galaxy. This is where you come in as a contender 
 to take out the tournament and to become the strongest warrior in the galaxy.
  
  Unreal Tournament is a very unique game in which your given six massive different modes to choose 
 from in the game that include Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Domination, Last Man 
 Standing and the mode that Unreal Tournaments proud reputation is based on is the new Assault feature. 
 In the main Unreal Tournament or campaign mode you have to first select your characters class, 
 Sex, Skin and even voice. Which you can choose from a female soldier to one of the most feared 
 alien species the Skarrj or even the quite hilarious Nali War Cow. Then you slog it out in the 
 campaign mode until you unlock all five game features and ultimately win all five tournaments and 
 become the Unreal Tournament champion.
  
  The games gamplay is extriemely addictive and fun to play. You'll never really get sick of the 
 game and you'll be lured into the games multiplayer or online mode months after you've finished 
 to the main game. The only faults are in a couple of the smaller stages in the deathmatch and Capture 
 the Flag mode. Because the game can easily become a bloodbath and quite a lot of resporning. And 
 the levelHall of Giants" is far too big. 
  
  The graphics are just truly mindblowing when you're first introduced to the game and it's very 
 realistic and surreal. ( this is back in 2001) . But no matter how old the game is the graphics quality 
 today is very good and still quite nice to watch. The detailing on the characters are second to 
 none. With all the options from choosing the skins, faces and colours. This game has a massive 
 range of options and the character detail is quite believable.
  
  Unreal Tournament still to this day I play on a regular basis and its still addictive and very 
 fun to play. Even after five years of the games release this game still doesn't loose its touch 
 and your always still learning new things. Even today I still learn little things while playing 
 and I'm always improving in a few spots. This games learning curve never really stops which is 
 sending out a statement.
  
  This game should never be underrated. This is simply the greatest multiplayer first person shooter 
 of all time because of one thing. Value. The learning never ends. You can always do that little 
 bit more. This is one of the finest first person shooters ever made and this game is pure genius 
 from level design to gameplay. Epic you are legends and elites when it comes to game designing.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SQUILTHEONE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2004 7:03 pm PT
Review:  sometimes the game gets glitchy and if your comp isnt very fast or adaptable your out of luck and 
 might end up dissappointing yourself rather than enjoying the raw pure fps action The game is the 
 closest. near a perfect game save for a few bad points the game surpasses all its predecessors and 
 is a glory to the legacy. Vehicles and the overall Unreal Play, plus the online play makes it a 
 kick ass title, not to mention it runs great on a modest machine. thing you can get to halo2 without 
 marking a blemish on its spotless record . wonderfull
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegorum
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2004 1:06 am PT
Review:  Maybe it was the timing or perhaps it was just because I was just getting back into video games 
 that I was so obsessed with this game. Whatever the reason is I couldn't play enough of UT. This 
 was the first game where I experience quality AI in the single player version for the first time. 
 I spent sleepless nights with my headphones on so as not to wake the girlfriend trying to get to 
 the next level of the single player. I couldnt get over the graphics and the sound and the challenge 
 of getting to the next lev. and the final lev seemed to take me forever to finish. After I finished 
 that final AI I was sitting in front of my computer. Finished! No more levels to continue on with. 
 I considered starting again and loaded the game up but paused when I saw the multiplayer option. 
 I had never played multiplayer games before except Hoyle board game's with my girlfriend (and that 
 was us both using the same computer) so the multiplayer thing sounded like some exotic experience 
 that I wasnt quite sure I would be able to do without doing something stupid... but the concept 
 of playing games with total strangers on the internet wasnt anonymous to me because the internet 
 was a new thing to me, I was still thinking that if I did something dumb or got wooped really bad 
 I would somehow be known for that and branded as a bad multiplayer. In any case I connected to 
 my first multiplayer game and realized that just because I had finished the single player it didnt 
 mean the game had run its course BUT rather the single player was really just your training for 
 the "real: game of multiplayer.
  Yea, if your still reading this you know by now that this review sucks as a review because my nostalgia 
 has taken away any objectivity I might have had. But I had to justify why I would give anything 
 a 10 score. UT gets a 10 because it was innovative and creative and it stood on its own apart from 
 the rest for its creativity and imagination and its ability to allow the player to lend his own 
 imagination to the game. UT was successful in creating a new universe that didn't have to barrow 
 from already existing brands (i. e.: Star Wars) and that in itself is a nice accomplishment. All 
 this being said I know that I would probably be tougher on the sequels to this game because after 
 you play an original the sequel never quite takes you back to your original experience :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twin_Blade_Mike
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2004 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, but the best part of this game is the multiplayer. Not saying singleplayer's 
 bad, but online's better. This game has some of the coolest weapons, and online is REALLY where it 
 shines. It's so fun online, playing on user created maps, with user created weapons and in user created 
 skins. And some of the maps are cool and fun, like the one's that are anti-sniping, so when you stand 
 still for 1 minute, the auto-turrets cut on and blow you away. There are SO many people that play 
 this game, you'll always find someone to play with. That's all I have to say about this AWESOME game, 
 aside from the fact that you can get the game for $9.99 at Wal Mart somewhere, cause that's how 
 I got mine, you'll; find some of the coolest people obn that game. Just don't play team deathmatch, cause 
 most of the people ther don't know what they are doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 9, 2004 7:17 am PT
Review:  .. mutators etc, you can keep playing this game time and time again and feel like your playing something 
 new everytime. UT has some very nice graphics, the maps are great, the weapons are supurb and the 
 gameplay is addictive. There are so many maps out there as well as mods that the game feels like 
 multiple games in one.
  
  Definatly a game to get. Although UT2K3 and UT2K4 are out now, this is the original, and the best. 
 An amazing game. The bots are the best put in a game and multiplayer is a blast. Everything from 
 the bots to the map design is top notch, this is a must have for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2004 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament came on the scene in 1999 and shocked the whole gaming community. Epic's UT dethroned 
 ID as the champion of the MP FPS genre. Simply put UT is perfect. It is hard to find any flaws 
 with this game.
  
  Graphics: At the time in 1999 UT had the best graphics ever for a FPS. Sharp textures, varied textures, 
 the player models at the time were great and there were many different models to chose from. The 
 weapon models are great. The levels and avariety of different levels were breath taking. Quake 
 3, it's big competition at the time had levels that were very similar in design and graphical style, 
 while UT has insane amounts of variety in all its levels. Lighting was the best ever at the time. 
 Lighting wasnt just for show either, it was necessary to use lighting to time your shock rifle 
 combos.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is what makes this the best FPS ever made. The controls were super responsive 
 and fast. Weapons are totally balanced and all have there uses for different situtations along 
 with their alternate fire modes. The only weapon Imost UT gamers have a gripe with is the ripper, 
 a weapon that shoots discs sharp as razor blades. While it looks cool and does some awesome headshots, 
 it was used by many spammers and noobs who would just bang the razors throughout the level and 
 get cheap kills and spawn kills (the ripper's discs would bounce off walls. The ripper was taken 
 out of future UT games for this reason. 
  Not only did UT have Deatmatch but it also had the best CTF mode ever created at the time, while 
 Q3A's CTF mode was not too hot. It also had the very popular Assualt mode that was team based and 
 had your team trying to complete certain tasks while theother team tried to stop you. There was 
 also Domination, Last Man Standing and endless modes you could create with mutators. Mutators is 
 something that UT did that innovated the genre.
  
  Sound: The sound is great as well. The announcer is good and the weapon sound effects are some 
 of the best you will hear. The music is nothing special but serves its purpose manly techno style 
 music. There are taunts you can use to rub it into your opponents face when you frag him. YEEEHAW!
 
  
  Simply put this is the best MP FPS ever made it has 1000's of great mods and user created maps 
 and the only game that may have topped it since 1999 is Unreal Tournament 2004 which brought back 
 the feel of UT along with some new modes of play. UT has been copied by many games such as Halo 
 which ripped off its mutator concept. Anyone who likes competitive online FPS should have Unreal 
 Tournament in their game library. It is the best you can get as far as MP FPS's are concerned. 
 It may be the best you can get period when it comes to games in general. It is that great. Instant 
 Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Three_Banditos
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 23, 2004 11:47 pm PT
Review:  The review excerpt in the Gamespace pretty much says it all -- when UT was released, it was arguably 
 the most varied, entertaining shooter (with the possible exception of Starsiege: Tribes) out there. 
 Besides the standard DeathMatch and Capture the Flag, there was Last Man Standing (self-explanatory: 
 think DM in reverse) , Domination (likely similar to Capture and Hold in Tribes) , InstaGib (a messier 
 version of GoldenEye's License to Kill mode, played with special shock rifles) , and Assault (accomplish 
 a set of objectives in the required time, then prevent the other team from doing it faster) . Furthering 
 the value of UT were the Mutators, a number of little mini-mods built into the game that allowed 
 you to play in low gravity, with only X weapon, or disable superweapons or powerups. Also nice 
 was the variety of weapons: in addition to the expected pistols, machine guns, shotguns, and rocket 
 launchers, there were some rather unique guns, including the BioRifle (create a temporary organic 
 minefield, or just booger a player to death) , the Ripper (fire richocheting or expoding circular 
 saw blades) , and the Impact Hammer (difficult to use melee weapon, but with very satisfying results) . 
 And best of all, every weapon had a secondary fire mode; although some merely consisted of a slightly 
 faster fire rate, some allowed you to, for example, fire shrapnel grenades or create devastating 
 combo attacks.
  
  The graphics were okay, although this is one place where UT's main competitor, Quake III, holds 
 an advantage. The character and pickup models are often blocky, and displaying in 32-bit colour 
 would cause display errors in the main GUI (although the unofficial v451 patch does fix this problem) . 
 The explosions were pretty neat, though, and the best-looking maps were still quite nice, but if 
 UT has one weakness, it's here.
  
  The music in this game probably single-handedly elevated the sound score from about a 6 to an 8. 
 It's well-matched to the given maps, and the majority of it is some kind of sci-fi techno-metal, 
 specifically designed to get a player pumped for a match, which it does a very good job at. The 
 weapon sound effects are good, as well, and it's also nice to hear your teammates tell you things 
 like "I've got the flag!" or "I'm under heavy attack!", so you have a rough idea of what's going 
 on, even when you're across the map. On the other hand, the audio taunts can grate quickly, since 
 they serve to you of how obnoxious online players can be. The announcer is also a nice touch, telling 
 you when you win or lose, score a headshot, go on a killing spree, or when you rack up several 
 kills in a short amount of time.
  
  Probably my favourite thing about Unreal Tournament is the fact that while it is at its heart an 
 online shooter, you don't need to be online to get your money's worth. The adjustable bot skill 
 levels (ranging from Novice to Godlike) gives the average player plenty of room to build up their 
 skills, with the higher-level bots being capable of giving even seasoned veterans and strong teams 
 a run for their money. Along with the aforementioned Mutators and variety in weapons, this means 
 the amount of offline replay value is tremendous. There's also a single-player ladder, which can 
 be played through on any difficulty, consisting of over 30 matches, half of them DM. If it seems 
 like I'm adding this as an afterthought, believe me, it's not like it's just tacked on there; it's 
 just that there's so much else you can do in the game, the ladder could easily have not even been 
 there.
  
  The bottom line is, I still play UT today, nearly five years after its release. No other game has 
 had me do that -- not Doom or Quake, not Starcraft, not even the vaunted Half-Life. If you ever loved 
 first-person shooters, but can't afford UT 2004, this is definitely worth buying, even today. It's 
 just that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakule
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 15, 2004 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I've played many a first person shooter game and none of them have entertained me as much as Unreal 
 Tournament. Serious Sam was a close competitor, but overall the gameplay in Unreal Tournament remains 
 unmatched to this day.
  
  Some people choose Half-Life, some go for Quake 3, some like the latest Unreal Tournament 2004 
 and others still are more old-school and feel that Doom 2 reigns supreme, but for me Unreal Tournament 
 remains the greatest first person shooter of all time. It has that inexplicable "IT" quality. You 
 know the one I'm talking about. It's the feeling you get when everything in a game comes together 
 in such a perfect harmony that it seems as though the game always existed and was just itching 
 to leap out of its creator's minds and onto your computer! 
  
  I haven't played Unreal Tournament for about two years at the time I write this review, but I can 
 still feel the exhilaration as if it were yesterday. : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeya103
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2004 2:41 pm PT
Review:  One of the best first person shooters ever, and possibly one of the greatest GAMES. The original 
 UT is the perfect blend of fast-paced twitchy action, but requires quick thinking and strategy 
 as well as good aim. It features a huge variety of character models, levels, weapons, and game 
 types. Whether you're a simple deathmatch person, a cunning last man standing survivor, or a team 
 capture flag player, this game has everything. Some of my fondest memories in gaming lie with this 
 game. It's a shame the follow-up sequels weren't half as great, though not bad games in their own 
 right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAVKOOL
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2003 10:12 am PT
Review:  I AM 55 YEARS OLD. UT HAS A SPECIAL PLACE IN MY HEART -- AND MIND. THROUGHOUT THE YEARS, I HAVE PLAYED 
 SEVERAL SHOOTERS, LIKE DUKE NUK'EM, DOOM 1 & II, AND SOLDIER OF FORTUNE. NEVER, EVER, HAVE I BEEN 
 MESMERIZED, HYPNOTIZED AND SEDUCED BY A GAME AS UT HAS. THIS GAME ROCKS. IT MAKES MY HEART BEAT 
 FAST AND THE 'BOTS' FEEL JUST LIKE REAL ONLINE PLAYERS! WOW. I CAN'T GET UT 2003 TO PLAY IN MY 
 XP.. SOMETHING TO DO WITH VIA TECH GLITCHES... BUT, I STILL GOT THE 'SOUPED UP' 1998 VERSION (ALL 
 DOWNLOADS INSTALLED) AND NOW, FOR JUST $10 I FOUND UT/GAME OF THE YEAR EDITION. WOW -- AGAIN. I ALSO 
 LOVED OUTCAST. FOR SOME REASON, EVEN THOUGH OUTCAST AND UT ARE OF DIFFERENT FPS GENRES, THERE'S 
 SOMETHING THAT 'LINKS' THEM.... MAYBE SOME OF YOU OUT THERE CAN PIN IT DOWN. ANYWAY... I MAY BE 55... BUT 
 UT HAS REJUVENATED ME IN A WAY THAT NO OTHER GAME HAD
  
  JAVKOOL (Javkool@juno. com) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
