-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unreal Tournament 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/ut2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 16, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.4
Critic Score: 9.3, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 11,189 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Epic Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 16, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
No other multiplayer-focused action game has this much to offer. 

  There isn't some clear-cut formula for making a great game, but Epic hasn't ignored bullet-point 
 features in expanding the Unreal Tournament series, which is now in its third installment. The 
 multiplayer-focused first-person shooter series started off in 1999 with great graphics, crisp 
 control, solid networking (which led to smooth online gameplay) , and hectic action. These basics 
 haven't been neglected, even as expectations have changed -- and have significantly increased -- over 
 the last five years. However, UT has never been just about settling for the basics, and to this 
 end, the new Unreal Tournament 2004 has a tremendous variety of maps and modes of play. In the 
 same package, you'll find cutthroat deathmatching as good as it's ever been, plus large team-based 
 modes in the style that's become so popular lately. Simply put, this is the multiplayer action 
 game that offers something for everyone -- even those who prefer playing offline, since the UT bots 
 are better than ever and are still the best in the business.  

          Unreal Tournament 2004 is an impressive game in every respect.     

  Anyone who bought 
 or considered buying Unreal Tournament 2003 will wonder what's new and improved in this latest 
 game. Epic didn't take UT 2003's tepid response lying down, so not only did it work to make the 
 inclusion of vehicles and new modes a success but also went back and added in some classic elements 
 from the original UT. In this  approach, the classic sniper rifle 
 coexists with UT 2003's lightning gun -- or rather, it replaces it in some maps. Also returning is 
 an improved version of the objective-based assault mode that was popular in the original UT but 
 was taken away in the sequel. You've even got the original UT announcer's voice, who is just one 
 of five announcers now included. Before we go into the truly new features in detail, it's worth 
 noting that Atari has included a $10-off rebate coupon for owners of UT 2003, thus bringing the 
 new stand-alone game to the price point of an expansion pack at $29.99.  

  While there's a whopping total of 10 different game modes, assault and onslaught are bound to get 
 the most attention. The new onslaught mode is the biggest departure from past UT games, and it 
 sets up team battles for 10 to 32 players on large outdoor maps. At first glance, the expansive, 
 rolling terrain might look a lot like Tribes 2 or Halo, and like these games, there are maps big 
 enough to make running from point-to-point seem prohibitively slow. But a few key innovations keep 
 the pace fast, and as powerful as the vehicles are, those on foot are far from helpless. Onslaught 
 focuses on power nodes that are strategically distributed on the maps, and the ultimate goal of 
 the mode consists of destroying the power core located in the opposing base. The nodes connect 
 in certain configurations, and nodes located behind front lines can't be attacked, which concentrates 
 the action around just a node or two at a time. Once a node linking to the power core is captured, 
 the core itself can be attacked directly, thus pressuring the defenders to desperately man the 
 base defenses or recapture the pivotal node.  

  Oftentimes, the tide of battle will swing in one side's favor, but in the ensuing tug-of-war, things 
 can drag out to the time limit. This sends the game to sudden death, with both cores draining based 
 on the number of nodes each team controls. Other maps lend themselves to more volatile battles, 
 with the cores being connected and attacked in parallel. In every case, it's easy to understand 
 which team is leading and what you have to do to win. Unlike the abstract system of a game like 
 Battlefield 1942, onslaught's scoring system is concrete, and a glance at the power core health 
 meters and the minimap reveals how a match's momentum is swinging.  

  Skillful use of the new vehicles is one way to turn the battle, but for the most part, they don't 
 overwhelm the battlefield. Even the goliath tank, which can take out most anything with one hit 
 from the main gun, can be taken out by a high-flying raptor fighter, turrets located at most nodes, 
 or even a few hits from the rocket launcher. In the meantime, the swift ground vehicles -- like the 
 manta hovercraft, scorpion buggy, and hellbender heavy truck -- are all lots of fun to drive, thanks 
 to a top-notch physics system. Pulling off stunts rewards you with a special message detailing 
 your achievement, and running enemies over, while plenty satisfying, isn't quite as spectacular 
 as timing a jump in the manta just right to "pancake" an opponent. The common ground vehicles are 
 pretty abundant around the main bases and nodes, so it's not often that you absolutely have to 
 run across the map on foot (particularly since you can instantly teleport between your own nodes, 
 as long as they're not under attack) . But the tank, the fighter, and especially the five-man leviathan 
 supertank have slower respawn rates, so taking one out means at least a short respite.  

          The new onslaught mode, with its large-scale battles and fun-to-drive vehicles, is probably 
 the main attraction of the game -- though the spectacular return of the assault mode is just about 
 as remarkable.     

  UT's fast, explosive weapons are still just as well suited to furious deathmatching as coordinated 
 capture the flag matches, and somehow the addition of powerful tanks and fighters doesn't throw 
 off the balance. While UT 2004 has no formal character class system, anyone can play a variety 
 of roles, since standard weapons and ammo are easy to come by. Running over the weapon locker pickup 
 points that are commonly located around bases and nodes instantly gives you a varied weapon loadout. 

  The link gun, introduced in UT 2003, is more multipurpose than ever because it now repairs vehicles 
 and nodes and even makes capturing nodes faster. The new AVRiL guided missile single-handedly evens 
 the game out by making it possible for anyone to take out a high-flying raptor or a fast manta, 
 as long as a lock is maintained on the target. The three other new weapons are more specialized. 
 A mine gun spits out a few autonomous spider mines that will swiftly close with any nearby enemies; 
 a grenade launcher rapidly spits out timed charges; and a laser painter can be used to launch a 
 devastating air strike from the unpiloted phoenix bomber. Although onslaught's vehicles seem to 
 steal the show, it's the infantry that's in the best position to capture and defend critical nodes. 
 Even better, there's no need to waste time defending rear guard positions, since not only are these 
 nodes safe from attack, but in a smart design choice, freshly spawned vehicles are off-limits to 
 enemies. However, if abandoned, they're fair game for any player.     

  Onslaught is a terrific balance of large-scale and full-on intense action, but it's only one of 
 UT 2004's shining facets. No matter where your tastes lie, there's a plethora of maps to choose 
 from. The official collection of maps has ballooned to around 100, nearly half of which are new. 
 It's true that the majority of these are for deathmatch and capture the flag, and some of the "new" 
 maps were released as free bonus packs for UT 2003 owners, but there's no denying that this is 
 a sizeable collection of quality content.  

          All told, Unreal Tournament 2004 features more than 100 different maps across its 10 different 
 modes of play.     

  If the map collection seems meager in any area, it might be due to the fact that there are only 
 six assault maps (compared with nine for onslaught) . But it's not hard to overlook this because 
 the assault maps are by far the most elaborate. Not only do the assault maps take place in busy, 
 intricately designed environments -- like a rebel base that runs you through a half-demolished cityscape, 
 a couple of sci-fi military installations, and an unusual space-based mothership -- but the game 
 walks you through the objectives and lays out the backstory for the futuristic events depicted. 
 As in UT and Return to Castle Wolfenstein, teams attempt to attack or defend a series of objectives, 
 and the asymmetrical and scripted nature of the maps seem to have really freed the designers' imaginations. 
 UT's "style" is perhaps that it has no set style, and these maps' disparate settings run the gamut 
 from the  Mad Max  look of a desert convoy attack to the more standard sci-fi fare (with more than 
 a few mentions of Unreal II's mercenary corporations) .  

  Naturally, UT 2004 is best as a multiplayer game, but the offline modes can't be overlooked. The 
 instant action bot matches are a good way to learn the new modes and maps and are quite enjoyable, 
 since the bots do indeed work together as a team and exhibit only rare hang-ups in the larger, 
 more unwieldy vehicles. The additions to the single-player tournament campaign are still little 
 more than a footnote, however, mostly adding the concept of earning credits, which are used for 
 hiring better teammates or for betting in challenge matches. It's also unfortunate that it takes 
 several rounds of deathmatch, capture the flag, and double domination matches before you get anywhere 
 near assault or onslaught. But the real accomplishment is simply that the bots work well and are 
 fun to play against. That's a feat few, if any, other games can claim to match.  

  The Unreal engine has become an institution in PC gaming -- its various iterations have been licensed 
 as the basis for a variety of other games -- and justifiably so. UT 2004's graphics are simply outstanding. 
 It's not just that the game runs fast and smooth, that the textures are crisp and distinct at even 
 medium settings, or that the designers have tossed together an eclectic mix of interesting characters 
 and environments. It's that it all adds up to making the action that much more visceral. UT 2004 
 doesn't lack flashy effects, but there's nothing extraneous that might bog down the frame rate 
 on PCs that meet the recommended requirements. And some of the best effects are of the interactive 
 variety anyway. The vehicles add a lot to the mayhem, with physics effects that can have buggies 
 exploding skyward, only to land on hapless defenders. Damaged vehicles noticeably appear so, too. 
 The gore effects and rag doll-like death animations still look plenty convincing, if unchanged 
 from last year, apart from a new, little skeletal anatomy lesson when some weapons melt players 
 down to the bones. Then there are all the little surprising touches, like how player names appear 
 on vehicle license plates.  

  The years of optimizing and refining pay off with UT 2004's reasonable system specs, except in 
 one way: The game requires a whopping 5.5GB of hard drive space. It's just a natural result of 
 all these maps and the great-looking textures that make them look unique, one from another. But 
 since drive space is cheap nowadays, this should be less a barrier than an inconvenience. Installing 
 5.5GB of content takes time, especially in the standard North American version, which comes on 
 six CDs. In cases like this, a DVD is more than welcome, and at least there's a special DVD edition 
 available for a limited time.  

          Unreal Tournament 2004 is the new king of online shooters.     

  It's hard to fault 
 UT 2004's production values in any area. The audio isn't as distinctive as the visuals, but it's 
 great, and features crisp sound effects and an appropriate soundtrack. There's also a long list 
 of built-in voice communication options, starting with voice chat features that make it easy to 
 chat with teammates as long as you have a headset or microphone plugged into your PC. Fortunately, 
 for sanity's sake, there are options to ban annoying or abusive players you might meet in public 
 servers. Another useful feature is text-to-voice, which can be set to read off typed messages so 
 you don't have to divert your attention from battle to read team orders. The effect is robotic 
 but not in an overly annoying way, and it even spells out ordinary gaming abbreviations like "gg" 
 for "good game." The game is a technical tour de force in other ways -- standing up to UT's prominent 
 position over the years -- with 3D audio features and native cross-platform support (Windows, Linux, 
 and Mac OS X) , which ensures a diverse base of game servers, in addition to some extra players. 
 It's hardly an afterthought to point out that the game is stable or that the glossy color manual 
 and clear tutorials make getting into challenging multiplayer matches or solo bot battles that 
 much simpler.  

  Unreal Tournament 2004 will remind you how satisfying explosive, extremely fast action gaming can 
 be. The smooth engine and core gameplay inherited from UT 2003 make a great foundation, and the 
 onslaught and assault modes take the whole package up another notch. And, to help you come to grips 
 with a multiplayer world increasingly focused on teamplay, the voice chat features can make any 
 team game better by facilitating real tactical coordination. Then, just when (or if) you start 
 to tire of all the official maps (and combinations of maps with the library of preset mutators) , 
 there are community tools to make creating and installing custom content as straightforward as 
 possible. No other multiplayer-focused action game has this much to offer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (381 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  I'd been awaiting this game anxiously after the glory that was the original UT, and with my computer 
 finally upgraded just in time for its release, I played it half to death... But how did it match 
 up against the original?
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Vehicles: The introduction of vehicles spices up the gameplay, particularly in Assault mode, 
 where the open up all sorts of ambitious new level designs.
  
  + Variety: With the upgrade in graphics comes an even greater amount of possibilities in terms 
 of levels, and there's all sorts of unusual places to fight through. Some of the new gameplay modes 
 are interesting, too.
  
  + Content: As utterly full to the brim as the original UT was, they somehow fitted even more into 
 this one. 5.5 gigs was an obscene size for a game at the time, but you certainly got every last 
 drop of value for it!
  
  + AI: Once again, the computer is devestatingly capable when you switch its intelligence up - I 
 never really played it online, but I didn't feel like I was missing a thing.
  
  + Tournament Campaign: The bitty experience of the previous UT has been sorted out with a nicely 
 concieved single-player campaign, where you progress through the tournament and manage your team 
 along the way.
  
  + Scope: Some of the levels are really quite breath-taking in scope and ambition, particularly 
 in the Assault and Onslaught modes.
  
  + Adrenaline: A neat addition to the game that gives you some special powers once you've built 
 up enough adrenaline points. Great for breaking ugly stalemates.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Speed & Difficulty: While the original UT found the perfect balance of speed, whereby it was 
 controllable but still an intense experience, this one was so fast I found it to be incredibly 
 difficult to line anyone up in my sights for so much as a second. Combine this with the character 
 models being much slimmer than before (not to mention jumping around like lunatics half the time) , 
 and I found it unfairly taxing on my reflexes; though this can be tempered to some degree by turning 
 the difficulty down.
  
  - Weapons: In the original UT, you always felt like you had a fighting chance of killing your opponents, 
 no matter what equipment you currently had. In UT2004, however, I found most of the weapons to 
 be slightly less useful than in the original, mainly because it can be so hard to hit anyone unless 
 you use something which deals splash damage. There are also some slightly odd issues with the weapons 
 roster, such as why the Ripper has vanished without a trace (when it could surely have been tweaked 
 to become more useful) , and why the Sniper-Rifle and the Lightning Gun both co-exist when they 
 are both so similar, but my biggest problem is that the weapons just don't feel as satisfying to 
 shoot as they did in UT: with less recoil and noise, combined with their smaller size, they seem 
 to lack the all-important punch they once had.
  
  - Tournament Issues: The team can be a massive pain to sort out in the single-player tournament 
 - they drain almost all of your winnings through fees, injuries and challenges, and sometimes have 
 far too much trouble beating teams they supposedly out-class in almost every way. It would have 
 been fine if the fees were balanced better, but it's infuriating as it is! Also, it's a shame it 
 isn't structured more like a proper tournament, with teams you can actually track and deal with 
 more closely, as well as genuine tournament progression, rather than the thinly-veiled linear progression 
 it actually uses.
  
  - Less Brutal: While it's still a constant barrage of deathitude, it just doesn't have the same 
 visceral punch that UT had. The gore is slightly more subdued, and combined with the weaker-feeling 
 weaponry, some of the destructive glee has been drained from the series.
  
  - Jumping/Translocator Abuse: In a reflection of the way most people play Unreal online, the bots 
 tend to constantly jump and repetitively beam ahead with their Translocators as a means of avoiding 
 enemy fire. While it's fair enough as a strategy, and undoubtedly good practice for anyone who 
 wants to play online, I just feel that it looks stupid and invalidates the simple act of running: 
 there ought to have been some kind of limit on how many jumps/translocations you can perform within 
 a short period.
  
  - Two-Team Limit: Why can't you have three or four teams in a match, like you could in the original? 
 Even if people don't often play with so many teams online, surely it can't be that difficult to 
 add it in for offline players who like a bit more variety?
  
  ~
  
  Overall, this is still an extremely complete package, and there's enough to keep you playing for 
 a long, long time. However, whether you prefer it to the original or not is largely down to your 
 reflexes: if you're twitchy enough to keep up with the action, you ought to love it. For me, while 
 I still thought it was a great game and a worthy sequel, I just found it lacked the hearty punch 
 of UT, and occasionally became frustrated with how difficult it could be. Definitely give it a 
 try though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Satisfaction is a word, I find, that usually doesn't pertain to video games often in the matter 
 that we want it to. I'm easily satisfied by beating a game; whether the game was good or not doesn't 
 actually register in my brain until a few days later. But by the time I realize how much I enjoyed 
 it, the question is then overrun by the question, "Was it satisfying?" It's not in the same way 
 that you could say a movie or a book was worth reading just because you can sigh and say, "the 
 plot finished satisfactorily," even if the words were crap and the characters offered no depth. 
 In a game, really, we're easier to satisfy because the challenge of the game itself offers all 
 of the contented peace that a game developer wants us to experience.
  
  I find Unreal Tournament 2004 satisfying to me in ways that most multiplayer games are not. It's 
 not the challenge aspect that makes me want to keep playing - I'm more apt to kill my television 
 then suffer through *any* game on Hard mode - but that the seductive flow of the match always makes 
 me feel like I've accomplished something in even the smallest increments. They may be small, but 
 even those minute steps are rewarding enough. This isn't tied to just Unreal Tournament; recent 
 multiplayer games take pride in showing you that you've done something worth bragging about (Achievement 
 Unlocked!) . Satisfying for a multiplayer game is not the same satisfying in a single player game 
 because of this; the success is largely inside of the player's mind, rather than in the external 
 and often unrelated plot.
  
  But what Unreal Tournament 2004 does within its space is make a game that magnifies these achievements 
 without explicitly calling it an achievement. There's an annoying trend that game developers are 
 using that makes them want to lock everything off and award it to the player as they play, but 
 this is not necessary for a gamer to be happy with what they've done. Why should I need Epic telling 
 me that I killed ten people with a single Redeemer? The deep, hardcore voice-over "MASSACRE!!!" 
 is good enough, though perhaps in a more sarcastic way compared to what Epic thought. If Epic had 
 locked off half of the game until the player had played half the game, I wouldn't be talking about 
 it right now. It would not only diminish the large variety and span of content included, but force 
 the player to play levels they don't want to play, which, last time I checked, is not a good thing.
 
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 gets it right by making the action brutal and satisfying in its own right. 
 Epic knows how to do this; when you saw an opponent in half in Gears of War, the visuals are plenty 
 for most people to grin and say, "That's awesome." But Gears of War also finds it necessary to 
 reward the player when they've killed forty people that way, which, honestly, is rather redundant. 
 Unreal Tournament 2004 doesn't do this; it just kills the enemy as usual and keeps the battle going. 
 It's the game, not the metagame, that I care about.
  
  The game that I personally care about is whatever my mind can come up with, and then making my 
 friends play it with me. I watched the Matrix once again last weekend; I want to slow the game 
 down to about 30%, and put on low gravity and quad jumping. Those battles were among the most fun 
 I've ever had in any game; aerial combat works perfectly when you have a bit of time to plan, adjust, 
 and then execute. But what was important was that I had the means to do whatever the hell I wanted, 
 and I did it. It was fun. Case closed. Screw making my own worlds in Little Big Planet or whatnot; 
 I just want to blow my friends up over and over in genuinely different ways.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is in itself a million games in one. This is so cheesy, coming out and saying 
 something like that after games like Spore failed to do everything at once. But Unreal has more, 
 more, more, more, more! There's something enjoyable about that. I don't know why, but it's pleasing 
 to me to think that I still have maps I haven't played in yet, and I'm still not sick of the ones 
 I have played. Sure, I like my single player games short, but I like my multiplayer games big and 
 Epic.
  
  The game's so big that the different ways you can be satisfied varies. In Assault mode, there's 
 a definite plot that everyone follows, and while it's a vicious battle for power and objectives, 
 it logically follows a "reinaction," as Unreal likes to call them, where the plot either resolves 
 or doesn't resolve, much like single player shooters. But there's a difference here: the good guys 
 can lose, if there are any good guys at all. Well, the good guy is whatever team you're on, but 
 that's beside the point. What matters to Assault is that there's an ending, and the satisfaction 
 involved in that ending matters really on skill and chance, which is something single player games 
 never have. Rarely do we see what happens when the main character loses; it's not considered plot 
 canon when Gordon Freeman falls off a ledge for the upteenth time in Xen. The game ignores it. 
 In multiplayer battles, the reality of losing and having an ending where the antagonists win in 
 quite striking, and possibly creates a more visceral atmosphere.
  
  In the average Onslaught battle, the tide of the battle is where the rewards lie; even if you die 
 or lose, there's still a good feeling that, "Eh, at least I made a difference in the battle." Team 
 games often have this pleasure at doing *something,* anything at all. That's what Unreal does best 
 in Onslaught; a single player can make a huge difference. That's true about all multiplayer games, 
 but in Unreal it takes a substantial less amount of luck to pull off a reversal than it does in, 
 say, Battlefield. Vehicles are filled with firepower but are rather vulnerable and easy to kill; 
 every action a player wants to commit to in the game comes down to their knowledge of the guns 
 and their skill. It's certainly not as specialized as Quake III or Battlefield, where an intimate 
 repository of gun and map information is at least somewhat necessary for success.
  
  The difference in Assault and Onslaught is mainly in the linearity involved. Assault is a straight 
 line on most levels, with only a few moments of deviation. This is an intentional design choice, 
 meant to keep everyone on track and the battles as frantic and focused as they can be. Onslaught, 
 on the other hand, is a wide open landscape allowing for multiple interpretations and methods of 
 success. There's more room for the individual to find satisfaction in Onslaught, even if that means 
 grabbing the Raptor and doing twirls until the enemy shoots you out of the sky. Whatever makes 
 the player happy, I suppose.
  
  Not that one is better than the other; they're just different in the way that they portray their 
 sport. Compared to Deathmatch and the other modes in Unreal, those two are the most complex and 
 interesting of the bunch because they offer such a contrast to how they play out, and what the 
 gamer's reaction is to it. Deathmatch may be less complex on a superficial level, but it does offer 
 more exploration and experimentation than any other mode; it just removes the team aspect so that 
 the objective is even more important to the gamer's inner sense of pride.
  
  It's hard to say why I like Unreal Tournament 2004 more than the other multiplayer games out there. 
 The obvious conclusion is that it runs on my hardware and it's still relatively pretty for what 
 it can do, but it's really deeper than that. I like the value, certainly, and I like being able 
 to change what I want to play based on what kind of game I'm looking for. If I want a focused action 
 battle, I spring for an Assault battle, and I can control how vast and frantic the game is based 
 on how many players are in the server. There's a certain satisfaction that's well beyond just "beating 
 a game" there, it's being satisfied with a game as a product, not as a game. It's kind of odd; 
 I've never been one to judge a game based on how it performs as a "product." Generally I see it 
 as a shallow way to viewing media.
  
  But here, the analogy works well, because the product services the game experience. Unreal didn't 
 ship on six discs for pretty textures alone, but because it had a lot of pretty textures that ceated 
 some maps that were unique and worth experiencing. It's not the big-ness of the game that's awesome, 
 it's the big-ness in how it relates to my fun that makes me enjoy Unreal so much. 
  
  It makes my achievements that much more satisfying, even if the game doesn't point them out to 
 me. That's good gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  "No tears please, it's a waste of good suffering!" - Harlequin (I chose him specifically)
  "M-M-M-MONSTER KILL-kill-kill" - Announcer
  
  This is easily the best multiplayer of 2004. 
 I will not compare it to Halo 2 since they have different gamestyles and I didn't play it. Unreal 
 Tournament 2004 has all the guns, all the guts and all the frags you need to be entertained for 
 long... long ... long time. While Unreal Tournament 2004 may have a gamestyle of it's own, it differs 
 from Halo 2 with it's fast-paced and over-the-top violent action... some people will like to play 
 either one or both, depends on what you like. So, it starts up like this... you pick up yer gun 
 and start mashing everyone... it's that easy.
  
  BALANCE: (Instead of Story, I will put up Balance for multiplayer games)
  
  Unreal Tournament 
 2004 is very balanced, it doesn't have any classes or anything, each person playing is absolutely 
 equal to his opponent, the only thing that may put you apart is the experience and skill. UT2004 
 has a very good spawn positions in the map and the weapons are distributed evenly across the board (instead 
 maybe in the un-official maps created by fans, some people may just put all the good weapons on 
 one portion of the map and some less used ones on the other portion) so you will have an easy time 
 finding weapons and blowing somebody's head off. You will not find many hackers in UT2004, myself, 
 I see a hacker probably every month or so with an Aim-bot hack... but since most of the good servers 
 in the game are secured from cheats - you won't have to bother much at all. There are numerous 
 weapons in UT2004, all of them takes skill to use and maybe you are going to find your favorite 
 one. There is not such thing as an overpowered weapon that everybody uses all the time, every weapon 
 has it's own job and way of gibbing your enemie. There are still alot of people playing this game 
 even today (Reviewed 31/12/08) so I am sure you're not going to have alot of trouble finding your 
 favorite server.
  
  The Good:
  1. Balanced Weapons
  2. Great Maps.
  3. Less Hackers/More Players.
  
  The Bad:
  1. Nothing much (pfft, maybe some people complain 
 about the minigun but meh)
  
  SOUND:
  
  There is not much to talk about Sound in a multiplayer game. I have to admit though - the sound 
 of weapons are very distinctive as well as the vehicles in Onslaught. Good Taunts and awesome frag 
 announcer. Everything you need to keep your adrenaline rushing.
  
  The Good:
  1. Great Announcer!
  2. Distinctive Weapons. 
  
  The Bad: None!
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This 
 game has the best brutal action of 2004. Tearing someone apart by a rocket launcher or just firing 
 a Redeemer into a crossfire makes it so satisfying, and it occurs so often! But there are some 
 small downfalls that some UT fans did notice... UT2004 doesn't do it the same way UT99 did, I did 
 notice a big difference in the moving controls and in some weapons since UT99... but I don't think 
 it's a bad thing, I think UT2004 got even better. It has had a great addition of Onslaught to the 
 game, it adds vehicles to Unreal Tournament that are just as balanced as the weapons are... this 
 makes the game even more entertaining. Editor mode has been in UT series ever since Unreal, but 
 without it I am sure that new modes like Invasion and Onslaught would not have been as fun. The 
 Ragdoll effect and flying body-parts is a part of the game that made it so bloodthirsty and satisfying, 
 so it's another good thing I have to say.
  
  The Good: 
  1. Fast Paced and Gory combat is satisfying.
  2. Vehicles (Onslaught) has been added to Unreal 
 Tournament.
  3. Up to 32 people per server.
  
  The Bad: 
  1. People have noticed a change from UT99 gamestyle, may hurt some people's opinions.
  
  GRAPHICS:
 
  
  Graphics is another great feature offered by UT2004. UT2004 uses next gen graphics that are as 
 beautiful as they could ever get... that was surely expected from Epic. Onslaught has added some 
 outdoor action thus showing us some real good mountains, trees, big building and much more. Other 
 modes with death-match like combat are even more satisfying with many different ways to die or 
 blow apart your enemy. It couldn't get any better. Very distinctive and great looking weapon projectiles.
 
  
  The Good:
  1. Great Outdoors!
  2. Directx9 (not a bit factor)
  3. Very nice weapon projectiles.
  4. All the Gore and great character detail makes all the death 
 around you very realistic.
  
  The Bad: None.
  
  OVERALL: 
  I am practically going to copy the same thing I wrote in the intro. The best fast-paced and mindblowing 
 multiplayer based game of 2004! You MUST get it if you're a fan of FPS and your great reflexes 
 and good aim will lead you to some real satisfying ass kicking of the year. The overall score of 
 mine is surprisingly better than I thought though ... lol
  
  SCORE: BALANCE/SOUND: 10 GAMEPLAY: 9.5 GRAPHICS: --- 10.
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 98.3%
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriplePlay2425
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  It's just an awesome, fast-paced futuristic shooter. If you haven't played it yet, you need to. 
 The more people in a game, the more fun it is. It becomes exponentially more hectic and insane, 
 increasing the fun. This game will really get you pumped, and it has pretty cool weapons. Well-designed 
 maps keep it fun. Vehicles are there but are not overpowered in comparison to the weapons, keeping 
 balance in the matches. This is a classic multiplayer PC shooter than everyone should play at least 
 sometime in their lives if one is a true PC FPS lover (like me!) . I personally never played the 
 original Unreal Tournament or any in between the first and this one. But this one introduced me 
 to the series and I am not disappointed. I played the demo for UT3, and it seems like it would 
 be fun as well, if my laptop could run it. Because this is a somewhat old game, it has relatively 
 outdated graphics (that still don't look bad, especially considering its age) that should run smoothly 
 on most computers.
  
  You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leo_T_C_K
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  I somehow enjoyed the demo back then (even if I thought dm was bad) , so I thought final version 
 will be better. How sirprised I was that it wasn't. In fact it turns out to be the worst Unreal 
 title, if you are old-school player and can sense good or bad content. This game contains most 
 of UT2003 content, its bonuspack maps (and content) plus some rehashed previously unreleased maps, 
 plus some new ones..
  Plus it wasn't even done by the original team if you check these pages, as Onslaught was first 
 planned as mod for UT2003:
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Unreal_Tournament_2004
  http://liandri. beyondunreal. com/Unreal_Tournament_2004
  But the game is more low paced than UT2003, 
 has bad changes, even graphic side, is badly optimised, has worse GUI and everything, not that 
 it isn't easy to configure, it is, but to what extent, to have crappy blue childish crap and windows 
 everywhere.
  
  The music is worst of the series, in exception of few tracks and the old ut2003 ones, which I don't 
 count as new in this game.
  
  The Skaarjs and new characters are very noobishly done as well. They don't have even own voicepacks 
 and the alien2 used first intended for genmokais is unused as well, it would help if at least skaarj's 
 voices were pitched or altered old ones through script, as it was with UT goty's skaarj hybrids.
 
  I can only agree with reviews like that of Talonfire on the editor choice edition page, because 
 it actually tells truth about the game.
  
  And the singleplayer, god that has to be one of my most awful gaming experiences, I didn't even 
 beat the last boss without cheats and I had the most powerful out of three (there are three bosses: 
 Malcolm, Xan and Clanlord) . But the map you get to play him is overscaled version of original hyperblast 
 map from UT, really overscaled and with useless weapons such as grenade launcher and with the opponent 
 who kills you with three bullets. The tourney itself is some kind of mix between UT2003 and UT2003 
 beta style (which had more sports feeling with challenges through game and credit system) , but 
 really badly done. So nothing new at all.
  
  The gore of this game is really laughable and hands down to UT3 for bringing back some violence 
 back, beacuse I don't feel like playing with child weapons, which ut2004 ones remind most, not 
 to mention sniperrifle zoom sprite and maybe sound are taken from unreleased Unreal Warfare title, 
 which eventually became gears of war. But this UT2004 sniperrifle doesn't have animations to speak 
 of, the reload sound makes you feel you reload it, but you don't see a thing like that, you don't 
 even see your hand.
  
  And the new maps, Curse4 is really insult and I don't see why they didn't leave Curse3 from UT2003 
 in there, it was much nicer map to look at. Most of the new maps have terrible layout and washed 
 out graphics, the exoerience of them is as of some half life deathmatch maps and deathmatch in 
 HL was always the worst thing. Same goes for ctf and BR, the old stuff what was fun in ut2003 is 
 now damn boring and new maps are not any good.
  
  So what is left is the rest of mods, Invasion can be fun, but is inbalanced in this game and the 
 enhancing invasion mods are not worthy either. They could have imporved the invasion a bit, but 
 they didn't. Then, the new modes we have is Assault and Onslaught, these are most fun and have 
 the highest artistic value in them in some sort, but can still become boring. Assault is just like 
 enhanced gametype from original UT, where you need to achieve objectives in certain timeline as 
 attackers and the opposite team tries to stop that from happening. Plus now you have controlable 
 vehicles and turrets in the maps to help you.
  
  Onslaught is a battle with vehicles about dominating points on the maps, the power nodes, by taking 
 control of them and link them to central enemy power core, you can then destroy and win the game, 
 but ONS is still unbalanced when there is only one node left, it is most likely your destruction. 
 By taking each powernode you gain more weapons and vehicles which are bound to the each powernode. 
 That's it, as for the vehicles, they feel very unrealistic and overpowered against players, Unreal 
 2 expanded multiplayer has really realistic vehicles compared to this and was the first Unreal 
 game to introduce vehicles and radar and not UT2004 as many think. Not to mention U2XMP has a real 
 radar, but that's not what I am going to talk about here.
  
  Another low point of this game is bots, they are very unbaknced and behave weird, even comapred 
 to ut2003 ones, which were fair to what difficulty you set them and not so unbalanced and dumb 
 and causing game lag.
  
  The funny thing is that perhaps the best deathmatch map in singleplayer, deck17, is originally 
 a custom map for UT2003 and even that one is better with its own music and not the KR crap and 
 also with jumpboots.
  The only really great thing about this game is that in instant action you can configure it to more 
 playable game via mutators and you can download lot of content, I found most fun the vctf gametype 
 online (which is unused gametype in the game) , although bot pathing at these new maps suck as the 
 authors didn't know how to make them go around, but not all of the downloadable content is good, 
 some are pretty overrated trash mods, well you have to choose carefully, but there are some real 
 gems out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lkuey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2003 - eat your heart out 'cos the sequel is much better. Well... it's still got 
 the same gory in-your-face combat, and the same beautifully-designed arenas, but 2004 has got the 
 potential to beat 2003. They've both got adrenaline, the great characters, WICKED multiplayer and 
 double jump. But 2004 - is brilliant! The new assault mission are a blast, especially when you 
 are playing WICKED multiplayer. The weapons are great and its just so much fun to blast of people's 
 heads off to win. It's very addictive, because when you are not blasting people's heads off, you 
 are searching for new weapons and playing with friends.
  
  Now, with the release of Unreal Tournament III, a lot of people would buy that. But sorry to tell 
 you - I'm sticking with 2004. It's an exceptional game with graphics like today's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timtim9555
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  If your neglecting your old pc show it some love and buy unreal antology at your local gamestop 
 for only 4.99! wat a bargain! and it runs on the slowest computer my com, puter is verry old yet 
 it still works. It is possibly the best game evar even Halo 3 and i dont say tat about every game! 
 : ) with unreal athology you get unreal+return to ni pari expantion pack, unreal 2 the awakaning, 
 unreal tournament game of the year edition, and unreal tournament 2004 includs editiors choise 
 and mega bounis pack wat a bargain! cheack out my myspace, myspace. com/halo3rulez now i will paste 
 wat i just said
  
  If your neglecting your old pc show it some love and buy unreal antology at your local gamestop 
 for only 4.99! wat a bargain! and it runs on the slowest computer my com, puter is verry old yet 
 it still works. It is possibly the best game evar even Halo 3 and i dont say tat about every game! 
 : ) with unreal athology you get unreal+return to ni pari expantion pack, unreal 2 the awakaning, 
 unreal tournament game of the year edition, and unreal tournament 2004 includs editiors choise 
 and mega bounis pack wat a bargain! cheack out my myspace, myspace. com/halo3rulez now i will paste 
 wat i just said
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timblake9
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  First off, I have to say this, but it boggles me when people moan about this game not having enough 
 of a story, or not being a normal FPS game, and then giving it a low score. This isn't meant to 
 be a normal story driven game, its supposed to be a fast paced game with lots of different modes 
 to play like deathmatch or ctf or assault. Its like my trying to say GTA doesnt have any decent 
 races, or FIFA doesnt have enough selection of sports!
  Anyways onto the game, probably the best bit of this game is the online multiplayer, which is so 
 intense and fun you wont want to put the game down. There are so many game types to play within 
 the game that, even if you don't want to play online or the campaign based 'missions' (which can 
 be very tough, even on a hard difficulty setting) , you can have so many different options about 
 how you play it, like the large amounts of maps to play, to the different bots you use, if you 
 use teams, mutators etc?
  On top of that, you can get new maps and mutators to add to the game, and also make your own maps 
 (which is hard but very rewarding if you put the time and effort in) , and so you will never get 
 bored with this game. Even if you only prefer a few maps and game modes like I do, once you have 
 mastered one difficulty level, put it up a few, and the challenge becomes a whole lot different, 
 especially if you make the teams unfair in the oppositions favour.
  
  Overall, this game has so many customization options for you to play, you can never get bored. 
 If you are good enough for online play, the multiplayer is excellent, and very very challenging. 
 the graphics are very good on full, and the game plays solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantom513
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I started with single player only. I was blown away by the weapons 
 and vehicles in the game as well as the outstanding gameplay and game modes and the various levels 
 of difficulty (which range from incredibly easy to basically impossible, with many other difficulties 
 in between) . Once I went to online I found the experience to be ten times better. They had your 
 regular maps and game modes, but they also had something called "mods", which is what makes this 
 game so special. The amount of mods in this game is unbelievable. There are so many custom gametypes, 
 weapons, maps, skins, that every time you play it is a new experience. This is easily my favorite 
 game ever played and it is the best of the series (even better than UT3) . This game has something 
 for everyone and it truly is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Unreal 2004 is one of those games that you get more than what you paid.
  
  Awesome variety of maps, nice re-designed weapons, smooth graphics with an outstanding frame rate 
 will make you beg on your knees to get this game.
  
  UT2004 is a flawless mix between unreal tournament GOTY and the graphical standards of UT2003, 
 plus several additions.
  
  The graphic engine has been improved since UT2003, the frame rate is much cleaner than its predecessor.
 
  
  Well.. thats all.. i cant really say a single bad thing about this game.
  
  I love the way the characters die, their body completely destroyed with no legs or torso, and a 
 splash of blood decorating the scene.
  
  Flawless game, one of the most addictive and fun and full of maps and stuff youll find hard to 
 play all of them.
  
  This games deserves a nice 10. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  I have just done my review of Unreal Tournament and rated it 9.0 
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is basically the game you want to go back to if you have never played this 
 franchise before. It has a decent (easy) single player game and the multiplayer opens up new portals 
 of FPS gaming and fragging. Although I played very little of the multiplayer due to account setups 
 I think it was good. There was a big emphasis on skinning (which personally I didn't enjoy) but 
 did this get in the way of playing? I think it did a lot. Because there were many Atari boards 
 full of skins and competitions and its seemed less effort was going in to getting people online 
 and creating mayhem in the arena. Thats what its all about !
  
  Unreal Tournament is a great game. There are better games, mainly out for the Xbox 360. But if 
 you see this in the bargain bin and your confident your internet connection is working then play 
 online. Its the best thing in the Unreal Tournament Franchise.
  
  There are a lot of games out which kind of release the same endorphines in your body as UT:2004 
 so don't get stuck on feeling you have to play this game because its got rated high. You just pick 
 what game you want to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007-wolfenstein
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever and I agree with the Editors.
  Its the best game of all time.
  The best graphics, the best game-play and best of all, the best 
 mods to go with the game.
  If you wanna check out some brilliant mods and skins etc... go to www. levels4you. com and click 
 on Unreal Tournament 2004 then Downloads. Its the best site for modifications and changes and adding.
 
  Have fun and this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks 
 forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks 
 forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever.
  this game rocks forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HufflePuff-TLH
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 - FPS
  
  In my oppinion the very best of the best FPS Lan game to date.
  
  Gameplay - Rocksolid gameplay, 
 Fast, Intence, Mass action, never a moments rest in this game, be on your toes or be fraged.
  
  Grafiks - this game still looks very nice compared to that is has 4 years behiend it now, and 
 the engiene run's smooth as it allways has. Fantastic.
  
  Singleplayer - Unreal Tournament 2004 (UT2004) offers players with a singleplayer campaign, this 
 is not realy what the game was made for but it is oki, and can give new players to the game an 
 oki traning for the multiplayer part for the game. so thats good, and the campaign is allso quite 
 fun.
  
  Multiplayer - Here the game show is true colours, so many opptions for multiplayer fun and action 
 battle your frinds at Lan or Play on the online UT2004 servers, in many different playstyles, DM, 
 capture the flag etc. etc. and in many different levels, it is what keeps the games so great you 
 can allways juuuust have another game of some sort, and that is truely epic.
  
  Overall - ROCKSOLID game for endless hours of great gaming !!
  Never tried it - go get it and 
 frag someone :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shipbreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  If they can figure out a way to get rid of the online cheat hacks this game could be one of the 
 best online multiplayer games ever. But I don't think that's going to happen. Cheats have ruined 
 this game and they keep the cheat hacks to themselves. Pretty soon this game will be completely 
 killed by those hacks. Only hacks will play this game because no one else can compete. And since 
 hacks have no skills and a short attention span eventually they will leave it too. Thus end of 
 the greatest online game ever. And all because there are no servers left that screen cheats and 
 those that do don't even catch the most obvious cheats anymore. Game over man! If anyone can tell 
 me where I can find an honest game I would love to play. It's good to find a player with skills. 
 Getting beat by them can give you insight to new ways to play. Playing cheats win or loose there 
 is nothing to be gained. I really feel sorry for cheats who get a thrill from playing knowing they 
 really have no skills, no character and really no reason to play at all. Imagine the cheap thrill 
 they get from thinking they beat someone knowing all along it was the cheats that beat there opponent 
 not them. How pathetic is that! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zztitaniozz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  if you`ve been holding out for the maximum expression of a shooter game, then do not deny yourself 
 this experience any longer, and see what you`ve been missing.
  UT 2004 is a very impresive and engaging shooter, and it is a superior follow-up to one of the 
 greatest an recognized PC games since Quake arena come out to the public.
  this game combine every single aspect that you want in these game type, because you can blow out 
 your contestant`s head while you are driving a tank, jeep, delizator, space ship, and other things.
 
  his creators really thinked in everything that you can imagine, in a personal opinion, i can not 
 stop to play it and never in the last two year it turned boring and monotony.
  i encourage the new Unreal Tournament players to take the time to know this fabulous game and to 
 invite your friends to play it and in this way make UT a that popular game as halo and half life 
 because it worts the time.
  My congratulations an thanks to the creators of this marvelous game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Thats right, I said it. Its the best in the series and im sure you are wondering why? when the 
 new UT3 is out surly thats got to be the best? well your wrong. I'll explain everything.
  
  The game is set in the Tournament style like the others and this is what has always made the game 
 more exciting. Where the game actually lacks with the almost no story line that it has it more 
 than makes up for with excellent gameplay and outstanding content.
  
  The graphics are very good aswell aswell at all the sound FX and weapons. Plus this being the first 
 UT game where you are able to drive about in huge tanks ect and blow crap up. The Onslaught mode 
 is excellent and the game features all the normal modes such as DM TDM and CTF... but by far the 
 best game mode is Assult, for the simple reason, its got a plot to it and therefore its more fun.
 
  
  MP online play is fast and excellent, you will find it really hard to stop playing, belive me.
 
  
  This (in my eyes) is better than UT3 because 1) Tournament storyline and 2) Game mode Assult
 
  
  A must own game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolchris330
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  This is a game where you don't care for the guy behind you trying to shoot you because you know 
 you will just respawn and shoot him in the back of the head later during the game. That's right, 
 you remember this game, Unreal Tournament, the Quake look alike which focuses on multiplayer.
 
  
  It is impossible to play this game without getting shot, because you start off after every respawn 
 (no wait, immediate rejoin) with dual assualt machine guns, but soon you will get the Scatter Gun 
 and the almighty Link Gun. There are so many different maps, one of which set on a spaceship in 
 space, allowing you to jump from platform-to-platform, gravity independant.
  
  The only problem with Unreal Tournament 2004 the congratulations you feel after completing a kill, 
 throwing your hands off the keyboard and shooting "Yeah, baby, yeah!" before realising that the 
 match wasn't indeed over and getting shot repetatively in the face by the newb that doesn't understand 
 you are celebrating a kill.
  
  UT2K4 is a blend of Halo, Quake 3: Arena and any sci-fi game you have ever played, it's only con 
 is that it has been modded so much, in some games people have been changing skins. Homer Simpson 
 just fragged me, do'h! (-.5) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Well I'm a little tired so sorry if my review sucks but I'm going to keep this one short and sweet. 
 If there wasn't an 800 character minimum I would just say BUY THE GAME so you could experience 
 it for yourself but here it goes
  
  This game has a lot of amazing weapons and is best for its multiplayer combat. My favourite type 
 of math would just have to be classic old death match walking around shooting people. This game 
 is a must have for any person because I guarantee you will enjoy it and it is one of the best games 
 of 2004. I haven't played this game a lot because of the other games out there and I play 85% PC 
 games and like 10% GTA and Halo but it is an extremely fun game to play. If you are a hardcore 
 fan of this game you'll probably think I'm leaving out a bit of knowledge but the bottom line is 
 this game is extremely fun.
  It has very low system requirements and good bots by the way and you know the killing is going 
 to be good because it's rated M =) . Anyways get some coke, buy some chips with dip, make yourself 
 comfortable and play this game all night..... believe me, you will!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I have played the N64 until my eyes bled. I have solved every game tape on the GBA until my user 
 name slowly formed around the system. I have found every shine, star, coin, jigsaw puzzle and banana. 
 I have journeyed across San Andreas in nothing but my wits and a can of Country Time Lemonade. 
 But nothing, my friends, will ever stand up to this game right here, right now.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is the first person shooter equivalent of being handed a pile of a hundred 
 movies that are all great in their own way, and then being told to sit and watch them all. Within 
 each skirmish there is so much depth and nuance of strategy and enjoyment that it really does hit 
 the nail on the head when it comes to finding the essence of what it means to play a video game. 
 Ignore those dumb stories; some aliens took over some ring in space, yeah, yeah, just give me stuff 
 to kill.
  
  From the epic tank battles in Onslaught to an intense 1-on-1 match against a close rival, each 
 moment is the every epitome of what you would want to see in an FPS. If I want to take part in 
 a Peter Jackson worthy battle of thirty vicious bots, I can. If I want to play a Capture the Flag 
 with Tribes style jumping, I can. If I want to emulate, as close as I can, a stupid looking Goldeneye-style 
 Golden Gun battle, I can. If I wanted to let my Pikachu destroy his Blastoise with one hit, I can. 
 Well, maybe not that last one, but you get the idea.
  
  It's not a question of value, it's a question of if your life can handle not being emotionally 
 available for several weeks. If even one of the modes included were shipped as a lone game (such 
 as, say, the objective-based Assault) it would still be worth every moment of your time and every 
 penny you spend, because Epic Games knows how to make the heck out of games. But then they decided 
 to put the Onslaught mode in there, which any other money-hat publisher like EA would see and make 
 it its own game (see the Battlefield series, for example) . And of course there are the returning 
 modes from other games, like Deathmatch, CTF, Bombing Run (football with guns) and Double Domination.
 
  
  Let us not forget the fact that the second Unreal Engine, while becoming outdated, was modded so 
 extensively that the mods handle a better than what even the PS3 can brag about these days. The 
 fan-made maps are brilliant, depending on the mapmaker of course, and many of the mods change the 
 game in ways that can range from subtle tweak to conversion, making the experience that much longer 
 and satisfying.
  
  The bots are excellent and have only been trumped by UT3's bots, which is pretty good considering 
 the year gap there. The technology still holds up by and large past the bots, so 2004 is still 
 a viable way to go when looking into the UT franchise. The graphics are still as nice as they used 
 to be; perhaps at the level of early Xbox 360 games to some. Since the engine holds up well, average 
 computers these days can get some really nice performance even with everything turned on.
  
  You may be calling BS on my 100 plus hours spent on this game. Heck, that's the MINIMUM just 
 to enjoy each of the levels as they come. I'd never think I'd say it, but UT2004 is very much perfect 
 in it's final patched condition. With more thought put into each map than some shooters can brag 
 about in their entire campaign, UT2004 took the expectations of every fan of the original UT and 
 stomped, piledrived, trumped, canoodled, and belly danced all over them to make what it way past 
 anyone suspected any one game was capable of.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is my favorite game, and I'm sticking to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  UT2003 for me is mainly a single player venture with a couple of spouts for online playing and 
 left with my tail tucked between my legs. To those who read my UT2003 review I stated it's a 'clear 
 example of Spencer's Survival of the Fittest'. Well, I barely survived as it was tough however 
 I moved on.
  
  And now here I am in the UT2004 world. This time experience is my friend. UT2004 offered a game 
 play that I never seen in any of my online 'career'. It offered assistance for the weak. It's like 
 a good friend who's happy to hold your hand in that time of need. It's not just another FPS, it's 
 an experience you'll never forget.
  
  So what made UT2004 different? It's all about the diverse game play options.
  
  Let me start 
 and say UT2004 has a whopping ten different styles of game play. Defensive, offensive, team based, 
 objective based, fragging, driving, flying, drowning, getting burnt; it has it all. Game play like 
 Death Match (and all its variants) and domination will test your fragging ability whilst Capture 
 the Flag, Bombing Run and Assault will test whether your 'friends' will spill the beans about 'tactics 
 and team play' and the grand daddy of them all Onslaught rolls all of the above into one sweet 
 package.
  
  It comes with a health warning that if you decide to jump into the online mode. It's highly suggested 
 to try the single player mode first. The single player has definitely vamped up since previous 
 UTs that now its sports a real tournament. There's an entrance fee, winnings and able to out buy 
 players. Good stuff for that 'accountant' in you. Of course you need to win every style of game 
 play to meet the ultimate champion Xan the Man. You can even opt to practice the maps using the 
 'instant action' mode. Anything goes here; bot levels, gaming styles, add/delete vehicles and anything 
 else that you can imagine.
  
  It's in this 'instant action' mode is where you take your first baby steps. The bots are so clever 
 that you think they are human players. I actually tested this out with a couple of mates of mine 
 to see if they can tell who the bots are. Some stated that my character was a bot (I'm not sure 
 what exactly that means however we were playing on 'master' level therefore I take that as a compliment) . 
 Just on the offside, there was a survey made by the developers of Unreal to see how many players 
 actually played online and offline. Amazingly it was 50/50. However it gets better that you can 
 enter the game as a 'spectator'. This is vital for your success as you can see what the other players 
 are doing. Another words, to those who constantly tell you that 'tactics' is all you need to hear, 
 you can actually see these 'tactics' (or better still record them) in full motion. Know thy enemy!
 
  
  However, going online is where the action is. Funny to mention that another person I know always 
 brags on about online play and how it's superior to offline as you have the opportunity to 'broadcast 
 your victory'. Well, it was because of my offline experience I can display my 'trophies' online. 
 Did I see him recently... nope.
  
  The Unreal Engine is a force to be recognised. Being around since the days of Quake (and actually 
 toppled the Quake legacy) it had a chance to mature. Well known for its optimisation, you can play 
 UT2004 with just about any decent PC and still looks mighty fine. Graphically you are not going 
 to see better. Only Far Cry and Half Life 2 can topple this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: P90stein
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  If you own one of the first two unreal tournaments, buy this one.
  this game is friggin steazy. It crazy.
  
  I love just runnin around blowin everybodies heads 
 off.
  If you think halo is good, wait till you play the Unreal Tournament series.
  The graphics are amazing, the levels are awesome especially since there are so many of them. You 
 cant go wrong with tons of levels.
  
  The vehicles are awesome too. I dont use them much though.
  its much more fun to just turn on 
 mutations and jack the speed up to like 5 times faster than before and just run everywhere killing 
 people on foot.
  
  Im telling you now, go play single player first.
  beat it and everything, then go play online.
  You may think you are good, but when you get up 
 against
  people who really are good, your no match.
  
  Its just an overall masterpiece.
  Ive played no better fps.
  
  If you dont have a computer 
 thats powerful enough to run Unreal Tournament 3, buy this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aifo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Unreal tournament 2004 is one of those games that are too perfect.
  Graphics, music, gameplay and everything. The brand holder of the name Epic is truly worthy of 
 the name.
  The only letdown is the single player campaign which is somewhat confusing.
  But other than that, if you plan on playing a game with your friends or online this should be it, 
 no matter the genre of games you prefer to play.
  This should be the first game on the list of multiplayer games.
  
  I haven't played unreal 
 tournament 3 yet but I advise you to play this instead if your system can't handle UT3.
  
  I have a 8400GS ( a video card for about 40$) and it works without any problems at around 60 fps.
 
  
  though other games that were out in that same year work with lower frame rates, etc. halflife2 
 doom3.
  
  Unreal engine is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_rebelin
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  greatest game of all times from side i hav played a thousand times and i hav never found even one 
 mistake in this game
  
  graphics r awsome and things heat up more when u guys adda graphics card the detaling is so pure 
 that u hav to take time and thank the producers of the game from the zoomin inthe sniper rifle 
 to the detalin tht has been provided to the map in hich u play
  
  gameplay u gotta play it to understand it its like totally out of this world from the jumps in 
 low grav mode to the primary and secondary fire u get when u use a weapon its like something totally 
 different
  
  move into the internet and u get a fairly good speed tht is if u hav got broadband connection and 
 the gamers r also the ace
  
  and the variety of gameplay is also awsome cause its really great and wat ele can i say bout this 
 game all i can say is tht u people neeed to play this game so as to truly enjoy its class and its 
 gameplay
  
  
  for this game i give a pur 5 out of 5 (if u ofcourse do not consider the fact tht no matter how 
 good u get at this game u still lack a lot in it at the highest difficulty) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  
  Great single player and multiplayer with dozens of levels and matches. From deathmatch to capture 
 the flag, Unreal Tournament 2004 has it. The weopons are awesome and very enjoyable. The vehicles 
 are new to the series and it is very well done. The single player is a great bonus and is very 
 well created. You choose your character, your name, team name, team logo, and then you enter the 
 Tournament.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics: 8
  
  The graphics aren't mouth dropping but it gets the job done. The better computer, the better the 
 graphics will be.
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound: 8
  
  Great sound, from your teammates screaming for back-up to a mysterious voice yelling dominating! 
 when you kill a ton of enemies. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value: 8
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is sure to keep you playing for a good amount of time. There is a excellent 
 single player and also a great online mode.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Tilt: 9
  
  Overall, Unreal Tournament 2004 is a very satisfying game. There are tons of modes to play in and 
 also many levels to explore. Both the single player and multiplayer should satisfy. The single 
 player is non-stop action and so is the multiplayer, if you find a good server. This game is 2004, 
 so there aren't many servers that are very enjoyable. Moreover, you can customize your character 
 by choosing their voice and appearance, out of many choices. Ultimately, Unreal Tournament 2004 
 is a huge step for the series and it will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyrodill
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Amazing......
  gotta hand it to the creators. also : go to file front. com and download the "Unreal 2004 ballistic 
 weapons v2.0 (UMOD) and "unreal 2004 ballistic weapons. zip"
  those mods give ALOT more to the game. except vehicles... sadly.. no new vehicles
  
  this was 
 the BEST mod i ever downloaded. its got weapons like : grenades, katanas. assault rifles. its just 
 amazing!!! i really really doubt there is a better game than this. (sides COD4) but the creators 
 still did an excellent job on this game. i mean, what other game gives so good weapons??? i surely 
 don't know what ones they are, and i don't really want to know
  THIS GAME WAS 
 
  AWESOME AWESOME 
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Unreal 2004 is my first intense multiplayer action game. I played unreal 2004 for at least 2 years 
 straight making frags and rampages all over onslaught. unreal 2004 is a game that helped out allot 
 of people get into the video game industry, cause some people that bought the game and used it's 
 map editor to create some asome custom maps. What I really liked about this game was the mode onslaught, 
 (now in unreal 3 called warfare) where you have to link up nodes up to your enemies power core 
 and try to blow the core up to win the round. Also you needed to defend your core and nodes or 
 the round could go the other way. Onslaught is better on multiplayer cause it more intense. There 
 were other modes instead of onslaught like death match, team death match and capture the flag but 
 rarely played because everyone else played onslaught. The ctf, dm, tdm matches were based on smaller 
 maps than onslaught and had no vehicles. Ctf matches were okay moving back and forth but you would 
 get really tiresome of the routine. Death matches were crazy making you look over your shoulder 
 at every turn and always wanting a frag gun or stinger. Team death matches were the same but you 
 would lose allot of ammo shooting your own team mates. The best thing about unreal 2004 was there 
 was allot of fan based or not fan based add on's, maps, skins, mutators, and lots of other things 
 being made for this game to be used for multiplayer action. Once people had played unreal 2004 
 allot more patches came out with new maps and vehicles' to make the game more interesting. Overall 
 unreal 2004 is revolutionary game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegeta_god_dbz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  IT is just an INSTANT CLASSIC!!!!! just Like UT 2003 this game returns with impressive maps characters 
 and ofcourse the onslaught mode. The vehicles are great. Shoot your opponent from above in a raptor. 
 Cut his body into two with the scorpion blades. Crush his body by a hellbender and ofcourse destroy 
 his body with my favourite shield Gun and find blood everywhere.! HAHAHAHAHA! And the new maps... osiris 
 , gael , idoma, serpantine and many others. And how the hell can I forget the greatest part of 
 the game... MULTIPLAYER!! The best part is that multiplayer is availible with onslaught. SO go ahead 
 call 10 of your friends online divide the team and get going. Epic game had amazed me time and time 
 again but this game and UT3 are just classics. This game has a few flaws in the control. The graphics 
 is great, this sound is great the game play is great so u wont find time to see the controls! I 
 strongly recommend before going online at least win matches on adept difficulty
  
  good points
  impressive graphics
  impressive game
  drawbacks 
  let me think
  thinking 
 
  still thinking
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTLunchbox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  what else needs to be said? go out and buy it if you already haven't. Just might need to practice 
 a bit in Instant Action before you play online, it's very intense.
  
  UT 2004 has very fun and distinct level designs. All the various levels are beautifully designed, 
 but you need a somewhat strong computer to see it. there are also some old favorites like Hyperblast 
 and Face. If some how, you do get sick of playing the huge collection of maps, there are ALOT of 
 map packs out on the internet to try out.
  
  Graphically, it's beautiful for it's time.
  
  The replay value is amazing. you can play this for several days and not get bored. might be 
 annoyed and angry if you lack skills. Learning how to play the game is very easy, but hard to master. 
 once you master it, it's awesome. 
  
  This is an awesome game that's worth buying if you can't afford to buy Unreal Tournament 3 or don't 
 have a computer strong enough to play UT 3. Interestingly, on various game review sites, UT 2004 
 scored higher than UT 3. it even got editor's choice.
  
  Go out and frag someone tonight. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gravgon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  UT2004 is a awesome shooter game with lots of maps. The single player game is a shooter competition 
 with diffrent goals and play styles. Theres games like capture the flag, double domination, assault, 
 onslaught and a few others. You get a team and you take your team in the competition and fight 
 your way to the top of the ranks and the best games. You earn money and you can challenge others 
 during the tournament for bets. There are alot of maps to choose from and while some are odd they 
 are all well done. The music is good but sometimes repetative.
  
  The multiplayer game is basicly the same as the single player. Even if noone else is around you 
 can host games with computer controlled opponents . The game comes with a match making system built 
 in so you dont need other programs to find servers. There are some cheaters online but most of 
 the time you can find a game without them. 
  
  The weapons are better than ever and UT has some of the coolest weapons that are fun to use. Also 
 if your playing onslaught there are vehcials and they each handle diffrent and every one of them 
 are really fun to use. This game will also run on older PC's because you can turn the graphics 
 options way down if you want.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing. You can find this at most stores going for only 29.99$ common how can 
 you beat that price. Load time may take some time since it is six disk but that just to take care 
 of all the levels. If you were an Unreal Tourny/Tourny 2003 fan this this is the game that will 
 grab your attention. It has UT classic play mode and lots of mutants from 2003 still so your favourite 
 games aren't gone. The downfall to this game would have to be how there aren't many people playing 
 a few of that game types. Such as Double Domination, Mutant, and Last Man Standing. 2 Of these 
 which i love to play but there arent anyone else feeling the same way. Lots of room are filled 
 with noob bots and i cant stand it.
  
  My conclusion is if you liked Unreal and enjoy playing against the world then i would highly suggest 
 this game. If you more less like Call of Duty or Battle Field and like the realistic slow pace 
 of life then its not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mc_do_og_le
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is a non-stop killing multiplayer game. Just like the rest of the unreal 
 series. But unlike the rest of the unreal series Unreal Tournament 2004 delivers some thing special 
 that you won't get from any other unreal game. Especially with the the new onslaught maps the game 
 is all the more fun. And just like the other unreal games it gives you an unreal amount of blood. 
 The gameplay is more smooth than the other unreal games and there are some little glitches but 
 they don't effect how you play its actually kind of funny if you look at them closely. The game 
 has a single player but its not really that single except in the begging but it is still a lot 
 of fun. The bots on you team are basically yours to control. The new vehicles are just plain awesome 
 my personal favorite is the leviathan it is a power house that will destroy any thing you want. 
 But thats not the only one the is awesome and the only one way to find out for your self is to 
 buy the game and get hooked on it for life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greeneyes702
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  UT2004 was all the buzz when it came out. Onslaught did it ALOT of good. The single player game 
 is great fun to play but predictable as can be. Each game will play out bascily the exact same 
 you run around kill guys they run around kill you ect ect. While you might have goals to reach 
 like capturing a flag or building a node your still fighting deathmatch the whole time. And the 
 bots are pretty good but after a while boring. 
  Online play was fun at first but then you start noticing there are no official community servers 
 there all rented or player hosted. Most games have cheaters in them and the people often switch 
 to the winning team. Nothing prevents them from doing this so the online games are for the most 
 part rigged and annoying. Also there isnt really that massive of a community for UT I dont really 
 know why this is probably because the players cheat so much but other popular shooters have way 
 more players and servers.
  But if you plan to play this game as a single player deathmatch shooter with no real story or plot 
 just get your butt out there and shoot some bots then this might be fun for you. I played it alot 
 when it launched and recently came back to see what was up online. Found there was hardly any servers 
 and most games were not fun at all because of uneven teams. If your thinking about getting this 
 one try the demo first see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiMcHiMaN
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  this game is great, what can i say more. the game is well planned, i mean, who could of thought 
 of making a game that is actually a tournament (with pretty smart AI) . this game aint straitfoword 
 like the unreal tounament 1, its more complex, better AI, and all the guns are somewhat equal. 
 If u are asking why there is no storymode, well, the storymode is the unreal 2, the awake of something. 
 in UR2 (unreal tournament 2) , when u first play the first mission, its really easy, i mean, even 
 ur grandma could beat the first round but when u get to the semi final, its...... unreal. even i 
 know im good in fps but man, i get killed damn easly. my fav gun is the link gun, it shoots like 
 green blast and demolish the enemy. there is also second effect which is the righ mouse button, 
 the link gun shoots green laser which also demolo\ish the enemy. one of the hardest gun to use 
 is the flack gun (is it flak or flack?) it shoots like a box of balls and when it hits a solid 
 object, it bounses and goes somewere else. the good thing bout it is that if u shoot it infront 
 of a person, ur dead, blown into bits of pecies.
  
  the graphics can be improved but it does not interfear with the gameplay. u said that because like 
 halo 3, this game's graphic is like the old mario (jk) , like there is some differene but hey, i 
 can live with that. there is a way were u can change the cam view into a 3rd person and 1st persn. 
 i personally think that 1st person is much easyer because...... idk. well, anyway, the graphics 
 are just perfect for the game and it does not interfear with the gameplay so don worrie bout it.
 
  
  the sound... its awesome, with full sound track and gppd quality. the sound of the walking, shooting, 
 blood splating, all of it is just great. and i have nothing else to say. i would if the sound was 
 bad
  
  again, this game is totaly awesome, onlineplay (what we call it is multiplayer) , great singleplayer 
 mode, the tournament which can intertain an get u pissed off for hours, and great option (custom 
 ur own character, gun layout and etc) . if u want to get this game, ull have to get it in a set, 
 which has the very fist unreal (like doom) , unreal tournament, unreal 2, unreal y\tounament 2 and 
 a sound track which kick ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  UT2004 has taken first person shooter games into a new level. This is the game where every gamers 
 dream comes true. U shoot, U drive, U explore, and U never get bored. 
  Single Player is full of content and missions. 
  The Difficulties are limitless. I recomend if 
 u want to be a good gamer u play "God Mode" Cause it actully brings alot from the A. I 
  Multiplayer is amazing. Wide open maps for every ones desire. Onslaught Mode is AMAZING! 
  I 
 can't really say thing negative about this game at all because there is really nothing to say besides 
 one of the best First Person Shooter games a person could play and should own.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9
  Graphics 9
  Sounds 9
  Value 10
  Tilt 10
  
  The Good
  * The massive choices of gaming styles
  * Gaming Optimisation
  * Well developed characters
 
  
  The Bad
  * A little intimidating for newer players when jumping online
  * No Necris Clan!
  * Time
  
  I had some real appalling experiences for online playing. It 
 actually stemmed back in the days of Diablo II. I spend some time building up my Barbarian character 
 to level 40 before venturing into the online world. Teaming up with a group of unknown players 
 and during a heated boss battle, I accidentally hit my fellow partner the sorceress. The sorceress 
 retaliated and killed me to teach me a lesson. Mind you the damage was minimal however my Barbarian 
 never resurrected (as it was under the 'nightmare' rules) and I was never to be seen again.
  
  I came out of hibernation into the world of UT1999. Played through the single player modes 
 then with a couple of mates I've played online. This time I was prepared and owned some. Little 
 did I know that one of the players was ranked 38 in the world; got owned and naturally I asked 
 for some tips and all he replied was 'It's all about tactics' and smiled. Did he explain further... nope. 
 I left.
  
  UT2003 for me is mainly a single player venture with a couple of spouts for online playing and 
 left with my tail tucked between my legs. To those who read my UT2003 review I stated it's a 'clear 
 example of Spencer's Survival of the Fittest'. Well, I barely survived as it was tough however 
 I moved on.
  
  And now here I am in the UT2004 world. This time experience is my friend. UT2004 offered a game 
 play that I never seen in any of my online 'career'. It offered assistance for the weak. It's like 
 a good friend who's happy to hold your hand in that time of need. It's not just another FPS, it's 
 an experience you'll never forget.
  
  So what made UT2004 different? It's all about the diverse game play options.
  
  Let me start 
 and say UT2004 has a whopping ten different styles of game play. Defensive, offensive, team based, 
 objective based, fragging, driving, flying, drowning, getting burnt; it has it all. Game play like 
 Death Match (and all its variants) and domination will test your fragging ability whilst Capture 
 the Flag, Bombing Run and Assault will test whether your 'friends' will spill the beans about 'tactics 
 and team play' and the grand daddy of them all Onslaught rolls all of the above into one sweet 
 package.
  
  It comes with a health warning that if you decide to jump into the online mode. It's highly suggested 
 to try the single player mode first. The single player has definitely vamped up since previous 
 UTs that now its sports a real tournament. There's an entrance fee, winnings and able to out buy 
 players. Good stuff for that 'accountant' in you. Of course you need to win every style of game 
 play to meet the ultimate champion Xan the Man. You can even opt to practice the maps using the 
 'instant action' mode. Anything goes here; bot levels, gaming styles, add/delete vehicles and anything 
 else that you can imagine.
  
  It's in this 'instant action' mode is where you take your first baby steps. The bots are so clever 
 that you think they are human players. I actually tested this out with a couple of mates of mine 
 to see if they can tell who the bots are. Some stated that my character was a bot (I'm not sure 
 what exactly that means however we were playing on 'master' level therefore I take that as a compliment) . 
 Just on the offside, there was a survey made by the developers of Unreal to see how many players 
 actually played online and offline. Amazingly it was 50/50. However it gets better that you can 
 enter the game as a 'spectator'. This is vital for your success as you can see what the other players 
 are doing. Another words, to those who constantly tell you that 'tactics' is all you need to hear, 
 you can actually see these 'tactics' (or better still record them) in full motion. Know thy enemy!
 
  
  However, going online is where the action is. Funny to mention that another person I know always 
 brags on about online play and how it's superior to offline as you have the opportunity to 'broadcast 
 your victory'. Well, it was because of my offline experience I can display my 'trophies' online. 
 Did I see him recently... nope.
  
  The Unreal Engine is a force to be recognised. Being around since the days of Quake (and actually 
 toppled the Quake legacy) it had a chance to mature. Well known for its optimisation, you can play 
 UT2004 with just about any decent PC and still looks mighty fine. Graphically you are not going 
 to see better. Only Far Cry and Half Life 2 can topple this.
  
  The sound quality is superb. Every gun fire has a unique yet identifiable sound. From the boom 
 of the Goliath's Tank to the zap of the Lightning gun, it's all tuned for perfection. The musical 
 scores will definitely get your blood pumping and suits well for the map itself and the voice acting 
 are spot on. UT is also famous for its taunts and UT2004 is no different. The taunts adds spice 
 to the game as you will constantly hear taunts from 'You forgot to turn your safety off' to 'Tag 
 'em, bag 'em' and some that it's best to be remain in the game itself.
  
  You are not going to get better value than this game. I have invested way over 100 plus hours and 
 still learning the ropes. It's one of those games that it's easy to learn and hard to master. My 
 favourite weapons by far is the rocket launcher, minigun and if allowed the translocator (an item 
 which allows you to teleport at short distances and if you happen to teleport through your opponent 
 then it's an instant frag) . To date I still seen some new marvelous tricks with these weapons. 
 Of course there is a myriad of other weapons to choose from and considering there are ten different 
 'sporting events' and sixty plus maps, the engine itself also enables modding. And being Unreal 
 the modding community is humongous. You cannot possibly get bored at all.
  
  That said and I know it's hard to believe, there are some weak points to the game. To those who 
 played UT1999, there was a clan (and evidently my favourite) called the Necris somehow disappeared 
 from the face of UT2004. Only the 'bonus packs' (which is free to download) contains only two members. 
 The good news is that 1) the modding community has made this clan a full-blown force to be reckoned 
 with and 2) they're back in UT3. Also the training grounds is a little on the 'weaker' side. The 
 in-game tutorial does explain the basics of the game however very little in the form of tactics. 
 But as I stated before, use the 'spectator' mode and you'll become the next UT god.
  
  I was impressed with the storyline for UT2004. Every map, game play styles and even characters 
 all have a descriptive history. It was great to see this as when selecting your character and/or 
 clan, it helps you immerse with the game as it feels like a real battle. There is also a 'mutation' 
 that you can select to play under 'clan' rules. That said for example, Juggernauts will be a little 
 slower however harder to kill whilst the Gen Mo'Kai tends to be quicker on their chicken legs with 
 lesser health. There are good web sites dedicated to the World of Unreal and it wouldn't surprise 
 me at the slightest that a MMO will be created in a not-to-distant future. And you heard it here 
 first!
  
  Unreal Tournament if jumping online almost immediately will intimidate the newer players. It's 
 extremely fast and aggressive as there's little chance to breathe or blink. You spawn, you die 
 and repeat. However, in saying that, everyone is treated on the same playing field. Everyone is 
 equal; opportunity is there to those who would like to learn (and I'm not talking about your 'friends' 
 giving you worthless 'tactics' tips either) . It's also not a slow game where it takes literally 
 forever to spawn. UT2004 brings back the fun in multiplayer as there are so many different game 
 play styles that will grab even the most fickle of FPS players. Give it a try however if you do, 
 it will suck your life away. You have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lrrydaqcumber
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best PC game I've played IN MY LIFE! True that I'm not as old as many other 
 gamers, but I have still played some great old-school games. The best feature of this game is online 
 play. Although there are some glitches, most are either hard to master or just un-useful. The best 
 game mode in my opinion is CTF (Capture the Flag) . Not only is this the most played but instead 
 of jumping around getting killed you have to make it to a certain point and back without getting 
 killed. If you haven't yet got this game go get it NOW! This is a MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groudyogre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  I first got this game on recommendation from a friend and quickly found it to be one of my favorite 
 games ever. With a short single player completely saved by the sheer freedom of the multiplayer; 
 the game has an infinite amount of options for replay.
  
  Graphics:
  This game really surprised me. The requirement to run everything on ultra-high are surprisingly 
 low. The textures on the weaponry are gorgeous and even though some of the floor textures are a 
 letdown, this game can be forgiven because of the huge draw distances and the sheer amount of action 
 going on.
  
  Gameplay:
  Mark my words: this game will not get old. You will be playing this game until the sequel comes 
 out (which is hopefully better) and you will still love it.
  
  Online:
  Cannot be faulted. To the common gamer the online is instantly accessible. Simply click join game 
 and choose where you want to go! MODs that you don't have are downloaded on the spot and you're 
 ready to go.
  
  Overall:
  Get this game. I will 100% recommend it to anybody who likes action packed FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauron901
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 04 is very good, the graphics i would rate 8 out of 10 and sound 10 out of 10. 
 all the unreal tournaments have been good so i and many other people cant just wait until a new 
 unreal tournament gets made. The really good stuff about the game is that the ai, i seriously love 
 the the difficultys. Also the rock music ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. There might be some problems but 
 patches fix them up to so it is worth the money. The single player is very fun, how you get to 
 build your team and vs other teams and stuff. The thing i love best is the legenary MULTIPLAYER! 
 it is so cool, no other game has this much to offer. THIS IS VERY Good AND A MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duke852456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 Has a great gamplay action Great weapons and I Like the idea to mod the 
 game to your standards!
  
  No dought about it beinn very addicting and well balance fun. Well balance weapon to give anybody 
 the joy of killing each other.
  Custom caracters to choice from and mod that will help you balance your game just the way you like 
 it.
  
  It has so many weapons to choice from with so many caracters to customize. The vechicles are all 
 different in which on vechicle has the ability to cut people in half will driving to the enemy 
 base. The vehicles are easy to use and easy to kill your opponets
  
  I give it a 9.5 as my favorite game of the year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostLegacy54
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  UT 2004's hectic gameplay and non stop action make it one of the best shooters you can buy for 
 the PC. The graphics are great and very customizable so they can be downgraded significantly to 
 play on older machines or upgraded significantly to look beautiful on your shiny new gaming rig.
 
  
  UT's replay value is virtually infinite. It has an online component that is just like the single 
 player and it always has lots of people to play with and it is the most moddable game in history 
 so there is a huge slew of user made mods out there for you to try. I suggest the ballistics mod. 
 check moddb. com for that.
  
  The only thing really wrong with UT 2K4 is that if you cannot go online, then it can get stale 
 fast. The mods help this but not enough. The bots just don't act the same as human players and 
 the online arena presents a much more entertaining challenge.
  
  I suggest that anyone with a pulse give this game a try. It is a blast to play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: INoX-AiC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I would recommend this FPS to anybody who has loved the unreal series, it has been a truely addictive 
 series.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is a first person shooter FPS that combines the kill or be killed experience 
 of combat with advanced technology. Ten game modes are available in this version which consist 
 of both team-based and Free for All action, which will provide even the most hardcore gamer with 
 a very challenging expirience through amazingly detailed arenas and vast outdoor environments. 
 As an ultimate technological-gladiator, players embrace their own fates and enjoy such a challenging 
 game.
  
  This game also consists of a Multiplayer or Skirmish Mode which is online and offline. The online 
 Multiplayer mode will require a average or high internet speed for a enjoyable gaming expirience 
 so be warned.
  
  So all i hope you have enjoyed my shot review. If you have any questione please just message i 
 will be glad to awnser any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooster2991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  Fun gameplay as always, but not too much has been added from the other versions to make it stand 
 out. BUT its still awesome and fun, plus vehicles add some freshness.
  Graphics 9/10
  Not mindblowing, but what it does, it does right.
  Sound 9/10
  My personal favorite part of 
 the game, even though the sound does repeat and get a little old. While you are playing sp, the 
 sound is awesome, and really gets you into it. I love it.
  Value 10/10
  Mulitplayer is amazing, single player is amazing. You wont stop playing anytime soon from the time 
 you start.
  Tilt 10/10
  I love ut, and i think anyone that gives it a chance will really love the addicting gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  This game has so many things to do you will never get bored. There are a ton of mods that you could 
 download and try. You will seriously never get bored of this game. The mutators in this game a 
 superb. You can also go to any fan site and download any mutator that you want for unreal tournament. 
 There are thousands of mutators that you can download. The on line feature is great. You will never 
 get bored because the games on line will never end. There are also a lot of contests that you can 
 enter yourself in if you like to make mods. This is a great game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, there are so many different weapons and vehicles that it makes the game so 
 much fun. The graphics look great and sound is good. The single player is awesome but the game 
 really shines in online multiplayer. There are great maps and objectives. The online seems to be 
 really balanced with all the weapons and vehicles that are on the map. This game can be really 
 addictive and fun to play over and over again. This takes everything from the older games and improves 
 them completely. I still play this game today even though it's years old. I highly recommend this 
 game to any FPS shooter fan, I guarantee you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh, the life UT has taken on with new MOD's and Mutators. The one this review is about 'Holywars' 
 especially caught my attention though. Man... just think about the concept!! Everyone racing, and 
 hunting around to find the invaluable 'Halo'. Then once you find it, you gotta play good enough 
 to be worthy of keeping it. Freaking out and hiding is not an option, you gotta fight!! Its a bad 
 ('heretics' and 'normals') against good ('halo holder') , kill the man with the ball style game. 
 The sounds, I thought were rather humorous. =) The choral symphonies, and the cherub laughter, 
 it was all too amusing. I would add funny announcements regarding heretics, to spice that concept 
 up a bit. It was weak with them. All in all, the sounds were there, and worked well.
  
  Holywars was small, and easy to plug into most maps, with one limitation. The maps had to be small. 
 During that initial search for the halo, and the occasional i cant find it experience, you get 
 the drift. Noone wants to get bored searching a huge map for a small shiny ring. On the good side, 
 when there was a small map it ROCKED!!! Everyone fighting for the halo, and the 'holder' fighting 
 almost impossible numbers of players at times. My favorite map to play with 'Holywars' is Liandri 
 with 5-6+ people. If I were to change anything it would be the scoring concepts, a little tighter 
 wrapped around the time you have the 'halo' just in possession, as well as kills with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I have the unreal tournament 2004 BETA, and two of my friends have the real game, they love it, 
 but I like the more down to earth shooters myself. Im more of a COD, Halo, F. E. A. R. person. I like 
 this game, but the difficulty is pretty high, it takes a long time to master this game, and i like 
 to play a variety of games, not spend my time on one game. After trying this game for a while, 
 i decided it was really just to hard and complicated, you have to be a real video game hard core 
 man to master this game, not to mention all the aimboters, which there are lots of. I know the 
 sound was great, and the value, was free, plus good support, but the gameplay is really not for 
 classica everyday FPS fans like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalldemon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Just because i walk like Obi Wan Kenobie you people talk but you don't even know me and that's 
 alright cause i get down with gc, so i walk on and listen to their cd, some people laugh, they 
 do it just to spite me, behind my back, they dont know what i see...
  
  But dont care what they say i dont need you anyway i'll just go about my day but any way You go 
 out on Friday nights i'll stay in but thats all right 'cause i have found a click to call my own 
 in crowd out crowd i dont care your crowd my crowd we can share 'cause i have found a click to 
 call my own lets go!! So come and talk to me on my computer screen the best years of our lives
 
  arent as easy as they seem
  and one day we'll look back
  and then we'll have to laugh they use to call us names
  now they want our autographs to get the 
 girl
  and make the grade
  its all a show
  its all a game
  and i would lose it if i played
  its all the same
  
  So i dont care what they say i dont 
 need you anyway [Click lyrics on http://www. metrolyrics. com]
  
  i'll just go about my day but anyway You go out on friday nights i'll stay in but thats all right 
 'cause i have found a click to call my own
  in crowd out crowd i dont care
  your crowd my crowd we can share 'cause i have found a click to call my own She said she'd call 
 but i know she won't she wont she wont You go out on friday nights
  i'll stay in but that's all right 'cause i have found a click to call my own in crowd out crowd 
 i dont care
  your crowd my crowd we can share 'cause i have found a click to call my own lets go! but anyway 
 i dont care what you say
  i dont need you anyway i'll just go about my day
  but anyway
  
  i dont care what you say
  i dont need you anyway ill just go about my day
  but anyway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirrel275
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Great game. It sfjsd j jj j j j j jj j j j j jj j j j j j jj j j j j j jj j j j j j k k k k k kk 
 k k k kk k k k k k k kk k k k k kk k k k k kk k k k k k k kk k k k k kk k k k k k k k k kk k k 
 k k kk k k k kk k k k kk k k k k k kk k k k k k k k k k k kk k k k k k k KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK 
 KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK 
 KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK owns everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I've been waiting a long time to write this review. First of all, I wouldn't like 
 to sound like a raving fanboy, on the other side, I want to pass a wholehearted recommendation 
 to the (very few) people who got lost and accidently read this user review.
  
  The simple review would be: UT2004 = extremely good
  
  But I guess more explanation is needed..
 
  
  First of all, lets define the genre of this game. Most would probably call the game for an online 
 shooter, which isn't far off. But Personally I have spent most of my time in the game (and by that 
 I mean countless hours) offline. Although not being touted as one of the games best features, the 
 single player campaign is actually a highly entertaining well-balanced series of fights, and an 
 introduction to the many gametypes in the game.
  
  But the meat of the game is the actual fighting. And UT2004 gets something right that so many games 
 gets wrong: The weapon handling.
  Whether we are talking about the shock rifle, the lightning gun or the (in) famous flak cannon, 
 all these weapons are useful in the hands of an expert. The balance is just right, and as such 
 most fights seem based on the players skills more than anything else, as it should be.
  
  The game is still a visual treat, a kind of homage to the days before pixel and vertexshaders. 
 The game looks great because of the art direction more than technology, and because it relies on 
 fairly conventional (DX7 Hardware) 3D principles, the game demands more from the CPU than the GPU. 
 In some of the larger battles against bots, a fast CPU is welcome to keep track of the AI, but 
 generally UT2004 isn't that demanding.
  
  With the tech out of the way, the player can focus on the pure adrenaline action, the Unreal Tournament 
 series is well known for. Around 1999/2000 th big discussion was whether UT or Quake III was the 
 best deathmatch/online shooter. IMO Unreal Tournament has always been superior, due to better weapon 
 design (with alternative fire) , better character movement (doublejump, dodge) and generally better 
 maps. This still holds true. Compared to most other FPS shooters, UT2004 - despite its age - is 
 still one of the best shooters out there. If not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eldramesha
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Epic Games has long been known for putting out masterfully crafted works of art and Unreal Tournament 
 2004 is no different. It is a frenetic and utterly satifing thrill ride from first frag to last 
 and it will keep you coming back for more.
  
  The game modes in UT2004 are diverse and there is something for everyone. Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch 
 are of course including, made all the more impressive by a scalable and, at higher settings, utterly 
 ruthless AI. The other team modes are impressive as well and can garner some truely epic fights.
 
  
  The weapons selection is largely the same as previous games which is no way a bad thing as the 
 weapons have always been innovative and fun to use.
  
  The graphics are decent but somewhat jerky when things really get hectic. The sound is good but 
 large chunks are recycled from previous games.
  
  This is a solid and impressive addition to an already masterful series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leavemebe
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  It took a couple of years, a couple of video card and cpu generations and a couple of patches, 
 but today in 2007 UT2004 is the game it was meant to be: the worthy successor to the original Unreal 
 Tournament.
  
  UT2004 in 2004 was underwhelming, the too-large and bulky looking player models, the weirdly different 
 and organic environments and the sluggish performance was a turn off. UT2003 was a fresh failure 
 and we were pining for the original UT experience with fast, precise shooting and a complex and 
 dangerous manmade environment.
  
  It took this long, to get dual core cpus and 7/8 series video cards and 2G of system ram to experience 
 this game as it was intended to be: high resolutions with maximum pixel processing and rock solid 
 high FPS in all areas for long shot accuracy and split second results for repeatable predictability. 
 Now the game feels like UT, you can win by being one pixel more accurate and one millisecond quicker 
 than the next guy. With high bandwidth low latency connections the game is a true multiplayer sporting 
 event.
  
  So the game runs like butter, how does it play? With the Mega Bonus Pack, just like the original 
 UT, but better. Through the options, you can duplicate many of the conditions that existed in UT, 
 including shrinking down the oversized gun models, and resurrecting the original announcer and 
 intro music. Not to mention, high arc translocator beacons to get to those otherwise hard to get 
 places.
  
  All of the UT modes of play are back, some with vehicles (yay!) , some modes are new and fun (invasion) , 
 others miss the mark (Bombing Run) , but all include reasonable maps and some of the original UT 
 maps are included as well, with facelifts. The ability to give voice commands to your bots is another 
 interesting feature.
  
  If I had to pick a complaint it would be with the AI. That the AI is superior to almost any FPS 
 AI in its style and effectiveness is not the point. Sometimes the AI is too good in that stalemates 
 occur by virtue of statistical equilibrium. Be prepared for some very long, very frustrating ladder 
 sessions when you can not make any headway due to the godlike AI. It's a combination of exhilaration 
 and nostalgia running 1600x1200 with 8XSSFFAA with 60+ FPS when back in the day it was two Voodoo 
 2's running in SLI getting 1280x960 4xRG FSAA at 40+ FPS. I attribute a lot of my enthusiasm for 
 UT (And skill) to a solid hardware platform to game from.
  Lastly, don't think for a second the graphics are dated, they are perfectly adequate DX9 based 
 textures and models and the weapons effects are as good as any. It's far superior to any Quake 
 III engine based game. Also, the soundtrack is inspired, I haven't heard such tight beats and game-appropriate 
 scoring in a long time. Of the dozens of tracks only one hits flat due to mood, not musicality. 
 Let's just say I've delayed the start of a match more than once to finish listening to the title 
 track... I look forward to the next UT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  Action. Speed. Thrill. Mesmerize= Unreal Tournament 2004. No excuse justifies not playing this 
 game if you are a gamer. Like Unreal Tournament 2000, UT 2004 exceeds the expectation. Though this 
 game was primarily designed as a multiplayer one, I played it in the single player mode. I hope 
 someday I would be able to play it in the office with the other guys (we are currently playing 
 UT 2000 in the office) -- to find out the level of fun in the multiplayer mode. UT 2004 is a solid 
 game even in the single player mode. Its as speedy as UT 2000, though the graphic requirements 
 are much higher, and the enemies are even more clever and dodging. This game has one of the highest 
 replayable value of all games, because the challenge of beating the opponents never becomes old 
 or easy. Its just that as you play repeatedly, you get to know specifically what to expect from 
 each map. I played it for more than a year. There are many types of challenges in line with Unreal 
 2000 -- making the shooting experience as diverse and challenging as possible. The single player 
 mode even has a computer aided group assault mode that you'd surely enjoy.
  The maps are graphically top notch. That goes for sound and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is the shooter of shooters. No game that has come out since this one's release has been 
 able to match the pace of the action. Unreal Tournament serves up a dish of the best action on 
 a PC since.... well, who knows? Everything is superb in this game, and one of the chieft superb 
 elements is the array of weapons. The guns all have a very useful alternate fire as well as primary 
 fire, and you can find rocket launchers, chainguns, biosludge guns that fire globs of toxic ooze, 
 flak cannons (my favorite) which can gib opponents at close range with ease, a sniper rifle that 
 fires lightning, and of course the devastating redeemer, a nuke that can be flown by wire for maximum 
 accuracy. There are more arenas than you can shake a stick at, all well designed, and most have 
 a nice environmental feature like an orbiting moon or a distant nebula. In any case, every stage 
 is beautiful and well-designed. Gameplay is fast and furious. Characters move quickly, can jump 
 very high and wall dodge, and all weapons can be deadly if wielded properly. This means you must 
 constantly be on the move, hunting for new targets if you want to do well. Playing agaist bots 
 is a great way to practice, and the AI alone will give you match after match of thrilling gaming. 
 Many game modes are available, from standard gametypes like deathmatch and capture the flag to 
 objective based team combat and a game called onslaught based on progressively capturing nodes 
 on a map that eventually link to the enemy's base. The game also has a co-op mode where you face 
 off agaist alien monsters that spawn, sort of like a high tech version of space invaders. This 
 is an amazing multiplayer shooter for PC and a great iteration of the Unreal series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  the bad: this is a great game but for some reason i don't like it as much as the classic UT. The 
 levels are too big, the weapons don't pack much of a punch and the gameplay is not the same it's 
 not as fast paced as the original UT
  
  the good: the game has some cool graphics and nice new weapons like the grenade launcher. And great 
 returning characters like Xan Kriegor and the Skaarj. The new assault and onslaught modes are very 
 fun. And you can get a lot of cool vehicles such as tanks, hovercraft and more.
  
  overall: you should give this game a shot i think. You might have a better view of it than i do. 
 I just prefer the classic UT to this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wormsramongus
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This is simply one of the best games that i have ever played. There are so many different game 
 modes that will keep you interested in the game for a very long time. There are a ton of different 
 weapons and skins that you can use to tailor your own custom play style. The controls are fluid, 
 the action is fast paced, and the game can be adjusted to be a challenge for anyone. The only thing 
 lacking is the singleplayer. The single player is just a series of one off games that don't really 
 effect the outcome of the next game. they are still fun because the basic game formula is fun, 
 but it is not as good as i expected. The game has a bit of a cartoony feel with the effects and 
 the gibs, but it is still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 27, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  When you start playing this game you just cannot stop. You want some more multi-kills and monster-kills. 
 It just feels so good to snipe a head off. Even better with the awesome graphics.
  
  This game is so good I don't know where to start. The graphics is so awesome.
  The gameplay is 
 soo good.
  The sound is superb.
  All is superb.
  
  So I will start with the graphics.
  I researched about how many polygons a model has and each 
 one has about 8.000 polygons. Thats soo awesome. So when play the game for the first time you will 
 just say: Oh my ******* god some nice graphics! Now I am just talking about the models of the players. 
 The nature of the game and the background is also so nice that you say this at the start: Oh my 
 ******* god some nice graphics! If you do that. You are right. The graphics of this game is so 
 nice!
  
  The gameplay is also good. If you are an average player it will take you 10 hours to complete the 
 single-player. If you also play multi-player you have plus 30 hours. You have about 50 characters 
 to choose from with their own unique look. Now with 11 weapons you are all set to play 50 hours. 
 Then you leave the game for 2 months and then you come back for another 50 hours. Nice gameplay.
 
  
  The sound is even nicer, because when you make a double kill a man is saying: Double-Kill and it 
 just sounds so awesome. When you make a head shot he also says that. The coolest sound is when 
 you kills someone with a bazooka. Splat! Then he is gone and only gore is left with some blood. 
 So cool sound in this game. If you are looking for a nice and looooooong-lasting game this is it 
 for you.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Gameplay: 9
  Sound: 10
  Overall: 9.4
  
  -Orakk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Built on the solid foundation that is UT2003, Unreal Tournament 2004 is definitely one of the most 
 dynamic and intense shooter I have ever played. So what makes it so good? Lets take a closer look.
 
  
  For starters, lets get the graphics and sound out of the way. Although the Unreal Engine 2 is not 
 native DirectX 9 technology it is very flexible and highly customizable; and it shows because UT2004 
 showcases a large variety of game types, stretching from the basic Deathmatch to the new online 
 favorite: Onslaught. There are over 100 maps to choose from and each and every one of them is carefully 
 designed to offer the best and most balanced gameplay experience, despite not looking as 'unreal' 
 as UT99's map selection. They do look great though, no doubt about that. And that's mainly because 
 the engine is capable of rendering huge amounts of details such as foliage, particles or light 
 glows without taxing your system's resources too much. The ambient sounds are also good and play 
 a vital role in gameplay because you can get the upper hand over your opponent by listening for 
 footsteps or power-up pickup sounds. And finally, as with all Unreal games, the music is in perfect 
 sync with the action and will elevate your experience, it's that good! But if by any chance you 
 don't like it, just listen to your own music via the built-in music player; the option in there.
 
  
  But enough about graphics and sound. The game mechanics are probably the best thing about UT2004, 
 they are simply among the tightest, most perfectly balanced I've seen in the genre. Old school 
 Unreal players tend to say UT2004 was a step in the wrong direction concerning game mechanics because 
 weapons are not that brutal anymore (not nearly as spammy either) or the movement is too fast or 
 it's harder to hit targets. Yes, these facts are true but it makes the game experience much more 
 engaging than UT. I admit it can be hard at first, specially if you play online but after you master 
 dodging and double jumping (and use them constantly) things become a lot easier. You will see that 
 by using these skills you will be able to cover huge amounts of ground in no time and be generally 
 more efficient. Also, the weapons are not as spammy as the ones from UT99, the developers focused 
 more on balance and they have achieved it. You basically have the perfect weapon for every situation, 
 it's just a matter of you making the right choice at the right time.
  
  Having said all that, I think you now have a relatively good idea of how the game plays. UT2004 
 can be either mind-bending fast, totally chaotic or even tactical, it just depends on what you 
 are playing: assault, bombing run, capture the flag, deathmatch, double domination, invasion, mutant, 
 onslaught etc. I'm not going to get into details but I will say that each and every one of these 
 game types offer something different and interesting. The single player campaign is more complex 
 now, it is not just a simple ladder mode. You have a budget with which you have to get along: first 
 you draft a team, play through the qualifying rounds and only then enter the Tournament proper. 
 Here you can challenge other team leaders to 1on1 matches for money or challenge a team for one 
 of their players. It is fun and becomes very challenging towards the end so be sure to check it 
 out before going online, it makes for good training. But yes, online is where the fun is and there 
 are tons of servers out there so don't worry about not finding what you want. There is also an 
 Instant Action mode if you just want to jump into some offline action.
  
  The first time you will run Unreal Tournament 2004 you will certainly notice the huge amount of 
 content this game offers. But you can find a lot more by checking out the various community web 
 sites: total conversion mods, tons of new maps, mutators and new weapons are all available to you, 
 for free! Needless to say UT2004 is one of those games you will not uninstall very soon, it deserves 
 a perfect 10 when it comes to value.
  
  There are tons of other stuff to cover, the game is just huge! But I'll end it here by saying this: 
 do not hesitate to purchase UT2004, it is worth a lot more than you're paying for it, trust me 
 on this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candyblader
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 24, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The first Unreal Tournament evolved the online frag-fest genre. A few years later it attempted 
 to do it again with Unreal Tournament 2003. Although it was a failure, the game itself wasn't that 
 bad, but could have been much better. And now, the Unreal Tournament series is back with a bang 
 with 2004. I played the demo of this game for no less than 3 hours a day for nearly 3 weeks straight, 
 and I was amazed at just how good it was. The graphics are great, but the gameplay is enough to 
 get your adrenaline pumping. After I managed to get myself un-glued from the demo, I went to the 
 store and grabbed this off the shelves, not stopping to look at the price. I am simply blown away. 
 Assault has returned (being absent from 2003) and is better than ever. The new Onslaught mode, 
 with it's vehicular combat is extremely fun and will leave you wanting more, again and again and 
 again! I have never played such a fun game. This is what Unreal Tournament 2003 should have been. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 claims the throne of being the best fastpaced FPS shooter up to date, its 
 good graphics, huge amount of maps and choice of gamemodes you can choose from makes it better 
 then all the other games from the Unreal serie.
  
  In the year 2362, 12 groups of high-expierenced soldiers take it up in eachother in the most highly 
 anticipated tournament this year, you will resemble one player on a class and take it up with you're 
 team against other teams, finally getting to somewhat the most chaotic battle ever.
  
  Gameplay:
  The UT series always has been known to be the best multiplayer game ever, being part 
 of that is the simple gameplay, mixed with techniques like weapon combo's and doublejump/dodgejumping 
 makes it a game of skill, handling vehicles isn't hard and is fun, flanking people with firing 
 dozens of missles never gets old!
  
  The game provided a good deal of weapons, returning old favorites like the minigun, rocketlauncher, 
 flakcannon and shieldgun, a few other guns that have been added are the Redeemer, sniper rifle 
 and lightning gun, also the vehicle destroying AVRiL and Spidermines.
  
  Graphics: The games graphics are good, bodies fly around wonderfully after getting hit with a flakcannon 
 or rocketlauncher, the game gives maximum support to Onslaught mode, which is a huge battle area 
 mixed with the chaos of destructive vehicles, these maps offer highrange dynamics, the graphics 
 are top-notch, but not as good as the graphics from games like Half-life 2 and Far cry, but still 
 do a great job for a multiplayer game and which keeps you're computer from stuttering.
  
  AI:
  You are able to give you're bot-opponents somewhat ability, such as giving it a percent 
 in aggresiveness, aiming, speed, or you'll be able to give them a typical skill like Godlike or 
 Novice.
  
  In single player tho, opponents start as novices but build up to Godmode.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Its the best multiplayer I've ever played up to date (with as runner up CS: S) , 
 the gamemodes are great and the onslaught mode is just fantastic, the game is chaotic and seeing 
 body's fly around constantly, and seeing vehicles explode on impacts at high speed, followed by 
 the terrific announcer screaming something out classic like 'HEADSHOT' and 'DOUBLE KILL', or even 
 better yet: 'COMBO WHORE'.
  
  Good FPS:
  If you don't like FPS, I should advice you to download the demo and see it yourself, if you are 
 a true online player, then you are ORDERED to buy this game right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyFrost
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 18, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately the multiplayer community is fairly small as only the best can hang and enjoy themselves. 
 If you plan on playing this game be prepared to put in the time and get owned for atleast a year 
 or so before you get the hang of it.
  
  Once you do reach the competative level, it is easy some of the best teamwork action you will experience 
 playing UT2k4 CTF.
  
  If you need help in regards to getting into the community, feel free to reach me on #enterthegame 
 in the following channels:
  
  #2k4ctf
  #2k4tdm
  #fragology
  
  I go by Jimmy, sinatra, SinatRAWR
  
  If you want a glimpse of the community, LURK at www. prounreal. com 
 and www. unrealness. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreakShow11
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  always has you comeing back. Its one of the best multiplayer games to date. There are so many good 
 maps and game types that even if you get tired of one place or one gametype you have many more 
 to choose from. I have been playing since day one and even if you stop playing for awhile something 
 will always bring you back. This game can be a great multiplayer for anyone for along time and 
 will provide a lot of replay value for whoever plays it. If you are looking for a fun shooter that 
 can eat up a little of your spare time i would say give Unreal tournament 2004 a shot i think you 
 will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Unreal...2 The Awakening was a very good game and back then in 2004 Unreal Tournament ruled over 
 the multiplayer section of gaming.
  It had what to be proud about.
  
  THE TOURNAMENT
  The story starts with the coming of the Unreal Tournament hosted by the Liandri Corp. You are one 
 individual who wishes to make it there. You gather a team and go and kill everyone who stands in 
 your way.
  But this is the singleplayer mode and the real fun comes in multiplayer.
  
  THE GAME
  The graphics were very good at that time but still it could have been better. The sound 
 is pretty good and helps for the futuristic atmosphere.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY
  As I said at the beggining the singleplayer campaign is The Tournament.
  The multiplayer is extremelly 
 good and keeps you on the action. There are a lot of game modes varrying from the classic Deathmatch 
 to the new Onslaught mode. Anyway it must be played. Different combos add to the variety of things 
 you can do. Vehicles are present as well.
  The fans have been generous and have made a lot of mods for it and now when Battlefield 2 is out 
 people still play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The first Unreal Tournament evolved the online frag-fest genre. A few years later it attempted 
 to do it again with Unreal Tournament 2003. Although it was a failure, the game itself wasn't that 
 bad, but could have been much better. And now, the Unreal Tournament series is back with a bang 
 with 2004. I played the demo of this game for no less than 3 hours a day for nearly 3 weeks straight, 
 and I was amazed at just how good it was. The graphics are great, but the gameplay is enough to 
 get your adrenaline pumping. After I managed to get myself un-glued from the demo, I went to the 
 store and grabbed this off the shelves, not stopping to look at the price. I am simply blown away. 
 Assault has returned (being absent from 2003) and is better than ever. The new Onslaught mode, 
 with it's vehicular combat is extremely fun and will leave you wanting more, again and again and 
 again! I have never played such a fun game. This is what Unreal Tournament 2003 should have been. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Dark_Knight_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of games but something about Unreal Tournament 2004 has brought be back year 
 after year.
  
  UT 2004 is a dream come to for anyone who wants some quick multi-player action whether you play 
 against AI or online. The online community is one very big part of this game and is still alive 
 and kicking today, Not to mention the Mod community. If you ever get board of UT (are you crazy?) , 
 then head over to the many websites all around the web and you can find hundreds of anything, from 
 little gameplay tweaks to total conversions. Cant find what you want? Don't worry because you can 
 make it! Epic has added something for the game designer in all of us, a powerful map making program, 
 UnrealED. But who could get bored of this game?! With all the game types and maps Unreal 2004 offers 
 alot of dynamic gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Imagine a First-Person Shooter game with a lot of well-made maps, weapons, nice graphics, great 
 multiplayer, amazing music and sounds... it's definitely Unreal Tournament 2004 that we're talking 
 about.
  
  There isn't a story in UT2004, only a simple context. You, as a competitor in the tournament, will 
 have to qualify yourself to enter in the arena. To prove you're worth, the first step is to face 
 some newcomers in the tournament in deathmatch challenges. Once you beat them, you'll need to recruit 
 a team and defeat you own allies to prove that you're a good leader. Then you'll enter the tournament, 
 and face some well-known goons like Xan Kriegor, from the classic Unreal Tournament, and the Skaarj 
 aliens, from the original Unreal and Unreal II: The Awakening. There are a lot of game modes in 
 the career mode, and you'll have to beat all the maps from each one to finish UT2004. All the modes 
 that the player will face in the career need a team, except at the init game, when the player will 
 face free-for-all and team deathmatches. It's important to notice that in UT2004 there are only 
 players, some controlled by a human and others by the AI (AKA bots) . It means that your enemy acts 
 like you: they catch weapons, do commands to their allies, jump, crouch etc.
  
  The game modes are: 1. Capture the Flag (CTF) , which the player needs to capture the enemy flag 
 and bring it to his home base; 2. Assault, the one that the player needs to attack an objective 
 while the opposing team defends it. If the attacker wins, the sides are switched. It's also possible 
 to use vehicles in Assault in some maps; 3. Double Domination, where you and your team needs to 
 hold both domination points. Then a countdown starts and if your team keeps both the points until 
 the time ends, your team scores a point; 4. Onslaught: Probably the favorite mode by the fans. 
 The player needs to capture adjacent nodes until reaching the opposite main node. The one to captures 
 it first wins the match. There're a lot of vehicles, ships and towers to control, all of them very 
 well designed and fun to use; 5. Deathmatch / Team Deathmatch: I like these for most, especially 
 Free-For-All games. The player only needs to kill another player (or AI controlled player) . The 
 one that score more points, win. Simple, fast and nice; 6. Bombing Run, similar to the American 
 football. You'll need to grab the ball (always in the center of the map) and shoot it to the opposite 
 team's goal. It's also possible to pass the ball to an ally. The one who carries the ball cannot 
 fire with weapons, but will regenerate the health very fast; there are some other game modes, but 
 I'll let you to try them out by yourself.
  
  The gameplay in UT2004 is superb, but not without some minor flaws. The problem is that you'll 
 have some serious headaches to command your bot allies in some maps, especially in Assault over 
 the career mode. It seems that your team is somehow inferior than your opponent, and the player 
 needs to do a hard job to compensate that. It's true that, in career mode, you can recruit better 
 teammates, but this will not solve the problem. Consider this if you're a hardcore player and playing 
 on hard difficulty levels (Masterful or superior) . But this is a minor problem, and doesn't happen 
 always. The gameplay is superb because the fast paced action, weapons, well-balanced battles, power-ups, 
 great maps and multiplayer game. All the weapons have an alt-fire that must be used at certain 
 situations. For example: the Flak Cannon, if you press the primary fire button, fires a torrent 
 of bouncing projectiles that are good to kill opponents at short distances. Otherwise, if the secondary 
 fire button is pressed, the Flack Cannon will fire a concentrated bomb, which can be nice to hit 
 hidden enemies behind walls or trees.
  
  It's possible to "mutate" some game modes before the starting a match. These options are the "mutators", 
 and may be used to make weapons stronger, to jump even higher, to lower the gravity, to speed up 
 the game etc. Some will not affect the gameplay; they only add more fun.
  
  Graphics are OK, although they aren't like Doom 3 or F. E. A. R., but it's extremely well designed. 
 Some effects are really nice, such as explosions, lightings, shadows and water reflection. But 
 trust me, you won't have time to look at the sky and take a breath...
  
  The sound, as in the original Unreal Tournament, is simply perfect. The music is the best thing 
 in UT2004. It never gets boring and it sounds like a gothic rock, really good. Sound effects like 
 explosions, footsteps and bullets are all nice too.
  
  The player will enjoy the plenty of maps in this game. This brings an uneven value to UT2004, as 
 it's possible to replay it a hundred times. The bots not always do the same scripted thing, so 
 you can expect some surprises while playing. But the fun stuff is to play against other human players, 
 for sure.
  
  You can hate this game as much as you can love it. Some players simply dislike multiplayer games 
 -or to play with bots-, but this is personal. If you're really looking to kill some guys over the 
 net, steal a car (just kidding) and buy yourself an UT2004 copy in the nearest store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I can't really put my finger on it but while on paper this game is a amazing online FPS game, when 
 it comes to play it just misses something. Theres not that many people playing online as i would 
 have expected and there never has been, while the game isn't empty.
  
  The balance of the game is all perfect and the weapons are great and the maps are great and so 
 are the modes. I couldn't really fault it. However just feels like theres no soul and it all seems 
 very generic, also ive noticed noone talks while playing and i miss that from other shooters online.
 
  
  It just gets old very quickly and i just stop having fun and don't feel like playing anymore. Where 
 as games like CS are addictive and just have that special something to keep you there.
  
  I can't really fault this game and everythings there, sound, graphics, gameplay etc etc but i just 
 didn't like it.
  
  However it is the best UT to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyskyline08
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  UT 2004 is honestly my favorite 1st person fighting game. I got it when it first came out and still 
 play it. I just now got the net on my own computer so now I play it online which is double the 
 fun. The actual game is fun to play but the online is 10x more fun. It's a place to try out your 
 skills and show others how you get down. I have been playing online now for a week and a day and 
 I love it. This game allows you to pick your character and your team. Your team has qualification 
 rounds and as soon as your team accepts you, you get to play the actual game. There is four different 
 ladders and you must complete them in order to go on to the final qualifications which are quite 
 a challenge. There are many different types of play including: deathmatch, team deathmatch, assault, 
 onslaught, capture the flag, bombing run, and the possibilities are endless on online play. I recommend 
 this game to anyone who has a neck for killing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morfessa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  
  This is not a game you play while sipping tea and chatting with your mates. Unreal Tournament 2004 
 is a furious rip-ride of non-stop violent fun! If you are looking for a first-person shooter that 
 has bundles of features and play-modes, this is for you. New-comers may want to begin with the 
 more forgiving single-player mode before diving into the multi-player. There is definitely a learning 
 curve for new-comers too. In fact, the game was too difficult for me when I first tried the on-line 
 mode. I refused to give up though, and returned again and again for revenge! Onslaught, capture 
 the flag, and team death-match modes are some of my personal favourites. I would gladly have given 
 Unreal Tournament 2004 a '10' in the game-play department if the space-fighter levels weren't so 
 clunky and difficult. This game is really fun to play and quite challenging if you are new to the 
 first-person shooter scene (yes, like me) . While it may at first appear to be repetitive, it isn't 
 overly repetitive, and you just might find yourself relieved to be on a familiar map in those fast-paced 
 deathmatch modes.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  You will enjoy the great graphics, especially those found in the outdoor battlegrounds. Beams of 
 sunlight peak through the clouds, abandoned fortresses crumble in the wastelands, and strange alien 
 jungles glow and sparkle. Very well done for an online game! Good textures provide realism without 
 creating lag for those players with slower or older systems. Player character models are wonderful 
 and there is a vast number to choose from.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Excellent sound in Unreal Tournament 2004 creates an engaging play experience, particularly the 
 music. Weapons and vehicles have fantastic and realistic sound effects, and there are two voice-announcers 
 broadcasting the events and kill-modes. Very professionally done and polished. You'll want to play 
 it loud and with booming bass to get the full impact from the explosions! Five-point-one surround 
 sound, anyone?
  
  Value: 10
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 earns a rock solid '10' in value. Not only does it have very high re-playability, 
 but it is a game that allows you to improve your skill and technique every time you play. Multi-player 
 is quite competitive, so even when you lose, you know your opponent had really worked to earn the 
 win. This game is worth your investment and will provide a lot of entertainment. A must-have!
 
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  Overall, a fabulous game. Unreal Tournament 2004 will keep you coming back for more punishment 
 and glory, just don't forget to breathe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  I must say UT04 builds upon 03 by adding onslaught which more than makes this a worthy sequel.. 
 I loved UT99 and felt as though 03 had something missing but with the release of 04 my need was 
 satisfied at last.. and with the upcoming game I will hold off until I see more value to be had 
 than this UT.. hopefully the new UT will offer even more multiplayer modes.. since this is what 
 we expect from UT.. of course graphics are always welcome.. but sometimes graphical presentations 
 are only that.. and are sometimes used to deter from gameplay.. I DO hope the new UT does not sacrifice 
 what it has already built upon.. Now for the breakdown...
  
  Graphics: still very much great today as it was then.. it has aged darn well over the years..
 
  
  Sound: always excellent.. what UT do you know of doesn't have a great soundtrack? The sound effects 
 are also great with the announcers voice.. Value: perfect.. way more replay value here than in 
 previous UTs..
  
  Tilt: a solid 9 for being a superb game then and now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steano
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has what makes an fps, fun, strategic, an experience like no other, fast paced action, 
 graphics that are still good nowadays, vehicles, the most fun online play, with a hint of storyline, 
 this game is my favorite fps, its what timesplitters tried to be, im not a huge fps fan, yet this 
 game was to fun to leave the keyboard, was playin it an hour before this review actually lol, you 
 customise your team, you have adrenaline (like limit breaks)
  and tons of levels, if you are looking for an action packed fps like no other, i recommened this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is a fantastic game in all regards. It offers so much to the FPS genre, 
 and it is crazy fun to play online as well.
  
  Graphics in this game are excellent (or were spectacular for when the game was released) . Everything 
 is as brutal and bloody looking as it should be. Rockets either set your opponent on fire and flying 
 across the room, or they blow him up into a million little bloody bits... and it all looks great.
 
  
  There are also some nice physics to go along with the game. Ragdoll corpses are beeeeautiful, with 
 limbs flailing around as they go spiraling down into the room below after being blown off a ledge 
 by any number of weapons.
  
  And it is, in fact, the array of weaponry that makes this game so good. Never before have I seen 
 so many different kinds of weapons packed into one FPS.
  You can shred people to bits with your Flak Cannon, or perhaps annihilate them with your Shock 
 Rifle, or even obliterate 12 people with a well placed Redeemer missile. The sheer amount of variety 
 might sound daunting at first, but the weapons just sort of fall into your hands naturally, without 
 really having to stop and think about which one to choose.
  
  Gameplay is fast, furious, and fantastic. The game differs from other FPS because you are so mobile 
 while playing. You can dodge left and right, double jump, and reach unprecedented heights. Because 
 you and your opponents are so fast, your aim will have to be quicker than their feet.
  
  What's more, an awesome soundtrack accompanies the game, usually blaring some epic tracks in the 
 background while you are tearing your enemies to bits. The music varies from some hard rock and 
 roll to some dark, slow tracks, and they all fit their respective levels well. Fighting amongst 
 the roofs of the towering skyscrapers that go beyond the sky will be accompanied by some eerie 
 sounding music that quickly switches to some grandiose theme to go along with the action. It all 
 just seems to work in Unreal Tournament.
  
  The artificial intelligence in the game (we'll just say bots) are very well designed and can have 
 their skill level custom set to match that of the player. They can range from complete n00bz all 
 the way to gods. The beginning bots are very easy, the highest level bots are insanely smart and 
 accurate. Whatever your skill level, there's a bot for you.
  
  Online multiplayer is a step above anything you will find in the single player mode. Your opponents 
 seem even faster, deadlier, and more intelligent than you at nearly all times, forcing you to quickly 
 work your way to their level if you wish to have a chance at anything above 10th place in a deathmatch. 
 It works excellently.
  
  Another thing about Unreal Tournament 2004 is the massive amount of mods that are available for 
 the game. The developers added an inital set of mods, such as the Super Berserk mod that makes 
 all your weapons fire three times as fast and do more damage, and also the Quad Jump mod that lets 
 you jump not once, but four consecutive times in the air.
  There is also a plethora of third party mods awaiting your exploration as well, such as Deathball, 
 a very deadly and fast paced version of soccer, Unreal Tournament style.
  
  I could continue on about many more great things about this game, but then this review would be 
 too long for anyone to read in a single sitting.
  
  Get this game. It will blow your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Krinkle9210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that if you're looking for twitch based shooters then you should buy 
 this game right away. The action is blisteringly fast paced and isn't like anything else you've 
 ever probably played. This is good for some people, including myself, but may be a little too much 
 for some. The game is extremely hard because people have already been playing this game for around 
 three years now and have mastered techniques. The game is however very easy to play because it 
 doesn't require very many buttons to press unlike many PC FPS'. The gameplay in UT2004 is very 
 polished and great. Most of the weapons in the game are really useful and cool. Also you can use 
 vehicles that really make the game varied. One of the most interesting parts about the vehicles 
 is that any ground unit could take them out using their weapons, so the vehicles end up feeling 
 very balanced. The game, as mentioned above, is very fast paced and really great. You can really 
 get in the fight quickly and you never are out for too long if you die. This makes the game feel 
 very easy to get into.
  The graphics are pretty good all around. There are tons of scaling options also to make the game 
 run better or look better on your machine. Overall the game looks pretty good, but could have used 
 a little more polish. The sound is no slouch in the game at all. Every sound is forceful and great. 
 Overall, if you like twitch based shooters, or just shooters in general you're going to find alot 
 to like in UT 2004. From the tons of mods, to the crazy weapons, to the 50+ levels, this is a game 
 not to be missed even three years after its launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Despair666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game excels in mostly all aspects of multi player FPS's. You are probably thinking, why a 
 review now after the game's been out for a while now. Well ive been playing the game until now 
 and enjoying every second of it. We even run the game in my local internet cafe with atleast 20 
 - 30 people playing at a time.
  
  Well onto the quick review. Unreal Tournament 2004 comes with all the maps from Unreal2003 which 
 was also a great game. The game comes with 10 different modes including my favourite, deathmatch. 
 Deathmatch is still the same but it offers the best rush if your looking for a frag fest.
  
  So what is unreal tournament 2004 ? A really good game that improves visually and systematicly. 
 Epic simply took unreal tournament 2003 to the next level and it definitely shows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setsuna_pg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Well, as I reviewed the original UT before, how can I review the sequel OF THE SEQUEL of my favorite 
 game of all time?
  
  First of all, old familiar faces keep this game alive, mainly Brock, Lauren and Malcolm, but a 
 great thing is that I get to see an old nemesis... Xan Kriegor (got I hated him) . While I do admit 
 that the 2004 Malcolm is harder to beat (especially because of the VERY expanded Hyperblast map) , 
 Xan is no cookie either, in harder difficulties this guy will avoid anything you shoot him with 
 until you get the hang of his agility. Storyline gets better and better as we go on, especially 
 since now the Skaarj are available for use as participants of the tourney, the only thing I really 
 do miss, are the Necris, but hey, not everything can be perfect, and 2k7 might bring them back 
 (I hope) .
  
  On to the graphics.
  
  I won't lie, there are certain times when I miss the old poligonal bodies, squirting sprite blood 
 and other elements that made UT99 look like some fun kid game instead of an all-out chaotic frag-fest, 
 but UT2k4 takes the cake at frag-festing... and boy, does it do well at it.
  
  The graphic detail in this game is stunning, as it's not made out of polygons that kill your machine 
 in ram, but textures, it all looks incredible, you can see every last nook and cranny of every 
 wall, and the physic details and movements of characters look much better than before.
  
  The sound is completely perfect, every last song in here will get your adrenaline pumping like 
 mad, and the intense sounds of shots, rockets, explosions, vehicles, taunts, screams of pain, etc, 
 all added with a chaotic fire-fight in mid game and the pumping music makes for a rush that I haven't 
 seen or had in a game before.
  
  And finally, the gameplay, oh yes the gameplay... this game should be perfect in every aspect thanks 
 to the extensive variety of game types, EXCESSIVE amount of weaponry and vehicles, difficulties, 
 and an impressive control in team-oriented battles.
  
  The movement is smooth and every last inch of it can be controlled to perfection.
  
  On to 
 the game modes, first and foremost, the ol' classic Deathmatch, yes it's bloody, it's full of gore, 
 it reeks of dead bodies and is stocked full of painful screams... but damn, killing is fun! And 
 I have a soft spot for cornering someone with a minigun ;D. Domination is now called Double Domination 
 , for those of you that played UT99 and haven't played 2k3 or 2k4, don't get the wrong idea, it's 
 now only 2 points that must be held per map, and they must be held for 10 seconds in order to score 
 a point, in games with lots of players, Double Domination gets incredibly frantic and is probably 
 the game with the most pressure after Assault. Capture The Flag is as fun as ever, and veteran 
 players will rejoice at the FaceClassic map, which brings back great memories. Assault has been 
 revamped and you can now forget the classic mode, this time it's HUGE missions with tons of semi-complicated 
 objectives, plus the tightened defenses in the maps and long runs that one must take, makes Assault 
 seem like a single-player campaign mod with storyline for UT, easily the game where one will feel 
 the most pressure, and most will lose their patience, great mode though, one of my favorites. And 
 then there was Bombing Run, while in multiplayer I find this game more fun than even CTF, it's 
 pretty dull with bots, but anyway, the objective is to RUN LIKE HELL to the ball.. and then RUN 
 LIKE HELL to the opposing base where you'll find the goal, you can shoot the ball through the goal 
 to score 4 points, or run through the goal (which sometimes will cause your death) to score 7, 
 the game ends when the point limit has been reached. Then we have Last Man Standing, which is JUST 
 like the original, no changes at all, everyone will be armed with EVERYTHING and limited lives, 
 every time you die a life is wasted, when you reach 0, you're out of the game. Then there's Invasion 
 (which was a mod called Monster Hunt on UT99) , where you and your team get swarmed by waves of 
 monsters that you must survive, if you die once though, you're out of the game. Then there was 
 Onslaught, an incredible addition to the vast array of game modes found in UT already, both teams 
 start in opposite ends of a VERY large map, the bases are stocked with weapons and vehicles that 
 you use to your delight, the objective of the game is to connect your base via power nodes all 
 the way to the enemy base, with that done, the enemy base core will become exposed and therefore 
 your team being able to destroy it, winning the game.
  
  Whew, that was long... anyway, this game is a must for any FPS fan, and UT fans will definitely 
 not be disappointed, like the original, UT2k4 offers room for mods, maps, skins and the like, making 
 it a very versatile game which can keep you interested for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holland01
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that is just Perfect.
  
  First i talk about the graphics.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics of this game are B-E-A-UTIFULL, if you play this game on graphic detail 
 normal then it is also beautifull. The Charaters and weapons are very Detailed and the Vehicles 
 ( Did i say vehicles) yes there are tanks, hoovercrafts, spaceships, and many more vehicles at 
 your disposal. but that later in this review once again this game is very beautifull
  
  Story: The story of Unreal Tournament stay's the same than in the other games but that is not really 
 a thing to bother about. The point is to kill all the other players in style like Gladiator. You 
 are in a Arena and you must fight your way out that's it and at the end there is the BIG BOSS again 
 XAN but this time it is Xan MK3 :P (why i dunno) the point is to kill him and become the next number 
 one in the unreal championship. You can play with different kind of characters for example, The 
 Skaarj or the Mercanaries etc.
  
  Weapons: There are a lot of weapons to play with in Unreal tournament 2004, The Shockrifle, Link 
 Gun (Plasma Gun) , Sniper, Redeemer etc. but some weapons have new things if you have the rocket 
 launcher and you press secondary fire for a while you can shoot up to 3 rockets ( What!!! 3 rockets?) 
 Yes 3 rockets but if you hold secondary and after it loads his third rocket press normal fir at 
 the same time and you get a beautifull circle of 3 rockets or 2 (isn't that nice) , The Link Gun 
 or Plasma Gun how you want to call it, can heal teammembers in games where you are in a team (DUH!!) . 
 There are also new weapons ( I never played UT2003 so if you read the list of this weapons and 
 know they are also in UT2003, i did't know about that)
  
  The Mine Layer
  Lightning Gun
  AVRiL
  Grenade Launcher Ion Painter
  Sniper Rifle ( he is back =D)
  
  
 Those weapons on that little list are very nice to play with.
  
  New Arena Game (Onslaught)
  
  Onslaught is a game mode that finds it's place on a very huge 
 playground if you can call it that way, with vehicals, weapons, and a lot of places to hide and 
 to ambush so this is Playground For the Big Guys ( Ladies are always welcome to play because they 
 are also very good gamers) . What i was saying at the beginning of this review was that there are 
 vehicles, that gives a very nice twist to the gameplay now you must watch out for the players but 
 also for the spaceships in the air or the tank on the corner of that building or you will blow 
 to..... well you are dead. Onslaught is about that you must take over the Nodes on the map and destroy 
 the Enemy Generator, (WHy a Generator i Dunno) but you can't go to the generator straight away 
 first you must take nodes that are linked too each other then if you have a node under you're control 
 that is linked to the enemy generator you can attack.
  
  But when you attack you can lose a control point that is linked to the generator so you can't attack 
 the generator again first you must take the node back. so the game is going to take a while when 
 you are the winner.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  The Power of this game is the multiplayer (Singel Player is also fun but not that fun) You can 
 go up to 32 players in one arena and blow the sh*t out of each other. the online help of this game 
 is very nice if you don't understadn it visit the website or find it out for yourselve it is up 
 to you.
  
  Good: Everything
  
  Bad: Why do i have to answer this question, WELL NOTHING IS BAD ABOUT THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revord1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  When Halo PC came out, it redefined multi player FPS. When UT 2004 came out, it was brought to 
 a whole new level. The background story is secondary to the awesome graphics, engaging game types, 
 and overall playability and fun running and blowing your opponents into flaming giblets. For FPS 
 fans, this is definitely a must have in your collection. Along with the above benefits, you also 
 have the incredible user created content that is available. From mods to maps, skins, and weapons, 
 there is a little something for everyone. There is the ever present Death match, team death match, 
 and capture the flag gametypes, but what comes in this game that revolutionizes the genre is the 
 Onslaught gametype. The back and forth see saw battles that can be frustratingly difficult even 
 on easier ai modes. The teams battle for nodes, and the team that collects nodes that allow a direct 
 connection to the enemies base get the chance to destroy their shield generator. Once destroyed, 
 the match is over, but the opposing team can recapture nodes that can put a stop very quickly to 
 the would be winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boosj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Gamers that want to buy this game, look no further!
  Dont be fooled by the name, especially the last word '2004'.
  Somehow, Atari made a fantastic 
 action game that is worth the wait, worth the money, and certainly worth the fun!
  The Gameplay may be fast though, it is certainly NOT Battlefield 2142 but it will flash all players 
 into crazed mixed up gamemachines!
  The more than 10 weapons this game has, are 10 weapons of dire killing, goring and blooding!
 
  You certainly should not be fooled by the more than 5 difficulties this game holds, you should 
 always start by the easiest, and then when it gets boring try something harder! Of Course, going 
 in Multiplayer ( where there are real kids there ) would engage you in a rage that would cause 
 you throwing out your computer, of course when you have a new one dont e-mail me for bringing you 
 on the wrong path of games.
  This game isnt actually possible to play it to the end, it hasnt a end, yes i hear the retarded 
 saying : There is a Single-Player mode, it is possible to play it out that is right but in practice, 
 you can always play where and when you want.
  The single player mode is divided in ladder-matches : from easy to the champion teams.
  There 
 should be a button covering : no learning is needed. That button is needed with this game.
  My score: a 9.4!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tirasus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  This installment of Unreal Tournament has no less than you would expect it to have. It's reputation 
 precedes it, and these days the name Unreal Tournament has a lot to live up to. The addition of 
 'Onslaught' mode makes multiplayer incredibly fun and addictive to play, whatever your skill is. 
 The internet does hold some very skilled players which does make newcomers to UT online a little 
 difficult, but even being fragged is still fun none-the-less.
  
  Another thing UT is famous for is its modding community, and its mutators which can create huge 
 amounts of variety and fun if you get bored of playing the normal way. These are just as present 
 and developed on this version as in any other UT.
  
  As a game, the graphics are still good quality even though this review is being written in March 
 2007, and the gameplay quality is just as good as any other FPS if not better. I will be eagerly 
 awaiting the next installment (Unreal Tournament 3 - was Unreal Tournament 2007) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  I have played many online multiplayer shooter games, and this by far is the best one I have ever 
 played even 3 years after its release. I have never played a game that offered so many maps (40 
 or more I think) , and so many different types of online matches to choose from. It has the deathmatch, 
 teamdeathmatch, capture the flag, etc, but also includes unique matches like a type of football 
 match where you can toss a ball to team player with objective to get the ball through a ring at 
 the opponents end of the map. You get 7 points if you can run it through or 3 points for throwing 
 it through the ring. There is also assault where your team has to complete an objective on offense, 
 then you defend the other team from doing it quicker. There are many other unique matches to choose 
 from. The maps are superb. All are very unique. Some will place you in a low gravity map where 
 you can jump really far, but you also hang in the air making you vulnerable to others. I believe 
 Halo 3 is going to copy this feature in their multiplayer. There is a great variety of weapons, 
 and they are all pretty cool. This game also comes with a single player campaign where you work 
 your way up the ladder and recruit your own team to do team battles. You earn points to buy better 
 players, and you need points to heal them from time to time. The AI in the game is the best I have 
 seen. It almost seems as if you are playing against real people online when you play the computer 
 in single player. There are many levels of difficulty so you can choose just the right level of 
 difficulty that is right for you and work your way up. Overall, you can get this game for $10 on 
 amazon if you have never played it. It is definitely worth getting to hold you over until unreal 
 tournament 3. I have played through the single player mode twice and still haven't seen all the 
 maps and weapons available in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkblackshadow
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I dont really like FPS games much, my FPS game experience was limited to very few games: counter 
 strike, half life, and the older UTs. (and of course quake and doom when I was a kid) . But this 
 game is the most addicting GAME Ive ever played.
  
  The are tons of maps to play in that even if you are playing the tournament for the fifth time, 
 youll never get bored. The maps are very detailed and graphics are GREAT. The soundtracks in this 
 game amazing, and I really like it when the announcer says: DOMINATING, GOD LIKE, etc. I actually 
 laughed my head off when I first heard him say: HOLY ****
  
  The assault mod in this game feels like a REAL mission, and is really great. The new mod on-slaught 
 (not sure I spelled it right) is also amazing, the maps ARE so huge that youll be stupid if you 
 walk around, thats what vehicles are for. The bad thing about this game is that most weapons are 
 the same, except that they look better, there are of course, some amazing new ones like the ion 
 painter. And, I dont like the controls, playing with a keyboard and a mouse is not really great, 
 although I havent tried a joystick with UT2004 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  UT2004 is one of my favorite FPS games to play. Online, or with bots. Either way this game has 
 my vote for one of the best UT game. Sound, Gameplay, Controls, everything about this game gets 
 two thumbs up! Every weapon in this game is so cool. If you use a rocket launcher on a guy at up 
 close its just gonna be a blood fest. So if you also like blood in games this is the one for you. 
 This game is also really fun to play while listening to your own music and the people over at Epic 
 Games much have known about this because they put an MP3 player in the game. The sound in this 
 game is just great because there are lots of futuristic guns so they did a very good job making 
 noises for the guns. The gameplay is just out of this world. Who knew it would be the funnest just 
 killing as much as you can? Thats all this game is just shooting till you get tired of shooting 
 something which never really happens. The value of this game for me is pretty high I mean this 
 is a really fun game and you should spend what you can to buy it. This game really reminds me of 
 Battlefield 2 but in my opinion better! I think this is the ultimate LAN game. So in closing if 
 you just wanna kill stuff this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 82ndRmilkman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Unreal tournaments 2004 is one of the best first person PC shooters ever made The fast paced action 
 and the ridiculous selection of guns makes this game what is it
  
  i used to play this game religiously as it is one of the best games ive ever played
  
  single 
 player is good you need to build a team beat that team and then keep winning until u get the to 
 final round which is really annoying
  
  online play is much different then single player most people are really good and if u don't know 
 how to use your double jumps and wall dodges or your advantage your screwed
  
  another great thing is that yo can download new models and skins for your game off the internet 
 but when you play multiplayer only u can see them unless another play has them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is an amazing game because it has an amzing experience fast paced multiplayer 
 it has great visuals and graphics it has a ton of weapons to choose from and this game can make 
 you stay at your computer for many hours late a night all that the only bad part is it is a huge 
 install of 5 disks and you make not like the singleplayer i sure didnt but the mutiplayer made 
 up for that also you really need to have a good pc to run this good and smooth i have an amazing 
 pc but not everyone does it runs smooth on mine and im happy but again many people dont have good 
 pc's that can run good settings. all in all unreal tournament 2004 is an amazing game that if you 
 have a good pc and love fps games you have to pick this game up and add this to your collection 
 this is what every fan from the unreal tournament franchise wants and unreal tournament 2004 delivers 
 the amazing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krio_1000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is the greatest game i have ever spent most of my life playing... I have spent hours 
 and hours on this game purely because of its addictive nature!
  
  Firstly the Gameplay. Vertually God Like! The simplicity of the controls and Internet play, coupled 
 with the excelent playable maps which do nothing short of tribute the previous unreal games. There 
 are no faults to speak of.
  
  Next the Graphics. Now this is the only reason i have rated this game 9.9 and not 10.0. It is not 
 because of the poor graphics in the actual game because there are no problems with the graphics. 
 The reason for the lack of a full rating is because i have seen the graphics from the 2007 version 
 of the game. As the graphics are improved dramatically on that version i have rated this one lower. 
 Now for sound. nothing to say about the sound its excellent and suits the game and its levels/mods 
 of play. Well lets talk about the value of the game.. I can honestly say that this game has prooved 
 its value a million times over! summery:
  
  this game is worth every penny for its excellent gameplay during single and multi (internet) play, 
 and the amazing graphics and sound quality. Therefore this game recieves a very well deserved 9.9! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death31212
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games iv played for a long wile. Its hard to even pick where to start.
 
  
  first its specs
  i have a fairly good computer but this game is compatible enof with crappy computers.
  
  The 
 graphics are actully pretty good. Not gears of war good. But in some maps you will get distracted 
 by how nice all the lighting and textures look you cant help but stare
  
  its one of the most stable games iv ever played. I havent found one bug at all. and all the menues 
 and very easy to use and the mods are easy to set up. not liek in other game like half life, which 
 is a great game, but if a server has a server side mod up, its hard to accesse the stuff you have 
 to go in to the console and bind things ect. NOT in ut2004 its all easy and every thing is explained 
 on teh screen, like wut button press ect.
  
  the controls are perfect. and can of course be cahnged. All the veichles drive well, and arent 
 gonna be all out of control. the online is very easy to get goin on
  
  for ppl who arnt really into online play, dont instantly look the other way at this game. UT2004 
 still has a very well desginged and very stable single player. It starts pretty basic, just playing 
 some death match rounds, but then leads into creating a team from a roster of differnt charaters 
 all with differnt traits and ablitys, and entering a tournament. Now in some games you get a team 
 and it usally sucks, and you can beat the game with out them. Not in ut2004 you'r team is actully 
 really helpfull, you can give them comands, assing them to differnt postions like offence, or support. 
 It makes you feel like you are playing with real ppl in a tournament, your team even communicates 
 with you, telling you about enemies or just to say u suck. When you win a match, you get money, 
 witch you can spend to fix team mates injuryies or new team mates. The ai is pretty intelligent 
 even tho u do still have to play, its unlikely u will win by just standing around. With all the 
 diffent modes to play and unlock, you have hours of game play. Aside from the story mode there 
 is also instant action. If you get the editors choice pack, you get tons of modes of play. I have 
 had this game for over a year and still have not fully played every mode. There is a lot from onslaut, 
 which is where you get a base and so dose the other team of bots and your team works to take over 
 nodes on the feild and eventully destory the otehr teams. You get tons of veichles from tanks to 
 flying raptors you team can jump in some of the vehicles with you which is also fun. THe controls 
 are very even you will never seem stuck and every thing flows so niclely. There is other modes 
 like death match, ctf, assault, which is kinda like a mission mode. In every mode there is tons 
 of guns, some have guns others dont, but its always fun, and with certin movement combos you can 
 excute special power ups or just pick some up. its tons of fun and all by our self
  
  but then of course there is the multiplayer
  its fun LOTS OF FUN! with all the same modes, but 
 now with real ppl and the ablity to use a mic to talk to ppl. Its amazing how well laid out every 
 thing is and easy to use. For example fo the mic option u just hold f to talk, but u can even controll 
 who u are talking to by pressin v you can chose to talk to every one or jsut ur team, or play taunts 
 the same way. use the F keys you can easly see the score board or you personinal stats. And servers 
 can even make there own mods to the modes of play. For example on the invasion mode there is a 
 rpg mod where you get stats to add to ur charater and turn him into some super guy. Or you can 
 download user made mods that are like completly differnt games
  
  this game is tons of fun
  
  i highly recommend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redhead108932
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome graphics are alright for when it came out and they run smooth on my crappy 
 computer. The networking is perfect. I almost get no lag what so ever. So many different skins 
 to chose from to find the one that fits you best. but there are a few drawbacks with this great 
 game.
  
  and here they are, the few bad things about this game
  
  -you feal like your playing against bots the intire time since no one on this game takes advatage 
 of the voice chat feature
  
  -this game is lacking the great moments that makes all other FPS games great but there are a few 
 its just not fun since no one talks accept with the stupid text talk
  
  -Server browser is really lame and boring just like all PC browsers you think they would be better 
 by now
  
  - the vehicles are really lame in this game and are ment to get you from piont A to piont B exept 
 for the tank that is just used for owning which a tank should be ment for.
  
  - weapons are well balenced but only by the fact that this game is way to fast paced
  
  - Game 
 is almost too fast paced but is still really fun
  
  ALL IN ALL don't get me wrong this game is still really great. but just online is not very fun 
 since the fact that no one takes advatage of the mic oportnity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palappan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  After spending countless hours playing unreal tournament GOTY edition and additional mods, ut2004 
 is like 100th times better than GOTY edition, while ut2003 still fades. The return of sniper rifles 
 and assault is just great! The onslaught mode reminds me of few strategy gaming style lke C&amp; C, 
 which is equally great. The very best thing is that it works on low-end machines without additional 
 expensive gpu or ram, but at the cost of space which is not matter of concern. After playing ut2004, 
 I will be looking for additional mod packs for onslaught modes, which is the best mode in ut2004! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footballa27
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  this game is so incredible i cant even explain, i have so many things to say about this game its 
 not even funny. all i can say is that halo is finished. when UT2007 comes out next year most of 
 the online pc community will be on ut2007. i've been playing this game for 2 years straight and 
 still goin. ut2007 will have one of the best graphics and gameplay a pc game could ever deliver. 
 all the maps you can choose from, characters, mods, weapons, it has all da goods. epic is soo awesome 
 with their games, they're all a sucess 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shortyman920
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a one of a kind game. There are other run and gun shooters and other fast paced shooters, 
 but there's just something that sets this game apart from the other. My computer has pretty good 
 specs if you ask me, but it's weakness is the graphics card. It sucks! And I was so surprised when 
 I played this game. I managed to turn everything to the highest and what I saw was a crisp, colorful 
 and smooth performance. The gameplay is intense, and is bound to raise your pulse. You try to do 
 everything as fast as you can. In the midst of battle, you swerve and jump aim at the same time 
 to avoid getting hit and trying to kill your enemy.
  There are new modes now, onslaught and assault. I like Onslaught better than Battlefield 2's control 
 posts and the assault mode is a lovely welcome from the original ut. Deathmatch and capture the 
 flag are classics and they are very fun to play. One of the most exciting moments happen when you 
 go into the enemy base and take their flag. Immediately every enemy within a 100 meters go after 
 you and all your allies rush to help you. You become the center of attention as the enemies all 
 fire at you and you desperately try to claw your way out of there.
  
  The sound is decent, the announcers are nice. It could've been better, but I'm not complaining.
 
  
  There are TONS of maps in this game. All of them are beautifully made and beautifully detailed. 
 Online play is excellent and the offline play is just as good. You can have bots to play with and 
 they are quite intelligent. You can play offline and it's just as exciting as online.
  
  I think this game is best in the series. It has beautiful graphics, cool looking weapons, vehicles, 
 new game types, some of the greatest multiplayer i've ever seen, and more than a 100 maps to satisfy 
 all your first-person shooter needs. Trust me, you won't get dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  No doubt this is a great Fps game to have in your collection, because all that and much more. It 
 may be from 2004 but because of its, great low price of $10 dollars, you can't beat that!
  
  STORY: The game follows the Landri corporations, Tournament, in which you will be a participant 
 in and a bunch of other teammates which you pick yourself and fight, to gain the right to be there 
 captain in this big tournament battle. There are 10 different types of game modes, and you will 
 play in most of those modes in the single player mission, and you can play in all the modes in 
 the Instant Action or you can just play some Multiplayer, but whatever type of mode you could think 
 of is pretty much in this game, because you can put tons of different settings to your game mode. 
 Here are all of them - Deathmatch - the name says it all.
  
  Team Deathmatch - same as deathmatch but with a team (noob)
  
  Capture the Flag - if I have 
 to explain this, you need to go back to kindergrdn
  
  Double Domination - 1 shiny orb in each teams base each must be held under your teams color for 
 10 seconds to win.
  
  Bombing Run 1 shiny orb in usually in the middle of the battlefield, that you must get and either 
 toss in the hoop of the other teams, or jump in the other teams circular hoop.
  
  Last man Standing - rather obvious huh, Invasion - survive the invasion, and thats pretty much 
 it.
  
  Mutant - Just like a deathmatch, but the first person to score a kill is the mutant and becomes 
 very powerful and the other players are teamed up against the mutant. The person that has the lowest 
 score is the bottom feeder and he can kill all other players.
  
  Assault - One team plays defense and the other team plays offense, the Offense has a set of objectives 
 and the defense have to prevent them from completing them.
  
  Onslaught - This is my personal favorite mode - you try to make all the nodes on the battlefield 
 your teams, kind of like connect the dots. And then once they are all your teams, you destroy your 
 enemys main power node.
  
  Well there you go, all 10 modes!
  
  PROS: Over 100 different maps, 10 different modes, theres around 20 weapons and each one has its 
 own secondary fire, bunch of different vehicles, decent graphics even though it was Great for its 
 time, 12 different races and over 50 different characters each with there own abilities, sweet 
 voice work for when your Unstoppable! It cost me only $10 for this! Great game play and selection 
 of settings and stuff for everyone!
  
  CONS: wow this is tough; there are so many settings and so many great things about this game I 
 can't really think of any bad side to this game! OVERALL: this is pretty much an FPS players dream; 
 so many different things are added to this game that, you know it was built for Multilayer mayhem! 
 Plus for the $10 price tag, you can't go wrong here, with a classic game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightjam
Rating: 1.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  this game made a lot of people happy and certainly many.. when i say many i mean MANY they reviews 
 are great and this game proved to be exciting, awesome, fun, cool, just all the things u could 
 say about it. this game had interesting graphical components and the main play was good. many say 
 this game is classical but not everyone has been to sure of that. some people say it was revolutionary 
 and unbelievably well. the sound and other features are well done and the features are cool and 
 fun to try out.
  this game is probably very popular today too. im sure the next unreal tournaments will be even 
 greater then the past but will never be compared to the other such like games because this game 
 is well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildnine00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Unreal Tournament 2004 is the best first-person shooter thats ever been made. It comes 
 with almost 100 maps, all of which have obviously been expertly created with great care and a clear 
 sense of what gamers like. Aside from the sheer amount of content, UT 04 sets the standard for 
 what a FPS should be. The multiplayer aspect of this game is second to none, and is really what 
 the game is all about. However, the bots available are without a doubt the best that have ever 
 graced a video game. If there is something negative to say about this incredible game, its that 
 the multiplayer play can be a little intimidating, if not completely frustrating at times. Theres 
 just nothing quite like having your stuff handed to you by a group of 13 year olds with hand-eye 
 coordination that borders on supernatural. Other than that Thank you Cliffy B. for making a game 
 that continues to steal hours and days from my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matty647
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant Game. Great Graphics. A must for any gamer. Very addictive, great multiplayer mode and 
 great single player mode over 100 realistic maps, great map types, great weapons, brilliant gore 
 and comes with a copy of unreal ed which is great for making your own maps. Brilliant game one 
 of the beast games there has been. The greatest unreal game to date looking forward to the next 
 installment .Brilliant Game. Great Graphics. A must for any gamer. Very addictive, great multiplayer 
 mode and great single player mode over 100 realistic maps, great map types, great weapons, brilliant 
 gore and comes with a copy of unreal ed which is great for making your own maps. Brilliant game 
 one of the beast games there has been. The greatest unreal game to date looking forward to the 
 next installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllH3llbroklose
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is a FPS out on the PC (with the exception of the other few games on the 
 xbox) .
  
  First off, the single player:
  
  Wow, I must say that I really enjoyed the single player in UT04. The instant action is incredible 
 fun and enjoyable. There, you can learn the basics of the game so that when you start going onto 
 multiplayer servers, you arent totally confused.
  
  The whole single player scheme..... eh... Its alright. You progress up and make your own team. To 
 me, its nothing special. I'd rather play instant action if I were you.
  
  The difficulty levels can vary, which in this case is a good thing. Many people can start at the 
 lowest level, and progress upward.
  
  The looks of these games are very good. You dont need a godlike system to play UT04, and if you 
 do have one, you can tweak the graphic settings higher to make the game look sharper.
  
  The multiplayer isnt bad at all either. Theres always someone playing on diffrent servers, so you 
 will most likley always find a game to join. There are many diffrent game modes such as bombing 
 run, assualt, and the traditional TDM and DM. In the long run, you get a good multiplayer experience 
 with this game.
  
  Overall, this game is based on the opinion of YOU, and only YOU. The gameplay is good, and nothing 
 less. Multiplayer can add on to your experience, offering diffrent gamemodes and meeting diffrent 
 skill-leveled players. Gets a good grade in my book. 8.8 - great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  this game is good but there is only one good reason to get it and that is for trhe multiplayer 
 the singleplayer is just awful! u can own those bots any day with teh assault rifle thei sp is 
 soo junk i couldent imagine but the mp makes up for all of its trouble
  
  PROS
  -Great multiplayer
  -great engine
  -good graphics and charater modles
  -and the maps and 
 mods keep the game fresh for a long time
  
  Cons
  -REALLY bad Singleplayer
  -Hetic gameplay (for those getting into pc gaming u need pretty good reflexes)
  -story is bad 
 (its just like the unreal championship story)
  -over all dont git it just for singleplayer *ONLY GET FOR MULTIPLAYER!!!!!!!!* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andru183
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  Unreal tournament 2004 boasts some the the most dramtic game play and idea from the huge wide spaced 
 levels of onslaught to the team dependent assault runs. The designers have made the idea of nodes 
 and expansion of levels the most inviting features of the game with vehicles actually required 
 to get around the maps! Fantastic! Such vertisel downloads making this the game to completely customize 
 players to the point of happiness, also such an online community, hosting so many servers and player 
 with the sole intension to just kill and be done with it.
  If you liked unreal tournament you'll love this, if you've never played stop wasting your life 
 for the love of god and just get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H4xlike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard they were making a UT04, I wasn't expecting much but basically UT03 with a few 
 extra maps. However i was wrong. This game takes everything wrong with UT03, and improves on it, 
 while adding new and fun features along the way. Playing the SP for a few hours, i quickly realized 
 theres nothing there. No story, no different charactors or game play, not even really cut scenes, 
 except maybe one or two. This is the one and only thing not down to perfection. I have faith that 
 Epic really could make a great SP game if they tried, and i feel with the guns, monsters, world, 
 and different races, they could. But they don't, and its not what UT04 is about.
  
  So what is UT04 all about? Well, its about getting really mad at the game for the first month or 
 two you have it, and carpel tunnel. There is such a steep learning curve, and you have to deal 
 with people that have been playing it for 6 years! This is truly a unique game that takes a unique 
 skill. Aiming is incredible hard, and you'll find yourself relying on spam for along time. But, 
 once you get good at the game, you get good at it. Nothing is more satisfying in any game, then 
 getting the Most Headshots awards, or pulling off some awesome moving combos. Yet to get there, 
 you need to spend months, nay, years at it. This isn't your casual play 5 hours a week, this is 
 your main game. You will basically have to play this game only, non-stop, for 1-2 months AT LEAST, 
 in order to just compete! However, its well worth it. Maps are plentiful, you will NEVER play them 
 all. Game modes are all fun, however, lack of a community can mean many modes only have a few servers, 
 and are rarely ever full. Vehicles are great, and I've never seen a game that could do closed, 
 tight DM combat so well, but have enormous maps and fast moving vehicles at the same time. The 
 one and only thing that kills this game, is what makes its so great. Its competitive nature. As 
 I previously said, you need a good 2 months to get truly competitive, which is a big turnoff for 
 a lot of people, including me. I played for 2 weeks, got destroyed every single game I played, 
 so I stopped playing it, and then picked it up a year later, stuck with it (mainly because my friend 
 got me into it and gave me tips) , and actually got good! However, a 4-5 months of Counter-Strike 
 non-stop has drained my skills. This difficulty leads to a really small, hardcore community. If 
 you were trying to play now, you would be lucky to get a kill. Its that hard. That turns people 
 away, so it has a small community. Score:
  Gameplay: 10
  Fast paced, intense, nothing else like it. Lots of guns, vehicles, modes, just so perfect.
  Graphics:9
 
  They look ok. They are very scalable, so scalable that it will run on just about anyones machine. 
 Will look good if you can max it out, however there is better looking games out there.
  Sound:9
  Good sound. Has a nice mix of music while your playing, and the sound effects are good. 
 Lets you put your own sound track, voice chat support, and probably the best feature in the game, 
 TEXT TO SPEECH, GOTY there. Value:9
  Only got the 9 because lack of SP. If you don't play SP games to begin with, its your game. If 
 you like SP games, it might not be worth 50$ to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie_killer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is the fourth installment in the UT series. UT 2004 takes some of the features 
 from the original UT that was released in 1999. It takes classics element like the Assault mode. 
 Yes you read right the Assault mode returns and are redesinged for UT2004. Some people even bought 
 the first UT for only one map: AS-Overlord. In UT2004 they are totally 6 Assault maps and everyone 
 are great. The Assault map you most like is AS-Mothership. Never before UT fans got the chance 
 to ride space fighters and fight in deep space combat. The setup for this map unique. Both the 
 attackers and defenders start in the hangar with a bounce of space fighters. The attackers have 
 the goal to desroy serveval parts of the ship and then board the mothership and place a bomb and 
 get out of there. Everything is just perfect with it. The following Assault map names is: AS-RobotFactory 
 AS-Glacier AS-Junkyard AS-Convoy AS-Fallen City.
  One other thing thats likely with the original UT is that the sniper rifle returns and come to 
 hand very often in the assault gametype. Not just only the Space Fighters are veichiles (forgot 
 the spelling) here. The new gametype it also Onslaught. The news arent really the gametype thats 
 the veichiles. Onslaught takes place in wide open out door battefields. The rules is simple: the 
 maps are placed with things called powernodes and those needs to be taken. You can link powernodes 
 with your link gun. Why do you need to take powernodes? that because both teams have a power core 
 with a shield around it. And it can only disabled buy taking power nodes. The powernodes link to 
 the teams power core. And when a team captured all the powernodes. The opposing power cores shield 
 is disabled. Then the team got a great chance to destroy the enemy power core. So UT2004 offers 
 a bounce of new extra loaded features. And is the best looking game ever made. Both botplay and 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I first played Unreal Tournament 2004 at my friend's house, and it seemed pretty fun. That's when 
 I decided to get my own copy. Unreal Tournament 2004 has kept me busy recently, not only because 
 of it's fun but because of its complexity. Gameplay: 9/10
  Like many first person shooters, UT 2004 is very fast paced and life is short. The gameplay would 
 have gotten a 10, but the lack of a radar and map in most gameplay modes really sucks. Also, the 
 map is very rudimentary and has no blips describing where your teammates are. Graphics: 10/10
 
  Graphics are pretty good. Runs very smoothly on my machine and looks good. The grass actually 
 pops out of the ground and the weapons/vehicles are very nicely modeled. The characters look a 
 little too strange though. Sound: 9/10
  The ambient sound is too loud and people's weapon sounds/footsteps are too soft. I use this a lot 
 so that kinda dissapointed me. Value: 10/10
  UT 2004 will keep you playing for weeks to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImpaledDecade
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  UT2004 ranks up with Day Of Defeat 1.6 if you ask me. I love this game, theres nothing really wrong 
 with it. It takes what UT offered best, took out what made UT2003 suck, and tossed in some extra 
 goodies to make sure this game would rock your face off.
  
  Gameplay: Single player can be REALLY easy or SUPER hard depending on the INSANELY AWESOME AI programmed 
 into this game. The AI is just astounding, in truth, can't really say more.
  
  Graphics: I play this game with all the options maxed in 1280x1024, thus, it looks great. The effects 
 are pure extasy, and the textures are well done for a purely fragged based game.
  
  Sound: Nothings wrong with any of the sounds... the sexy voice is rather funny though.
  
  Value: 
 Heh... BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspgames9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 will remind you how satisfying explosive, extremely fast action gaming can 
 be. The smooth engine and core gameplay inherited from UT 2003 make a great foundation, and the 
 onslaught and assault modes take the whole package up another notch. And, to help you come to grips 
 with a multiplayer world increasingly focused on teamplay, the voice chat features can make any 
 team game better by facilitating real tactical coordination. Then, just when (or if) you start 
 to tire of all the official maps (and combinations of maps with the library of preset mutators) , 
 there are community tools to make creating and installing custom content as straightforward as 
 possible. No other multiplayer-focused action game has this much to offer. Wonderfull shooter, 
 very action packed! Rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, the amount of joy you get out of this game online is immense. It's fun, it's original, 
 it's beautiful, it's vast, it's expansive and it's easy to get into. What more do you need from 
 a multiplayer blast em up? Well... A decent single player storyline wouldnt have gone a miss. UT2004's 
 campaign is basically playing online, but fighting bots instead of players. We all know that this 
 gets boring pretty quick... Also, for all the CS die-hards out there, this might not be your bag. 
 The gameplay is unrealistic and extremely fast-paced, not tactical and unforgiving like CS. I'm 
 a fan of both games so dont let this put you off. UT2004 is a real achievement and any body who 
 loves their online shooters needs to pick this up right away and join in on the fragging fun.
 
  
  The Good - Nice graphics - Fast, brutal gameplay - Multiplayer is ace
  
  The Bad - Single player may aswell not be included - Not to everyones tastes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaVILiOn_010
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9
  Usually, PC games have great graphics now. This game is different though. On PC games, the graphics 
 can sometimes be great, but not very detailed. UT2004, however, has such fine-tuned graphics that 
 you can see even the slightest bends in a car's exterior.
  
  Gameplay: 10!!!!
  This is the one multiplayer-based game that you can play for 3 days straight and still not get 
 bored. It's just fun. In Scorpions (kinda like Jeeps) if you have your blades out and hit something, 
 even a car or ship, the blade will break off. That's the first time I've seen a game's vehicle 
 play so realistically. Sound: 9
  The Unreal Tournament games have always been pretty good with sound. The guns sound very realistic, 
 even for future weapons. The vehicles all sound like present day trucks and the ships even sound 
 great. The music is also pretty good. But the only thing is the groans and moans get annoying after 
 a while.
  
  So overall, I think this game should hold people over until UT2007 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcticadvance
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is the first time Epic Games gas been on top form since UT99. Unreal Tournament 
 2004 is a fast paced first person shooter that can appeal to many. It's not as slow as battlefield 
 and not as irritating as joint ops. It combines the elements of all previous unreal tournament 
 games and gives them a restoration, and with the addition of vehicles the gameplay has become more 
 destructive. The game will last you years, not just because of the extensive amount of content 
 the game has, but because the user created maps and objects will keep coming. Indeed, in some cases 
 their are entire servers dedicated to user created racing maps. I'm running out of inspiration 
 for what to say so, just read the full review like everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano-The-Dino
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I got this game after finding out its the latest UT game that will run on my **** PC. It was definetely 
 worth the try. With an amazingly fast pace of gameplay, and stunning graphics to go with it, this 
 is truly a godlike FPS. With all the original modes of UT99 that made that game truly brilliant, 
 and even more fun modes on top, I will never get bored of this game, and neither will any other 
 true FPS player. Firstly, the classic modes. Deathmatch, Capture The Flag, Assault, Last Man Standing 
 and Domination are all here. Dominations rules have been changed slightly, and the game now also 
 includes Bombing Run, which I like to think of as rugby with guns, there's new modes like Mutant, 
 Invasion, and Onslaught. Onslaught is basically a command-point kind of mode. Both teams battle 
 out for certain command points all over the map. When all are controlled by one team, the other 
 teams base is opened, allowing the dominant team to get in there, and eventually win. There are 
 also some new mutators, and some old classic ones, like the old favourite, Instagib, which can 
 turn any normal boring game mode into a miraculous bloodshed. And with Zoom Instagib, camping never 
 was this fun. Overall, UT2K4 is undoubtably one of my favourite FPS' EVER. End of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vlad01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best multiplayer shooting games ever. Up to 32 players on one map, going had 
 to had; some fights can get so intensely insane. I played some times for so many hours I can't 
 get bored, multiplayer is so good. Graphic over all no that great, but when you play good multiplayer 
 game you forget about it. Maps are great, there always some new ones for each type of game. Good 
 characters good selection weapons. For my opinion two of the best modes for this game are Assault 
 and Onslaught. Teamwork plays a huge role in these modes. Some assault missions can get really 
 intense. UT 2007 should be great too. I can't wait to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Man, I think the game is really great!!! It is amazing.... It has excelent choice of characters, 
 good voices, taunts, even taunt animations... The graphics... It is very good, but I can't say I 
 haven't seen better, but it is good enough! The gameplay is the best! I play it whole day, and 
 I cannot get bored. I just love getting better and better in this game. The producers of this game 
 have done a fantastic job. As the matter of fact, it is one of the greatest multiplayer games i've 
 ever played, and I have played a lot of them, so trust me... I can't wait for UT 2007... Hope it's 
 good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_Thorn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin UT2004 is one of the best games that I have ever played. The game play is superb. 
 If you like lots of action that is never exactly the same, and you want a FPS that you wont get 
 bored with so easily, UT2004 is your game. Few games match it in any category. The only reason 
 Graphics and sound are 9s instead of 10s is that I have seen (or heard) better in other games of 
 the time. As for value, this game was worth what I paid for it even though I cant enjoy the multiplayer. 
 The learning curve is also good, though it varies a bit from person to person. If you are new to 
 First person shooters, for example, it would take a bit longer than if you play a lot of this type 
 of game. In fact, an expert who modifies his controls at the beginning could find him or her self 
 doing very well in a matter of minutes. The difficulty also varies, which allows you to start off 
 easy, and increase the difficulty as you get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  There has never been a FPS... let alone any game, with more fun multiplayer
  
  CTF is flawles in this game, you can play with friends for hours and wont get bored
  
  DD is 
 tricky, unless you have good friends or bots, because controlling both bases is a bit on the hard 
 side
  
  Even the single player is good, better than most FPS games
  
  Gameplay is a total blast
  Sound is really crisp and nice
  Graphics aren't that much better 
 than UT03... but who cares
  
  Overall if you are a fan of FPS get this game, it is dirt cheap, it might be a little tricky to 
 find in store, but if you find it get it, you wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_con
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok, You really can't go wrong when you are using an engine that has been quite successful in the 
 multiplayer arena. This is just an update to Tourney 2003. Same characters (a few new ones, pretty 
 cool) a couple of new maps. A new Assault mode. Not too keen on that, but at least you have vehicle 
 manipulation on that level. I the vehicles were added onto ALL levels of the Tournament gameplay, 
 that would be great.
  
  Great Weapon, Character, and Map Overhaul. I can't wait for 2007 to be released. This game is great 
 for Multiplayer Bloodfests. Enjoy your Tourney Update game. Just enough gameplay to hold you over 
 until the 2007 release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_copycat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. The bots are pretty smart for this kind of game. I dont think alot 
 of companys can do things like this and to have it come from an old skool company like Atari makes 
 it even better. But being the 4th installment in the seris I guess the excitment has died down 
 a bit. I don have the originols so yes I can do some comparing.
  from the first ut this is a huge impovement new game types and new weapons and even vecheals. then 
 come ut2k3 there is not much difference the only things r new vecheals new weapons new maps and 
 updated mulitplayer.
  
  but unless your doing online multiplayer the game is basically just a run shoot run shoot run shoot 
 run shoot die and repeat game.
  The bots are extremely blind on a low and easy mode ,to strategy and it often seems like there 
 being run by some whos just trying to flat out annoy you. Oh and if you have slow internet and 
 are really not going to like the internet bit it can take ages to load so servres ecpically if 
 its for the first time. Its survival of the fittist online if youve got the fastest internet your 
 going to be winning just because the others have lag. Also the storyline is really just the same 
 as 2k3 but insed ur just trying to keep ur title . well the story line mode is basically full of 
 making a team and qualifying. Then you do ladders. You will often get frustrated as there as plenty 
 of games to be played.
  
  but over all the game is still abrillent game and it can keep u amused for hours but if u play 
 it for to long it can get boring so i would only play it 1 hour at a time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yowko
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  I remember long time ago, my mom bought me the 1st Unreal, I mean the first original Unreal.
  Om the first second i started playing i knew it's the begining of a love story. The great graphics, 
 the awesome gameplay and the colorful enviroments, that comes with First-Person action. makes ultimate 
 FPS gaming experience.
  
  Long time after that, I desided that i want more. That's how i bought Unreal Tournament 2004, that 
 changed my life forever.
  I was pretty shocked when i started playing it. I never imagined how perfect any game could have 
 been, but this game did the job.
  I sitted hours next to the computer, playing, amazed. I was connected to the game.
  The gameplay 
 is simpley amazing. the light movements, the moving tricks, the jumps, the fantastic sound effects 
 around me.
  All the 14 weapons are made with perfect accuracy and make their job perfectly.
  So many things 
 to shoot with, move with, fly with, jump with.. All the 10 (!!) game modes, -including Assault which 
 is absolut challenging new experiance-, that comes in SOOO many different amazing and colorful 
 gaming enviroments,
  And all the different charectars you can play with, makes this game the best Sci-Fi FPS gaming 
 iv'e ever experienced at. If you love first person great action game, and if you dont, you MUST 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks I grabbed at Best Buy the very first day it came out and guess what I didn't stop 
 playing for several months, I couldn't stop playing it. Heres what I say about the Game:
  
  Tournament Mode: Never gets dull keep playing and unlock every Secret Character.
  
  Instant 
 Action: If you don't want to play Story Play instant action and download maps for the game so you 
 will spend hours on it.
  
  Mulitplayer: This is the star part of the game it's so easy to find a server.
  
  Guns: Awsome 
 guns
  
  Vehicles: All unique
  
  Onslaught: Best Gametype
  
  Assualt: Another Great gametype
  
  Characters: All the characters look like they want to kick 
 some serious ass!
  
  Maps: some many to choose from
  
  Overall: This game hit a serious home run, it is truely a great game and it never gets boring so 
 keep playing until you unlock all secret characters, until you find your favorite map and gun, 
 until you kick ass on Multiplayer!
  I gave this game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfire42
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Started to play this game years ago, and I just bought it and started up again. OMG, I forgot how 
 addicting it was, and how great a game it was. All FPS fans should seriously play this game at 
 least once. It's like Doom, a huge, fast frag fest that you can't help but saying in the end, Lets 
 do it again. No skill involved in learning the game, so it's a good starting game for people who 
 are new to FPS's, and fun for the hard core veterens of SC; Source and the Halo series. Be sure 
 to update the game before playing, because the patches have allot to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFWorm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  There really doesn't need to be an essay on what this game holds. In fact, reading one without 
 owning the game is really unfair. So, if you don't have this game yet, just take my word for it 
 and buy it! Otherwise, stop reading so you won't know what you're missing. EPIC has got a formula 
 for perfection when it comes to fps for multi-player or single player (pseudo-multi-player) . Everything 
 is balanced in the game. With the focus being on teamwork, no one can just Pwn the field with a 
 certain weapon or vehicle. The control is so free and controled. It is difficult to jump or dodge 
 and miss the mark. The maps and missions are very well laid out to allow for nonstop action. The 
 new game-plays are awesome, especially the favorite Onslaught, which teams are pitted against each 
 other to capture and hold strategic points in order to attack and destroy the enemy power core. 
 There isn't anything in the game that is not entertaining. The announcer keeps the game sporty. 
 And the vehicular manslaughter is especially a nice touch. When you die, you pick a base to spawn 
 at to get to the fight quickly. When one game mode becomes tiresome, the next move is to keep switching 
 between the different modes. And if all have been played, then the player needs to become the developer 
 and use the Unreal Editor to create their own games, game modes or mods.
  
  The game runs very well on most machines. So, a relatively new pc should play it fine with the 
 graphic controls modified to the system. It feels like a waste of time talking about how great 
 this game is, since if you have it, you'd stop reading this and start playing remembering yourself 
 how much fun you'd have. And those of you who don't have the game, I won't rub it in your face 
 any longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is the most fast-paced multiplayer shooter on the market to this date. The controls 
 are simple, yet you can do so many things. The bots are amazing, and are great fun to play with. 
 You cna make them borderline retarded, or unhumanlike. Of course this game is multiplayer focused, 
 but it offers great practice. All of the weapons have there advantages and disadvantages, which 
 makes for a small bit of strategy... not a lot though. Most of the game is jumping around like crazy 
 and firing rocket at the ground near your enemies, and thats a very good thing.
  
  Graphics:
  I still think that the graphics are some of the best I've seen in a while, and thats 
 saying something since the game was made 2 and a half years ago. The textures on the ground, people, 
 and vehicles is quite impressive. The lighting bounces off the weapins perfectly, and it makes 
 for quite a fun experience.
  
  Sound:
  This game simply sounds amazing. With a 5.1 surround setup, it is the best sounding game I've played. 
 If you have a nice subwoofer, all of the guns will actually have a more powerful sound, especially 
 the minigun. Value: For less than 50 dollars, you can get 100's of maps, around a dozen game modes, 
 and hours of fraging friends online. If you have the editors choice edition, you will get all of 
 the best mods, featuring red orchestra, and alien swarm. With the editors choice, you will also 
 get a tutorial from the guys at epic, on the map editor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesbox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 14, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is the foundation of all first-person shooters I rekon. The Unreal engine is 
 very easy to use, very stable and it looks good. It's not very power hungry either, I can easily 
 run it on fully settings (holy ****!) my Athlon XP2600+ and ATI Radeon 9800 Pro card with no problems 
 what so ever. It also contains several modes of play which adds variaty to the game.
  
  The ability to expand the game is awesome too, anything from mutators that change the way you move 
 or heal etc. to new levels, weapons or vehicles. You can even download mods that are practically 
 a completely different game altogether, just utilizing the Unreal engine.
  
  Multi-player is always fun with UT, there are always endless servers online. The next unreal will 
 greatly recieved by most. UT is a game that will never die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooemooseman
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  Some people actually think this game is too fast paced and full of action, in my point of view 
 you cant have too much action. This is a total masterpiece and really does get your heart pumping 
 while you play. The game is packed with modes like onslaught where you have to capture node things 
 a bit like star wars battlefront, to modes like deathmatch which is just total carnage. There is 
 a large selection of weapons you can use to blow up pretty much anything and you can even play 
 this first person shooter in 3rd person ( That is only available in some online servers. ) All 
 in all a fascinating game with exellent graphics and you wont want to stop playing when you start 
 getting those head shots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScrtShazzer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Epic should win a prize for this game. With so many adjustible grphic settings, it will play on 
 almost every pc. Heck i could play it with a nvidia vanta LT till more details started coming in. 
 On highest graphics settings it envisions massive detail to most textures. Nothing compared to 
 the game play. the gameplay involves a single player in which you can train and improve your aiming 
 and dodgeing, as well as a MASSIVE multiplayer, in which there are usually over 3000 onlaught games 
 and thoiusands of other ones, like capture the flag. A new game type, invasion and onslaught have 
 also been incorporated into this game, to make it a brilliant game as epic has ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikbenjimi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  
  Most of UT2004 is essentialy the same as UT2003 with better graphics and more weapons. Those of 
 you who bought UT2003 wil be disappointed at the similarity but then again, you do get a 7.50/$10 
 rebate if you owned UT2003, so dont moan.
  
  The real differences start to come in with the new modes: Last man standing, Mutant, Invasion, 
 Assault and finally Onslaught. Last man standing is essentialy deathmatch with limited lives. Mutant 
 is a deathmatch where one person is the mutant, who is invisible and is much stronger/faster. The 
 other players have to kill the mutant in order to get points and to become the mutant. The loser 
 is the bottom feeder who is also allowed to kill other players.
  
  Invasion is where players have to survive rounds where lots of ai-controlled monsters are trying 
 to kill you and your chums. Assault is exactly the same as the original assault in ut, with players 
 taking the roles of attackers and defenders. The attackers have got objectives to complete while 
 the defenders are well, defending the objectives. The addition of some vehicles is welcome, if 
 limited.
  
  I have saved the best for last, ONSLAUGHT. Onslaught is a very complicated yet fun new game mode 
 where two teams have to destroy each others power cores. The only way that you can destroy these 
 cores is if you have a chain of power nodes leading to the opposing base. to capture these nodes, 
 you have to stand near an available node ( i. e one that is linked to your base or by another node) 
 and wait until it has been constructed. You can speed up the construction by shooting it with the 
 alt-fire of your linkgun ( providing that you have one) . You can only attack linked power nodes 
 and cores. An extra bonus for every one is the vehicles. Vehicles spawn at the nodes that your 
 team owns and the power cores themselves. Back to the vehicles. There are 13 controllable vehicles 
 including turrets.
  
  Everyone of the vehicles is unique and balance play. (i. e tanks cannot shoot flying vehicles unless 
 the are in the limited line of sight) The vehicles are: Hellbender (truck with 3 seats: driver, 
 side turret, main turret.) , Scorpian (one seated buggy with laser rope gun that ties people up 
 then slices them apart.) , Manta (one seated hover bike with plasma cannons and the ability to "stomp" 
 on somes head, instantly killing them and the ability to jump) , Goliath (2 seated tank : driver/maingunner 
 and minigunner) , Raptor ( one seated plane with helicopter-style manouvering and two guns : plasma 
 turrets and rockets that lock on to mantas and other raptors) , Leviathan (ultra-tank with 5 seats 
 : driver/main gunner and 5 link turrets, driver alt-fire deploys the leviathan and turns it into 
 a nuclear device) , human and skaarj space ships ( planes with plasma and missiles) and 5 turrets 
 ( link, mothership, ion cannon, minigun and shock) . The weapons are almost the same as last years, 
 with the addition of the avril ( anti vehicle rocket launcher) spider mines (mines that lock onto 
 vehicles) and the grenade launcher ( remote mines. These are welcome additions in the onslaught 
 mode and are very fun to use.
  
  Now the bad points. Firstly, this game is hardly playable with a modem. I live in the uk and in 
 an area that hasnt got broadband, so the multiplayer is very hard for me. Secondly, the maps, although 
 beatiful, are confusing unless you know them through and through. Lastly, the editor is an absolute 
 **** when it comes to making large-scale maps and total conversions. The back of the case says 
 easily create maps, mods, movies and full games. Epic could have least made a tutorial or 2 because 
 most of us dont speak codie language. All in all, this is a fine game that has been denied a top 
 spot just because of a few minor errors. buy this game as it is essential and a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Terrific graphics with high resolution textures and great, steady frame rates. This game will 
 look good even on an older PC with a decent video card and, at the same time, it will play good.
 
  The levels are either massive or small, depending on what type of match you're going for. There's 
 a ton of maps to choose from, most which are from the previous games, so you won't have to familiarize 
 yourself with new places to hide.
  Plenty of weapons and vehicles. Also, all the weapons still have their alternative function, so 
 you can say you get basically double what most games give you.
  You can use 2003 custom models/maps/voice packs. Very cool.
  
  :Bad Idea:
   Graphics didn't 
 change drastically from 2003.
   Not a lot of new weapons.
  
  :Overall:
   If you have a few bucks lying around and you want a really great, solid shooter, Unreal Tournament 
 2004 is definantly the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMPACT_17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  If you ever played Quake 3 Arena and liked it, this game is for you! Only this time, even the single-player 
 is good!
  
  Let's start with graphics... No word can describe how good the graphics were back in 2004. From 
 ragdoll effects, to moving clouds, to modeling and mapping, everything is good. The maps are the 
 best.
  
  The sound is just so crispy and cool. The sound track is very, very good, I don't know why but 
 music makes me play good :) .
  
  SIngle-player is awesome! At first you play deathmatch and 1on1, but then you build your team and 
 start moving on to ladders. The bots are pretty smart. Except sometimes in multi-player, they start 
 to get anoying. I mean in invasion mode, usually anybody who is echo or golf, just hides from monsters, 
 and keep yelling "Man Down" or "I got your back".
  
  Multi-player is extremely good! So many modes to choose from (my favorites are onslaught, invasion, 
 and Instagib ctf) . Multi-player is anyway just like single-player.
  
  Well that ends my review for UT2004. In all, it's a game you must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightningsun
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournament 2004 is in my opinion the best multiplayer game out there! 
  
  Graphics:
  UT2004 still has good graphics after 2 years, so that says alot about it. Also note 
 that your computer can really get a hard time if you set everthing on max.
  
  Gameplay:
  It has a lot of improvments, 5 new gamemodes, a lot of new great maps. Fantastic new mutators. 
 The game is worth every little bit of money you payed to get it, its pure fun. The DM maps alone 
 can be enof to play 150 hrs, and with the new gamemode called onslaught its better than ever. You 
 can also turn on that great UT Classic mutator to play like the UT99 way! The shock rifle feels 
 better than ever and the flak cannon killes as easy as taking out a novice bot with a rocked launcher! 
 The game has a community service so you can download the best maps in a few seconds and you can 
 always record your matches and review them like you where a spectator. The multiplayer is great 
 but there are a lot of players that will make you die alot if its the first time you play it online. 
 The SP bots are better than ever and the maps are have a better feel then in the last UT game! 
 
  
  Conclusion:
  I strongly recommend buying this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Doing a clean-up of the disappointing Unreal Tournament 2003, Atari and Epic have done their job 
 here with the wet mop and bucket... and they did it quite well. Background:
  
  Set in the future, this sci-fi game consists of numerous game-modes, vehicles and weapons to fight 
 out all in one map. Because of the large amount of content found in this multiplayer game, I will 
 refrain from describing them. If you want a detailed look at the background, check out the UT 04 
 page on Wikipedia:
  
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Unreal_Tournament_2004
  
  Gameplay: Tons of modes, which means no repeating gameplay. Once you're tired with one game mode 
 after 50 hours, you'll move on to the next one and eventually settling with one that suits you 
 best. Listing some of them: Deathmatch, Team-Deathmatch, Capture The Flag, Assault, Invasion, and 
 the fan-favorite Onslaught Mode (a Battlefield-type Power Node battle. Each combatant can receive 
 a good amount of weapons to battle it out against the enemy. Teamwork is great for team-based game 
 modes (Assault and Onslaught etc...) Graphics:
  
  Great for it's time (2 years ago) and still excellent enough to play even today.
  
  Sound:
 
  
  Rack up a certain number of kills w/o being killed, and you'll get a announcer saying something 
 about your status. The sounds for the vehicles, background music and voice taunts are all decent.
 
  
  Negatives:
  
  1) Poor single player
  
  Positives:
  
  1) Great multiplay with tons of content. Still the best FPS multiplayer.
  
  Conclusion: UT 
 2004 is still king of FPS online gaming. Just play it without the crappy single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Glitch
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  nothing beats flying over a hill in a jeep and squishing an opponent only to shortly run over another 
 opponent , and hearing the announcer shout DOUBLE KILL as you go on a mad killing spree
  
  this game is very easy to pick up and play, as it has serveral difficulty levels ranging from fairly 
 easy to almost impossible, you also get to choose what you look like as well as being able to download 
 custom models to use when ever you want
  
  the graphics when run in highest detail are very good - useful if you have a high end computer, 
 if you don't there are lots of different graphics levels to help reduce lag on your machine
  
  the game modes are very cool ranging from capture the flag to blowing up a base or escaping 
 with an enemy's tank and up to 32 players (i think) going on line is one of the best things on 
 line. As well as playing all these game modes you can customise them with "mutators" which as they 
 might suggest mutate the game play, you can lower the gravity change weapons and many many more 
 as you can download custom mutators too, as well as maps, most of which turn out to be quite fun 
 if you know what to do on them
  
  i would recommend buying this game as it is fairly cheap now days 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  This game is actually a tournament. I thought this game actually had a story line but i was wrong. 
 Horrible idea.
  Gameplay 4/10
  The multiplay is very unaspired and the single player is like a multiplayer.
  Graphics 9/10
 
  The graphics are great but thats about all that is good. Also the game runs very smoothly on most 
 computers.
  Sound 10/10
  The sound affects are just so great i love how the narrator says"GODLIKE" or anything like that. 
 Counter strike stole those effects:)
  Value 8/10
  This game is pretty old and is pretty cheap. The online mode is just horrible but the single play 
 vs battle is pretty cool because of the mods they offer.
  Reviewre's Tilt 5/10
  I did like this game cause of the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing and runs smooth online.
  The graphics look great and there are lots of multiplay modes.
  The game features modes like 
 assault, onslaught and deathmatch which are really cool modes.
  
  GameplaY:
  +Amazing and very solid
  +Good variety between weapons 
  +Vehicles!!!
  +Lots of modes to 
 play
  Flawless
  
  Graphics:
  +Amazing and the engine runs great when you play the game on a decent computer
  -Not a lot of 
 physics
  
  Sounds:
  +Nice sounds, cool music.
  +Weapons sound good
  
  Value:
  +Excellent value, due to the amount of maps and modes.
  +Huge amount of replayability
  
  
 Variety:
  Great, because of the weapons, vehicles, maps and modes.
  
  Online:
  +Smooth and entertaining.
  +No lag at all.
  
  UT2004 is a great valued game.
  cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sahilpatelbc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Unreal Tournament game. I was so impressed. This to me is the best first person 
 shooter. I love how there missions are just go kill the other team or capture the flag. This is 
 the ultimate multiplayer game. The guns are amazing and out of this world. Graphics are very nice. 
 The sound is nice too. This is a definite buy. If you like this game as much as I did then I bet 
 you cant wait until Unreal Tournament 2007. This is a strait foreword review because everything 
 about this game is amazing. If you need more detail on any other game I reviewed please dont hesitate 
 to message me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyWilliams24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has come a long way since the original. It has been through twists and turns. 
 And now on March 19th 2004. Atari, has changed the face of PC gaming forever. If you havent got 
 or even played this game. It should definitely be on your must try list.
  
  The original Unreal Tournament, was trully one of the best games to ever hit the store shelves. 
 But now this game has also earned its place on the shelves of greatness.
  
  The games gameplay is simply undescribable. It just has one of those natural things that makes 
 a gamed flow. Not a lot of games have that quality. But once you have loaded up the game. Its pretty 
 much time to get fragging. With u to 8 game styles to choose from this game has a lot to offer 
 in the replay value.
  
  Another great quality of this game is the graphics. It is trully what you need in a game like this. 
 Once you have completed the installation proccess. The game will choose the necessary graphical 
 settings. And depending on that, the game will take its course and amaze and impress you. Which 
 of course can be changed with a few clicks in the settings menu.
  
  Fast paced, is a good word to describe this game. It is exactly what you would expect after playing 
 the original. And with over 12 weapons to choose from you can find interesting and creative ways 
 to completely combust your enemys. In a veriaty of more than 50 maps to choose from.
  
  The maps in this game, come in completely different veriaty's. Some have the 2020 year setting 
 while some are set deep in a jungle. To a abandoned warehouse.
  
  Another new feature in this game is the Onslaught game style. Basically Onslaught is a new addition, 
 were your team puts its best qualitys against the opposing team, to link up all the power nodes 
 to deactivate the force field. Making it possible to attack and destroy the Power core. To secure 
 a victory. But be aware if the power node link is destroyed you will no longer be able to attack 
 the core.
  
  Single player, is bigger and better than ever. It is focused on you and you chosen team, qualifying 
 and con-coring the up coming tournament. You need to guide, command and construct your team to 
 victory over 12 other challenging teams. The single player alone should keep you playing for well 
 over 10 hours or more.
  
  Online mode. Is probably the biggest and most time consuming consept of this game. It has over 
 500 servers and over 5000 players at any given time of day. So there will always be somene to battle 
 it out with. 
  
  And if your talented enough with the new feature of Unreal Tournament, otherwise known as "UnrealEd 
 toolset". You can create modify your own maps and skins. And then publish them online, to show 
 the whole world how talented and how your imagination works.
  
  But overall the Online feature will keep you playing for a very long time. You can meet up and 
 frag it out with some friends. Or just test your skills on some unknown challengers. Or even learn 
 soem hidden tips and tricks hidden deep in the confindment of the map. Should keep you playing 
 for up to 80 hours. Depending on your consistancy.
  
  There are so many new features this game has to offer that the original and 2003, didnt have to 
 offer. Such things as Wall Jump, new weapons and over 40 new maps. So theres loads to make this 
 game different from the others.
  
  So Overall this is a brilliant game and you should give this great 1st person shooter a try. The 
 chances are you will fall in love again all over again, since playing the original. And has so 
 much replay value. You could still be pondering on this game in years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuseking
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Unreal series has always been one of my favorite. Here is a game you don't have to worry about 
 hitting a switch and having to find certian people. This game is all about action!
  
  One of my favorite features of unreal is the variety of vehicles. Most games will have a few and 
 they arn't that useful to use. In unreal they are key and can easily turn the tide.
  
  Also the support this game has is amazing. Last time I looked it had over 400mods and 600 maps 
 and that is awsome. Another thing that I enjoy is being able to play single player along with skrimishes 
 against bots. Most game just have single then you have to play online. For a long time we had dial-up 
 so this was impossible but with bots i was able to play all time. Then would go to a friends and 
 hook up and kick some butt.
  
  If you love just shooting and tactics without the hassle of missions this game is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdeldarnalt
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Personalmente, no me gustan los FPS (First-Person-Shooters) . Bueno, no es que los odie, pero es 
 que son muy escasos aquellos que de verdad merecen mi atencin. No s con certeza por qu me pasa 
 eso, pero s s que aquellos que clasifican por mi control de calidad mental no pasan en vano. 
 As me ocurri con el primer Unreal Tournament en 1999 y con Max Payne un ao despus, pero esas 
 historias las contar despus. Hoy le toca el turno a Unreal Tournament 2004.
  Ha pasado un buen rato antes de poder ver una jugabilidad y un desarrollo tcnico (grficas y sonido) 
 tan fuertes. El modo multijugador est cuidadosamente diseado para durar aos en vigencia sin 
 aburrir en lo ms mnimo: Aparte de los modos originales de juego (incluido el tensionante Assault) , 
 agregan otros nuevos pero robustos, como por ejemplo Bombing Run, Mutant, Invasion, y Onslaught. 
 No se queden con las ganas y prubenlos.
  Las grficas son muy realistas y la msica es perfecta; cada cancin encaja en su respectivo mapa. 
 El modo de campaa regresa pero con varios arreglos: Se pueden comprar otros jugadores para armar 
 un equipo, y as armar una legin de expertos.
  No se nieguen el placer de dejarse llevar por este juego. No se arrepentirn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flathead123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 9, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  This game is one of most favorite shooters ever. I actually enjoy this game's multiplayer more 
 than CS: S. The maps are great. mods are great for it, and its just more fun with it.
  
  Game play = 9 - I love the way that this game is made because there are so many modes with my favorite 
 being Onslaught which is really hectic. From playing BF2 and CS: S for the longest time this game 
 was a relief to play with different weapons and multiplayer.
  
  Graphics = 8 - This game looks good for its age but of course there are better looking games but 
 thats just because I'm used to them.
  
  Sound = 8 - I couldn't really give this game a really good rating with sound because I rarely even 
 listen to it so I'll just give it an 8.
  
  Value = 9 - This game never really got boring for me because it always is played differently because 
 of so many modes and vehicles and guns and just that you can play so differently in the game. Its 
 just a great game with so many things to do that its unbelievable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bycutza
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  I have to agree that '2004 is the best in the series. The game modes give everything a multi-player 
 action gamer would want. The onslaught mode is a great invention from the UT creators, which don't 
 seem to stop from imagining the perfect multi-player shooter. And the return of the assault mode, 
 plus the amazing variety of vehicles were the best things to do for the UT series.
  
  Although, i must say that the game is not the tilt that the first UT was. Perhaps huge advertising, 
 and the already well known UT series made UT 2004 so well-sold. But the real tilt, that started 
 this UT frenzy and domination over the multi-player shooters belongs to UT '99.
  
  Everyone has to agree that Epic Games has a lot to thank GT Interactive for the perfect game they 
 launched it '99. It dropped in the gaming industry like a bomb, surpassing any shooter available. 
 It practically had no defects. 
  
  As I said, UT had no defects, but UT2004 proved that a couple of model and texture rework, as well 
 as some tweaking in the game modes and an enormous number of maps would make the game even more 
 enjoyable. 
  
  But i was deeply disappointed by UT2004's soundtrack. It was not even near the feel and addiction 
 that the '99 UT gave the player. In the original, I sometimes played the game at maximum music 
 volume, and felt the game so intense... but in '2004 it simply doesn't "tilt you". 
  
  Honestly, however, i believe that is the only negative difference besides the original UT, and 
 that is the only reason for which I won't give a perfect 10. 
  
  Oh, and the game simply didn't overwhelm me like UT '99 did... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterKiller24
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  This game is the fix of the UT2003, but there's a lot things from the UT99. And of course there's 
 a little news: the vehicles, the new weapons and gametypes: Onslaught, Mutant, Invasion. The Grafics 
 is very good, the but the engine isn't different by the UT2003. The gameplay is the old good... 
 The maps is good, almost all maps are here what was in UT99 and UT2003, with a few changes, and 
 of course there's a lot new maps. the new gametypes is very good! The Onsalught is a little war 
 with vehicles and turrets, where the object how destroy teh enemy's powercore cross the power nods. 
 The Invasion is a comperation game: kill all monster in the map, the monsters is from the Unreal. 
 In Mutant there's a super man (Mutant) who kills the preys, when the mutant is death, the killer 
 prey will the Mutant. There's a lot old gametypes from the UT99 (Assault, Last Man Standing) , the 
 Bombing Run from the UT2003 (like a CTF, bring the ball to the enemy's base) , and the old classic 
 gametypes (DM, CTF, Team DM, and Double Domination from UT2003) . The new vehicles are cool, pity 
 there are only in the Onslaught, Assault, and Vehicle CTF (default, but no maps in the default 
 game) . There 6 vehicle: Manta: light armored well manoeuvre vehicle, Raptor light armored well 
 manoeuvre plane, Scorpion: buggy, HellBender: medium armored medium manoeuvre more steats vehicle, 
 Goliath: tank, Leviathan: mother of all tanks. The new weapons also good: Sniper: the favoure from 
 the UT99, Grenade Lunhcer, Spider Mine, AVRiL: Anti Vehicle Rocket Luncher what following the selected 
 vehicle and add for it a massive damage. And it sty to the end: the sounnds: they're also amazing, 
 when you creat a shock kombo, explozives, reach killing spree, godlike, and all thing in its place!
 
  All of these all good playeble - of course - in multiplayer. You can see the news in the community 
 and a lot of good things!
  The Epic did well how fixed the UT2003 with this great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  BUM BUM BUM
  The One and Only Unreal Tournament 2004!
  This is by far one of the greatest PC games to have ever been created. It was perfectly crafted 
 by what must be a team of elves in the far reaches of mordor working day and night under whip to 
 come up with something so heart wrenching and enthralling! The action is intense, the graphics 
 are still amazing, the sound effects are so great that i spelled out the word, rather than sfx!
 
  ahhh, such a great game deserves to be forever immortailzed by its players!
  If you have never played it, get your ass out and buy it now! NO, dont download it, buy it. you 
 need to. The mutiplayer is a must!
  I dont even know how to say whats great about it, becuase everything is. Just play it, especially 
 now because 2007 is coming out and you dont deserve to play that if you havent played its ancestors! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svenky01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Epic Games made great job with this game and this game will be remembered and played for very long 
 time. This game is one of the masterpieces in todays gaming world. It has great multi player and 
 impressive single player.
  
  To start I'll write something about it's single player. It's not like Half- life or F. E. A. R., UT 
 2004 doesn' t have story like that games, you don't have levels to pass and weapons you are getting 
 as you are passing through the game. UT's single player is more like Quake 3 Arena. You have one 
 map to pass (it can be Assault, Death Match, Capture the Flag, Bombing Run, Onslaught...) and after 
 wining it you unlock next map. 
  One of the best things in Unreal Tournament 2004 is the return of the Assault mod ( originally 
 from first UT ) , which was not seen in UT 2003. 
  One of the new mods is Onslaught. In that mode you have to conqer bases (Power Nodes) and connect 
 (link) them so you can finish game with destroying enemy's base (Power Node) . 
  Also there are other mods which we've seen in UT 2003 and original UT, they are: Death Match, Team 
 Death Match, Bombing Run, Capture The Flag, Invasion, Mutant, Onslaught, Assault, Vehicle Capture 
 The Flag.
  
  Second is Multi Player. I personally like it more because it's more exciting and more fun. All 
 mods available in Single Player is also available to play in Multi Player. You can play it on LAN 
 or Internet. Maps that are most played on Internet (on Death match mod) are Rankin and Deck 17. 
 Those are also my favourite maps. 
  
  One last word: All of you who haven' t played this game yet you must try it, it's amazing and even 
 if you don't like this genre (fps) , you'll surely love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protossdragoon
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  i just got this game recently and at first i thought it was just another shooter with the same 
 theme of rocket launchers and big guns. still this game was on of the best multiplayers i have 
 played. the style of veichels and bases like halo dragged me in and i found myself playing it over 
 and over again not knowing what time it is or how long i have played. at first glance this game 
 looks dated by the graphics but i still liked it. there are many modes of gameplay and they are 
 varied and have different styles of playing for example in the assault mode, u can attack or defend 
 the objective on the map. in onslaught, its like BF2 style gameplay with a littlebit of halo mixed 
 into the veichels and maps. most of all, i enjoyed it and it was a whole new experence for me. 
 it provides a well balanced gameplay and many different modes for the taste of gamers to choose. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjfox2006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  This game has it all - superb graphics, sound, gameplay, maps, mods, vehicles and a truly awesome 
 multiplayer experience.
  
  The basic premise of the game remains the same as previous versions. Basically you are fighting 
 against opponents either individually, or as part of a team, in gigantic "arenas" filled with deadly 
 hi-tech weaponry. Battles take place in an extremely diverse range of places - from alien planets, 
 to underground caverns, to arctic bases, to medieval castles, to burning deserts, to dense jungles, 
 to ancient ruins, to orbital space stations, and even the rooftops of mile-high skyscrapers. These 
 environments are beautifully detailed, often huge in scale, and help to create a very realistic 
 and wonderfully absorbing gameplay environment.
  
  Points are awarded for each kill, or "frag", and at the end of a set time limit, the player or 
 team with the most frags is declared the winner.
  
  There are several different game types. "Deathmatch" is a straight-forward battle to the death, 
 with no rules as such. "Capture the flag" involves trying to steal a flag from your opponents' 
 base and bring it back to your own base. "Onslaught" has you trying to control a number of power 
 nodes distributed around the arena. "Assault" is more complicated and usually involves a scenario 
 with some sort of story to it.
  
  There are various other game types, but in all cases the main objective remains the same - kill 
 or be killed! If you are killed, you instantly rematerialize (or "respawn") somewhere else in the 
 arena, so the action is pretty much non-stop. The intensity of the action needs to be seen to be 
 believed. Where the fighting is fiercest, there are laser beams, missiles, smoke, explosions and 
 shrapnel all around you. Stand still for more than a few seconds and you're likely to be killed. 
 You can fight online with up to 32 players, using a brutal array of weaponry that includes not 
 just hand guns, but tanks and aircraft.
  
  The weapons are varied, and each has its own unique characteristics which you have to learn. The 
 "Shock Rifle", for example, has a secondary fire mode which launches slow-moving balls of plasma. 
 Switching back to the primary mode, you can fire a beam which ignites these balls and creates a 
 massive explosion. Then there is the "Link Gun", which can be used to heal your teammates and even 
 repair vehicles. The "Lightning Gun" is one of the more lethal weapons, and has a zoom capability 
 for extremely long-range shots. The "Redeemer" is the most deadly weapon of all, and is effectively 
 a miniature nuclear device with a massive blast radius.
  
  This game is extremely brutal, and not recommended for young children. For everyone else, though, 
 Unreal Tournament 2004 is a superb first-person shooter - undoubtedly one of the best games of 
 its genre - and is an essential purchase for any serious gamer. The multiplayer mode is even better 
 than GoldenEye on the old N64... and that's saying something!
  
  In addition to the basic game, there is a massive online community of fans and editors who produce 
 their own maps, mods and various other "add ons" which you can download to enhance or alter the 
 gameplay. This adds tremendously to the game's longevity and its lasting appeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tntgrunge5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  very addicted to the game ,it contains a poorly story ,but tons of action
  amazing graphics that supports 64-bit effects technology
  amazing sound ,connectivity ,community
 
  
  i had to finish the game 4 times!!
  
  but the new xan model is amazing
  have to patch and pack game ,with lots of more fun 
  
  in the game you can find cool known 
 and infamous modes (pluss mutators) like:
  
  -onslaught
  -deathmatch
  -team death-mactch
  -ctf
  -assault
  -invasion
  -lms
  -mutant
  
  The game have a solid 
 multiplayer and a singleplayer campaign ,really inmersive ,but like most fps storys and scripts 
 not always are the best.
  
  you have the need to see amazing graphics with an medium-high end machine.
  
  but its highly 
 recommended
  
  i really love this game
  
  with the first unreal tournament ,but there still missing things like:
  
  fake a death ,enforcers 
 ,more assault maps
  
  highly recommended!!
  
  exclent game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wat_ever
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  The Good : Adrenaline-charged action. Cool-looking characters. Really one of the best games to 
 come out ever!
  
  The Bad : Enemy AI needs improvement. Get sick and tired of the same maps after around 80 hours 
 of gameplay.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is really one of the best games ever. It really makes Unreal Tournament 
 (2000) look completely obsolete. It surpasses Quake 3 Arena, even Halo 2.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is one of the best games to come out from Epic Games. But one can still 
 wonder if Gears Of War can surpass this game. There are many characters to choose from. Hot-looking 
 babes, cool-looking guys or even cool aliens.
  
  Here are some weak factors of UT2004 : It's enemy AI needs to be improved on. Some are very stiff. 
 And another : maps. Well, I'm not sure if Epic has released more maps but after 80 hours of gameplay, 
 you might get sick and tired of the same maps.
  
  Now people, lets count down the days till UT2007 arrives! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeraphWrath
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the series since UT99, which was a fun, face-paced FPS game. UT2004 follows 
 in the same footsteps as UT99 and UT2003, but adds vehicles into the mix as well as some new content. 
 This is a great game. I really like the Onslaught game-type with the vehicles.
  
  UT2004 is more or less an upgraded version of UT2003 but with way more content. 
  
  UT2004 
 is one of those games you can definately play with a lower end system, but at the same time UT2004 
 will challege even a high end system at higher settings. UT99 was the same way. I bought a new 
 computer about 3-4 months after it come out, and the game looked like a different version with 
 the new hardware. It was shocking (in a good way) .
  
  Snipers may or may not like this game as much. I don't really like the lightning guns (sniper gun 
 w/ zoom) . It just never had that 'sniper' feel to it. I'm glad UT2007 is going to go back to its 
 roots and will include gameplay more comparable to UT99. 
  
  The vehicles are a lot of fun, and it added that extra 'flair' UT needed to have. All in all this 
 is one of the best games period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  UT2004 is undoubtedly one of the finest online shooters made as almost anyone knows and will agree 
 to state. So there's not much to say about it that we don't all know.
  
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is fast paced and hyperactive mayhem. There are a LOT of maps, and loads 
 made by the public, you can connect to a server and it will download the custom map if you don't 
 have it and you'll get to play it right away. There are loads of gametypes, traditional, new, objective 
 based and team based ones. The maps don't only contain new places and such, some servers even have 
 custom vehicles built into the maps and you never know how awesome they might be. There are a lot 
 of fun, powerful, fast, deadly, accurate guns to keep you entertained for a long time. The vehicles 
 are fun, the Scorpion for example, it has 2 giant blades on it's side which you can deploy to cut 
 enemies in half, but don't run into any tanks with the blades, or they'll break off. That being 
 just an example. The game has a lot of those fun moments that anyone can experience at one time 
 or another. Ultimately adding to the games value.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good for it's time, sure they don't measure up to the intensity 
 of modern games or such but they do the job right even for today. There isn't a lot to say about 
 them other than their low ender friendliness.
  
  Sound: The game has awesome soundtracks playing as the action goes on. The gun sounds, sadly, are 
 disappointingly weak at times, you can't even hear them over the music at times. Even the minigun 
 just doesn't feel like it's shredding anything up. But the sound is still a 6 of 10 worthy. There's 
 just a lack of power to the weapons.
  
  Value: Being the best released UT game so far and having such amazing multiplayer and mods out, 
 it's certainly got long lasting value.
  
  Tilt: 10 of 10 - I love this game, the mods and the community - I recommend this to anyone! Especially 
 if you find it for 14$ or less as I did. In a bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosscero
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  You have cars, tanks, strong weapons, a lot of characters, lot of game types and unbelivable maps.
 
  
  Classic DeathMatch, Team Deathmath, Capture the flag, the Revolutionary Bombing Run, the Invasion, the 
 superb Onslaught, and the Assault.
  
  You can kill opponents on DM or TDM, with big and powerfully weapons; go capture the enemy's flag, on 
 the enemy's base; make the ball pass the arch on the new sport bombing run (take care with the shots) ; kill 
 a horde of aliens on Invasion; use the most strong vehicles and destroy the enemy's power core on 
 Onslaught, and finish your mission on the assault.
  
  Great graphics, perfect gameplay, good sounds... well, a perfect game!!!
  
  Go on the gamespot's 
 downloads and upgrade you UT 2004 with maps, patches and mods!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I've never been big on first-person shooter (FPS) games, although I've played a few, like Star 
 Wars: Battlefront 2, that I've found entertaining. So, getting this game was taking a chance, since 
 I'm partial to real-time strategy games and roleplaying games. Overall, I must say that I've really 
 had a good time with UT 2004. It hasn't made me more of a fan of the FPS genre, but I am definitely 
 looking forward to UT 2007. 
  
  Gameplay: The controls are the typical mouse, WASD keys, and hotkeys associated with FPS games, 
 so anyone familiar with the FPS genre ought to be able to jump right in. You have a number of options 
 for your in-game character, including race, gender, name, etc. You can also choose your AI teammates 
 and the number on each team. Additionally, there are ten game modes, including deathmatch, capture 
 the flag (CTF) , domination (requires you to hold two points) , assault (objective based) , bombing 
 run (a deadly version of soccer) , and onslaught (securing nodes and destroying the enemy base) . 
 There's fun to be had with each mode, but I suspect that most people will find the greatest replayabiity 
 in the onsault, assault, CTF, and team deathmatch modes. The maps are large enough for some strategic 
 thinking (especially on assault and onslaught) , and the game comes with about 100 maps -- with many 
 more that can be downloaded from the internet. 
  
  AI opponents ("bots") are very good in this game. They have strong attack scripts, good pathfinding, 
 will follow orders, and generally work well as teams. I detected some of the typical AI cheating 
 found in FPS games (i. e., extra health, amazing accuracy, accelerated movement) toward the end 
 of the tournament and in some of the tougher matches, but generally the AI here is just plain challenging 
 and well programmed. Although many will buy this game for the multiplayer side, the single-player 
 content (which is all that I play) is quite strong. The game does not have a compelling story to 
 tell, but the tournament mode lasted me 25-30 hours on "experienced" difficulty level. I don't 
 feel a need to replay the tournament anytime soon, but there are a lot of individual maps and modes 
 that are greatly replayable. 
  
  A few things that add a lot to the game are the variety of weapons available and the vehicles. 
 Overall, none of the weapons are very overpowered, though some are better and more versatile than 
 others. Some weapons are best suited for one situation, while others can be useful in some fashion 
 under a number of conditions. A second element that adds variety to the game is the vehicles. I 
 can't overemphasize how fun these can be. Not only do they break up the monotony of having to sprint 
 on foot across the map, but they also add a new strategic and tactical layer to a game. Vehicles 
 can be game winners, but they are not invincible. Some can carry multiple passengers, who can man 
 various weapons or simply go along for the ride. However, to maintain balance, characters on foot 
 have a few very strong anti-vehicle weapons, and many objectives cannot be completed by vehicles. 
 Still, there's nothing like decapitating a fleeing opponent with the blades of a Scorpion buggy 
 or hearing the thundering cannon of a Goliath tank. 
  
  The gameplay is frantic, exciting, and straightforward enough to appeal to a range of gamers. You 
 never feel lost on the maps, since there is a good in-game mini-map and the objectives are always 
 clear. Also, you never get the sense that you are babysitting your computer allies, since they 
 act as intelligently -- more so on many occasions -- as the average human player. The game's flaws 
 are mostly minor, but worth mentioning. First, there are a few rather frustrating missions in the 
 tournament that the average player will have to repeat several times (at least on experienced difficulty 
 and higher) . And there is no way to adjust the difficulty level of the tournament once it starts. 
 Also, the game-save system is automatic; the game saves after every match, win or loss. Thus, you 
 can find yourself broke if you lose enough matches, and you'll have to play a series of qualifying 
 matches to earn enough money to continue the tournament. It's a system that gets old quick and 
 really adds a layer of repetition to the game that serves little purpose. Finally, some people 
 will be put off by the amount of acrobatics that the game includes. On some of the more advanced 
 levels and difficulty settings, AI opponents are hopping, flipping, and cartwheeling in ways that 
 make them nearly impossible to hit, though they will seem to hit you just fine. I think that the 
 game plays just a tad bit too fast and requires too much jumping around. But you'll get used to 
 it. 
  
  Graphics: Great-looking game. The maps are very impressive in detail and size. Be sure to take 
 a lot of screenshots! The models are all rendered well, from the characters to the vehicles. Weapon 
 fire and particle effects look good, as does the nature environment, especially skies. Have no 
 doubt about it, this is a very violent game. Dying animations are graphic, and people tend to end 
 up in pieces or as skeletal remains. Overall, the art direction is rock solid. 
  
  Sound: Although decent, the audio is not as good as the visuals. Weapons such as miniguns and tank 
 cannon sound like they should, along with footsteps, flowing water, and other ambiant effects. 
 In-game AI characters tend to use the same list of taunts such as "Ownage!" or "You suck!" or "You 
 be dead!" -- along with a few choice obscenities -- but none of the characters really stand out with 
 individual personalities. The music is the typical techno fare found in many video games, nothing 
 special. 
  
  Documentation/Stabiity: The manual that comes with the game is informative and makes up for a rather 
 bland in-game tutorial. The game was pretty stable on my computer, though I experienced one freeze 
 and one crash during the tournament. Overall, the game seemed well polished and optimized. 
  
  Replayability: Given the number of maps that come with the game, the developer's Bonus Pack 
 that can be downloaded for free from the internet, the large number of player-made maps available, 
 and the editor tools that you can use to make your own maps, this game has had a long shelf life. 
 If you get tired of playing against the AI, you can go online and play against a human opponent. 
 For me, about half of the 10 gameplay modes are not appealing after a few rounds, but the other 
 5 (especially assault, onslaught, and CTF) are always good fun. 
  
  If you are a fan of FPS games, UT 2004 seems to be a must-buy (I'd be surprised if you don't already 
 have it!) . From what I have read, it is the best of the Unreal series and still has an active online 
 community. For those of us who only have a passing interest in FPS games, this is a good one to 
 blow some time with. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turgore
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  THe game has one of the most addictive multiplayer modes that will keep you up all night and the 
 next morning you won't regret it. You get over 100 maps and can download more and a huge arsenal 
 of weapons and characters. THe graphics are sharper than Unreal Tournament 2003 with better textures 
 but kinda that's it . Today you can get this game preety cheap (around20-25$) which gives you a 
 lot of gameplay (and eye candy) for so little.
  .I made some calculations if a game is 50 $ with 10 hs of gameplay you pay 5$ for an hour of play 
 which is around the same price as in some movie theaters. The previous sentence shows just how 
 important is replay value and after 100 hours of play for 25$ .... you do the math. 
  Clearly you get more vehicles maps and weapons in UT2004 against of UT 2003.
  Music is good but 
 not as catchy as in UT2003 and sound is the same. Probably sounds better with surround sound but 
 since i dont own a 5.1 system you better ask somebody else.
  Briefly UT2004 offers a great value with a lot of online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAININDA__
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is so freakin cool. There are literally unlimited maps, new ones keep coming out every 
 week. There over 50 chracter skins and hundreds of mods out there. And the best part is... IT DOESN'T 
 COST A DIME FOR ONLINE PLAY! There so many game modes and mutators (another word for mod) . Assualt 
 which is like a mission mode. Onslaught a vechicluar war over large maps. There's also capture 
 the flag, team deathmatch, Free for all death match. And theres a mod called bombing run which 
 is like football with guns. Theres more you just got to seach online for them to download. (GAMESPOT 
 COUGH COUGH) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajca
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 30, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  UT 2004 is still a great game. I'm not bad at it, but I'm not great at it. It's just one of those 
 classic deathmatch games like QIII, that by now its worth dealing out the 20$ just to own it, not 
 even to mention the shear mass of awesome content contained in the game, plus third party mods 
 and maps.
  
  It helped define today's deathmatch games, and provided a great engine for other games. Sometimes 
 I still play online, yet mainly I own it for the occaional LAN party. 
  
  The game feels good, and runs well. Depite the great looking graphics, the game runs wonderfully 
 even on aging computers.
  
  I recommend to anyone that its worth its price, but if your a living in a cardboard box, leeching 
 internet off your local coffee shop, you should (make that a must) atleast try the demo.
  
  To mention the negatives, there are a handful of masters online who won't let you live more then 
 a minute. Also, some maps are overplayed (yet classic) , and you can occasionally get frustrated 
 from lack of pregress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megadeth_Owns
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 29, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This Game is simply put as amazing:
  
  Anyone who has ever played a FPS, and enjoyed it, should not be without this game, it is a winner 
 of all aspects of a video game
  
  Graphics: Enviroemnts look beautiful, the gib flying everywhere is breathtaking, and the character 
 models are some nice eye candy, especially for a 2 year old game. Although it may not be the most 
 detailed game, and may not compare to todays stunning visuals, the game looks marvelous, and doesnt 
 require a monster rig to run it.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game brings back all of the classic deathmatch elements of the original, 
 as well as enough other game modes to keep you satisfied for hours. The gameplay is very fast paced, 
 no matter what gametype, blazing through molten flak, and tearing your enemies apart with the minigun 
 never gets old. The newest gamemode to the series is Onslaught, which incorporates vehicles into 
 the UT universe, a first for the series. With the addition of vehicles, new weapons are added, 
 to create a very good balance, but this does not mean that a 1337 UT veteran will not tear your 
 tank apart with the sheild gun.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is similar to the gameplay: fast paced and fun, which helps pump 
 you up while playing. Weapon sounds are crisp, and can strike terror into a enemies heart. The 
 game also offers the ability to play your own Mp3's, but the built in player is very buggy, and 
 has never really been fixed.
  
  Value: There is no reason not to have this game, you can usually find it for between 20-30 dollars, 
 and it gives you hours of entertainment.
  
  Final Word: This game is easy to pick up and hard to master, which creates huge replay value.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MF_2
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. There really isn't anything I can say that will better describe it. I've 
 been a long fan of the unreal games. This game you must get. And at the same time I'm writing this 
 review, this game is out there for less then $10 in some places. There is no excuse for someone 
 not owning this game. 
  
  I've gone though the Quake Series. I've played wolfenstein and enemy territory. I've played though 
 Day of Defeat and Counter-Strike. Of all the multiplayer games i've played i feel most confident 
 about this game. 
  
  
  
  Just like DOOM, we will all look back and see this game as one of favorite of memories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiroyukiwu
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 22, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  First off ut2k4 is considered by many as a multiplayer game of greatness and they are right!
  
  Ut2k4 is one of the most (if not the best) online fps that is availble on the market (game 
 was released 2004) and is still going strong on the net for online shooting (2006) .
  
  First thing that is noticable in ut2k4 is that the graphics are sublime, everything from facial 
 features to foliage has been considered by designers and if you put the graphics to the max it 
 can easliy hold its own against some of the games of today (but no far cry or cod2) .
  
  If you have played the other unreal games then you find not much has changed in the way of controls 
 or movement (which is a good thing as this would spoil the game the first time you play it) and 
 it is still increadbily frantic and fun shooting. Things that have changed is the fact that you 
 can now have vechiles to obtain and cruise around in, these are in no way a little gimmick, in 
 fact having a vechile can often save your life when low on health as you can lit. zoom out of the 
 battle to find health (also fun too!) .
  Onslaught is the new game mode which is highly enjoyable and many new weapons and faces make this 
 a great single player/online/offline multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  UT 2004 is just simply amazing. The gameplay is great and so are the graphics.
  
  The graphics of UT 2004 is of course powered bye the Unreal Engine 2. It brings the game beautiful 
 visuals and textures in every map. As the game looks great it does not require that big of a system 
 to power it at full specs and resolution.
  
  In UT 2004 there are 10 gameplay modes all of which you can play in single player to get used to 
 the maps and then take it on the the real beef of the game the online muliplayer. Onslaught and 
 Assault are sure to get the most play in the realm of the online world because it brings team play 
 and ferocious fire fight to every game, not to mention they are on massive maps with vehicles. 
 The standard DM (Death Match) , TDM (Team Death Match) , and CTF (Capture the Flag) are all here 
 as well and bring a great experience over to the online side of things as well. There are numerous 
 weapons and vehicles for you to pick up and many power up to make you god like.
  
  This game is so good you can play the same map on Assault and Onslaught and never get the same 
 results. UT 2004 will have you playing until the sun comes up and longer. One of the best games 
 available period and a must own for PC users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamonkey872
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  The game is very addictive once you begin to play it with different levels and wide variety of 
 weapons. The game includes numerour players you can be and you can make your own group and win 
 the tournament (beating the game) . The graphics were very good but the guns could have been more 
 detailed but the guns that they made up were awesome. The gameplay gets better as you go along 
 as you have different game modes like ctf and many other activites. The game is also very gory 
 with all the blood everywhere and there head flying off when you get a headshot. The online play 
 is incredible as you fight people on your favorite map. This game has to be the best out of its 
 series and I hoping that you pick this game up so that you can appreciate Atari more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii26
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  UT2K4 is such an incredible game. It's everything anyone could want in a FPS. 
  First, the game is incredible fast paced. Its so quick and it just asks for you to be quick. I'm 
 that kind of person and I hate games that go so slow. It makes me feel like it's holding me back. 
 
  Second, the offline content is awesome. There's so much to beat and unlock inside the game. It's 
 pretty cool how you can create your team and order them around and stuff. It's awesome.
  Third, weapons. I love the weapons.. wepaons to me is what can make and break a game and this game 
 had awesome weapons. I just love how if i'm bored of one thing I can switch to something that's 
 not even close to the same and enjoy blowing the crap out of someone. It just makes the game that 
 much more enjoyable.
  And lastly, is the online play. The online play is so much fun and the fact that it's so fast paced 
 makes the online game play fast and fun. It's one of them, "lets hide behind a rock for the entire 
 game, camp, and shoot someone when they walk by". Its one of them, "I can't hide anywhere so let's 
 run around and blow the crap out of each other" kind of game and I love that. 
  Overall, this game is so sweet and it's just very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thommy007
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  I've started playing this game the moment it came out and I haven't stopped since!
  I haven't been playing a lot multi-player since then probably due to my killer dog ;) lol but even 
 the single player is serious fun!
  I give the game an 9.1 for single-player.
  
  My favourite mode is Onslaught cause it feels great when you destroy a tank with your rocket-launcher. 
 The addition of vehicles is very good.
  It fits in perfectly and you'll feel as if it was never different.
  But don't get me wrong I 
 also enjoy other game modes, like the tactical Double Domination, The team oriented Bombing run, The 
 classical CTF, and of course the never boring death-match with varieties like mutant and last man 
 standing.
  
  I also love the game mode called 'invasion'.
  Which I think does not get so much attention but it gives a nice experience when playing with friends.
 
  
  This was my late review, but it's still for practice ;)
  
  When UT 2007 comes out I'll make a review of that too.
  So keep checking :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoothrj
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  this game totally owns everysingle game i have in my game collection. halo 2, WoW, fear, HL2, CS: S 
 etc. i love this game im about to sell all of my games accept this game for new hardware for my 
 computer to play UT2007! this game delivers a high adrenaline rush of gameplay. the voice over 
 IP is great and the maps are huge and intense! the graphics are great too. and sometimes when im 
 angry, i play this game to make my troubles get out of my head. i've never had this much fun in 
 a multiplayer game since mario bros. defenantly the best game i play to date and i will keep this 
 game for a loooong time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Theres not such a famous and popular game as UT 2004. From the UT 2003 to this one, there are 
 a lot of things that have changed. The graphics are improved, the sound is better than never, the 
 playing modes have been expanded, and much more things. Why is this game so popular and known worldwide? 
 UT 2004 is one of the most played online games, as it is a personalizable one: there are hundreds 
 of communitys that share thousands of mods, weapons, characters, maps, veichles and more. When 
 released, UT 2004 was like a nuke. It blasted everything around, and everybody ought to have it 
 and play it. But this game is not online playing, on the single player mode, you will have to go 
 through tough missions and objectives, as the game has a lot of playing modes. The weapons database 
 has been expanded too, to an impressive arsenal. This game is "unmissable". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saiyuke223
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion the best multiplayer FPS ever I am a big fan of the fast paced gameplay, the graphics, 
 the weapons, characters the list can go on but the biggest thing about this game is its flexibility 
 pretty much to put it simply the game dont have it make it or search the net for what ya want endless 
 fun and possibilities this game is.
  
  I have been playing this game since launch and still can not stop playing this game and also it 
 is the best especialy when youve had a hard day and need something to get your blood flowing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahamut50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  If there is one thing we all need to realize, its that fps is probably the most popular genre besides 
 some games in other genres. it might be getting more attention then it deserves, but it has plenty 
 of games to back up its reputation. Unreal Tournament 2004 is one of those games. the beautiful 
 graphics, Very detailed characters and weapons, addition of vehicle gameplay, fast-paced action 
 and the great environments on which the carnage takes place, unreal tournament is the best thing 
 to come to the fps genre in a long time.
  
  Gameplay: fps are all about different kinds of action. theres the tactical, then theres the fast 
 and furious. unreal tournament definetly falls in the fast and furious category, with the speedy 
 action and a taste for blood. the battles are always insane on multiplayer, with bullets flying 
 everywhere, bodys flying in all directions, and overall a very crazy battlefield of which there 
 is no break in the action. one thing all unreal player should remember is that if you dont keep 
 moving, you will be a smear on the wall, guaranteed. the gameplay is always fun and fresh, and 
 theres plenty of ways to kill and be killed. that would be just a description of deathmatch. then 
 theres assault, a mode that has an objective mechanic in it while still keeping the carnage that 
 unreal does so well. theres plenty to do in assault and you might consider it to be the best mode 
 in the game for a complicated battle with lots of tension. 
  
  Onslaught makes its debut on unreal tournament, and what more can i say then the fact that vehicles 
 are the best thing to come to this series since its beginning. while assault might be more deep, 
 this is the most played mode, and for good reason. onslaught is definetly a good description for 
 the added carnage and size this mode gives to the basic gunfire gameplay. each vehicle is balanced 
 in its own way, and they all have their individual weaknesses. Overall, the fun factor in unreal 
 tournament is always good, and you just cant beat the all guns blazing that is Unreal tournament 
 2004.
  an excellent 10 here.
  
  Graphics: The shine of a tank as it rolls through a desolate wasteland. an all out bulletfest from 
 which there is no escape, and exploding bodys on all ends. The graphics in unreal tournament 2004 
 are a huge sucess, with guns and vehicles that have every little tiny bit of detail you may not 
 notice, but just needs to be there. and even if you dont notice the tiny details, you will notice 
 the beautiful environments, with creative design and great little touches to complete the experience 
 of an epic battle. One more thing i have too add on this section is the great looking characters 
 that populate the battlefield. they are very good in detail and you just cant beat the Skarr in 
 design, even if they have "clones" of themselves in design. you just cant get much better than 
 this. with excellent production value on graphics, and an attention to detail you cant ignore, 
 i give this a 9 here.
  
  Sound: The music in this game, is simply awe inspiring, in variety, quality, and overall entertainment. 
 i have spent some time just listening to the soundtrack on many occasions, especially the music 
 from Xan kriegors ship. while some characters could have had alot better and more unique voice 
 acting, Unreal tournament suceeds in almost every respect, especially in quality and quantity of 
 excellent songs to keep the mood up. i give this an eight.
  
  Value: This is a little sketchy, because the singleplayer is pretty bad. considering the quality 
 of the mods and multiplayer, they could have done alot better in singleplayer missions, maybe a 
 more story driven campaign instead of a basic tournament schedule. the game is good in every other 
 respect and it will last you a long while. there is no reason to believe that this will not suceed 
 in gaining a fan base to keep the game fresh with many more mods, and this game is definetly a 
 great value for any shooting afficiando. this one gets a 9
  
  Tilt: In my personal opinion, ive had many a night chewed up on this game fragging plenty of other 
 players, and its a great game to play anytime, wether its a short game, or you wanna play for along 
 time. this game just wont dissapoint you. it hasnt dissapointed me, and it will be a long time 
 (next tournament game) before im finally dissapointed by it. a 10 here
  
  In summary, this game will keep you playing, and if there is one way to describe all that this 
 game does, its Quality gaming. thank you for reading my review on this awesome game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bert159
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  De gameplay is zeer vrierend, door de verschillende mogelijkheden.
  De invoering van voertuigen is zeer goed en de voertuige worde ookn niet te machtig wat 't zeer 
 leuk houd.'k kan begrijpe dat deze game niet voor iedereen geschikt is want de taktiek dat je moet 
 gebriuke is gereduceerrd naar 't minimum,'t is dan ook gwn vaak knalle wat de klok slaat. De maps 
 zijn zeer talrijk (ookal kome er ook uit UT 2003) en de wapens zijn echt vet.
  GRAPHICS/GELUID:
  De graphics zijn gewoon fenomenaal, alles is tot in 't detail uitgewerkt en 
 't geluid is niet echt realistisch maar 't past echt wel bij de wapens.
  FUNFACTOR:
  't spel is in singleplayer zeer makelijk of zeer moeilijk dat kan je zelf kiezen, de singleplayer 
 is uitgzspeeld in zo'n 10-15 u maar de multyplayer kan je natuurlijk oneindig lang spelen.'t spel 
 is niet moeilijk onder de knie te krijge en 't zal je niet vlug vervele, wss ook door de vele mods 
 die er voor uitkome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scotty3913
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is a really fun game and is lightyears ahead of today. One of the best bits 
 of the game in my opinion is the instant action mode the best one inside that option is onslaught 
 this mode has got great vehicles in includeing the big thing which you can set up as a fortress 
 kind of thing you can then get all of your team inside it and shoot the brains out of everyone 
 else. This game really gets you thinking of were to go, what too do and most importantly what to 
 kill. You really are never stuck for anything too do there is nowhere to hide. The game also welcomes 
 you in too play and to have fun. 
  The makers of the game also encourage mods for it and there are hundreds of them out there just 
 waiting to be graped and played In my opinion this is great because it means that when you are 
 bored of the game you go on the internet and find a mod install it which is easy and then play 
 it.
  There are also character mods which change the appearence and attributes of you character so that 
 is fun.
  Anouther good feature which is in most games is the internet game which proves too be much harder 
 than the AI.
  This game shore is the meaning of frantic.
  If you are looking for a game that is fun and easy too grasp this is the one for you. Thanks for 
 reading By Scotty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raoul_haa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  OK, here we go:
  
  Gameplay- gameplay is fantastic, this game offers so much!
  The single-player puts you as a team leader, and through DM, CTF, Bombing-Run and assault battles 
 you make your way in the tournament to the last battle when you and the leader of the most powerful 
 team will fight.
  The multiplayer is an endless fun, fighting all day with your friends!
  There are 16 different guns, each with a regular and special fire mode. lots of fun viacheles that 
 can cary you and your teammates.
  
  Graphics- are vary good, very beutiful textures especialy.
  
  Sound- music is very inspiering. 
 each map comes with her music, the music is perfectly matching its own map.
  
  Lots of mods, more can be downloaded from the net, just like maps and charachters.
  
  I'm playing 
 this over a year and I'm not board yet!
  
  My score (x/5) :
  5/5 
  
  Raoul_haa.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  There's no question that Unreal Tournament 2003 was a little bit of a letdown. Ok, no - it wasn't 
 just a little bit of a letdown; every second of gameplay was plagued with a nagging sense of disappointment, 
 something that led me to review the game with the phrase "shadow of its former self." Yeah, it 
 was miles better than most FPS games, but when compared to the godlike original, 2003 didn't really 
 have a chance. Which is where Unreal Tournament 2004 comes in, to right all the wrongs of 2003 
 and murder all of its competition, and to do both those things while including several new additions 
 to the gameplay mechanics and core features. And, actually, Unreal Tournament 2004 pulls it off 
 with ease, and delivers the most intense gunplay you'll find on PC - this game is fast-paced, adrenaline-soaked, 
 and, well - absolutely freaking fantastic. 
  
  I'll start with the additions to the franchise. First off is an all-new mode, with the tempting 
 name of Onslaught. Onslaught is perhaps the most team-based game in 2004's impressive bevy of modes, 
 and in theory it's the most complicated too. The basic objective is to link up all the powernodes 
 on your team in a tactical line, while preventing the other team from destroying them and grasping 
 their own. Once you have control of a line of powernodes that link up to the enemy's base, then 
 feel free to invade the opponent's base and blast up their unprotected PowerCore. Kudos to you, 
 my friend. 
  
  The maps in Onslaught are absolutely huge, and they wouldn't be any fun without a vital inclusion 
 - vehicles. The vehicles in Unreal Tournament 2004 are all very well designed, easy to control, 
 and most importantly, fun to drive. They all feel very individual and all have signature handling 
 traits that you should be aware of. It's also important to get in a vehicle that adapts to the 
 situation, i. e. don't get in a Manta hovercraft if the enemy has hold of Goliath tanks. The vehicles 
 are all dangerous on the offensive front; peculiarly, the Scorpion jeep has two scythes sticking 
 out of the sides to cut down any stray enemies! One thing I must say, though, Onslaught is a little 
 too vehicle-based for my liking - yeah, the vehicles are great to drive and fun to kill people 
 in, but Unreal Tournament has always been focused on murdering on foot with a fearful arsenal of 
 weapons. Onslaught is an exceptional addition to the game and makes great use of team-based mechanics 
 and strategic play.
  
  The single-player campaign has also been given an overhaul after the pitiful effort seen in Unreal 
 Tournament 2003. The matches are now much longer-lasting, and a lot more challenging, and there's 
 also a new Team Management feature where you can treat injuries and other options like the good 
 captain that you no doubt are. You also have to pay your teammates for each match you pay; each 
 player has a minimum fee you will have to pay them in your hard-earned "Credits", which are awarded 
 by winning matches and challenges. Indeed, competing teams in the tournament will offer you challenges, 
 usually after matches - most of the time they'll be trying to grab a teammate they find particularly 
 strong, or one that would prove invaluable on their team. Refusal to these challenges will cost 
 "Credits" and failure in them will cost you the designated teammate. 
  
  There has also been some minor additions to the gameplay interface, HUD, and weapons. The HUD is 
 now more refined than ever, and that annoying commentator has been replaced by a syrupy-voiced 
 female. The weapons arsenal sees the return of the classic sniper rifle, as opposed to the still-present 
 lightning gun. There is also an invaluable weapon called the Avril, which is basically an anti-vehicle 
 missile launcher with a nice lock-on feature. 
  
  The gameplay engine itself has largely borrowed from the underwhelming 2003, but overall, it feels 
 like a much tighter game than its predecessor. Aiming has been honed and is a lot more professional 
 this time, the overall speed of the game has been souped-up too. 2003 felt slightly limp in places; 
 2004 is way more acrobatic and flexible, allowing for several new combat procedures and tactics 
 such as walljumping, dodging, and other cool gymnastic performances that can save your neck at 
 the tightest of moments.
  
  Because of this added speed and acrobatics, the game is a lot more frenetic. It's more intense 
 than ever before, especially when competing in the excellent online modes. Unreal Tournament 2004 
 gives a real shot of adrenaline to the player; some sort of unexplainable satisfaction that makes 
 you want to keep fighting to the death, no matter the consequences. Because of the tighter aiming 
 and rebuilt weaponry, gunplay is a little less one-minded and more methodical than before, but 
 still retains the same golden Unreal formula. 
  
  All your favourite modes have been given an overhaul and re-appear in this fantastic package. Deathmatch, 
 strangely, is still being neglected in favour of teamplay. Double Domination has not been altered, 
 and still remains as nail-biting as ever, with the agonizing 10-second wait before points are scored. 
 Assault is back, although it's a little bit of an underwhelming return - the missions are nowhere 
 near as fun or memorable as they were in the original Unreal Tournament, and are only worth a warrant 
 in the single-player modes. Bombing Run is also present and is one of the most intense, air-punching 
 modes. Although the mode I particularly like the most is Capture the Flag. Online especially these 
 can make for some truly memorable matches and moments of uncontrollable adrenaline; when played 
 properly there's a nice team spirit that spurs you on. Two modes of the game are weaker than the 
 rest, and these are the Mutant and Invasion modes. Both are pretty self-explanatory and both are 
 equally time-wasting. The stalwarts are where it's at. 
  
  Of course, Unreal Tournament 2004 is a real graphical masterpiece. The only letdown is that there's 
 not much advancement over 2003 - but hell, wasn't that a gorgeous game to begin with? The more 
 claustrophobic environments of 2004 are packed with painstaking detail and intricacies, from bewildering 
 rugged styles to science-fiction grandeur. Wider environments are even nicer, but the true free-roaming 
 ones are where 2004 truly shines. Onslaught modes can feature some truly stunning environments, 
 not to mention the intense team-play going on and heated vehicular manslaughter going on everywhere. 
 Lighting in the game is absolutely superb and the same can be said about the character models - 
 all in all, an excellent visual showing. 
  
  The audio isn't quite as good, but yet still manages to deliver. Unreal Tournament has always had 
 a great musical score, and 2004 is no different. Weird ambient sounds to techno to rock music to 
 metal, it does it all flawlessly and all the sounds tie in well with the environmental style. This 
 is one game unquestionably better through a good old surround sound system, if only for this great 
 and varied soundtrack. 
  
  In conclusion... there isn't much more to be said. Unreal Tournament 2004 is a hugely recommendable 
 game. You'd be hard pressed to find any dominating flaws in any area of the game. Online players 
 will get the most out of the game, admittedly, but single-player is still quite expansive with 
 a nice Instant Action mode to round things up. This game builds on the foundation of the franchise, 
 polishes the formula, and adds some truly great new modes and features that I hope will be implemented 
 in future instalments. This is definitely a must-play.
  
  Have a nice day. :)
  
  -stevenscott14 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectronicPest
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Any of you remember unreal tournament 2003, what a dissapointment that was. It was no where near 
 as good as the classic onewhich was a smash hit in 99 and is still played today. But now Epic has 
 come back with Unreal Tournament 2004! which contains everything from ut2003 but with a hell of 
 a lot of sweet new stuff 
  
  Pros
  -Lots of levels and gametypes
  -Cool weapons and vehicles
  -Great editing tools
  -Addictive
  -good mods
  
  Cons
  -Graphics 
 are a bit old
  -takes up about 5 gigabytes of space
  -voices still suck
  
  Is it worth it?
  HELL YES but you'll need a large hard drive and good internet connection
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoemaken1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This review has a 100 word minimum so some how I'll have to drag out the folliowing summation: 
 fast paced and addictive. 
  Positives:
  graphics are impressive in an "unreal" sense
  the graphics engine seems very efficient. You don't have to have a high end pc to turn up the settings.
 
  I've never played a game with so many levels. If you download all the expanison packs (which are 
 free) you have more levels than you'll ever play
  the server browser is quick and is always full of games
  negatives:
  no story line (but you 
 shouldn't be expecting one)
  the skill levels in many of the online games can lead to frustration
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bento
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game sence before it came out (ut2004 demo) and i must say this game has 
 made the most impact on me than any other game i have played maby because its the only game i still 
 play. This is the best multiplayer game out right now and will be untill Unreal tournament 2007 
 comes out thats just because you can do Soooo much with the game after you thought you where through 
 with it. I will be playing this game hard even though can barley even do that because of the broke-down 
 computer im useing. Until i get another computer this will probably be the only game im gonna play 
 for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Me, being a huge sci fi fan, and fps games as my favorit genre, this is near perfect. Ive been 
 a UT fan since i first tried the UT99 demo and then got it for my bithday. Since then the UT games 
 have been among my number one online games, with its awesome acion, graphics, and the fact that 
 its a future based gladitor game parks this game right in up my alley :) And the UT games have 
 just gotten better by each new game, and UT2004 is no exception, awesome multiplayer game if you 
 love sci fi. so bring on UT 2007 already... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife75
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  this game is easy to review... if you like to blow people and/or things up then this is the game 
 for you!
  
  the single-player mode is well polished with quick gameplay, easy controls and countless hours 
 of mayham and destruction. with weapons ranging from a weak assult rifle to an ultra-destructive 
 mini-nuke, your options for weaponry are vast. the true fun, however, lies in the multi-player. 
 if you find a server that has fully-customized weapons, vehicles and gameplay options then all 
 your time in the single-player mode hasnt nescessarily gone to waste, but pretty darn close to 
 it. weapons are usually changed to be more powerful and chaotic, making every round of unreal tournament 
 an action-packed free-for-all. another thing about the online aspect is the community. the ppl 
 running these servers do a fabulous job and all their time and effort is what translates into popular 
 servers. do yourself a favour.... if you have a fast connection and need a lil action in your life 
 that wont ever feel repetitive, then give this game a try... you wont be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnrealGwar
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is a great looking game with a great cartoon-ish feel to go along with it. 
 The concept of Unreal Tournament is a perfect excuse to blow the crap out of everything and everyone. 
 UT 2004 has a perfect combination of arena modes such as capture the flag, death match, team death 
 match, last man standing, invasion, mutant, etc. and large field battle modes such as assault and 
 onslaught. Its just a shame that no one on line plays bombing run or double domination (bombing 
 run is a lot of fun) . UT 2004 is perfect as a competitive game or a relaxing game, an on line game 
 or off line game. UT 2004 has some great AI for the bots, so even if you can't (or just don't want 
 to) play on line, you'll have a great time. It is quite possibly the most addictive, cool, action 
 packed game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  As I'm not a fan of online net playing, I have never played unreal online. So this review will 
 look at the one player side only. The tournament is kind of fun and is the way I would like the 
 online to be (by the way if it is like that someone reply to this) and the other maps aren't half 
 bad, however my critic point is the fact that it gets boring too easy. See once you've done the 
 game (which isn't easy) your sort of left empty. It's all very well giving us all this play, but 
 at the end of the day, this game feels as though it is a trainer for the online world and I hate 
 that kind of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bukkookkub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I've only owned this game for a little over a year, but this is the one game I cannot get enough 
 of, no matter how many times I play. It is nearly perfect in every way. ( I only say that because 
 UT2007 WILL be. lol)
  
  The story mode is highly creative, detailed, challanging at times, and just plain fun. Onslaught 
 and the addition of vehicles is soooo addicting weither playing single player or online. The main 
 thing I love about this game, is that the graphics are great for the time it came out.. and still 
 holds true today. However, the best part about the graphics.. is that you don't need a huuge cpu 
 to power this game. Everyone should own this. I love the expansions, maps, skins, just a ton upon 
 ton of stuff you can find on the internet FREE of charge. It's like getting a ton of different 
 games with this one.. so the value is amazing. Online is where this truely shines. an onslaught 
 32 player map. Oh yeah baby... PWND! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is one of the best games in series! I was really excited that'll be a great 
 game and i didn't prove wrong!!
  
  The gameplay is like the previous games with something more!! In UT 2004 you can drive vehicles 
 and of land and air which is very fun and very useful!
  
  The sound is a masterpiece! The crashes and the explosions, the gunfires and all that stuff are 
 perfect with no flaws! You will be amazed with how great are the sound effects!
  
  The graphics are also very very good, with nice visuals and high detail models!! The character 
 are like real people!! The explosions and the dust that comes up from tha gunfires and the crashes 
 is awesome!! You will encounter a different experience!!
  
  The strongest part of the game is the great multiplayer!! It's one of the best fps multiplayer 
 i have ever seen!!
  
  You can't miss UT 2004!! Especially the fps lovers!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukehu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This is probably my FAVOURITE shooting game.. not considering CS of Half Life! It has SOOO many 
 gamplay modes! And SO many weapons and vehicles! Each weapon has a main fire and an alternate fire! 
 DOUBLES the fun! It has combos too! and translocator! and you can also set restrictions and/or 
 modifications! Anyways...... it isTOO hard to describe how good this game is! .. o yes.. u can also 
 download maps! or sound packs! altho there are already a LOTTA maps in the game! Each map is well 
 built for a particular game mode! altho one can modify it to let it fit another game mode! When 
 I just got other shooting games, I played them for several hours and got bored of them, but when 
 I came across UT2004, I got addicted to it! SOO many game modes / maps/weapons.... etc... prevent 
 me from getting tired of it!
  i CAN"T wait for UT2007 to come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nokiakevj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is a great game from the unlimited amount of weapons to chose from and power 
 to do certain things that other games dont give out. When i first saw the game on Tuesday (March 
 14,2006) , i thought it was going to be the game of the year on my opinion. This game is like the 
 connecter to all games. it has allittle bit of a first-person shooter, racing, and also flying.
 
  
  My review on this game is overall good impresssion. it made me start playing games again... lol
 
  When i saw this game on my brother's CD holder, i thought of it as a whatever situation and didnt 
 want to even look at it. But, when i came to the best sites in the world (www. gamespot. com) , it 
 made me change my mind and took it off the rack for the first time. When installing this game, 
 i thought of it as a game called couter strike. Many of you might of heard of this game before 
 but i recommend taking this game off the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The single-player game in UT2004 remains relatively the same as it was in previous incarnations. 
 You assemble a team and work your way up a ladder of varied contests to claim the crown of tournament 
 champion. Of course, UT2004 adds a couple of quirks to the mix. For one, the first ladder you have 
 to climb is to prove your worthiness to lead a team as opposed to hopping straight into tournament 
 level combat. Another addition is random challenges from other teams. At risk for these side wagers 
 is money and often crew members. If you have your eye on another teams player, you can challenge 
 them to a single round of play with the desired character as the prize. When the challenge is pointed 
 at your team, winning gives you the right to keep your teammate, while ending up on the short side 
 of victory has you culling the barrel of free agents for a replacement. You can decline these challenges, 
 but itll cost you a fair portion of your accumulated winnings to do so. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch 
 and Capture the Flag are the stock and trade of first-person shooters and need no introduction, 
 but some of the other modes might not be as familiar. Assault pits you as an attacker or defender 
 in a timed match wherein the attacker tries to move through a sequence of goals while the defender 
 endeavors to put a violent end to the aggression. One of the nice additions to Assault is an introductory 
 cutscene that plays the first time a map loads that explains, in spoken details along with a fly-by 
 of the level, what the objectives are. Similarly, Invasion puts your team up against wave after 
 wave of incoming attackers that you try repel while staying alive to the end of the time limit.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick5800
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  unreal tournament is the bast. very good graphics, excellent sound just everything is great. i 
 would have to say this is my favorite. all the missions are really fun, and it doesn't get boring 
 any thime soon. you can play it for years! I have been playing this game with a friend for 2 years 
 and we never get tired. there are some really amazing guns in this game. my favorite is the lightning 
 gun. just by the sound of the gun you can imagine its cool. thers not much more to say about this 
 game. the online games are also really good so if you do get this game make sure you play it online. 
 i did find it very expensive when i bought it but i thing prices have come down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  HEADLINE: "Crazy yet satisfying"
  
  UT2004 REVIEW
  By: StarFry64
  
  For a long time, the Unreal Tournament series is known for it's great multiplayer yet still hasn't 
 bring up alot of players into which is sad. Until now! This game has the best graphics for a multiplayer 
 game like this. For some reason, I am saying that this is a multiplayer game because it really 
 is. Unlike World of Warcraft and Counter-Strike (Source) it has a great community. You can make 
 clans and such and being able to play with your friends in this game is a great experience. Besides 
 the multiplayer is the campaign and it is horrible it really is. The campaign pretty much has the 
 exact same story like all of the UT games. The story is that your team or yourself has to win the 
 Unreal Tournament and you will be known as the best. Being able to play with your team in the campaign 
 is much more fun than going all by yourself in the campaign. But probably, you will stick into 
 the multiplayer right? Well you should. This really is meant to be a great multiplayer game and 
 it truly is with it's modes and vehicles and weapons and etc. that brings you to a new world waiting 
 for you besides Azeroth (WoW) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom3kjc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  The entire Unreal Tournament series has offered some of the greatest multiplayer around, and UT 
 2004 is no different. It brings the great gory action in past UT games and adds a whole variety 
 of options to offer you in the process, along with awesome maps, great AI, and overall a superb 
 presentation.
  
  UT2004's gameplay is very well done. In the single player, you start out simply by yourself, but 
 over time, you can start drafting you team, earning more credits, and making your way to the top. 
 This is very well put together, and probably the only minor drawback is that it is a little on 
 the short side. If you prefer to get through as much as you can in on sitting, you'd probably be 
 able to breeze through most of the single player, but that still doesn't stop it from being one 
 awesome FPS.
  The multiplayer in UT2004 is unbelievably great. There are so many different options that are presented 
 in an organized display so you can customize anything from your player skin to your HUD size to 
 the color and size of your crosshair when you switch to a weapon. The different game modes are 
 very compelling, ranging from simple Deathmatches to the incredible Onslaught modes, where you 
 charge up Power Nodes in a connect-the-dots fashion and to eventually destroy your enemies' Core.
 
  Basically put, the gameplay is fantastic.
  
  As always, UT2004's graphics are top-notch and very high quality. You can change a large variety 
 of graphics options to suit your PC if it doesn't meet the recommended requirements. The overall 
 quality of the game is quite good no matter what settings you use, but the highest settings in 
 this game just make the graphics look flat-out amazing.
  
  The audio in this game is also well done. The ambient sounds make you feel like you're really in 
 the environment. The other details such as footsteps jumps are very well done, but after you've 
 played this game for a long time (and you will, trust me) , you'll notice you'll be hearing the 
 same 6 or 7 death screams and 11 to 12 unique taunts for each player, but even that is weighed 
 out by the fact that almost every character has a unique voice and different voice commands. Some 
 characters have more unique taunts, some have more taunt animations and so on, which gives UT 2004 
 even more variety.
  
  This is probably another great feature that UT 2004 has and does very well. After you've done the 
 single player, and after you've mastered multiplayer, you can still go back to the single player 
 campaign and select from approximately 7 difficulties from Novice to Godlike. And if you've mastered 
 those modes, UT 2004 comes with some really well-put-together and creative add-ons that are not 
 in-game. These include UPaint, which lets you work in conjunction with other programs to create 
 player skins and other textures; Katz, which allows you to create 3D models of characters; and, 
 my personal favorite, UnrealEd v.3, which lets you edit and create your own maps. UnrealEd might 
 require you to look for a tutorial on the internet, but once you get it, you'll realize that making 
 maps is a snap. These extra programs not only let you create and personalize you UT 2004 experience, 
 but let you create your own work and recreate the UT 2004 experience all over again. Even more 
 replay value is available with all the new map, mods, and other downloads that are available.
 
  
  Simply put, UT 2004 is a definite must-buy. Unless you hate action or multiplayer games (and I 
 man absolutely despise them) there is no excuse for not owning this game. It is definitely worth 
 playing and definitely worth every single penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_shadow001
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  UT2004 is one of the best if not the best first person shooters I have played. The arenas that 
 you battle in are awesome. The graphics are intense and colorful. The weapons are intense. My favorite, 
 the Frag gun is great for close combat. I like get the Frag monkey award. The sniper gun is great 
 for long distance shots. I like getting head shots and the award associated with it. You can get 
 awards for killing multi people in a row within like Multi-kill, mega-kill, ultra-kill, etc. There 
 are many mods of arenas for this game also. The AI is pretty good in this game also. Your teams 
 actually guard you when you have the flag in the capture the flag game. Overall, if you have never 
 played this game and love 1st person shooters, add this game to your collection. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yip345
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool and the gameplay and graphics are superb. This is a game I would reccomend 
 to people that are already fans of the unreal series. This particular game is probably better than 
 Unreal Tournament but lacks the multiplayer urge you get on the original Unreal Tournament. What 
 it lacks in that, it more than makes up for with graphics, style, single player, and basicly everything 
 else you can think of. Keep up the good work Unreal! Once the next Unreal comes out, this will 
 be completely underappreaciated, but I'll still play it. This is the next generation of shooting 
 action games. Unreal and Quake both are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattw1555
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I love UT 2004!! I had ever played any games in the UT series and I wish I had because I had no 
 idea as to what I was missing out on. The multiplayer is absolutly amazing. All of the modes from 
 deathmatch to CTF are a lot of fun. It has the best AI of any game that I have ever played. Making 
 the instant action part of the game worth playing over and over. My fav mode is team deatyhmatch 
 becasue the match seems to last longer and you really need to watch what your doing. It's just 
 a great game and the graphics and detail put in to the game are second to none! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  Its really unreal !!!
  you must believe in your self and in your team to win the tournament
  Amazing game with a lot 
 of goods that I'm gone talk about : 
  Graphics : superb graphics of characters details , weapons details and world details .
  Physics 
 : good physics but need more work .
  Sounds : great sounds with good music that's gives you a nice feeling .
  Game play : amazing 
 game play with too many maps to be played .
  The bad thing ; there is no bad things at all , nothing bad in this game.
  My Last Word Is : 
 its really game worth to be played and move to my collection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubba_83835
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  I have never showed much interest in these games, until ut2004. This game will never get old. The 
 best part is LAN or internet play. This has so many ways to play online, the compition is crazy 
 online, so be sure to get some game time under your belt before trying to delve into the online 
 sceen. I have had this game for well over a year and unlike the others, this one just gets better 
 with experience and time..... This is a must have for any gamer, get it, NOW! Oh, best played with 
 Saitek P2500 Rumble. My one complaint about the controlers is their lack of being user friendly, 
 I dont see why they dont adopt a standard like Sony with the Play Station, one simple place for 
 saves and setup files. So the controler is a bit much to decipher so that it will work with ut2004, 
 but if you or a friend are comfortable with experimenting I would suggest it....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  Unreal 2004 is one of the best games in series! I was really excited that'll be a great game and 
 i didn't prove wrong!!
  
  The gameplay is like the previous games with something more!! In unreal 2004 you can drive vehicles 
 and of land and air which is very fun and very useful!
  
  The sound is a masterpiece! The crashes and the explosions, the gunfires and all that stuff are 
 perfect with no flaws! You will be amazed with how great are the sound effects!
  
  The graphics are also very very good, with nice visuals and high detail models!! The character are 
 like real people!! The explosions and the dust that comes up from tha gunfires and the crashes is 
 awesome!! You will encounter a different experience!!
  
  The strongest part of the game is the great multiplayer!! It's one of the best fps multiplayer i 
 have ever seen!!
  
  You can't miss Unreal 2004!! Especially the fps lovers!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god2emperor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  i have always been a fan of the unreal series, i have unreal I, unreal II, unreal tournament, unreal 
 tournament 2003 and unreal tournament 2004. the only ones i am missing the is the unreal chamionship 
 serise, because i don't have a Xbox. the addiction of veheils and more super weapons are amazing. 
 the lost mode of assult is back with better gamplay than ever, the onslaughter mode made me crazy 
 and want more, the graphic is better than 2003, not a little beter, but much better. the new weapon 
 have been great, espesially the spider mine and the granade laucher. the shock rifle, assult rifle 
 and the link gun haz been re-modled, the shock rifle looks meaner than ever. the best game, buy 
 it. it also offers a wide range of difficulties, the instant action and mutipler, could keep you 
 busy after the single player or champein, which is a replica of the instant action, sort of. it 
 is easy to get the hang of it but hard (impassible ot master, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Battleofcarnage
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is great fun. It is just that kind of game that you can just get into and start playing 
 and having fun. Very fast paced and makes time go bye like water through a faucet. Single Player 
 campaign is kinda repetitive and gets boring but works for times that you cannot get together with 
 friends. The best part, and saving part, is multiplayer. Get together with a bunch of friends at 
 a lan party and just have a great big frag fest. I believe it is the best lan first person shooter. 
 It is unlike most games where getting killed is a horrible thing. In this game getting killed is 
 normal, even the best get killed. it's just about having fun and trying to take out more enemies 
 than the other people.
  If you have friends with computers and can make a network, get it now it's definitely worth it. 
 If you are into single player only or don't have someone to play with then it's fun for awhile 
 but you will not be even close to getting the full enjoyment out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fierydemonx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This Unreal Tournament says it all the multiplayer is great and the graphics are awesome. This 
 is a very fast paced game i advise you to get it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vortexx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has held very high standards since '99, and since then little has changed. 2004 
 is a roaring success. It is by far the most complete game I have seen. Even today, two years after 
 its release, and with UT 2007 just around the corner, there is a gigantic fan base present. It 
 still looks great, too. Even with all the HDR lighting and megatextures out there, Unreal is still 
 smooth and crisp. Sound is very nicely done, with great environmental sound effects and a full 
 orchestral score by a pro composer. This game is also HUGE! It just edges out 6 GB on my hard-drive, 
 with patches. There are well over 100 official maps, and there are many user-made maps out there. 
 But most of us h4rdc0r3 already know this, what we're here for is the fragging! Super-smooth, super-fast 
 is what it's all about. Don't blink or you will be painting the walls. Assault, onslaught, deathmatch, 
 double domination, CTF, and more. UT will by far keep you entertained well into the future. Heh, 
 I can't count how many hours I have played it! If you are worried about getting crushed and humiliated 
 online, don't fear! There are still plenty of newer and casual players out there, too. Well, need 
 I say more? I bought this for $50 two years ago. Now you can get it for next to nothing. Still 
 don't have it? GET IT NOW!!! You will be glad you did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaSsDoWn22
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  this game really make me feel like i'm in a reall war . every thing is amazing. the game play , 
 the graphics, .... everything.
  
  this game u can play it for a long long time.. may be forever.
  
  the great thing too in this 
 game that u will think that u have more than 6 Games in one Game :) WOW .. it's really great one.
 
  
  in fact i played this game the most of all games . 
  
  i think there is nothing more to say .. but if u don't played it until now .. go and get it right 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goda
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best of the unreal games out so far More levels more killing and just over 
 all more everything, In this game you not only just run around and kill people you have the chance 
 to FLY HOVER AND DRIVE
  Yes it's a halo rip off but who the hell cares it's all about having fun right?
  "RIGHT" any 
 how i have to say after playing this game by my self for 3 days now i just got online with it if 
 you think your the best HA HA your about to be schooled Tho the game is hard it's noting like playing 
 with real people.
  Be perpard to have your ass handed to you in a paper sack LOL fast passe death what a game HE HE 
 i LOVE IT TWO THUMBS UP..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tachanes
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best online FPS I have ever played! I had never heard of it until this guy at 
 my work brought it to me and said "You gotta check this out" so I did and I was blown away. Great 
 game play and great graphics, I love the weapons and the way that people die in this game with 
 legs flying off and bodies being torn in half. Good old gore. Awesome game if you haven't tryed 
 it yet what are you waiting for? It is UNREAL!!!! The adreanalin pills are awsome once you get 
 to 100 then you can do all sorts a crazy crap it is awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  To first start of this review if you dont have a connection speed to the internet over 256kbs dont 
 even try to play this game online.....
  This game is a lot of fun and will keep you hooked. The great things are 32 players online at a 
 time on a map lot of killing, fun, shooting, game modes, tweaks, maps, vehicles, weapons and so 
 on the list is endless. There has to be at least 175 maps to choose from easy. There is no single 
 player levels where you progress through the story but the is a quick lay feature with bots where 
 you can change there difficulty setting from novice to godlike that feature will keep you occupied 
 when the server is down. The bad  gotta say but i think there is 
 no bad on this game so buy now or wait for the new UT2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kile22
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best FPS I have ever played, topped only by half-life 2 and Far Cry, but those 
 are two completely different types of FPS. This is a true classic. Hopefully the new Unreal Tournament 
 2007 will be able to live up to the greatness of this one. This game will keep you entertained 
 for hours upon hours. I'm not much of an online gamer, but what I have played online has been great. 
 Also there is tons of content out there for UT2004, mods, levels, skins, and much more. If you 
 haven't bought this game yet, do it now, even with 2007 coming out this game runs really good on 
 mediocore pcs, like mine. You will have an absolute blast with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVader92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  UT 2k4 is a GREAT improvement over the last ut's. A diverse set of maps and characters is also 
 included. over 25+ (im guessing) character skins, over 50+ (guessing, too) maps, give or take a few. 
 
  
  Multi can get on your nerves sometimes if you get into a slump. But, if you get angry b-cuz you 
 are getting pwned, jsut exit out of the server, and head over to 'Instant Action," where you can 
 choose and game type (i. e. TDM, CTF, onslaught) and any map from the game. 
  
  
  Over all, this is a great game to pick up and play. should keep you busy for about 3 months b-4 
 you feel affects of the slightest hint of boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Pros: After the release of Unreal Tournament (GOTY) I was directly addicted. With the realease 
 of Unreal Tournament 2003 I just got more excited, but when they released UT 2004 it just couldn't 
 get any better (Untill end this year - UT2007) . the return of Assault (mission based multiplayer 
 mode) and the arrival of Onlsaught (Vehicle Mayhem Mode) it was the best multiplayer game on the 
 market. The engine was beautifull (when it was released) and the game was perfectly playable. The 
 free map editor also gave me hours of fun! And I still play it! 
  
  Cons: Too bad the spaceships only came into one assault mission instead of an added Onslaught map. 
 No bad things about this game yet, just hoping I can play UT2007! :P 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dasilva90
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Presentation
  Comes in your standard DVD case with a detailed manual and 1 DVD disc. The game menus are easy 
 and effective.
  
  Story & Dialogs
  Not much of a story, your a warrior fighting in arenas for entertainment and the glory of smashing 
 your enemies.
  
  Graphics
  Cutting edge graphics engine from Epic Games, high end PC required.
  
  Sound
  Sound effects 
 are good, music is pulse pumping and makes you're adrenaline go nuts combined with the amazing 
 gameplay.
  
  Gameplay
  Highly addictive gameplay, improved appon Unreal Tournament 2003's gameplay.
  
  Lasting Appeal
 
  You'll be busy with this multiplayer for hours on end, some of the best FPS gameplay here. 
  
  Last Word
  A great series in the FPS genre, truly a classic.
  
  9.3/10 - Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  the game is great and i totaly love the graphics its so cool and i just love whenever i use the 
 tanks, scorpion and hell benders and hit or ram it inoto one of the players it just makes me laugh 
 whenver their blood spilld trough with gore 
  
  But at some times i just like to use bazookas and shoot it infront of the enemy its really funny 
 whenver they die i mean when they die they sound more like they volmited well with blood but the 
 whole story was that my first unreal game was the unreal tornement the first one soon when my gaming 
 brain becomes greater i soo realize that there was a new unreal tornement but i didnt have enough 
 money soon when i wanted to buy 2003 i soon saw 2004 i decided to buy 2004 since it includes vehicles 
 and the graphics were up to date so i buyed it and i still cant stop playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radomu
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Normally FPS games are separated into to sections. Rumbling madness like "Call of Duty" or "Star 
 Wars Battlefront", or assassin based quiet games, for example "Tom Clancy's Splintercell" or sometimes 
 "Halo". Well Unreal Tournament 2004 can be both and you can choose which order you want to play. 
 In this game, you get complete freedom to do any mission or match in any order.
  Also in some games, some weapons are too strong and some are crap. Though in this game, no weapon 
 is crap or "not fair". Every weapon or vehicle is extremely unique and enjoying to use and is appropriate 
 
  What ever happens, this game is recommended for every FPS fans and anytime who hates mission based 
 games in Chronological order. It never gets old and is also a game for modifications. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bac_Alexander
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is one of the greatest games around. UT 2004 came out in 2004 and even after 
 2 years (now it is 2006) it is still a great game, and not many games come close to it. This is 
 instant classic just like original Unreal Tournament. UT 2004 has what a lot of players want, great 
 graphics, good sound effects, a lot of gametypes, maps, lots of weapons, good multiplayer, good 
 community and great offline games. 
  
  The graphics in UT 2004 are stunning, maybe it does not have new graphical features but that only 
 means you don't need a powerful computer to run this game and G-Force Ti 4200 128 mb is enough. 
 High resolution textures high polygon models and levels is all you need for game to look great 
 and run fast.
  
  UT 2004 has a lot of gametypes with different objectives so if you do not like one of the gametypes 
 just play the other ones. There old classic "Capture the Flag" "Death Match" and unique to UT 2004 
 "Double Domination" and "Bombing Run", new to UT 2004 is the Onslaught and Assault. And what is 
 the better way to enjoy all this gametypes in more than 100 maps, if that is not enough the community 
 is great and more quality maps have been released. You can also play around with a mutators. Mutators 
 can change your gameplay and many new great mutators have been made by public. To add to all of 
 this, there are about 15 different weapons to eliminate your enemies and most of them have a secondary 
 fire you can use to keep your enemies running for their life. If you got bored with UT 2004, once 
 again the community is great. Some great mods have been released and some are still in progress. 
 Just to name a few you can check out are Alien Swarm, Red Orchestra, Killing Floor, Troopers Dawn 
 of Destiny, Defence Alliance and there are many more.
  
  If you are worried that this is too hard, too many gametypes, i don't know what to do and what 
 if i get lost. Than don't worry, UT 2004 has gametype tutorials that teach you the basics and UT 
 2004 has a system that shows you were is the enemy base and where is your objective. So there will 
 be no excuse to getting lost. 
  
  Multiplayer in UT 2004 is one of the best, but sadly less and less people play it now, especially 
 in some regions like Australasia. But if you can not find a game online than play offline. Bots 
 are great, better than in most games and their difficulty can be set from very easy to very professional 
 level so everyone can enjoy the game. Bots always know what to do and do their objective, but still 
 they are not humans and can not do some smart moves that humans can. 
  
  Unreal Tournament has UnrealEd, with this program you can create your own maps, edit the game and 
 create ingame cut scenes. UnrealEd is very powerful tool and if you want to learn how to use it 
 go to www.3dbuzz. com and you can download free training videos that show and tell you what you 
 need to know in great detail. After those videos you will be able to great your own great maps 
 were you can challenge people and your friends or play with the bots.
  
  If you played UT 2003 and want to know how it compares to UT 2004. Than i will tell you. UT 2004 
 is much better and more polished. Has 2 new gametypes, six vehicles have been added to play on 
 those 2 gametypes, more maps, more mutators, better single player which takes longer to complete 
 and is more interesting, better bots, more weapons to kill your enemies, better graphics, more 
 graphics settings were you can adjust your UT 2004 to run smooth and look great on your computer. 
 And there are more sounds, textures and static meshes to use in UnrealEd for creation of your maps. 
 So UT 2004 is much great than UT 2003 but it takes extra 2 gigabytes to install in total of 5.5 
 gigabytes needed. But UT 2003 was one of the first games to use karma physics for characters in 
 the games and it is still used in UT 2004 with some improvements. 
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is one best games around with all those features, how can it not be? It 
 could have been bad but Unreal Team did a great job putting everything together and polishing the 
 game. With the great community that contributed a lot to the game. Everyone should give this game 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome the grphics in this game are awsome if u put them all the way up this might 
 even compete with games like doom 3 kinda not really but yeah they are really good and also the 
 gameplay is awosme all the weapons are balanced out and every gun or vehicle has its weakness and 
 every map in this game isnt just a fill in all maps are fun to play on and fun to look at. The 
 assualt and onslaught modes in this game are the best thing ever these game modes are tons of fun 
 and never get old to me this is one of the best games ive played in the fps genre this game is 
 a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterKevosavi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This is quite possibly one of the best FPSs I have ever played. There is so much that makes this 
 game so good.
  
  There are so many forms of gameplay in UT2k4. CTF, bombing run, assault, onslaugh, deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and some more which I can't remember right now. All these forms of play really 
 add to the UT2k4 experience.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice, even if they are a bit old these days. I can run it at 1600*1200 
 resolution (higher if my monitor supported it) , maxed out settings, and 8xSSAA with 16xAF. I can't 
 do that with some games out of that time period. It just shows that this unreal engine is very 
 efficient.
  
  Sound is nice, but nothing like FEAR. I love it when the commentator makes all those commentating 
 noises, where he sounds like a 7 foot tall man who's been smoking his whole life (in other words, 
 a really deep voice) . Those sound commentations are soooo funny.
  
  There pretty much isn't much to the single player campain. You are part of a team in the UT universe, 
 and you compete against other team. You have to pay your team members after each match. Other than 
 that though, you are pretty much just playing games with increasing difficulty.
  
  The only down side is that it's a 5.5GB game, without any mods! That's huge! But the game is very 
 optimized, so I rather it take up that space then have worse visuals and frame rates.
  
  This is a great game, and you MUST get this. Do it now. NOW! Or wait for UT2k7, but that may not 
 run on your machine, depending how old it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulessjay
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games that I have ever played. I would highly recommend it. I have easily 
 spent a lot of time playing this game. The single player mode is great but the game really shines 
 when you play multiplayer. There is an abundance of maps that can be chosen and there are several 
 different game modes to choose. Keeping track of your online stats is very nice as well.
  
  This game will become very addicting once you begin to play. If you are looking for a great FPS 
 game, than this is the one for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorre_1978
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I love this game to death. ONS and CTF maps totally rock. I will be playing this game for years 
 to come. well until ut2007 comes out anyway. I love the capture the flag style the best. real team 
 work is required to acheive results as it is with any online team based game i surpose.
  This game is highly reccomended.
  My favorite weapon is the link gun and the flak gun is amazing. 
 also each weapon has a main fire moe and a secondary fire mode which is real cool.
  Also love the fact that you can have vehicles in some of the game types. tanks etc. There are now 
 also alot of game addons/mods that you can now get plus tehre are many sites out there were you 
 can download many different maps for all the game types, capture the flag, onslaught, death match, 
 bombing run plus others.
  2x thumbs up for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metkil
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of my favorite games. Tight Multiplayer with tons of explosions and high-paced 
 action. This game will never stop. 
  
  Gameplay: The multiplayer in this game is just beyond beleif. I got this game, and played it for 
 a good 22 hours in a row (then I got a migrine, curse them) . The controls are easy and if your 
 new to the series you can learn really fast. Just remember the movement keys, shoot, and jump and 
 you will be fine. If you have a microphone then your in luck. This game supports voice chat. This 
 is very useful when you play on a Big Team Match, like 16 on 16.
  
  Graphics: Again my card is really bad, so I'm going use my friend's word on it. 
  "Perfect, the 
 shading and everything around you is highly detailed." So with that I say it's really good.
  
  Sound: I can't tell there's to many explosions and loud music when you play.
  
  Value: 
 Pick this game up, and if you can get the Editior's Choice Edtion. It comes with the Unreal Editior, 
 so you can make your own maps.
  
  This game is fun as hell. If you need a game fix your thrist for mymhem then here is your game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeger
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is one of the all time great games and probably the best shooter ever. From 
 the graphics to the game speed, it really was about perfect. I have a ton of games on my computer, 
 and a few games I havent even loaded yet, but I still find myself playing this by the end of the 
 night. I got this when it first came out and have played it almost every day since. TONS OF FUN! 
 This game just doesnt get old!! I didnt think it was going to be able to unseat the original UT, 
 but it has. (dont know what happened to the one before this, I hear it was buggy) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReaverEmmanuel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the best I've ever played. From UT 99 to 2004, it's been a big leap 
 in FPS action. You get things that most FPS games are starting to put in, such as vehicles, team 
 based missions, and of course there's the ever popular deathmatch! Like RPG type games where you 
 level? Not a problem! UT 2004 has a special multi player type called Invasion. You kill monsters 
 from past games such as Unreal, Unreal 2, UT 99... all of that. Some servers make it hard to level 
 and some servers are simple. It doesn't matter though! You just fight wave after wave of creatures 
 gaining exp, getting stronger, faster, lighter! Well, it all depends on what you put into your 
 stats. 
  
  UT 2004 is a must get by all FPS lovers. That's why this game has my 10/10. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Snake
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely one of the best multiplayer games you can get out there. It is very highly 
 addictive, gameplay excellent, the graphics are great and the sounds are perfect (especially when 
 you start getting killing sprees and performing double kills) . Playing online is also wicked and 
 quite a challenge as it takes a while to get used to playing the game as it goes on fast. You can 
 also play in teams which is even more wicked and play other different modes like "Onslaught" where 
 you can ride vehicles!
  
  Overall this game is recommended to buy if you love online FPS Shoot & Kill games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterX-slo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 4:57 am PT
Review:  The FPS games are amazing, but none of all FPS, is as good as Unreal Tournament 2004, when you 
 play the original game, you just know that this is the greatest game you ever played, so this new 
 one is awesome, it has vehicles, planes, tanks, and the levels are fantastic. When you go play 
 online you can also see that it's great, i can't stop playing online because it's so awesome, so 
 don't buy Quake games because they suck get Unreal Tournament wich it's 5times better then those 
 boring Quake games. You can also make your own team in UT2004, if you play ''Instant Action'', 
 you must play ''Onslaught'', because there my friend, the magic happens!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cod2expert
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game has very good online play, but its a 2004 game so the graphics are not that great 
 but ok. The game play is solid. The weapon system is great but there could be a better varity of 
 weapons. Other than that the singel player mode is ok the ai in this game isnt the best but good 
 enough.
  
  I only have a few dissapointments for this game! One- the ai insnt that great
  Two- weapondry could be better Three- there should be more vehicals and toys to play with online 
 and in single player mode.
  
  Other than that BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! really good and gorey. A good after school gorey 
 shooter! lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangman
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  It has been a while since I last played UT 2004, so I went to look for it between a maze of game-packages.. 
 I caught it catching dust and seeing how everyone rates UT2k4 quite high, I was wondering why I 
 didn't play it for such a long time..
  
  In the first DM match I found out. The difficulty isn't too balanced, when I played on Experienced, 
 it was too easy. When I played on Skilled (which is one skill higher) it was a bit more balanced, 
 but still a bit on the easy side. When I played Adept (which is again just one skill higher) it 
 became just too hard.
  
  Of course you could say, "you need to practice more, n00b", but then you're probably forgetting 
 that not everyone has the time to play Unreal Tournament 24/7. 
  
  In any case, after a while I just went with the "a bit too easy" skill as it seemed to frustrate 
 me the least. The SP game was rather enjoyable, with the skill increasing just a little bit as 
 you progressed. Of course, in team-based matches this did work a bit on my nerves as you have to 
 rely on friendly bots to win. The lower the skill, the dumber the bots get, but this counts for 
 your teammates as well - When I specifically tell them to "hold a position" near our flag, to prevent 
 them from defending a spot no one passes anyway, they'll just stand there all the time and not 
 care about the flag. So even on a lower skill (not too low ofcourse, for Novice it doesn't count!) 
 you have to be a rather good player to succeed in winning, that is if you don't want the bots to 
 take all the honour, since they are quite good at attacking.
  
  And so you'll get at the final match of the SP game. This is probably one of the most frustrating 
 parts in any game I've played. Regardless of what skill you pick, the one bot you face here will 
 be Godlike. That's just not fair against casual players. You've come this far, feeling like "the 
 chosen one" in the Tournament and then you get at this point, being owned by a 3D model that has 
 a few lines of code for brains. The only positive side about this specific match is that you'll 
 feel like a god when you complete it. IF you complete it. If not, you'll just feel like killing 
 yourself.
  
  I'm not going into detail to much about the various gametypes, since you probably gathered those 
 from the zillions of UT2k4-overrating-reviews.
  I'm not going to tell you about my own experiences with these gametypes either, except for Onslaught, 
 seeing as it is a newcomer in the UT series it has to be tested and commented well.
  Onslaught can be described in just a couple of keywords - big maps, repetitive, sometimes boring.
 
  
  The maps are really too big to just walk around on foot, that's why there are vehicles, obviously. 
 However seeing as vehicle vs infantry-combat is well balanced, these battles can be everlasting. 
 Defending a powernode, repairing it, etc etc... does get quite boring after 10 minutes. Onslaught 
 gets one-sided pretty quick, once you're losing there's no way in hell you still stand a chance 
 of winning. You best be on the right team..
  
  There's still one thing that bothers me a bit and it is the soundtrack. There are definitely some 
 nice tunes in the game, but in-game it can be quite distracting and it can give you a headache 
 from time to time. The original UT's soundtrack was better, as it was softer..
  
  However, don't let all my complaining stop you from buying it - heh, I bet that if you're offended 
 by this review you've probably got it already. Don't worry, there is actually one positive side 
 about UT2k4: Going online. There you don't face brainless or dominating bots, but real people. 
 Their skill can be a bit better than yours or worse, but it's probably not too hard to find your 
 perfect match. I once recall a little fight in DM-Antalus, where it took about 1 minute to kill 
 a concurring player.. Both of us seemed to use quite the same tactics, jumping around, strafing 
 and trying to hit each other, now that was awesome. You won't have that with bots, either they 
 immediately hit you with a Flak Cannon up close or you just hit hem.
  
  Conclusion!
  The SP game might be fun for novice players or really awesome players, but the "middle skills" 
 just are insufficient at least in my opinion. I'll let you know if I change my mind. The great 
 positive side though, is online play. If you enter the right room for you you can and will have 
 a good load of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ-Sephiroth
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game is so much better than Halo 2. Everything this game does beats Halo 2. The gameplay is 
 epic. So much more than just Slayer and Capture the Flag as in Halo. You get missions to defend 
 a base or plant a bomb in the enemy's base. There is so much more to do than in Halo 2. The multi-player 
 is much better than Halo 2. There are much cooler weapons than Halo 2. (Fuel Rod Cannon, you can't 
 touch the Redeamer!) The graphics are so beautiful. I've never seen mutalation look so beautiful. 
 There are so much more vehicles then Halo 2. Halo just has Tank, Benshee, and Ghost. Wow i'm scared 
 it's a Banshee *pulls out a Avaril* what now Banshee. This is so much better than Halo 2. Yet more 
 people like Halo 2 I just don't get it. Any way I think once you play this game you'll wanna quit 
 Halo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Davila89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing 
 else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i 
 have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else 
 to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have 
 nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to 
 say i have nothing else to say i have nothing else to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is a very good game. It has excellent action and has many maps. Unreal may be 
 a bit difficult to play for some viewers like me ^^. Unreal Tournament's makers need to know how 
 to make the sound go with the scene. The graphics are full of squares but it is OK for a 2004 game. 
 I can't say this is the best shooter i have ever played. Unreal Tournament deffinately is really 
 intense but Counter Strike can simply beat how intense the game is. For an online shooter it's 
 a good game but after a while, it is more then 50% that you will get bored but wadda you know? 
 all games get boring after a while. Get this game if you like online mixed up shooters. 
  
  Reviewed by:
  
  THE $aRaH!
  
  This is a review by a student. I am not a professional. This 
 is just what I think. Do not get angry if you don't agree. Remember this is only my opinion. Thank 
 you for your cooperation.
  
  -THE $aRaH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettlee01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  unnreal Tournament took the PC world by storm. With it's mix of absolutely breathtaking graphics, 
 lightning gameplay, and varied online modes of play, UT has become one of the most memorable PC 
 releases over the past few years. Now, of course, it's time to port them over to the consoles so 
 everyone can join in the fun. The fun, however, is partially washed away with the translation to 
 console. 
  
  
  Basically, this game wasn't conceived as a single player game. Sure, you can play it single player... 
 but there's really not much fun in it. The only reason to actually play the game alone is to train 
 for the online gaming. Unfortunately, on the Playstation 2, there is no online capability. 
  
  The single player mode consists of battling it out with some strange opponents in a series 
 of matches, ranging from pure deathmatch, to capture the flag, assault (an attack and defend mode) , 
 and a few other modes. As a single player game, you merely try to open up new maps and modes of 
 play by defeating the opponents. There is no story worth mentioning, as this is basically a game 
 depicting gladiators of the future. 
  
  The actual gameplay is decent. The translation to the PS2 is done quite nicely, but it takes a 
 while to get used to using the standards PS2 controller. If you have a USB mouse and keyboard, 
 however, the control works fine. There is quite a bit of strategy at play in Unreal Tournament, 
 especially during multiplayer games. Unfortunately, though, if you want to experience even a fraction 
 of the fun that is Unreal Tournament, you have to get four buddies, four controllers, a multitap, 
 and a large television. Expensive indeed, but it's the only way to truly have a fun time playing 
 UT. UT also uses the I-link cable, so if you and your friends happen to have four PS2's, 4 televisions, 
 and all the wires and hookups needed, you can play UT in a LAN like setting. Seriously, though... 
 there are probably not many gamers that can accommodate this setup... but at least they included 
 the option for those that can. 
  
  The graphics are nicely done, but still can't compete with the astonishing clarity found on the 
 PC. They are washed down for the console, and the game also features a healthy dose of a frame-rate 
 loss when too much happens on the screen at once. This is a disappointment considering the power 
 the PS2 is supposed to have. Still, the graphics are nicely done for the home console, although 
 they just lack the flair that's found on the PC version. 
  
  The core problem with Unreal Tournament is that it just wasn't made to be a console game. The other 
 PS2 game, Time Splitters, translates into a much more satisfying multiplayer home game. It features 
 modes of play that are well-done on a single PS2, multitap, and four controllers. Unreal Tournament, 
 no matter how great of a game on the PC, just loses its shine at home. If your looking for the 
 best multiplayer shooter on the Playstation 2, stick with Time Splitters. 
  -Jerred 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The games great, it has a wide span which u hardly get bored of... The game keeps you on your toes 
 and it's awesomely fast which I love... The game deffinitly comes close to the first Unreal tournament 
 and it gives a good gamer to push his limits to the end through the various difficulty modes and 
 the single player tournament is so awesome which you can play all through the day.. the graphics 
 are alo awesome moving in to the great out doors and large arenas as well as the 1on1 arenas.. 
 It's a great value for money and when it come to online and lan play it's just the best there is 
 keeps you playing for hours as where I play is on the local area network connecting with my friends 
 through a hub it's the best I guarentee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlemansbro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! It's just soo fast paced with soo much action. Amazin' Graphics if you have a 
 niice rig. But for some reason I never hurd much about it, Halo 2 got so much hyp for having amazing 
 campaign and multiplayer, yeah i got into that for a while, but no i got this. It's got crazy multiplayer, 
 i love just jumpin' into a bot match and just seein' how fast i can get 200 kills. Well if you 
 like a Fast paced FPS then this game is for you, hell even if you don't there are so many mods 
 for it, I've been playin' one that makes it like CS. It's just an amazing game. 10/10 :D :D :D 
 :D :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csf-60
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  es la hostia que mas os puedo decir unos graficos que te cagas y unos mapas pa jugar horas aunque 
 lo mejor es jugar por internet!!!!!!!!!! ! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!! 
  la hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia 
 la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia 
 la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala 
 hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la 
 hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la hostiala hostia la hostia la 
 hostiala hostia la hostia la hostia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manciny911
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  This is how a game should be, THE ULTIMATE SHOOTER!!!!!!!. Everything on this game is perfect.. 
 the graphics, gameplay, sound, story, multiplayer absolutely everything!!!!!!! UNREAL always makes 
 MASTER-GAMES and this is another one, I've got this game since the release and after so long I 
 know how amazing it is. They say it has to compete with Quake and my opinion is that it is easily 
 surpassed even QUAKE 4 and as a lot of us we can't wait until UNREAL TOURNAMENT 2007 witch will 
 also come on the PS3 and by seeing the trailers allready I now know this will be the new TOPGAME 
 of the year. To bad we have to wait but..... it will be worth it :D but this is all I wanted to 
 say about his ASTONASHING AWESOME GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Greetings Manciny911 In UT2004 Mr. Manc1ny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fascolik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Well UT2004 is the best of is series to date, it have a good multiplayer mode that work pretty 
 well and the new mode Onslaught is really fun to play.
  
  Graphic : Exceptional for the time. Amazing if you got a good graphic card.
  
  Gameplay : Well 
 made, better than UT2003, still a bit weird some time
  
  Sound : the sounds is great. Event after a lot fo years of UT, I still like the "HEADSHOT" or "MOMOMOMONSTER 
 KILL" : make me laugh each time I hear it.
  
  Value : Geart value cause you pay for lots of content.
  
  Tilt : After all it's a fun game 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  By reading IGN's review and the numerous reader reviews, you can gather by now that UT2K4 is an 
 awesome game. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 
  
  Make no mistake: Unreal Tournament 2004 is still, like any other UT game, all multiplayer. There's 
 some fun to be had in the single player if it's anything like 2K3, but if you don't have a good 
 Internet connection, don't bother. 
  
  Now that's out of the way, I'm gonna break the gameplay down by the PRIMARY modes. 
  
  DEATHMATCH 
 AND TEAM DEATHMATCH: Classic kill-or-be-killed. It's simple, but it works perfectly. There's nothing 
 like hearing RAMPAGE, DOMINATING, and GODLIKE when you're on a killing streak. Maps make things 
 interesting, as 2K4's level design is, like any other UT game, perfect. 
  If you enjoy being part of a team, but still like it simple, Team Deathmatch is a great alternate. 
 
  
  CAPTURE THE FLAG: Again, nothing has changed; it's still perfect. Navigation tools are still handy 
 to keep you in the action. 
  
  BOMBING RUN: This is one of the most underrated modes in the UT series. Think of it as football 
 with guns (yeah, it's as cool as it sounds) . You must get the "ball" to the other team's "hoop" 
 and either jump through it or "shoot" the ball through it to score 7 and 3 points respectively 
 (sounding like football?) You can "pass" the ball to another teammate by shooting it at them, but 
 other than a bad pass, the only way to get the ball back is kill the poor sap who has it. Once 
 again, navigation is a snap. 
  
  ASSAULT: YES! Assault returns! This time, it's better than ever, especially since navigation to 
 the map's objectives is INFINITELY easier. I've heard that vehicles also make an appearance in 
 certain Assault maps. It's addictive, but is still slightly behind... 
  
  ONSLAUGHT: This mode is basically BF1942 with better on-foot combat. If you haven't played the 
 demo, you must capture "nodes" and destroy the enemy power core. The catch is that the nodes must 
 "link" to the power core before you can attack it. It's basically "connecting the dots" from your 
 power core to the enemy's. It sounds complicated, but it's not. Vehicles are just as, if not more, 
 awesome than 1942. The "Hellbender" truck actually has a horn if you're in the driver's seat! A 
 HORN!!! How cool is that?! 
  
  Weapons are the same fun, delightfully destructive bunch from 2K3, with the return of the infamous 
 sniper rifle from the original UT. In addition to the 5 demo maps, there's 95 more! Yes, 95, for 
 a total of 100! While some are recycled from previous games (I heard somewhere they remade a few 
 favorite maps from the original) , you gotta give Epic credit for including that much stuff. Mutators, 
 such as Instagib, where everyone gets a one-shot-kill rifle, and the crazy Low Gravity, just to 
 name a few, are back and better than ever. 
  
  GRAPHICS: Purty. You will, however, need a powerful machine to run it. It runs well on my 2 Ghz 
 Pentium 4, with 256 RAM and a GeForce 5600, but I had to turn the resolution down to get good speed 
 to the game. Still, if you have the power, it's a beauty. 
  
  SOUND: A warning: IF YOU VALUE YOUR SANITY, DON'T USE THE MALE ANNOUNCER! He is THE most annoying 
 person you will EVER hear. The female announcer, however, is much more cool and pleasant. The way 
 she says "missiles" in AS-CONVOY with an accent on the "I" is cool, and even sexy (yes, I know, 
 I have a sad life) . Sound effects are good, but turn the taunts off also so you don't have to constantly 
 hear "Die **** 
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS: This game has legs that'll keep kicking for a long, long time. Add mods and new 
 user-created maps, and you've got a recipe for great fun for a LOOOONG time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShootersRule
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games ever made in history!!!!!!!!!!! with the countless mods available, 
 easy controls (depends how you play) , and probobly the best multiplayer!!!!!!! This game has great 
 graphics, a fun physics engine, and great weapons!!!!!!!! This game is just plain fun, very competetive 
 online, and it's a very great shooter (HEAD SHOT!!!!!!!!!) !!!!!!!!!! There's probobly nothin else 
 to say about this game, but all I can say now is: AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME 
 AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME AWESOME (C 'mon, run out of words 
 already!!!!!!) AWESOME AWESOME 
 
  Well, I gotta go play some more UT2004!!!!!!!!!, C ya!!!!!!!!!!!
  User name: 4r@g_0uT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRandom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  Alien-like games isn't my kind of game. But UT2004 steals my attention from other FPS for quite 
 a while. What I like about it is its fast-paced action, non-stop killing spree ability, countless 
 maps, and different modes of multiplayer game play. This, to me, is like a relaxation after having 
 to suffer from rather recent games which requires too much pain staking tactics to win. It is truly 
 an amazing run n gun shooter and the gory "splat" sound effects after each person's death are definitely 
 music to ears. This game feels rewarding after each round and I recommend those who aren't willing 
 to get it to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gore34
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  This is the best multiplayer FPS out there, it just does not get any better then this. Over 130maps!!! 
 vehicles, new modes, new characters, the return of assault mode. More downloadeds online. Forget about 
 ever going to sleep. The single player mode sucks. This game is mad fun. Online you never know who 
 you are playing it could be masters or newbies can't find the right people to play with. Epic really 
 out done it self but next time they sould focus a bit more on the single player. This game is a 
 mustplay for anyone who likes FPS. This is one of the best pc games out there. The music fits in. The 
 gameplay is really fun and fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerdimar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  hey unreal tournament is a really good game i think it is a legend because its has his one style 
 so i think that's realy cool.
  if you see other games it is just got an other feeling because you got that to in gta: vc in that 
 game you got the gta: vice city feeling en in this game you got the unreal feeling you no what i 
 mean!! en you got a battlefield mixx in the game becuase there are vehicles en you got that first 
 person shooter in it that is realy cool 2 
  But all the games come out (because new generation) dont look different all the games look the 
 same en i that aint is nice because then you aint got a special feeling you no ! but if i play 
 unreal tournament 2004 i got that feeling en that is special 
  
  from gamerdimar i hope you like my short review ! this is my first by the way so my review can 
 look a bit crappy en i am from Holland (dutch) so i can't speak English very wel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phili4life
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is one of the best first person shooters out there. This game offers so many 
 modes and maps you could be playing this for about 20 hours straight. The sound in this game isnt 
 the best but it isnt bad either so its in the middle. The graphics are very deatailed bringing 
 some real in to unreal. This games multiplayer is the best. It lets you up to about 32 players 
 killing each other online and really gives you an experience so big you'll forget that you even 
 had a life. I give Unreal Tournament 2004 a 9.4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daiblo732
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  BUY THIS GAME. It's just that good. Everything from space combat, tank/fortresses, and nukes to 
 mods galore, massive destruction, and comical frag announcments. You will never play anything more 
 expansive, more intense, or more hardcore. 
  
  Maps range from huge floating platforms in space, thousand-mile-high skyscraper rooftops, gargantuan 
 motherships, convoys racing though deserts, treacherously steep canyons, and wrecked cities.
  
  Weapons include a plasma rifle whose secondary fire lets you sear the flesh off opponents, 
 a energy rifle that lets you make its two fire modes converge, resulting in a devastating fusion 
 shockwave, a flechette-spread cannon that lets you shorch hundreds of holes in your opponent with 
 a single shot, and a laser rifle that seem harmless until the second-later orbital ion cannon strike. 
 Hardcore. 
  
  If you want to see bodies explode, hear the grim announcer reward you for giving your adversaires 
 particularly gruesome deaths, and get the extreme pleasure of fragging dozens of people with a 
 massive singularity cannon, this is the game for you. 
  
  Besides, it's the only game that lets you make pancakes out of your enemies. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyzilla
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbelieveable. The multiplayer experience is great. Though the HUD isn't as great, 
 this game is fun fun fun. Best when played with friends like on LAN. :D
  The story mod i haven't played as much, but then multiplayer is fun. There are many modes of gameplay 
 which makes the game interesting. My favorite modes are the one with power nodes and the other 
 is Assault. Moderators in the game is also a great addition, since if you get bored of the game, 
 you can put in mods that change the gameplay to your likings. 
  
  The game also has many mods for it, a great mod that HASN'T been released yet is : Tactical Operations: 
 Crossfire. Yeh, so you guys might want to get this game, especiallly if you are a fan of lasers 
 guts and big explosion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bah-Humbug
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of shooters in my time and by far Unreal Tournament 2004 has lasted longest 
 on my Hard Drive. Let me start by saying that this game has a huge learning curve if you plan on 
 mastering it. There are people who play this game many hours a day and are practically invincible 
 because of their skill. Don't let what I said put you off there are plenty of average players out 
 there that are much easier to kill then the crazy pros that I mentioned above.
  
  Players are also ranked by stats so it is possible to fight people at your level of skill which 
 is insanely fun. Just select quick match and select the level of skill you are at; beginner, adept, 
 masterful; click go and prepare to be challenged. As I mentioned above this game is crazy fast 
 paced you run very quickly and the weapons are powerful but balanced. Standing still in front of 
 a pro with a rocket launcher or shock rifle will quickly get you killed so keep moving and set 
 your mouse sensitivity so you can aim and turn fast.
  
  There are tons of gametypes to choose from; DM, TDM, CTF, DDom and some uniquely Unreal ones. There 
 is Mutant were one player is pitted against everyone else but has every powerup except health regeneration. 
 There is invasion where players fight against wave after wave of monsters. Last are Assault and 
 Onslaught which can involve vehicles and capturing or destroying things.
  
  UT2004 looks fantastic with full settings and AA and AF. It is hard to believe that the engine 
 is over three years old now. Sound is also pretty good though some weapons sound underpowered. 
 Time to wrap this up. If you love shooters you would be crazy not to add UT2004 to your collection. 
 Go buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMECAMILLER
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  What do the words "First Person Shooter" mean to you? What images come to your mind? Often, if 
 you say this to a gamer, they think of army style games where your (you're) strolling through a 
 battlefield in a setting such as Vietnam, blasting soldiers as you make way to victory. Ah, but 
 the Unreal series departs from this stereotype. The Unreal tournament has returned, this time with 
 an explosive impact that dares to make a bigger impact then the first unreal tournament ever did. 
 
  For people who don't like to read, let me just make it simple for you: buy the game now. It's that 
 good. But for us who want more details please read on. I'm sure you will be pleased.
  
  Starting with unreal tournament 2003, Atari and Epic made a pact to distribute a UT game every 
 year or two like a sports franchise would. Unreal Tournament 2003 was ok, but missed the mark in 
 comparison to how the original was. 2004 aims to correct the misses that 2003 made. I must say, 
 they have achieved so. 
  
  UT2004 isn't simply a refinement to UT2003. 2004's new maps; two new game modes, the returning 
 Assault mode and the brand-new Onslaught mode, are alone enough to make 2004 better then 2003. 
 UT 2004 though aims to go one step further. UT 2004 feel's much closer to the first Unreal Tournament, 
 than UT 2003's more deliberate "army tactic" pace. In addition the look of the package, the menus 
 the whole "feel" just radiates excellence. 
  
  Oh did I mention? Unreal Tournament 2004 has ten game modes: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Invasion, 
 Mutant, Capture the Flag, Bombing Run, Last Man Standing, Double Domination, Assault, and Onslaught. 
 Oh and of course there are always the mutators to add more fun. Yes, UT 2004 "rocks out loud." 
 
  
  Deathmatch mode is basically what it has always been: a free for all fragfest. The maps are excellent 
 and add to the feel that the original had. They even have some from the past. I must say deathmatch 
 mode, no matter how much I have played, never grows old. Last man standing, invasion, and Mutant 
 modes are basic variations of deathmatch mode. Last man standing is basically as it's name implies, 
 while Mutant is largely a mutator version: the first player to kill becomes a super-fast, all-weaponed 
 Mutant, who is also the only player who can be harmed. Invasion is basically you against a wave 
 of badies; which I love to death. 
  
  Capture the flag remains unchanged to. You work as a team to capture your opponents flag. nothing 
 new. Double Domination mode stays the same as well. 
  
  Bombing Run also makes a return: pass the ball through the other team's goal, score a point. Of 
 course, there's a hitch. The trick is that while you're carrying the ball, you are effectively 
 defenseless, as pressing fire throws the ball. Ball-tossing also opens up the possibility of passing 
 the ball to a teammate. Sadly I hardly ever see this mode used. It does provide a good experience 
 to learn defensive tactics. 
  
  Assault originally appeared on the first UT: you must complete a series of objectives in order 
 to win. Epic has gone out of their way to address complaints that the original Assault had; (aka) 
 confusion about objectives, disorientation on the map, etc. Epic, by adding a number of helpful 
 guides and indicators, has made the process much easier for players to understand what to do. A 
 narrated intro movie explains the different objectives, while the camera provides a fly-through 
 to each one on the map. Also, in the game, an arrow on your HUD points in the direction of the 
 next objective. This all improves Assault greatly. 
  
  My new addiction out of all these modes (because I love chaos) is Onslaught. Two teams try to take 
 control of "nodes" scattered throughout the map, ultimately forming a link between their power 
 base and their enemy's, at which point the enemy power base can be attacked and hopefully destroyed. 
 Oh have I forgotten? Not only that there are many vehicles in assault mode, there's even more in 
 Onslaught mode. With all that goes on, you might think that this could cause total chaos in the 
 game. It does, very much so. A good fun chaos as you take charge in vehicles and race to a mode 
 while taking out people left and right or having yourself taken out. Fun, indeed. 
  
  The weapons of Unreal Tournament 2004 are a mix of old and new. Old favorites like the Shock Rifle, 
 Flak Cannon, Link Gun, and Rocket Launcher are here. The Assault Rifle gets a bit more fire power, 
 with both its grenade-launching secondary fire. The Sniper Rifle now leaves a puff of smoke after 
 discharging also. Other changes are minor. You also gain access to new explosives as well. 
  
  As far as music goes it's average. It's the same stuff and oddly enough, sounds we've been 
 used to fort he last two unreal tournament games. You'll still have to hear the similarly player 
 taunts ("Die **** and "My house!") which are old as my mother's bread. The music is ok with some 
 maps having better music then others. 
  
  The engine is awesome but it's fairly the same from the UT 2003 engine. Still it can be taxing 
 on lower end cards and processors so make sure your comp can handle it decently. Multiplayer mode 
 adds another experience to UT 2004, that I must say you need to try at least once. It's like taking 
 the single player mode and doubling it. That's such much content that you'll be playing this game 
 for months on end. 
  
  There's far mode "stuff" in UT 2004 then what can be described here mainly because I feel that 
 the best part is discovery in this game. Nothing is better then learning how a weapon can be used 
 in fire, in action. I could write an bible on this game, and that still wouldn't be enough. You'll 
 thank me for the experience. 
  
  Well, just reading this you can see that they have delivered a sweet game and more. Just half of 
 this game's content is alone worthy of a buy, but the whole package makes UT2004 into a gaming-god-behemoth, 
 offering enough action, depth, and expansion possibilities (just think of the mods that are going 
 to come!!) , to justify keeping UT2004 's shortcut on your desktop. If you're having second thoughts 
 about buying it yet after reading this, then you're insane. Pardon me. This game is beyond good.
 
  
  By: Courntey "GameCaMiller" Miller 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuts24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game I never really knew about until a friend introduced it to me. To me this is one of the 
 best fast paced shooter games I have seen. Best used as a multi-player game, you can have some 
 fun time learning the controls in the single player mode. Periodical updates released not only 
 by the official ut2k4 team, but by other gamers make for a gaming environment that will keep you 
 hooked over all this game does have some downsides, but the good aspects of the game far outnumber 
 the bad. Overall the fast paced shooting along with the community aspects of shooting the crap 
 out of someone you don't even know make this game an instantly highly addictive classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murraylemmon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Ok how do I begin. This game is awsome. Multi-player all you need to play on line is a computer 
 and a descent internet connection. Game play you get to make your on team in single player it is 
 fast pase and it is first and thrid person. you need to get this it is awsome You have an array 
 of weapons vehicles and it comes with an editor so u can create your own maps you can talk online. 
 When you play online I would suggest playing campagine before online Or you will get owned. Gr8 
 game i gotta admit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hercufles
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  If you want to play a multi play first person shooter you only need this package.
  I have played a lot of first person shooters since quake and a lot has changed since then. What 
 i always liked about those games it is fast pacing and it doesnt take any time if you dont have 
 a lot, just loading shooting and leave again but now im going away to far what i want to say is 
 when it was the first time i played the unreal tournement series i noticed one thing it was fun 
 real fun and then came 2003 wich i played a lot but the bad thing was it wasnt really finished, 
 a lot was cut out and then it came unreal tournement 2004 i noticed they did a great afford on 
 this one they made things in it i missed with 2003 and it was big very big a lot of cds so i ask 
 myself why is it a lot of cds so i quickly knew why wow this game it big it got tons of maps and 
 options you can do but the best one i think it is unslaught wow what a big maps there are it gave 
 me the feeling of battlefield It was great and i think it has the greatest community ever. Fans 
 have been busy creating great mods i even saw a game with looked like a rpg so if you like this 
 kinda games with tons of options buy it. You can even practice offline wich is fantastic but to 
 be honest there is a lot to do there but i prefer the multiplay but even then there is a lot to 
 do, what you waiting for buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, the graphics have you gawking at the screen; mouth wide open and drool protruding 
 from your gaping mouth. The sleak character, weapon, and level designs make the game realistic, 
 even though it is futuristic. It seems as though these weapons could actually be real. The gameplay 
 is what really does you in. A fast-paced game where you can move around very quickly and just kill 
 for the heck of it. Maybe you might want to play a good game of CTF, or maybe you just want to 
 do a team-based slaughtering. UT04 provides it all. The non-existant respawn time keeps the game 
 quick and lively, where "noobs" can even have fun playing, because they aren't left out of the 
 game waiting for the spawn time to run down to 0. This game is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DpNo1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  You have heard of books that you can't put down, this is a game that you just can't stop playing. 
 The great thing about UT2004 is that not only is the game itself great and has fantastic graphics 
 but also the whole community is an added bonus because its nice to come home sit down at your pc 
 and load up UT2004 and just go on-line and play on the same team with some people you have never 
 know before and then you get chatting and in seconds you could be friends and giving each other 
 email address's. Another good thing about UT2004 is that it came with the "make something unreal" 
 competition and gave anyone the opportunity to make their own mod or map for the game. This competition 
 has produced some fantastic mods, if you have UT2004 and you haven't got "Red Orchestra" then i 
 suggest you get it as it is in my opinion the best UT2004 mod made. So in summary, if you haven't 
 got it then i would strongly reconsider calling yourself a proper gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraZanta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game it was like, yeah another FPS, another online experience, boy was I 
 wrong when I said just another FPS. This game makes many other FPS, from Doom to Quake to Battlefield, 
 just seem mediocre in comparison. After playing this game I could go back to those, thats how good 
 and fun it is. If you want a great online experience then this is your game.
  This game has many of the standard FPS stuff but were it adds another layer of depth that gives 
 it legs. The game has plenty of modes to suit many types of players wants and needs, from the massive 
 team matches like onslaught and assault, to the out-there modes like bombing run and mutant, to 
 the classic deathmatch, there is a mode here to suit everyone. 
  The assortment of guns, from the shield gun ( which can be used offensively to) to the shock rifle, 
 they all seem balanced and no one gun seems to powerful. For example, when you first kill someone 
 in like 3 hits with a rocket you may say, hmmm this weapon is sweet, until someone snipes you from 
 long range with the lightining gun or shock rifle. Then there is the dodge, sort of like a jump 
 while moving really quick in the direction you want to dodge in. But that is not all, if you are 
 near a wall you can essentially wall jump off of it using the doge, a creative and extremely useful 
 move. The levels that come with the game are overall great but when you add all the user created 
 maps and mods, the second you get this game add the area master gamemode mod, give the game huge 
 amounts of replay. The single player is good but it is really there to prep you for the online, 
 with only a couple of unlockables and such.
  The online is were this game truly shines, the community for this game is great and Epic Games 
 is still coming out with new content and patches for this game. The matches are fun, fast and exciting, 
 though this might depend on what server or how good the people you are playing are. I suggest that 
 you get some friends to get this game, it only makes it that much funnier. But there is one problem 
 with the online is that which is finding people of your same skill level can be somewhat difficult, 
 but other than that the online is great and one great feature built in is that if you dont 
 have a map, say it is a custom map, it downloads that map and all the sounds and stuff for the 
 map, right off of the server.
  The sound in this game, though while not perfect, is pretty good. The music is okay, sort of like 
 rock without lyrics, but you can also add your own custom soundtracks and listen to them while 
 you play. The game also has nice ambient sound effects, like on outside levels you can here animals 
 and stuff. The weapons each sound distance from each other and the sounds that each weapons makes 
 sounds just right.
  The graphics for this game are awesome and even now dont look dated or old, they just have 
 this certain style to them that even when not on the highest setting the game still looks great. 
 The physics system is awesome, you can land on someone from up high and kill them, and the death 
 animations are very fun to watch. The levels, as mentioned before, are great and the Onslaught 
 levels are particularly interesting, though classic deathmatch maps like DM-Rankin are still among 
 my favorites.
  Overall this is a fantastic game that offers many hours of fun right off the bat but is supplemented 
 by the huge amount of online user created mods, such as red orchestra, that truly give this game 
 a leg up on its competition. From the great graphics and sound to the endless hours of online fun 
 to be had this is the game to get for any online FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Spartan796
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 was released in spring of 2004 for the PC by Epic Games. UT2004 is only 
 the latest in the great line of Unreal Tournament games, going all the way back to 1998. There 
 are some new gametypes, maps, characters, and anything you could imagine.
  
  Coming back from its absence from UT2003, the Assault gametype has returned. For the new guys, 
 Assault matches are played as a pair of rounds with two teams. Each team will take turns attacking 
 and defending certain objectives. The team who scores more rounds or scores faster wins. For those 
 attacking, the attackers must complete the objectives before time runs out, or the defending team 
 gets a point. For the defenders, they must prevent the attackers from achieving their goal until 
 time runs out, or the attackers get a point. After one round, the teams swap roles. 
  
  A whole new gametype, called Onslaught, is a large-scale match. The idea behind Onslaught is that 
 there are two PowerCores, one for each team, and a network of PowerNodes connecting them. Each 
 team must build a line of PowerNodes in a connect-the-dot fashion to the enemy PowerCore, and destroy 
 it. Most Onslaught maps are large, so vehicles have been introduced as both a means of getting 
 around, and a whole new form of combat. The Link Gun is an invaluable weapon in Onslaught, not 
 only serving as a means of killing others, but you can use the alternate fire to repair or charge 
 PowerNodes, as well as vehicles. You can even fire your Link Gun beam at a team mate to give his 
 or her Link Gun a power boost. There are a plethora of vehicles to traverse the battlefront on, 
 ranging from a one-man hover bike, called the Manta, to an enormous five-man rolling fortress, 
 called the Leviathan, capable of deploying a giant cannon which will strike fear into even the 
 most hardened Tournament players. 
  
  You will still be able to play the classic gametypes such as DeathMatch, Team DeathMatch, Double 
 Domination, and Capture the Flag. As in the Unreal Tournament style, you can expect to see remakes 
 of some classic maps, such as the island-asteroid Face-Classic used for Capture the Flag games. 
 Also see the same good old shooting irons that you used to best your opponents before, like the 
 Shock Rifle, Redeemer, and Bio Rifle. Same old characters as well, so youll be able to maintain 
 your glory.
  
  There is a single player game as well, where you must recruit a team and fight your way to the 
 top of four tournament ladders: Team DeathMatch, Capture the Flag, Double Domination, and Assault. 
 
  
  Go online with Unreal Tournament 2004, along with an online stat-tracking system so people can 
 see how well you play, and youll still be able to play all of the gametypes you see in the Instant 
 Action.
  
  When UT2004 came out, there were a small number of special edition copies which offered a second 
 DVD with Unreal Ed tutorials on it as well as Maya 6 tutorials, so people could learn to create 
 their own maps, weapons, player skins and other mods to the game. Since then, there has been an 
 enormous amount of new player-made content for UT2004, most of which are new maps. Recently, a 
 new pack for UT2004 was released; featuring some new maps and player skins, and is free to download.
 
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 has been a lot of fun since spring of 2004, and still is. Most of the raves 
 are driven by fan-created content, and they will most likely continue to churn out great additions 
 to the game for a while to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wertyu30
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Just check the the instant action on albatross with beserk on pretty fun to see al the bullets 
 flying around hopefully you survive more than 5 seconds.
  Nothing else to say just a nice game.
  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
  unreal unreal 
 unreal unreal unreal unreal unreal unreal unreal unreal unreal
  tournament tournament tournament tournament tournament tournament 
  2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 
 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004
  beserk beserk beserk beserk beserk beserk beserk beserk beserk beserk 
  rocks rocks rocks rocks 
 rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks rocks 
  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  this game has it all. the graphics the gameplay audio etc. There are so many things to download 
 for this game making it a new experience all the time. A greatest hit peroid. Stats are awesome, online 
 play is always fun but can be hard at some points. All the modes it offers is diverse and fun to 
 play. Massive custimization on charaters and you can even mod your own levels. ALL and all this 
 game is shy from a perfect 10. so in the long run this is a must own title with many hours of fun 
 and quality. GEt this game now while you still can and get in on the action online look me up sometime.. bloodbath85 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 has action, explosions, challenge, and fun. Just like any half-decent multiplayer 
 game should have. It's really hard to describe how fun it is to play this game, because the fact 
 is, it's just nothing but pure and simple fun. Sometimes this game can get so chaotic you have 
 an in-game heart attack just spinning around watching stuff blow up and people's blood splatter 
 everywhere. Then you suddenly turn around and you're about to be run over by a hovering vehicle, 
 so you jump to the side and dodge it, then watch it crash into a car and explode, revealing a tank 
 that's aiming right at you. The tank turns out to be on your side, and it blasts at a spot right 
 next to you where someone behind you was about to sneak-attack you. It's heart attack-inducing. 
 Also it is very chaotic.
  
  Cover Artwork : ~B-~ The cover is great but could have been better
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catistrophic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 has one of the greatest game engines ever, the weapons are all beautiflly 
 made and the characters are all well made, its multiplayer is vast and wide and all the enviornments 
 look amazing! Epic games, Atari and Digital Extremes have done a great deal of work to make this 
 game perfect and entertaining. The violence in this game give it a dark look and a feeling that 
 makes you want to headshot your friend in game. It has solid gameplay that would take a newcomer 
 to Unreal Tournament some time, but fans would still recognize the excitement that rushes in your 
 head from Unreal Tournament 2004! Can't wait for Unreal Tournament 2007! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikomikimoko
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:04 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is the ultimative mix of fast combat and skills. I think its one of the 
 best FPS's out thare. If you don't really care if the game is similar to reallity and you just 
 whanto have fun, i think this is the game for you. It has tons of maps, diferent gametypes for 
 players with diferent needs, many many skins etc. 
  
  But while you are playing single player ("story mode") , which is pretty good by the way, you haven't 
 seen "nothing" if you don't check out the online expiriance. Im not saing that other, newer FPS's 
 are bad, but for example in the military FPS's it sometimes depends on your weapon and aim... what 
 im trying to say is, that in the military FPS's, u need some skills (aim...) . But in ut 2004, you 
 need crazy aim, movement, knowing enviroment, listening to the voices your enemy does, predicting 
 his next move... I'm a big fan of unreal tournament series and i still think its the main FPS in 
 the world, it still has its charm, of crazy dodging and shooting around with cool weapons (not 
 like q4 for example, i dont know why did they change it so much, the could at least leave skirmish) . 
 UT has ammazing cool moves and dodges. You can dodge like crazy. You cand dodge on the ground, 
 double jump, dodge from walls... and you can combine these all etc. 
  To own this game you need insane skills and speed (its like chess, hehe)
  
  ***WARNING*** Below 
 this section is some information about gametypes, if you know the basic gametypes and weapons and 
 are not a total n00b to this game, you will not find anything interestnig. ***WARNING***
  
  Lets go a little mor into details. 
  UT 2k4 has 11 Gametypes : 
  
  Assault - One team need 
 to achive some goals, whilst the other team needs to defend these goals and prevent the other team 
 for achiving them. One of the less popular gametypes online.
  
  Onslaught - A new gametype, you need to take nodes and when u got the last node, you can attack 
 their base. You also have veichles, a first thing in the ut series. This gametype is pretty fun.
 
  
  Capture the Flag - A classic. A favorite gameype of many gamers. You need to take the flag in the 
 enemy base and take it back to your flag. If they took your flag too, you need defend the flag 
 your carring and wait for your team to get back your flag.
  
  DeathMatch - A classic. The must have in ut. It's my personal favorite. This gametype shows your 
 skills. Its a free for all (every man for himself) .
  
  Teamdeathmatch - A mixchure of capture the flag and deathmatch. Two teams battle it out. Only the 
 frags give them points.
  
  Double domination - The least popular type. It's not going to be in the next ut. You need to control 
 two points on the each side of the map at once. This game tipe is stupid becouse its not always 
 your fault that you loose.
  
  Bombing Run - Its a tactical gametype. Its simmilar to handball, including crazy weapons, blood 
 and killing. 
  
  Mutant - The player who is the mutant has bigger powers then the other players and is the only 
 one that scores. Who kills the mutant becomes the mutant. It can be prety fun.
  
  Invasion - You just wait in the map and creatures and aliens atack you in wawes. It's cool to check 
 out, but gets boring.
  
  Last man standing - The oposite of death match. You have limited number of lives. When you die 
 you loose one life. It's basicly last man standing, who doesn't exceed the death limit wins... 
 and he is the last man alive.
  
  Instagib CTF - It's capture the flag, but with insta gib rifles :) ) ) . This was a big hit in UT99 
 and my personal favorite back thare. 
  
  Weapons :
  
  Translocator - A teleporting device.
  
  Shield gun - Primary fire- charges up. Its a malee 
 weapon. Secondary fire-its a shield that can reflect some of the weapons.
  
  Assoult rifle - Primary fire- shooting bullets (low damage, low accourency)
  Secondary fire- 
 Granades
  
  Bio-rifle - Primary fire- Shoots bio balls. Secondary fire- Charges up bio and then shoots a big 
 bio ball which is somtimes lethal.
  
  Mine layer - Used in onslought. You drop spider mines and then control them by a laser.
  
  
 Shock rifle - A favorite of many players. Primary fire- shoots a shock beam.
  Secondary fire- Shots a shock ball. You can preform shock combos by shooting a shock ball with 
 a shock beam. Shock combos are one of the hardest and most beautiful kills :) .
  
  Link gun - Primary fire - Shoots green energy projectiles. Secondary fire - Shots a green laser, 
 it is pretty powerfull. You can repair veichles with it. 
  
  Avril - Used in Onslaught. You lock them on a veichle and they are very efective and hard to avoid.
 
  
  Minigun - A powerfull and easy to use weapon. It shoots fast and damaging bullets.
  
  Granade launcher - Used in Onslought. It lounches granades which you trigger with the other fire 
 button.
  
  Lightning gun - Its a bad version of a sniper rifle.
  
  Sniper rifle - A cool rifle. With a scope.
  
  Flak rifle - A very powerful weapon. It's very 
 efective in indoor maps. It's a must have.
  
  Rocket luncher- A must have. IT shots rockets. It can load up three rockets and shoot them in a 
 spiral or just ordinary.
  
  Ion painter - Paints a mark with a laser. After a while that mark is shot by a ion cannon from 
 the sky. Its a big explosion.
  
  Target painter - Similar to Ion painter. Except with the target painter, we got a plane that is 
 droping bombs.
  
  Redeemer - A classic. A powerful missle that can be shot. Or can be controled by you.
  
  Well 
 this was my first rewiev. I hope you liked it.
  
  Unreal tournament is defently not a waste of time...
  
  Have fun
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeesbox
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  Well, very very good game, the bests games I have ever played! Graphics are very good looking, 
 sounds are good and when I play it, ahh... It is amazing!!! These are words I can say about this 
 game: Perfect game!!! When I saw it first time, I just said: "Wow, can I play it?". And since that 
 I have played it almost every day. You have to find better game forever. Well, there can't be better 
 games, maybe few, but not many I can tell you that, guys. Assault, Onslaught and other things are 
 absolutely fantastic! Well, this is my rewiew, and all that I can say, is that this game is absolutely 
 the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahram90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game should be along side WoW, with the action this game has to offer it should be in the 
 top ten. The price of the game now it should easily be competing against halo 2 EASILY, this game 
 could kick halo's ass blind folded its so cool. Those people thinking about buying this game, 
 dude theirs nothing to think about BUY it. It will entertain u till unreal 07' comes out. There 
 is so much stuff to do in the game especially the online play it rocks. Unless u r allergic to 
 animated blood theirs nothing wrong with game, its just very violent thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JewishMonkey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up my copy of UT04 I had decently high expectations of it ... but I was blown 
 away by all the features and creativity put into the game. Even if the graphics are a little on 
 the sucky side cmopared to today's standards they were decent for there time. The gameplay is highly 
 addictive and intense. Especially when you play on some of the smaller levels. With tons of players 
 online all the time, I ever doubt you will not be able to find someone to play with. Overall this 
 game has highly addictive gameplay, but the "storyline" is kinda short, and the graphics are not 
 up to todays standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Nightmare-X
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, good graphics , maps, music, weapons and vehicles. I don't recommend getting 
 this game if you just want to play the single player, its basically the same as playing online 
 but with bots, but sometimes they do make good practice. The online multiplayer is what it's really 
 all about. There are also many game modes like Capture the Flag, Assault, Deathmatch and much more. There 
 are also many mods for this game, so it will keep you entertained for a while. If you want a game 
 with a lot of fast paced action, then get this game. Just make sure your computer can handle it 
 so that you can enjoy it even more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traumahawk_2003
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a year ago and have played it faithfully ever since. The game has tons of weapons, 
 vehicles, and mods. The levels available for online play are limitless and always changing to be 
 more and more creative and challenging. I think it is an appropriate game for all ages (not online 
 though) as long as you stay in the standard server areana. Online there are levels that are only 
 right for adults (Adult Museum etc.) . As a first perso shooter, this game blows Doom 3 out of the 
 water, and is as much fun to me as Halo. This game makes me really look forward to Unreal 2007, 
 although I have no plans on giving this version up. 
  Spend the time and money on this one guys, it's better than a milkshake on a summer day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scared_link
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  One of the best Multiplayer games is out on the PC. Unreal Tournament 2004 is a First Person Shooter 
 where you can play people across the net! There are a few game modes you can play:
  
  - CAPTURE THE FLAG!
  - Death match
  - Team Death Match
  - Onslaught
  - Etc.
  
  You 
 have a wider range of weapons to choose from including the good ole Rocket Launcher. You also get 
 the good old tranquilizer. Where you can throw something and teleport to where the thing was thrown. 
 There are the occasional n00bs and master's but that what makes the game more fun! You can kill 
 the n00b's easily and sneak up onto the masters. Kill a master you will be praised. Also if you 
 play Team Death Match You can hide behind walls and shoot the other team. An arse load of fun! 
 The most fun nest mode is Capture the Flag You can go into you're base, hide behind the walls and 
 whenever someone goes through the door vaporize them! This is one of teh best Online Multi Player 
 games ever! Buy This Game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekkenfreak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:24 am PT
Review:  I was one of those people who never played the first unreal tournament but bought Unreal Tournament 
 2003, and i thought that that game rocked. When i first played UT2k4 I was so blown away, i mean 
 every change that they made from 2003 was for the best. Graphics are state of the art, the fast 
 paced shooting is great, and online play has unlimited posibilities.
  
  One thing that can't be forgotten is that this game has eight game modes, thats twice as many as 
 the last one! Even the single player ladder get you much more involved with the use of credits 
 and being able to trade team mates at will. I was a little dissapointed that the onslaught mode 
 wasn't in the single player ladder, it was only in Instant Action, but it's still very cool.
  
  This is by far the best first person shooter out there. Some people may dissagree with me because 
 they are realism freaks, but the fast paced fragging of this game is too good not to play. I really 
 missed out by not playing the first Unreal Tounament, so i didn't know how much this franchise 
 had to offer. The bottom line is that if you like First Person Shooters or even if u don't, u still 
 have to buy this game. it is well worth $40! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  when i got this i installed it onto my comp, but i had to take it off because it was messing it 
 up. But i did get to play alittle of it, and yes it was fun while it lasted. The graphics are pretty 
 good for the pc, but not the best ive seen in my life. The controlles were hard at first then about 
 a week ago, i looked at the controlles in the booklet, and said "wow, these are easy." so when 
 i played it, it was fun, but it takes up a ton of memory on your hard drive, so be prepared. Over 
 all i loved it while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronic_Marine
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people have things to say about Unreal Tournament 2004. From what I've heard about it, 
 and having the game myself, I've heard things like: "play it and you'll love it", "so much fun 
 I played it for five hours", and "It's better than any other UT ever." So as you see, tons of fans 
 love it and so do I. Because of the difficulty and the character custimization, the options are 
 great. All of the classic weapons and at least thirty maps, UT 2004 is a "Must-have" game. With 
 Internet and LAN abilities, you can take your game to a whole new level. I have a LAN with my brother 
 all the time and I just love it. With so many different modes such as onslaught, capture the flag, 
 bombing run, team deathmatch, and many others, it makes for an excellent first person shooter that 
 won't let you down. It's fast paced, so you won't get bored and has a great tournament ladder like 
 the other UT games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makoto22
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  Es el mejor shooter de la historia, y cada version supera la anterior. 
  El UT 2004 fue el "limpiador" para el UT 2003.
  Los nuevos modos de juego (Onsaught, VCTF, etc) 
 dieron el toque final que el juego necesitaba.
  La adicion de vehiculos al juego fue estupenda, las nuevas armas y las antigua mejoradad, son un 
 deleite para el videogamer.
  El diseno de los escenarios es bastante realista.
  El sonido es estupendo, la nueva adicion de diferentes announcers (female, sexy, male, classic 
 & ut2003) .
  Lo unico que no me gusto fue la repeticion de niveles, es decir hay unos tanto CTF como BR y DM.
 
  
  Como lo dije antes es el mejor shooter de la historia. 
  
  THE BLACKSWORDSMAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insane_Machinis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS  it is the best game ever 
 its got gore its got guns its got BIG guns its got BIGGER guns and best of all it has VEHICALS 
 and TANKS and THY HOLY HAND GERNADE and THE  
 Did i mention the guns and gernades and that i want the chainsaw seriously if you find it send 
 me the download address i love chainsaws and guns so this game is perfect for me i love this game 
 due to the immense amount of mutators and mods but i really want that chainsaw
  
  I wish that there was a mod for a cookie factory assault or even a cartman skin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Menfear
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is the newest of the Unreal Tournament games and the third in row. The game 
 has so much to offer that no other game has. So in multiplayer as in singleplayer you have more 
 and more modes to play. Unreal Tournament 2004 also has new and better weapon that Unreal Tournamen 
 2003.
  
  if you buy this game you will not be sorry, beacuse this game is really good. Like in Unreal Tournament 
 2003 as in the original first Unreal Tournament you play with your team through the tournament. Lots 
 of modes are here to be played-like the  run, double domination, last 
 man standing, invasion, mutant and capture the flag. So as said you play throug the tournament with 
 in you play the different mode`s .The guns in the game are very good, my personal favourite is the 
 sniper rifle that wasn`t in Unreal Tournament 2003 but in the original Unreal Tournament in year 
 2000. The new thing in this game that wasnt in any of the other two is the vehicles. Also some new 
 maps added to this game from the last.
  
  The mutliplayer works fine, a bit long loading but all-in-one its pretty much cool. Here you can 
 just play with your friends or others on the net. Nothing special to say, just that this game isnt 
 hiding and seeking, in these game there are two rules-one-never don`t stop moving and two-keep on 
 killing.
  
  The vehicles are also present in Unreal Tournament 2004 and for me that is one of the coolest things. There 
 are nine total cool vehicles. The tank is called "Goliath", a medium fast, strong killing machine. Then 
 three flying machines-"Manta","Raptor", then a stronger machine "Phoenix" and then also the two 
 spacefighters-"Human Spacefighter" and "Skaarj Spacefighter. Then there is the mighty and very slowly 
 "Leviathan"that is also very strong. And at last the "Scorpion"-a car that has two cutting things 
 on the sides, And the the "Hellbender"-a car that if you are alone is just for driving, if two are 
 on him, the other can shoot with him (a gun at the back) .
  
  The guns are also highley addicted. In total you can have 19 weapons. The "flak cannon","assault 
 rifle","lightning gun","minigun","rocket launcher","shield gun","schock rifle","biorifle and the 
 "link gun" are more than not classic weapons you can get on evey corner. Then the mightyer weapons 
 like the "sniper rifle","ion painter","ion cannon","mine layer","avril","target painter","translocator" 
 and the strongest of them the "redeemer"
  
  The mode`s-"Deathmatch"-Players are pitted against each other in a balls-to-the-walls free-for-all.
 
  Anything goes. The one with the most frags wins.
  
  "Team deathmatch"-Join your teammates in the quest for battlefield supremacy. The team
  that 
 kills the most enemy players is judged the winner.
  
  "Capture the flag"-Each level has two team flags. In order to score, one team must penetrate
 
  the opposing teams defences, Capture their Flag, and return it to their
  home teams flag. If the flag carrier is killed, the flag drops to the ground
  for anyone to 
 pick up. If your teams flag is taken, it must be returned
  before your team can take the opposing teams flag.
  
  "Double domination"-Each level has two 
 Domination Points. In order to score, you must capture
  both Domination Points (by running over them) and keep them in your
  teams possession for 10 
 seconds. After scoring, the Domination Points
  reset to neutral and will become available to Dominate again after
  another 10 seconds.
  
 
  "Bombing run"-Each level has one ball in the middle of the map. The objective is to pick
  up the ball, deliver it to the enemy base and fire it through their goal.
  You must also defend 
 your own goal to prevent the enemy from scoring.
  The ball is dropped when a player is killed and can then be picked up by
  anyone on either team.
 
  
  "Last man standing"-All players start the game with all weapons when they respawn, but
  players have a limited number of lives. Theres an option to get health
  back when you kill someone. 
 Also, if you stand in one place for too long,
  you get called out for camping and your location shows up on everyone
  elses HUD
  
  "Invasion"-Band 
 together and defend your position against waves of incoming
  enemies. Each wave lasts between 90 seconds and four minutes. You
  cannot respawn if you die 
 during a wave. However, as long as one player
  makes it to the end of the wave alive, everyone respawns for the next
  attack. Monster difficulty 
 is controlled by the bot difficulty option in
  the Settings Menu.
  
  "Mutant"-A Mutant game starts out as a free-for-all deathmatch. However, as soon
  as one player 
 makes a kill, he becomes the Mutant. Everyone else stops
  fighting (you cant hurt each other anymore) , and guns for the Mutant
  instead. You score points 
 by racking up kills while youre the Mutant:
  Normal Kill: 2 Points
  Double Kill: 3 Points
  Multi Kill (and above) : 4 Points
  Mutants get all (non-super) weapons, 
 lots of ammo, and have invisibility,
  agility and berserk. However, the Mutants health slowly runs down and
  can only be replenished 
 by killing other players. Also, the Mutants
  position appears on everyone elses HUD. If a player kills the Mutant, they
  become the new Mutant.
 
  As an optional twist, the player with the lowest score is the Bottom
  Feeder  he can also go kill other players to score points. As soon as the
  Bottom Feeders score 
 isnt the lowest, a new player becomes the Bottom
  Feeder. The Mutant gets five points for killing the Bottom Feeder
  
  "Assault"-Two teams (attackers 
 and defenders) battle each other in the Unreal
  universe. Attackers have several objectives to accomplish in order to win
  the round. Defenders 
 must prevent the attackers from achieving those
  objectives in order to win. Teams can exchange roles after each round.
  You can set the number 
 of rounds in a match, and the time limit for each
  round.
  Accomplishing objectives for the attacking team may involve reaching a
  key location, using machinery 
 or computers in the level, or destroying a
  critical piece of hardware. The Show Path to Blue/Red Base hotkey
  (default: M/N) will indicate 
 where the next objective is during a match.
  Assault also features many different useable vehicles and turrets.
  
  "Onslought"-Teams battle 
 for control of the expansive map.
  Youll need strategy, strength and an almighty arsenal to win. Each team
  starts the game with 
 its own vehicles. You cant steal an enemy vehicle
  unless the enemy unlocks it by first getting into the vehicle. But if your
  enemy leaves his 
 tank to pick up some ammo, you can steal it.
  
  Gameplay-Been there, done that-yes but in this game with much better graphichs and more weapons 
 and cars within the 10 modes.
  
  Graphichs-One of the best graphichs i ever seen, from the invoirment to the charecters.
  
  Sound-Not 
 really the best of the game but it should be ok, its not such a foctor the sound in this game. I 
 miss some music in this game.
  
  Value-Som nay combat modes, weapon and vehicles, i think it deserves something outstanding! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DumassBarb
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  UT 2004 is probbably the best multiplayer online FPS out there. I love the intense action and pace 
 of game. The different mods you can get and types of games you can play make it an endless game 
 with tonnes of fun. The lan parties with this game are even more so. Highly reconmend this game 
 to anyone. a must buy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  a must buya must buya must buya must buya must buya must buya must buya must buya must buya must 
 buya must buya must buya must buya must buya must buya must buya must buya must buya must buya 
 must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Landerin74
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:54 am PT
Review:  this game is good. very good, even though i'm **** at it! great game. this game is especially good 
 online. yes. screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders 
 screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw flanders screw 
 flanders. screw flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew 
 flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew 
 flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew 
 flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew 
 flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew 
 flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew 
 flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew 
 flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew 
 flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew flandersscrew 
 flandersscrew flanders 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kudos2000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  You may think to start with, what another UT game and just a year after another one, thats crazy, 
 but let me tell you its not. Although Unreal Tournament 2004 has not made leaps and bounds on Unreal 
 Tournament 2003, it has made up for it everywhere else.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2003 when it came out was an excellent games engine with a quickly put together 
 death match game, there was small amounts of maps, not much style and the choice of games was unoriginal.
 
  
  Then a year later Unreal Tournament 2004 came out, this was the game UT2K3 should have been, due 
 to the makers wanting to make cash quicker they forgot to make the game and came back and finished 
 off. With new game modes never seen before like Mutator (1 Vs. ALL) and Onslaught (vehicles battle 
 over HUGE maps) , new characters, more and better maps the engine finally had the game it deserved.
 
  
  The best bit for me and many is the new Onslaught mode, now you make think vehicles are peculiar 
 and won't work in FPS but you are wrong, for the first time they have got it 100% right, the balance 
 between the 9 different vehicles and being on foot could not be more than equal, the maps can be 
 huge and sparse with tactics really coming into play and the online multi playing of this game 
 type is incredible.
  
  If you are a fan of FPS you need this game, with all its game types, the amount of maps to choose 
 from (official & 3rd person) and great multi playing online and LAN you will waste away many an 
 hour of your life.
  
  Lets keep our fingers crossed and hope UT2K7 lives up to its predecessors.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlton999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  This game kicks some major butt. i hade it for about 3 weeks and im still playing instant action 
 and havent made it to the actual game play yet. there is so much support for this game its unreal................... over 
 the last 2 weeks ive downloaded many many maps. one of these days im gonna actualy get to the rest 
 of the game and learn how to play the rest of it. now here's the wicked part............... i only 
 payed $6 dollars for this brand new on amazon dot com........... i know some of you who read this 
 are gonna crap and hate me for that one........ Ha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordvulcan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  where to begin. first the main game where you will spend the most time.
  the single player and instant action modes are meerly practise for online play. it is possibly 
 the best online multiplayer action game of all time. the many different game modes all offer something 
 different but give a great and focused experience. then there is the free editor. it takes a while 
 to aquire the means to use it from the forumns but when you know what you are doing it is possible 
 to mutate unreal tournament 2004 into a version of any other game ever created. go buy it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caesarmoridon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2005 12:15 am PT
Review:  I have played many hours of UT2004, But that is only half of the fun. I have even enjoyed more 
 hours with the Level Editor. I love this game. I love the Editor. If it were a woman and I wasn't 
 married, I would marry it. There are no games as dynamic and playable as UT2004. And game play 
 is only half the fun. I literally spend hours with the Editor creating levels, learning and having 
 fun. It is like creating your own world. Though the Editor is not a simple tool, it is extremely 
 rewarding. The on-line play is unmatched and the single play is excellent with relatively smart 
 A. I.. I wish all games were this good. The only thing better than UT2004 is future, the coming 
 of UT2007. I can't wait. I built a computer just to play UT2004 and will do the same for UT2007. 
 Epic Rules along with Atari! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bibo1465
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how to tell you about how brilliant this game is, it isa fast pace game and it is so 
 enjoyable to play. you have to have to powerful pc and powerful graphic cardv to be able to play 
 it (recommended) .
  
  You can't save the mission, if you get killed simply left click on the mouse and you will respawn 
 the mission from different area of the map.
  
  if you get hit by enemy they are a lot of health pack scattered, and a lot of brilliant guns.
 
  
  you can play one to one, one 2 two, than yeam to team
  
  you can even play online against other people around the world.
  
  finally you will never regret 
 it, buy it, and you will enjoy hours playing without getting bored. sometimes i spend about 4 hours 
 playing no stop, and feel like 5 minutes, because i love this game so much.
  
  buy it, and again you will never regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MR_BIG_SHOT44
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 9, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game would have to be one of the GREATEST FRIST PERSON ONLINE GAME EVER!!!!!!. If you can't 
 tell, I freakin LOVE THIS GAME, its perfect, its a tigth Frist Person game that also features diving 
 (YES LIKE HALO...) , But the best part is Online. Of course, u can't just hear me talk about it, 
 you'll have to play it to know what i'm talkin about, the Graphics: Beautiful!, Gamplay: Amazing!, 
 Sound: Just Rigth and Mutiplayer: Still... UN - FREAKIN - BELIEVEABLE!!!!!!, plz Stop wasting time 
 readin this get this game! Even after all these years, its Still Amazing! Trust me , pick this 
 one up...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Well done, I can't stop playing this game! It is very nicely done. There aren't any glithces, I'll 
 say that. To play it offline, you don't need to meet big requirements with your system. Playing 
 it online however, needs some system upgrades. But the graphics are solid. Let's just say that 
 for graphics. The gameplay is what I'm going to go on about. You've got over 30 weapons. 10 vehicles, 
 an endless number of maps.. And some numerous and fun game types. I'm running around shooting saws 
 at people, then blowing their hideout to smitherines. It never EVER gets old.... EVER.. Unreal 
 tournament 2007 should be in your grasp as of now, so go and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari20091
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  Cleary the best UT game yet. A skirmish style 1st person shooter with many weapons and vehicles 
 under your control. You can play many types of gameplay such as deathmatch. It has amazing graphics 
 and awsome gameplay. It is definitly a game worth buying. If you are in to multiplayer shoot um 
 up games this is definitly a game for you. It surpasses most multiplayer games to date! UT2004 
 is definitly one of the greatest games in my book!!
  Singleplayer is not hard but still fun for those who do not have adequit internet connections! 
 Warning: Experience may change during online play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guardiankitty10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok how do I begin. This game is awsome. Multi-player all you need to play on line is a computer 
 and a descent internet connection. Game play you get to make your on team in single player it is 
 fast pase and it is first and thrid person. you need to get this it is awsome You have an array 
 of weapons vehicles and it comes with an editor so u can create your own maps you can talk online. 
 When you play online I would suggest playing campagine before online Or you will get owned. Get 
 this it is a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:44 am PT
Review:  i really enjoyed that game
  its really cool all that stuff of UNREAL
  and all that weapons that not exist....
  the graphics is really cool looks very cool
  this 
 game can be played for long time
  its not getting boring often
  and allso its make more fun that option for all the charcaters...
  
  i really enjoyed that 
 game
  its really cool all that stuff of UNREAL
  and all that weapons that not exist....
  the graphics is really cool looks very cool
  this game can be played for long time
  its not 
 getting boring often
  and allso its make more fun that option for all the charcaters...
  
  i really enjoyed that game
  its really cool all that stuff of UNREAL
  and all that weapons 
 that not exist....
  the graphics is really cool looks very cool
  this game can be played for long time
  its not getting boring often
  and allso its make more 
 fun that option for all the charcaters...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_bi99man
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is easily one of my favorite PC games of all time. It's got all the action, 
 graphics, weaponry, and diversity you could want in an FPS.
  
  The best part of this game is the action. Whether it's a one-on-one deathmatch in a small, enclosed 
 arena, or an online 10-on-10 game of capture the flag, this game never fails to provide action-packed 
 brawls. Complete with all sorts of weapons and dodging moves and vehicles, fights always prove 
 to be epic.
  
  The graphics are excellent, though not the best out there, and they can be turned down for lower 
 end systems. Character models look great, and animate and move well. The weapon models and weapon 
 effects look great as well, especially explosions. The arenas are definitely the high point of 
 the graphics, as they look awsome. My personal favorite would be Morpheus-3, the 3 towers in space. 
 This is actually one of several arenas brought over from the original Unreal Tournament, although, 
 unlike the other ones, they didn't change it at all. It was perfect to begin with and they were 
 good to keep it that way.
  
  UT2004 provides quite an excellent arsenal of weapons and vehicles to make sure you never get tired 
 of blowing people apart. There's at least 12 or 13 main weapons, all of which have multiple functions. 
 Then there's game-specific weapons in most Onslaught games. Also in most onslaught games there's 
 also turrets and vehicles including tanks, buggy things, and hovercrafts. Then there's space ships, 
 too in some battles.
  
  Of course, one of the greater things about UT2004 is just how diverse it is. There's always something 
 new to do. There's a crap-load of levels, a bunch of awesom game types, and a huge list of mutators 
 to alter the entire game as you see fit. With quite a list of difficulty settings, going all the 
 way from "novice" to "godlike", and online play, you can guarantee you will always be able to challenge 
 yourself.
  
  All in all Unreal Tournament 2004 is simply a must-play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournament 2004 has all the fundamentals to make it the best game ever. And I really mean 
 that. The Graphics are great, they will still be even years later, the game play is diverse and 
 awesome. Being able to pull of abilities with full adrenaline, and the weapons are the most originial 
 i've ever seen. The sound is awesome, and the multiplayer will be the best out there. There are 
 many mods that you can play, and even more maps that you can play on. What else can you hope for 
 in a great multiplayer game? You will want to play this game over and over again. It's that great.
 
  
  My opinion, buy this game and play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and I really had a great time playing this game.
  
  Gameplay: You can choose from tons of players and then go kick some but. You have 9 beautiful weapons 
 each round and the areas are big.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful. The weapons look unbelivible and the areas are beautiful. My only problem 
 with the graphics was the blood. The blood is in the shape of a box which is ugly. I don't mind 
 smooth blood but not this blood.
  
  Sound: The weapons sound is unbelivible and beside that there isn't music in this game at all.
 
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the single player mode. The single player 
 mode is very long and the online mode can last forever.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome game and you should definitely want to go and try 
 this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vash17
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 continues Epic games's Multiplayer FPS madness. While UT2k4 doesnt not feel 
 like a whole new game (ALL of the maps in UT2k3 are here in UT2k4) , there is still a lot of content 
 to warrant a purchase.
  
  UT2k4 offers 10 game modes: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, CTF, Bombing Run, Mutant, Invasion, Double 
 Domination, Last Man Standing, Assault, and new to UT, Onslaught mode.
  
  Onslaught and Assualt both use vechicle combat, which is also new to UT. The standard fair is here, 
 Tanks, Jeeps, Aircraft, and Hovercraft.
  
  UT2k4's graphics are beautiful, enviornments go from Icy wastelands, dirty factories, lava filled 
 pits, and other arena style locations.
  
  While the vehicle sounds are very generic, and the voice acting (if you can call it that) are very 
 annoying, UT2k4 offers some great explosion booms.
  
  The gameplay and controlls are airtight, with a good bunch of weapons. All the weapons return from 
 UT2k3 with a few new ones.
  
  UT2k4 is a online based game, if your looking for a good singleplayer experience and story line, 
 your SOL. Singleplayer only consist of ladder matches against bots. The bots skill can be adjusted.
 
  
  You dont need a high-end PC to run UT2k4, which is always nice.
  
  All in all, if your looking for a amazing multiplayer FPS, UT2k4 is the way to go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Need I say more. This game has it all. Graphics, multiplayer, sound and much much more.
  Step aside Halo! This one has you beat! It has better The second best part is easily the bots and 
 mods/mutators. If you dont have the internet and you enjoy killing you can do so, for hours on 
 end. because the bots are stupidI will keep thsi short but this is one of the best online experiences 
 i have. You at times feel so insignificant because some people just dominate the game, but by the 
 end of the match you look at your score and think about what happened and you really did accomplish 
 stuff. The online play is never laggy for me. and there are so many different game modes and maps, 
 its insane, more than any game. The second best part is easily the bots and mods/mutators. If you 
 dont have the internet and you enjoy killing you can do so, for hours on end. because the bots 
 are stupid. BF1942 bots always dispointed me, but these bots wont let you down, they will kill 
 you over and over if you have them on the right setting and are as good if not better than some 
 online players. the mods are always getting better. Try deathball, its odd, but one of my favorites 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stefan2003
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  The main feature of this game is the online-mode ofcourse! The single player is fun but you've 
 completed that in a couple of hours, I'd say skip the single player and go play online right away. 
 
  
  The online-mode has so much to offer, from team-based to single 1-on-1 battles. Onslaught is very 
 nicely done as well. The thing I like the most about this game are the custom made maps, it keeps 
 refreshing the game so it won't get boring.
  
  Further than that it's also a nice social game, you either chat or talk through the microphone 
 with the people that share the same intrests like you, gaming! Sure there are also people who say 
 bad stuff, but forget about those morons!
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is probably the best game I've ever played and I would probably play it 
 too, if it wasn't for my PC that keeps letting me down. *sigh...* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chi16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Throughout the Unreal series Epic has improved upon thier games with leaps and bounds. It all started 
 with their major hit with the first Unreal back in 1998 with the catch phraseIts called Unreal 
 because it is." Truly that popped into players minds everytime Epic pushed the envelope with their 
 newest game. Unreal Tournament 2004 does not dissapoint.
  Gameplay: Big selection of guns (about 10 regular +3 superweapons) Plenty of vehicles (about 5 
 with the reg version + 3 with the Bonus Editors Edition) So many modes to chose from (reg deathmatch, 
 team, capture the flag, onslaught, and much more) Customization, and plenty of bots to chose from. 
 (if youre a single player that wants to rule, or multiplayer that needs more commotion) An unreal 
 editior that allows you to create your own maps. Also there are tutorials that show you how things 
 work in the game.
  Graphics: Unreal 2k4's graphics are very leanient. They can be changed for smooth fast gameplay 
 for PC users with the right hardware and also can be played for gamers who have slower parts. It 
 can change which Direct X needs to be used as well as resolution and detail settings. The game 
 even gives you a surprise message if you turn everything to its highest capacity.
  Sound: The music is adrenaline pumping and the effects will keep you on edge. A good player can 
 figure out what to do, where to go, and how to enter a volatile situation just by listening to 
 the sound effects. U2k4 is forgiving enough to give you all of the soud quality with out a separate 
 sound card. The bots communicate with voices and there is a voice recognition feature, where you 
 type in words and the computer voice says it for you. There are different voices for annoucers 
 (like the cool sounding male announcer, or the decisive female ) and you can een customize the 
 voice of your player.
  No game is totally perfect: There are some bugs within UT2k4 like clipping errors, overloading 
 of sprites at times, game message lagging, and some response times.
  The real bottom line: This is one of the most popular games in recent PC game history. Its a super 
 solid MMO shooter with a separate single player to unlock things. This game is heavily modded and 
 added to, so there is a constant freshness which would keep you playing. Unreal Tournament 2004 
 does not just appeal to Hardcore gamers, but also to people who are just learning how to play with 
 online games, or shooters in general. A smart buy for any action gamer that wants to feel that 
 his playing abilities areGODLIKE!
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Stop having drugs and play Unreal Tournament 2004 for a change. It will grow on you in every way 
 possible. One of the most perfect games of its genre.
  
  If you think UT 2004 is an upgraded version of UT 2003 then think twice! Imagine UT 2003 with all 
 its pros, none of its cons, then double the content, triple the quality, and quadruple the fun! 
 You will not believe how much is in this game, in terms of both quality and quantity. Size does 
 matter if it's that good.
  
  Multiplayer action has never been so much involving. The basic gameplay formula is elevated even 
 further to an almost perfect height. There's nothing wrong with sticking to an old formula if you're 
 loyal and dedicated to its structure. Gameplay is the main star here, and it shines.
  
  Graphically, the game production values are epic. You'll grace a mothership, grasslands, hellish 
 regions... The list goes on. And it's a long one. The flashy effects do the game good rather than 
 hurt the quality as they are implemented perfectly. And the character models are detailed to your 
 hearts' content.
  
  The soundtrack will blow you away. If your mate's flak cannon fails to do the job that is. The 
 effects need a little more work but they're still superb, albeit repetitive at times. The game 
 also features a voice-to-text engine that futhermore enhances the experience.
  
  Remember the good old days when Quake and Blood ruled the land? Welcome back! Be sure to frag as 
 much victims as you can. Or just die trying. Either way, this game will leave you sick and tired 
 and wanting to go to bed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunnySimantov
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2005 6:28 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry if ya all readers like the highly-deep reviews, but this time I got to go shortly.
  
  This game plays much like the 2003 version, but adds (and remakes) two new game modes - Onsalught 
 and Assault. Both have veichles and are extremely fun to play.
  In Onslaught the objective is to destroy the enemy's "power core", but to do that you must connect 
 to it with power nodes which are vulnarable. There are many veichles which are varied from map 
 to map, and each map simply looks spectacular.
  In Assault, there are objectives which must be fullfilled by the "attacker" group, and must be 
 defended by the "defender" group. The one team who finishes more objectives and quicker, wins the 
 round. Sometimes, each map takes up to 30 minutes to complete... talking about value here!
  Onslaught can be short, fast paced, or sometimes become slower and might go over lots of action-packed 
 minutes. While it is good for value, it might get boring or irritating. Onslaught map is all about 
 concentrating all of the action into one or two power node, which can be very fun indeed.
  The game is very satisfying, especially when you go over someone with a Manta (jumping thingy) 
 and it says "PANCAKE", although you won't eat any pancake really. 
  The game looks beautiful, and I haven't seen any flaw in it. It simply to put, with each map, amazes 
 me how it could look so good, even on my geforce 6200 (well, it is a pretty good vid card, but 
 nothing to say -I know there are better) .
  The game offers both single player matches, and online games. I haven't played much online, but 
 it is lots of fun and never dissapointing (unless you tried to enter a full server which you like...) .
 
  The AI in this game, of the bots, is strictly one of the best ever created. Even though you can 
 expect their acts if you know them, the Godlike bots are really a great challenge, and even bots 
 at the level of Masterful can be quite fun and different (from time to time) . They act as if you 
 are their leader (not only in the single player campaign) and they respond and act very well according 
 to your orders.
  Let me explain the ratings now:
  Gameplay - fun, immersive, addictive - anything to say about a superb game.
  Graphics - well, 
 you got my point. I couldn't ask for something else, really.
  Sound - Not so strong as the graphics, but it is really great and I found the background music 
 very good. You can choose the UT2003 announcer, or a male\female announcer which is really good. 
 There is also another announcer, who, whenver you reach "GODLIKE" ranking, says it so well I'm 
 surprised I'm not with her at the same room.
  Value - Single player might take a decent amount of time, depending on difficulty. Instant Action 
 is fun playing with bots and I can't stop having fun shredding the same bots with flak cannon. 
 Of course, online is highly supported and is one of the best I've ever experienced - a lot better 
 than the "underground" Counter Strike.
  Tilt -one masterpiece, this game is.
  
  I'm sorry for any spell-mistakes I've had here - I kind of tried to do this quickly and I'm not 
 so good at spelling anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarthvader
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 1:27 am PT
Review:  Deathmatch games arnt that popular, and there're certainly not enough good ones out there. The 
 last one I played was the Quake 3 which is one of the best games ever, but its now too old. UT2004 
 is kind of an upgraded version of that game with loads and loads of other stuff added.
  I have to say I enjoyed the single player mode, where you can earn points, buy players, and move 
 up the ladder to the more difficult matches. What I liked best was the instant action mode. It 
 lets you choose from the variety of gameplay modes. New additions to those are ones where you have 
 to kill zombies and monsters from the orignal Unreal and another one where you have to take a ball 
 and go through a hole, I cant remember the name (i think its Mutant) . While none of these are groundbreaking 
 in anyway, they are fun none the less. In some of the modes you can drive a variety of vehicles 
 equipped with weapons. While the gameplay failed to offer any new innovation, I throughly enjoyed 
 it. Its not as fast as Quake 3, but it does what its suppose to very nicely. I still fail to see 
 any advantage of the adrenaline system.
  Graphically the game is a lot better than the 2003 version. The maps are huge, and I mean HUGE!. 
 The map count has also increased to a massive 120+. The weapons look nice, the textures life like 
 and colouful. The game offers a detailed graphics setting menu where you can set texture deatils, 
 character details and world details from up to 6 options. The game ran very well on the maximum 
 settings on 800x600 on a mideocre system with occasional stutters. Atleast 1 GB of RAM is required 
 to cut down the long load times and occasional HD access during the game.
  The sound effects had nothing new to offer. 2 new announcer sounds have been added, while the rest 
 remained the same.
  Unreal Tournament reamains one of my fav. games ever on any platform, its very fun and immersive, 
 its 2 years old but I enjoy it still and it looks great aswell. It came on 5 CD's and requires 
 atleast 5.5GB free space on a drive, which gives you some idea of the variety of stuff this game 
 offers. Its a must play for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerofshadows
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 7, 2005 9:06 am PT
Review:  I was greatly anticipating the release of 2004, as i had played and enjoyed previous installments. 
 However i found the game a bit of a let down. No, actually. I thought it was just a remake of the 
 serise, disguised in pretty graphics. Weapons were alright, but nothing new. None of them quite 
 give the thrill of wielding dual pistols as the first installment did, or the energy swords from 
 Halo 2. The modes were also pretty bland, pointless remakes of the classic unreal tournament. Unless 
 your an UT addict, then i recommend giving this a miss. If you want a fun, fresh, fast paced first 
 person shooter, i recommend giving Future Perfect a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zechthecamel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  UT 2004 is probably the best 1st peron shooter for the PC. I might be a casual gamer (more or less) 
 but this game kicks word i ain't allowed to say. There are tons of neat weapons at your disposal, 
 more than 10 different game modes, vehicles, and, wait for it....... ONLINE PLAY! Yes, the online 
 play is one of the best ways to play this game. The graphics are well done also, and the sound 
 is even better. It really hipes you up when you hear bullets whiping past your head. With all this, 
 who needs anyting else? You havn't seen the downside yet.
  On the negetive side.... wow, i had to thing hard for that... well, the loading times sort of slow 
 down the game a bit. On online play, it only takes one cheap-head to really ruin the game you werer 
 currently in. The replay value is for some odd reason a little less than i expected.
  All in all, this is a more than solid game. If you have a PC, there is noting stopping you from 
 getting this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: daspeedoflight1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  This is the ulitimate gaming expirience. The multiplayer expirience is like never before!! 32 players 
 online with voice over IP, and with intense large battlefield maps! The vehicles are perfect, i 
 like how u can switch postions in this game. and the best part of this game is linking up with 
 ur other teamemates by using the link gun. the link gun is oftenly used on online to heal ur vehicles, 
 ur teamates, and ur powernodes. this is an awesome game and u should defenantly pick this game 
 up. its cheap and its FUN!! and i like the character taunts. the taunts are creative and funny! 
 and i like the missle launcher from the Flying vehicle, THE RAPTOR. i think the raptop is the vehicle 
 in the game because its kinda like a fighter jet to me. it launches missle and goes really fast. 
 and heres a hint, beware of the redeemer. the redeemer is a nuclear missle launcher that can mostly 
 blow up ur base! this is a highly addictive game and i think epics next unreal tournament 2007will 
 be one of the best FPS's ever created, or maybe better than halo. so pick this game up and have 
 fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avpget
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:31 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 seemed to combine Unreal Tournament and Unreal Tournament 2003. At first 
 look it looks like 2003 but as you explore deeper into the game its much different. With the popular 
 Assault and Onslaught draws me in alone. The single player has improved much too. Making it feel 
 like a real tournament instead of a straight forward single player. The AI has improved a little 
 too they use some tactics. The graphics are still impressive compared to 2003. The sound is good 
 except those taunts get annoying after a while. I paid 30 dollars for this and its worth every 
 penny. So for people who dont know if getting this game is worth it because it seems more like 
 2003 get it, youll be surprised that 2004 offers more then Unreal Tournament and 2003 can ever 
 offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkoho
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible in all areas. The single player tournament will really keep your attention 
 going when playing on the harder difficulties but multiplayer play is really were it's at. It has 
 so many different multiplayer games its ridiculous. I'm really only a fan of deathmatch and team 
 deathmatch and when you add in some of the fun mutators it just makes the experience more enjoyable. 
 The instagib matches rock. It's like a mixture of the golden gun from 007 and the nail gun from 
 quake. One shot, one kill. Some of the weapons have been upgraded since ut2k3 but for the most 
 part the gameplay has stayed the same with the exception of adding drivable vehicles. If you play 
 first person shooters and you don't own any unreal games, I highly suggest you get one soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_devster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  What can i say? i got a demo of UT2003 last year, started playing and i was hooked, its a great 
 game, the multiplayer works almost too well. its a shame slower machines wich just meet the reccomended 
 requirements take ages to load ONS levels and the game starts as soon as one guys level has loaded 
 whick likes big coxXx as there is no waiting for other players if you have the best PC ever. if 
 v4096 if that is coming out any time soon suppourts that it will be the best. but that doesnt stop 
 it being the best multiplayer ever. CS? more like Pee-ist. lol i crak myself up.
  
  i'm sure it looks very good if your PC can run it full settings but even on medium at 1024x768 
 it looks exellent and there is a tonne of multiplayer extras waiting for you to download only limited 
 by your connection and mod makers imaginations.
  
  One word of warning: there are loads of good players out there. get a good foothold first and you 
 will be sorted and practice tonnes on the bots
  
  its a masterpiece and most people either think its toss or don't know that it exixts. conclusion?
 
  2 words: buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oronkarmona123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:58 am PT
Review:      
     
     
   .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
     
     
     
  .
      
      
 
       
     
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1superman187
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great in this game it buy far out does its predecessors in single play and multi 
 play. the game has a great multi play with thousands of people playing online, fraging each other, 
 or playing co op to capture the flag and kill 100s of monsters in Invasion. and with the added 
 vehicles it makes for a fast passed frag fest. 
  
  Theirs no shortage of maps with Unreal coming out with new maps and map packs, and the additional 
 Unreal Editor 3.0 included with the game has the servers filled with original maps from the experienced 
 mapers to the tinkering mapers. 
  
  On top of that there are mods for speeding up game play, berserker, new weapons, anti gravity, 
 and countless others.
  
  With all this stuff its easy to see why I rate this game a 10/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: worlord04
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  FUN its so fun. The graphics are amazing they arent anymore because this game is old now but they 
 were once amazing. The sounds of people dieing and the weapons shooting is enough to send you into 
 sleep and the music in the background isn't just 30 second loops which is good in any game. This 
 is a game i truly recommend any FPS fans should have and with the wide range of MOD's you won't 
 get tired of it quickly. The online play is one of the best i have ever been on if you dont have 
 the map it gets it for you automatically, which is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze35
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2005 8:44 am PT
Review:  For UT Fans or First Person fans this game is a ground breaking title, firstly it makes good on 
 its prequel UT 2003 and completes it with new graphics, sound and most of all new game types, also 
 the addition of New Modes like assault Leaves the player feeling numb from the excitement, the 
 adition of vehicles makes an awesome stand for multiplayer gameplay which has rarely been seen 
 in a game Since Halo, the single player also offers some Excitiing futuristic action with some 
 strategic decisions to be made as to the creation of a masterful and professional team to take 
 out the tournament, this game is an excellent Multiplayer Lan or online game and has such a large 
 fan base and hype that has not been seen since Counter Strike and Half Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akunrealgamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 12:03 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is one of the best games I have ever played. It is the best futuristic game 
 you could play, when it comes to 1st person shooter fun. It has an awesome campaign mode that goes 
 from one on one battles to five on five team events. But its multiplayer is definitely the reason 
 to buy it. Is LAN and online with new modes. Like my favorite mode onslaught, the mode where you 
 have all sorts of awesome vehicle on the ground and the air. There purpose of this mode is you 
 have a base with a master power node, and there are other nodes around the map the two teams try 
 taking over. When a team gets all the nodes they can attack the main power node on the enemys 
 base. The first team to destroy the enemys power node wins the round. It has a few new weapons 
 in the game; otherwise all the weapons look different from past versions of Unreal Tournament. 
 It has tons of mods and maps you can get off of Game Spot and of course you can mod or make your 
 own with Unreal Edit. Its definitely a buyer. I cant wait until Unreal Tournament 2007 comes 
 out in 2006. So if you got a good computer and dont have it, GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riviereflo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 11:50 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament i would have to say is one of the best first person shooter games, but i think 
 it is the best one on pc. Unreal Tournament to me is exciting, amazing and has a lot of action. 
 I would usally just play the game online but i still think that its a great game, i'm sure that 
 if i played single player as well it will be just as great. 
  
  I feel the this first person shooter game is the best when it is played online, firstly because 
 of the the wide range of games it has and because how many servers the game contains. 
  
  Another thing great about this game is that the graphics r quite resonable and allows u to see 
 people and objects very cleraly and with a reasonable amount of detail. All in all i think that 
 anyone would be happy to play this game on or offline and i can't wait till unreal 2007 comes. 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincentlittl
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best yet it is no match for the imagination of people.
  It has the best graphics for it's time yet there are better.
  If I had taken the time to frag 
 friends then I would have wasted my time.
  I have nothing further but I have to write over 100 words to finish off.
  Ok, I'm getting angry 
 now.
  Final Fantasy Advent Children Rocks.
  The best movie I seen for cartoons animation.
  I'll frag you on iinet servers all the time, Onslaught 
 rocks yet you can't have it in Singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanopheles
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Best fps i ever played, only fps i still play on a regular bases.
  
  At this time the game is dirty cheap and if you don't have it buy it.
  
  What is so great about 
 it?
  1. Lots of cool gametyps, Deatmatch, Team Deatmatch, ONSlaught, CaptureTheFlag, InstagibCTF, Bombingrun, 
 LastManStanding,.....
  2. Lots of custom made gametypes like TeamArenaMaster (very popular) , VehicleCTF, Jailbreak,....
 
  3. Fast movement. 
  4. Great combat action. On foot or with vehicles (like in ONS andd VCTF)
  5. A hughe number of 
 people play this game online, you will always find active servers for the gametype you like
  6. Suited for low end AND high end computer systems
  
  What is negative about it?
  1. The 
 sound is cool, the music rocks, but it could be better.
  2. Once you play this game, you won't like other fps that much anymore
  
  Conclusion:
  It 
 is an awesome fps game. This fast paced action and all those cool mods/gametypes is unique in the 
 fps world. It still is very active and its dirty cheap. It simply is the best fps ever made.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encimedes
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:17 am PT
Review:  The good:
  Great graphics make the arenas be evn more fun, great vechils, lots of mods like ONS and DM to 
 play (overall 10) , it shows how fun is to frag non-stop, the tilt is very easy to use, there is 
 actually a lot of atrategic depht in it,
  100 maps.
  
  The bad:
  The sound is not right for this type of game, you'll need a good system and a lot of free space 
 to play it, because there is so much maps it makes you want more, the mod 'Last man standing' feels 
 unesecery.
  
  Overall, any gamer should buy this game, exept for those who don't like shooters and those who 
 like only realistic games (because this game is unreal) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurev
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is definitly a game that all FPS fans and all PC gamers in general should 
 buy!
  
  Graphics 10/10: The Graphics are just amazing. Very crisp clean looking textures, good level designs, 
 and excellent character models make for one good looking game. To top it off the game has amazing 
 phyics that add to the gameplay AND The game not only looks good but runs like hot butter!
  
  Sound 10/10: Oh baby! Anyone with nice speakers and an EAX sound card will certainly enjoy the 
 sound! The EAX + 3D Hardware Audio sounds awesome! Even on two speakers the sound feels like it 
 completely surrounds you! The music is also very good fast pased hard edge sounding techno that 
 will get your adreniline pumping in matches!
  
  Controls 10/10: Your standard FPS on PC controls with a really smooth mouse!
  
  Gameplay 10/10: Here 
 is were most of todays games fall. But not UT2k4. The gameplay is so good you just wanna keep playing 
 over and over again! Even if its the same map!! The game really never gets old and the AI is so 
 good if you dont feel like playing online or want practice you can get it in the Single Player 
 Tier-like Game or Instant Action mode to play any game type/level you desire!
  
  Value 10/10: LOADS and LOADS of levels, characters, Gametypes, etc make this game last forever! 
 And its still to this day being backed up by its devolopers and the community whoes releasing new 
 patches and map packs!
  
  Whether your getting this to play online against other people, playing by yourself offline in the 
 Single Player or Instant Action games, or Taking it to LAN and playing against your buddies youll 
 have a BLAST playing this game for a LONG LONG time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 may be well over a year old, but it still stands as one of the best multiplayer 
 shooters out - maybe still THE best - and it's hard to see it not going down as one of the best 
 multiplayer shooters ever.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is one of the few games nowadays that consists of incredibly fast-paced 
 action, as opposed to the slower, more tactically paced military shooters. It's basically the evolution 
 of the "twitch" shooter, a genre which has been mostly abandoned because it became stale. Developers 
 simply did the same thing over and over again. However, the guys at Epic obviously know that there's 
 more territory to be mined here, and the real key to Unreal Tournament 2004 is how it combines 
 the fast pace and quick action of twitch-based shooters with innovative, fresh new ideas that really 
 give it life, and ultimately make it the best game to offer you incredibly fun carnage.
  
  It's not mindless, though. UT2004 sports surprising depth, not to mention variety. There's a big 
 variety of modes, from Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch to Double Domination to Capture the Flag 
 to Assault and then Onslaught. While each mode is individually outstanding, most people's hearts 
 will either lie in a combination of the vehicle-based combat of Onslaught and Assault and the on-foot 
 frenetic pace of both forms of Deathmatch. The Deathmatch is relatively similar, just with newly 
 polished and redesigned weapons, plus an absolutely huge stock of maps. Assault is an extremely 
 fun objective-based game, in which you switch sides periodically from offense to defense and try 
 to beat each other's times.
  
  Onslaught is probably the best mode though, as well as the most popular. In Onslaught, each team 
 has a home base which is linked to the other by a series of power nodes, which are basically capturable 
 spawn points. The object of it is to destroy the other team's power core, which is located in their 
 home base. However, you can't attack the power core unless you have the closest power-node to it, 
 and you can't have ANY power-node unless you have the consecutive one. This really helps to focus 
 the gameplay and create specific hotspots of all-out, absolutely adrenaline-pumping action instead 
 of spread-out battlefields. Another really great thing about UT2004 is how it makes sure that you 
 are NEVER stuck on boring, on-foot journeys out to the action, only to have to redo it every time 
 you die - you can always warp from any node you have to another node that you have on the map. 
 This makes the game incredibly addictive and extremely hard to be frustrated at and quit, which 
 means you can play for hours at a time without even noticing.
  
  Onslaught would be a really, really great mode even without the vehicles, but the vehicles really 
 do help to sell it. Because of the afore-mentioned warping, vehicles will often be free for your 
 use (although on-foot combat is still great) . The vehicles are expertly balanced, from the airborne 
 Raptor, to the hovering Manta, to the jeep-like Scorpion, then to the lumbering Goliath tank, and 
 finally to the absolutely massive Leviathan (which is only included in certain maps) . However, 
 even if you're on foot you don't have to worry about always being killed by vehicles, as there 
 are always tactics to use, from launching grenades to using the vehicle-tracking AVRIL to using 
 shock combos or the lightning gun, or even hopping into a turret and shooting away.
  
  The graphics are spectacular and scale extremely well on low-end machines. Both the sound and music 
 are terrific. The value is pretty much unbeatable, considering the loads of downloadable free content 
 from the developer itself, as well as probably the best mods to exist for any game ever. Overall, 
 UT2004 makes a strong case for itself as the best multiplayer shooter thus far, and even now is 
 an experience that should not be missed, because there is simply nothing that can match it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:08 am PT
Review:  The graphics in UT2004 are great. With the same unreal graphic engine as before, Epic manages to 
 create a fantastic unreal universe. Though, you can se that the graphics ain't as good as in Far 
 Cry, but hey, that's nearly impossible for them to be. 
  
  The sound is maybe the games weakest side, though it's not bad at all. There are some cool tecno 
 tunes during the deathmatches, and in the new Onslaught there are some awesome composisions that'll 
 make your blood pump even faster than usual during playing Unreal! The sound effects are fine and 
 realistic. The dialogs during matches aren't that good though. They work okay, but there are some 
 commands that I feel is missing. 
  
  The gameplay is excellent and features some new multiplayer modes and a pretty big single player 
 tournament. The multiplayer bots are very good, and they think almost like real humans. There are 
 no problems for you sitting there playing Unreal for hours without being online. The story is simple 
 and very, very entertaining. The first time you enter a deathmatch is a fantastic meating between 
 computer and human. The intence action that UT2004 delivers is essential for the series. The new 
 Assault and Onslaught mode is great and features controlling vehicles and completing missions. 
 The vehicles in the game are simply awesome and features both tanks and spaceships! UT2004 is so 
 well done you don't have any idea. There are new weapons, vehicles, maps, modes and a new campaign, 
 of course! UT2004 is an essential buy for every UT fan out there, this is truely what you've been 
 waiting for. 
  
  + 
  Fine graphics. The vehicles are awesome. The new assault and onslaught modes works fantastic. The 
 same intense feeling as the original Unreal Tournament. 
  
  - 
  The single-player isn't that great, though I didn't expect it to be either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigagamer2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has been around since 1999 and now the 3rd in the series, 2004, has arrived. 
 I have played the original and the best memories for me are, the headshots, flak cannon, Redeemer, 
 the GODLIKE bots and of course innovative gameplay. UT2004 lives up to this reputation bringing 
 back gametypes such as assault but the one gametype most people are intredted in is ONSLAUGHT. 
 the general idea is that each team has a base, construct connecting nodes and then u can destroy 
 the base. Although it is a lot more complicated than that, it is easy to start playing. Also this 
 is the first UT to have vehicles which is just what the series needed. Over all UT2004 is a great 
 game. The only problems are that new players could find it difficult against more experianced people 
 online.
  
  But there is one more thing, the customisability of this game is HUGE. The unreal editor 3 is very 
 easy to use and the amount of mods on the market would fill up Bill Gates Computer easily (by the 
 way if u stuff Bills 88 million under his bed, it would take him 18 minutes to hit the floor but 
 include intrest and he will never hit the floor) . i would recommend Chaos UT, and the Community 
 bonus packs are great too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodaNPT
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 12, 2005 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Yeah that's right. No matter where or how hard you look, Unreal Tournament 2004 still stands as 
 the King of all online PC FPS's. 
  A mature and truly unreal graphic engine combines and a fantastic and addicting gameplay. Though 
 this game is meant to be played online, as the original Unreal Tournament, the single player mode 
 can be quite the experience for newcomers to the Unreal world. But again, multiplayer is the core 
 of UT2004. You'll see yourself wasting hours and hours online counting frags up, and believe me, 
 you'll not regret any second. 
  
  So, to keep this short, i would easly recommend UT2004 to any PC gamer out there, looking for a 
 fun, challenging, and addicting FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  It's just as fast pace as the original UT game and fun. But there were a lot of adds in the game 
 that the original didn't have. I got scared at first because once the designers add more things 
 from a great game, they usually screw up and make the game crappy. But this game is superb and 
 awesome, you get to play a whole bunch of game modes like DM, Team DM, CTF, Onslaught and etc.. 
 The game has good variety of maps, bots and weapons. There are twice as much weapons from the original 
 UT game. The graphics were superb, the sounds are great and heck, this game has a awesome multiplayer 
 game. You won't stop playing multiplayer it's just too plan fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 28, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I've always liked the UT series, but this must be the best so far! I haven't owned the game for 
 a long time, but I still think it's one of my favorite games. UT 2004 has so much to offer, that 
 you only can get tired of, if you play it for months, but anyway I still like it. The multiplayer 
 is the greatest thing about the game. It is so well done. It's amazing!
  
  Gameplay: I'm a big fan of first-person shooter games, but this one's special. Many games can't 
 compete with UT 2004, because it's so good.
  
  Graphics: Is very great and exceptional. The graphics is one af the things that makes the game 
 great. 
  
  Sound: The overall sound is just so good. The gun sounds is also something very special, but the 
 thing I like the most about the sound is: All of it!
  
  Value: Just go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FUBUSH
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 17, 2005 1:17 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is a futuristic sci-fi first person shooter. It certainly has all the needs 
 of a great fps: awesome and highly useful weapons, great levels, and game modes. There are a few 
 exceptions, but they don't fegrade gameplay too much. It yields high-end graphics, which even look 
 good on moderate and low end pcs. 
  
  AI bots offer a somewhat good challenge but get boring fast so you'd want to spend more time online. 
 UT2004 has a large modding community for obvious reasons and includes alot of nice perks such as 
 stats tracking which only increases the competetiveness of other players online. However, because 
 of this, some players are just insanely good, which doesn't make UT2004 a noob friendly game and 
 may take awhile before you can match their skill.
  
  At any rate, if your looking for a highly entertaining and addictive FPS that you'll spend a large 
 chunk of your time playing, Unreal Tournament 2004 is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torch101
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  First off, I wanna say that I love the unreal series. Ever since i first saw unreal, i fell in 
 love with it. Now i play it even more. Unreal have always catched my attention so this is the only 
 game i like. Unreal Tournament 2004 was the game that i couldn't wait for, now i have it. Overall 
 this is excellent Epic games did a good job especially with this on, even though some people said 
 it was the same as UT2003 but with just more characters and maps, actually, this is different. 
 It is the same as the previous one was but they added some much depth into the game to make it 
 better. First off, the graphics, as always are looking good. The maps are big enough for players 
 to make as much mayhem as tthey can and they are beautifully rendered. The textures fits so well 
 just makes you want go crazy AGHHHHHHHHH, okay back to the point. The character and weapon models 
 are also good looking. The sound was really good 'cause it made UT2004 feel so real at the same 
 time. The voice acting made it real too 'cause whenever the bots would taunt by saying somethin 
 like DIE B&*%$, it makes me laugh :o. The sound of the explosions in the game also felt real to. 
 The gameplay is awsome, you get to choose to play deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture-the-flag, 
 domination, assault, and onslaught (by the way onslaught mode was fun) . The online play fits good 
 with the game, and if you don't like that theres always botmatches. The value of UT2004 couldn't 
 have been better.
  
  As you can see, Unreal Tournament 2004 is the right game for you. Shooting, gore, shooting, and 
 well..... gore. If you still don't have this game, you should get it anyway besides it should be 
 cheaper now. GET IT!!!, its definetly worth your wild. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawgsfan1447
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2005 1:33 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is one of those games where you wonder how the developers came up with some of 
 this stuff. This game definitely lives up to its name, Unreal. Thats not necessarily a bad 
 thing however. Weapons like the lightning gun are just plain cool. Dont come into this game expecting 
 a tough tactical shooter, come into it expecting a tough run n gun; this game is the definition 
 of run n gun. 
  When you have modes like onslaught and assault, you know you have something revolutionary on your 
 hands, but they still stick the standard stuff like Deathmatch and Capture the Flag in there for 
 good measure. Honestly, I think this game would have done great with just Onslaught in it though, 
 but I am glad they didnt just leave it at that, Deathmatch and other more arcade modes are great 
 fun as well. 
  The graphics we have here are some great ones. The engine is also amazingly optimized. I have never 
 seen something that can run so well on even less than amazing machines. The highly detailed textures 
 and great physics make for an amazing graphical experience, eve on not so great machines.
  The sound is phenomenal as well, character voices, weapons, you name it, it sounds good.
  Just 
 the number of maps that come with the game is amazing, and then add in all of the user created 
 maps and you have a nearly infinite amount of maps. 
  The value for this is great, especially now that its going down in price. Buying this will be 
 some of the best spent money on entertainment of your life. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DieZel05
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game sence before it came out (ut2004 demo) and i must say this game has 
 made the most impact on me than any other game i have played maby because its the only game i still 
 play. This is the best multiplayer game out right now and will be untill Unreal tournament 2007 
 comes out thats just because you can do Soooo much with the game after you thought you where through 
 with it. I will be playing this game hard even though can barley even do that because of the broke-down 
 computer im useing. Until i get another computer this will probably be the only game im gonna play 
 for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 got multiplayer FPS of the year for a reason. It's fun. Really, really fun. 
 I love the flak cannon, and the rocket launcher, and all the other stuff, too. I love chopping 
 people up in a car vehicle with those extended blades on the sides, and I also love running over 
 people with the hover vehicle.
  
  The maps are massive, the gameplay is competitive, the graphics are pretty, the vehicles are destructive, 
 and basically everywhere you look there's an explosion or gunfire. This is what all multiplayer 
 games need to have, it needs to become the standard. No more tiny, linear maps with no vehicle 
 support or diversity in guns (Sorry, CS) .
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 has action, explosions, challenge, and fun. Just like any half-decent multiplayer 
 game should have. It's really hard to describe how fun it is to play this game, because the fact 
 is, it's just nothing but pure and simple fun. Sometimes this game can get so chaotic you have 
 an in-game heart attack just spinning around watching stuff blow up and people's blood splatter 
 everywhere. Then you suddenly turn around and you're about to be run over by a hovering vehicle, 
 so you jump to the side and dodge it, then watch it crash into a car and explode, revealing a tank 
 that's aiming right at you. The tank turns out to be on your side, and it blasts at a spot right 
 next to you where someone behind you was about to sneak-attack you. It's heart attack-inducing.
 
  
  There's also a bit of teamwork, because if you want to capture a flag quickly, you need to bring 
 an extra guy so both of you can use the link gun to capture it. You can also heal damaged vehicles 
 with the link gun. Sometimes if you kill an enemy while he's in a car, you can snatch his vehicle 
 away.
  
  There's also a huge mod community for this game. One mod is like soccer where you keep trying to 
 shoot a big ball to the other team's goal in order to win. There are many, many mods and different 
 ways to play this game, so it doesn't get old fast.
  
  If you want a solid multiplayer experience, this is your game. It's fun, addictive, challenging, 
 and competitive just like any multiplayer game ought to be, and the mod community will keep you 
 coming back for more. I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  Oh look another wannabe first-person shooter that just spews out the same thing we've seen time 
 and time again, why should i spend my hard earned money on this and take up my precious hard drive 
 with it's massive 5.5gb required to even get it to run. That's because this game is fantastic, 
 it's not just another dull first-person shooter and it's not just another uninspired sequel. This 
 game is packed with everything including the kitchen sink and broadens the scope of not only the 
 series but of first-person shooters everywhere. This game keeps all the fast paced action and gore 
 of the previous installments and injects a selection of modes and vehicles that any game would 
 be proud of. What this game boasts is 10 full game modes that you can play on and offline and can 
 be played on a huge selection of maps ranging from close indoor fragging to vast open outdoor worlds. 
 Traditional Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Capture the Flag are all
  here aswell as more exotic modes like Assault, Invasion and Onlsaught. This basically means there 
 is a game mode to suit everybody and should keep you glued to your monitor weather you decide to 
 play online or offline.
  
  This game has a pretty harsh learning curve however which can see it becoming very tricky in a 
 short period of time and if you dare to venture online you will find people triple back-flipping 
 over your head in the blink of an eye and killing you before you even knew they were on-screen 
 but practise makes perfect. Completing the single-player which see's you recruiting a team to beat 
 the best tournaments in the world can prove to be pretty fun and will teach you some useful skills 
 on a variety of maps and will get you familiar with every single mode in a short space of time. 
 The bot AI is one of the best found in first-person shooter and if you don't play well then you 
 will be killed pretty sharpish, depending on the level you have them set to.
  
  The game engine has been improved even further here, the Unreal Tournament 2003 engine was pretty 
 flawless but the designers have found some way of making it that much better and everything seems 
 to fly along at an alarmingly smooth pace providing you have the right hardware to go with it. 
 The textures are rich, the details are high and the vibrant colours that fill your screen when 
 an energy blast is let off or a laser flashes across your screen is really makes you appreciate 
 what they have done here.
  
  Ok seen as this game is mainly focused on it's variety of game modes i will explain what some of 
 the modes actually are and what they can offer. There is Assault which is basically two teams that 
 play against each other, one attacks and has to accomplish objectives while the other defends and 
 tries to stop their progress until the timer runs out. These objectives range from reaching certain 
 locations to destroying objects, with the range of turrets and vehicles on offer here it really 
 gives variety to each objective. Invasion which is overlooked by a lot of people but can prove 
 the most fun see's every player play together as a team while aliens come from all sides of the 
 map to attack you, you must work as a team here and try to progress through as many round as you 
 can. Once all your squadron are dead it's game over, however if just one person survives and completes 
 the wave then all their team mates will respawn for the next attack. Onslaught is the most played 
 mode online and unsurprisingly, each team starts at their own bases and have their own fleet of 
 vehicles to help them along the way for control of huge outdoor map. Each base has a power core 
 and destroying the opponents is your main objective but this cannot be destroyed directly, there 
 are power nodes linked to it and you must control all of the other power nodes for the shield to 
 be brought down and then destroyed. This mode requires the most skill and strategy between players 
 and is easily the most exciting new mode to hit the first-person shooter genre in years.
  
  Seen as vehicles are such a big part of the game i feel they need a mention, this game could have 
 been a huge flop if they didn't get the vehicles right. They got it spot on and it doesn't feel 
 like they have stole any idea's from any of it's competitors, each vehicle has it's own unique 
 style and weaknesses. These vehicles range from small buggies called Scorpions which has blades 
 on the side for cutting opponents in half to the Manta hovercraft which glides across the ground 
 at huge speeds, again if you fly into an opponent they will be sushi. You may think the vehicles 
 offer a big advantage to whoever hops into the driving seat first but you would be wrong, this 
 game has big counter-measures. The game even has it's own gun for specially taking vehicles down 
 and creates a nice balance, the Link Gun now has a handy little feature now. Once used on any vehicle 
 or gun turret will heal it aswell as making any team mate using the Link Gun to adopt a huge power 
 advantage. This added with the frantic fragging madness Unreal delivers everytime, this game really 
 is confirming it's name as one of the biggest shooters around and gaining a huge fan base with 
 every release.
  
  Last but not least there are two full programs sneaked into this game, they are the map maker and 
 the character maker. The possibilities are endless here, you can basically import anything into 
 these programs from your own models to your own face and stick it on any character you like. Personally 
 i downloaded most of my character models in which there are millions to chose from, anything from 
 Bart Simpson to the Easter Bunny. There are also various online guides to making your own maps 
 in hours and once you get a little practise you can be making huge, beautiful maps that suit your 
 every wish. These two programs are just the icing on a very filling, very tasty cake. With this 
 game you really can have your cake and eat it too.
  
  Gameplay - Almost perfect, some minor bugs let it down and can become a little frustrating when 
 people start flipping all over the screen.
  
  Graphics - Spot-on, the details on this game are truly inspiring. You will find yourself stopping 
 to look up at the sky from time to time just to admire the view.
  
  Sound - Great commentary and sound effects creates a solid audio experience.
  
  Value - So 
 many game modes, weapons, maps, characters, vehicles and much much more. What more could you ask 
 for?.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDoom007
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 10, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  When you're looking for a game the first thing that will pass through your mind is how entertaining 
 it is, after that you might be thinking about how much time you will be spending on it and if it 
 worths the money.
  
  Unreal Tournament has been a great series of games and the 2004 edition might be one of the best 
 of the series (if not the best) , so you can be quite sure that the game will keep you entertained 
 for a long time, also you wont feel for a second that you have wasted your money on this game.
 
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 features a couple of game modes, a single player and a multiplayer game, 
 the single player mode is rather simple but quite entertaining, this mode lets you take care of 
 a character, your mission is to guide him/her through the tournament, the tournament will show 
 you almost all the modes available in the game.
  The single player campaign is good, but the multiplayer mode is where this game really shines, 
 trough any internet connection (either dial-up or broadband) you can challenge up to 32 players 
 on any of the game modes available, from the classic free for all deathmatch to the most loved 
 mode of them all named onslaught.
  
  The graphics on this game are simply excellent, the modelling of the weapons and characters are 
 simply amazing, the characters on the other hand look great, all the models from the human to the 
 skaarj are very well detailed, the scenery is also breathtaking and in some cases you can get easily 
 distracted by the amazing looks of them.
  
  The sound is one of the game greatest aspects, the voice acting of either the announcers or the 
 characters is excellent, tough the voices from the characters is mainly repeated over and over 
 from race to race, on the other hand, the music on this game is also another excellent aspect of 
 the game, the music is well placed according the situation of the scenery, you will see that quite 
 early on the game, also this will help you keeping glued to your seat.
  
  As mentioned earlier, the replay value of this game is quite high, either you can play one game 
 mode until you get bored of it, then you can simply change the game mode and you get a fresh start 
 for that game mode, also take note that this game features more than 5 game modes so you can keep 
 coming back to play this game for a really long time.
  There is also a good way to keep this game updated is the fact that you can create your own maps 
 or downloading them from the net.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is a great game that will entertain you for a long time, worth the money 
 and will grow on you for a long time, so you can't go wrong picking this game up, is really that 
 good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medic
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2005 12:58 am PT
Review:  
  Got an itchy trigger finger? Looking for some fast, fast. And did I say fast action on the PC? 
 This game is most definitely for you.
  
  Unreal Tournament never had much on Quake III, in my opinion. Quake looked cooler, the action was 
 better, the guns more fun and the MODS way cooler. This has nothing to do with the fact I am a 
 massive Id fanboy. really.
  
  Now I find myself with this copy of Unreal 2004, months late, but who's counting. To get our start 
 here the game looks great. The character models look detailed and the environment crisp. Everything 
 looks right, just not spectacular.
  
  As for sound, it's lacking. I don't see (or if you want to be politically correct "hear") anything 
 cool coming from my speakers. The sounds area all there, as well as the familiar "Headshot!" coming 
 from the announcer. And we can't forget the annoying kid that shouts "lalalalallalalalalalaala" 
 from the kid who microphone for Christmas.
  
  Speaking of headsets, forget about using them because no one else does, and strategy isn't really 
 a concern for most people playing the game.
  
  Anyway, on to gameplay. It really hasn't changed much, and that is the best way to describe it. 
 I have a lot of issues with the game mechanics, specifically how stupidly hard CTF is, considering 
 as soon as you kill someone, they respawn. The game is starting to feel lame, considering that 
 it's so fast paced and beginner unfriendly that many people give up way too fast.
  
  There are several new gameplay modes, like Onslaught, which is like Battlefield 1942. And a return 
 of the popular mode "Invasion", which has you attack points which other teams have to defend.
 
  
  All in all, I think Unreal 2004 is a decent game that just doesn't appeal to me, but does too many 
 others. If you have any interest in these types of games, I strongly encourage you to try it out!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  alot of new features and impovements from the UT2003, which makes this game even better and a most 
 own for any pc gamer
  Unreal Tourament 2004 took some of the best parts of the original UT and UT2003 and summed them 
 together to make the complete package. The gameplay is more balanced than ever, as the developers 
 took time to listen to the complaints people had about UT2003 and fixed almost everything. The 
 end result is a great gameplay experience unmatched since the halycon days of the original Unreal 
 Tournament. There is very little to find wrong with this game, basically it comes down to a matter 
 of taste. If you prefer a faster pace and high intensity, yet balanced gaming this is the online 
 FPS for you. However if you are more methodically minded you might prefer something a bit more 
 realistic, but thats why they call it UNREAL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2005 7:20 am PT
Review:  Unreal tournament 2004 is the best muli player game i played, after unreal 2003 i was a bit dissapointed 
 about its presentation and how much it offered but one year later it did everything i want from 
 it.
  
  We have the standard modes like deathmatch and CTF but assaullt is back from the original game 
 but that is not all. We have a new mode called Onslaught which introduces new gameplay and whiecles.
 
  
  The game itself sounds like unreal 2003 and you will even recognize the music in it but you cant 
 get a better game like this, so much to do and so much see. Your hard earned money will come to 
 good use becouse you will not find a game that offers more than unreal 2004 does, it has everything 
 you want from a game and do not forget the mod makers also. There is one word for it: play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 8, 2005 11:30 pm PT
Review:  endless action packed entertainment, and for the price it's a must buy, level design is just wonderful, 
 and community support is even better than what half-life had, the make something unreal tournament 
 produced so many quality mods, and they are all so varied, from alian swarm, to red orchestra, 
 to unwheel. the community maps are amazing, and there are some truely mindblowingly awsome levels 
 to be downloaded, i want to say that this game gets it's awsome score now after the fact because 
 the awsome tools the developers at epic gave the community, these toys continue to spawn more awsome 
 mods, mutators, levels, and weapons, this game is just plain awsome, you have pure charnage and 
 action at your finger tips, combining things like low gravity with slowmotion deaths, and insta 
 gib (so when people die there death animations are in slow motion, and low grav, gives them even 
 more air time, insta gib, means one shot kills, where every time the victom explodes.) playing 
 deathmatch like this means lots of body parts and blood flying through the air in slow mo, as you 
 fly at unreal speeds through the levels blowing SH! T up. so when you finally tire of the regular 
 gameplay (which there is a wealth of any way) you can make your own gameplay by mixing and matching 
 the different mutators with the different game types. this game has the most costomization second 
 only to halo maybe. the action is so nuts. the tech powering this gameing experience is just awsome, 
 levels can have amazing detail, and look believable if they werent so unreal, this game plays like 
 a dream litteraly, peaple fliping of walls (a nice new addition from the original) adrenaline power 
 ups really altering fire fights, and so many well balanced weapons shredding people, while blood 
 and guts fly all over the place, make no mistake, i consider this the second bloodiest game ever, 
 second only to soldier of fortune 2. the over the top violence adds to the action though, it just 
 gets the blood pumping, so for those of you who are affriad that this game isn't suited for a little 
 brother or sister, the violence in hear is about as realistic as the violence in a godzilla movie. 
 people litteraly explode body parts and blood spraying every where. basically this game is a twich 
 shooter, but under the surface there is so much more.
  
  PROS:
  ENDLESS AMOUNT OF CONTENT, this game has more content online for it in just the year or so it's 
 been out, than half life has in it's six. graphics are great, really the engine is almost three 
 years old, and it holds up wonderfully it looks almost as good as half-life 2 in many ways it looks 
 better. gameplay is so tight, and simple, while simotaneously deep . runs so well online. bot AI 
 is great, best multi player bots ever, only challenge are the cs bots, but even they are not that 
 close. best value i've seen in a game, don't buy doom3 or half-life 2 till you own this game, say 
 you don't like twich gameplay alot, well you can also play a sniper in onslaught, or go tactical 
 in red orchestra, or top down action strategy in alien swarm (alot of fun) . or race it up in unwheel (those 
 are mods, except onslaught it's a new gameplay mode) . this game has something for everyone. great 
 vehicle combat, great foot soldier combat (something that the battlefield games never had) , in 
 a good moment this game will really get your blood pumping, the fun of this game for veteran shooter 
 fans is that you can be the one man team, or a team player, so you can hold a control piont (power 
 node) in onslaugh by your self shreddy enemy after enemy as they rush face first at you on foot 
 or in a vehicle. online voice over IP is supported quite well.
  CONS:
  well this game doesn't have a very well featured singlplayer, but that barely matters after all 
 it's all about the online play any way, and the sound is kind of genarick at times, or just not 
 fullfilling, like the sound of the reedemer doesn't redeem me enough. any way not alot wrong, oh 
 yeah i have experienced a half dozen crashes in the last couple of days, i don't know if this is 
 the new patch i downloaded, or the new graphics driver i installed, what happens is all the textures 
 dissapear and frame rate drops horribly then, the anti ailiasing seems to stop working because 
 tearing happens like mad and then i restart my computer because i can't navigate the menu to quit 
 things are so bad at that piont. but other than this recent developement witch might be entirely 
 my fault, this game runs perfectly online with perfect ping, and is so responsive.
  
  THE MEAT:
  epic out did themselves with this game, and envy will have to be more than just beautiful 
 to win over the followers of ut 2004, also i'd like to ask what is with uc2, that game barely resembles 
 the ut franchise at all. any way. lets talk tech for a while. the graphics engine and physics engine 
 supporting this game are awsome, vehicles handle well (not realistically, but this is unreal) rag 
 doll physics are well implemented, and so are simple particle effects, like people catching on 
 fire when their heads are blasted off via lightning gun. the graphics engine could use a more advanced 
 lighting engine to really bring out the enviroments but this would probably make the frame rates 
 drop, also the textures are high res, but this game doesn't support normal mapping to the extent 
 of doom3 and half life 2. considering the age of the engine though these quibles are quickly forgoten 
 seeing as the tech was really cutting edge when it hit the scene three years ago. character models 
 area awsome, and they all have great animations, its really supprising how all these little detials 
 that could have easily been forgoten considering the action focus of the game, have been included, 
 it really fills out the experience. the draw distances in ut 2004 are greatly increased over those 
 of ut 2003, the huge outdoor onslaught, and assualt maps really work well with the ut formula supprisingly. 
 I've had ut 2004 since the day it came out, and i've played lots of other online games, but this 
 is the one i always come back to. the engine usually runs smooth as butter online, but after i 
 updated my graphics driver, and patched ut 2004 on the same day i found that it now has a sever 
 problem, the game will randomly have all the textures dissapear, followed by a huge, and i mean 
 huge drop in frame rate, then tearing and jaggies start poping up everywere, at this piont i restart 
 the computer because things are out of control and i can't navigate the menu. this is the only 
 technical problem i have ever experienced with the game, and i expect that a new patch when ever 
 that happens will surely fix what ever is causing the problem, i could uninstall the game, but 
 it takes forever to do so, it is 6 gigs of content, plus all the mods and map packs i'd have to 
 reinstall, and it isn't happening often any ways. now to break down the gameplay. assualt is a 
 awsome mode of attacking and deffending, one team deffends a series of objectives, similar to the 
 objective based rtcw formula, while the other team attacks, simple enough, well the gameplay for 
 this mode is extremely varied, one assualt mode has you in a fighter craft trying to borad a space 
 station, another has you on giant moving trian things in a dessert, another has a little unreal 
 urban combat as you assualt a rebel base, another has you assualting a robot manufactureing facility, 
 these levels are so different, and varied in there experience, plus they are the most cinematic 
 experience in the game, i was very dissapionted to here that envy wouldn't have assualt, considering 
 it was a high point in ut 2004. onslaught, it's bassically the gameplay mode ment to counter halo, 
 and battlefield, it focuses on vehicle combat and control pionts, there is still alot of work for 
 the average foot soldier, my only critique of this awsome mode, is that you don't start with the 
 link gun, a fundamental weapon, it is used to build control pionts, heal vehicles and power up 
 teammates, and when you finally do get a link gun, it eats through it's own amunition to quickly, 
 this weapon would promote alot more teamwork, if only you started with it, or had more ammo, either 
 of the changes would have helped alot, i think, but that aside, this game is intense, the goal 
 is to blow up the enemies power core, this can only be done when you control enough power nodes 
 in the right place to that the power cores sheild is lowered, this gameplay is extremely simalar 
 no mater what the level, but that is ok because it kicks @$$, the great strategy is what power 
 nodes you control, and how you then use them to attack the enemies power nodes, you'll see if you 
 play the demo (which is awsome, if you never buy the game atleast try the demo, it is only the tip 
 of the iceberg, if you kind of like the demo, as i only kind of liked it you'll love the full game) . 
 ok moving on, there is deathmatch, and team deathmatch, so much fun, this is the classic gameplay 
 you love or hate, and even if you hate it , the mutators will shurely make you love some part of 
 it. the gameplay is perfectly balanced, and there is a very hard core group of people that play 
 deathmatch so don't expect to be great at it if it's your first time playing, the gameplay hear 
 is actually extremely deep considering that the new double jump, dodge, and wall jump/flip thingy 
 add alot of cool reflex based action to the gameplay , it's awsome jump flipping of a wall and 
 head shoting some one with the lightning gun simotaneously (very hard, but beautiful, even if you 
 are the one shot) . there is classic capture the flag, witch would have been lame, if the darn level 
 design wasn't so kick @$$. really the level design in this game can really flesh out classic gameplay 
 modes like deathmatch, and CTF. things here in CTF are basic, but classic and fun, translocators 
 really speed up the game in a fun way. Then there is the new bombing run, this mode gets alot of 
 flak from people but after playing it i love it, it is bassically a game of center flag, where 
 instead of bringing the flag (or bomb) back to your base, you deliver it to the enemy base, more 
 specifically their goal, to score, the bomb can be passed, a cool effect, and launched a great 
 distance, this game really requires team work and voice over IP so if you lack that (the head set) 
 i'd stay away from online, people would most likely get mad at you. Next mode, is the double domination, 
 it plays kinda like a smaller mode of onslaught without vehicles. there are only two control pionts, 
 and you team must control both control piont simotaneously for eight minutes to score, simple, 
 but hectic and deep at the same time, alot of it boils down to the one man stand, where he (you, 
 or someone) fights an onslaught of opponents to deffend his control point, but that is alway fun. 
 being the desperate team trying to pull up from behind is actually more fun in this mode i think, 
 the desparity isn't lost because come backs are entirely possible, and awsome when they happen. 
 those are all the major gameplay modes, there are more, but why mention them, i still haven't gotten 
 tired enought of the essentials to move onto a new gameplay mode, when i'm about to do so i instead 
 play a mod, i must recomend, red orchestra, it is a work in progress, but once you get used to 
 it, it can be glorious. there is also, a new chaos UT mod that is great, there is also aliens swarm, 
 this is a completely original game, and alot of fun. 
  ut 2004 weapons
  
  sheild gun
  alot of fun, it's a shield with rechargable amo, it can also deliver a intense melee attack that 
 is often a one hit kill. this gun is very useful, but i hardly ever use it, i'd rather take flak 
 and shoot someone than defend myself, now the shield gun is versitile, and it's nice that you always 
 spawn with it.
  assualt rifle
  another basic weapon you spawn with, it is accurate enough, but barely damages anyone, it is equiped 
 with a grenade launcher you can charge to lob the nade further. this weapon is alot of fun when 
 you dual wield.
  biorifle, 
  alot more fun in ut2004 than the original, you can charge it for a large blob or do the auto fire 
 option and spray and area with blobs of acid, leathal, but extremely limited range.
  shock rifle
  a rail gun and energy gun in one, the combo attack where you lauch a energy attack 
 then shoot it with a rail round is leathal, and awsome sounding, one of the best examples of great 
 sound in the game. good at medium, longe and close range combat, but best at medium. effective 
 agianst vehicles.
  mini gun
  pretty self explanitory, auto matic amo munchin fun, deals lots of damage, good at medium range, 
 bad agianst vehicles.
  link gun
  the weapon of choice for the team player, very hard to use, but very deadly. great sound, and feel 
 for this weapon, main fire is plasm balls that don't move really fast, secondary fire is the ghost 
 busters weapon, cool.
  flak,
  the shogun, grenade launcher, powerful and weak, horrible at anything but close range, but it is 
 un beatable at close quater combat, you can bounce the flak off of walls and lob nades over stuff, 
 lots of fun.
  rocket launcher,
  main fire, is predictable, alt fire you load more shots into the rocket launcher, up to three at 
 once.
  lightning gun, 
  basically a awsome sniper rifle, great agains manta's, and raptors (hover crafts, and planes) , great 
 at all ranges, just takes talent for close quaters head shots. this weapon is alot more balanced 
 than the sniper rifle, because it gives away your position. can't camp and snipe. does a little 
 area damage, if you miss sometimes.
  sniper rifle, 
  weak agianst vehicles, and no tracer rounds, so a cheaper version of the lightning gun, beter at 
 close range though, i think (personal opinion here) .
  AVRIL,
  ANTI VEHICLE rocket launcher, awsome agianst vehicles, it seeks anything in your sights, but it's 
 slow moving and can be shot down.
  ION PAINTER
  never used this weapon, never found it, guess it's a super weapon.
  redeemer
  hand held nuclear, 
 or fusion rocket launcher, alt fire you pilot the rocket via camera. a super weapon with only one 
 round, can be shot down.
  target painter
  never seen or used one, but have been hit with pleanty of air strikes from it, the plane that bombs 
 the target can be shot down. delayed effect so use it on power nodes and not specific enemies.
 
  spider mine layer
  lays spider mines that chase people, basicaly walking proximity mines, lots of fun, very tactical. 
 mines can be shot, but you can command you spiders with the right clicker to guid them around, 
 kinda remote control like
  grenade launcher, 
  this is a remote grenade launcher, lots of fun, the nades stick to people nodes, and vehicles, 
 and i think maybe spider mines, you can connect the dots.
  
  THE BREAK DOWN:
  GAMEPLAY: 
  beyond basic twich shooter skills the new acrobatic feets will challenge even the 
 most veteran players, the mutators keep gameplay fresh, the strategy in domination capture the 
 flag, onslaught, and assualt is supprising, and keeps things fresh. this game is so simple looking, 
 but is just so deep, and well made. i only like ut, and ut 2003, but ut 2004, is always fresh and 
 awsome, if you want more variety, use you internet and download something, check out fileplanet. com, 
 and planetunreal. com they are the only places i go.
  i wish the single player was more developed, but i'd rather have the polished multiplayer
  10
 
  GRAPHICS:
  looks beautiful, and plays wonderfully, the graphics hear are only inhanced by all the little touches, 
 such as people catching fire from a rocket laucher, or the gore effects, the level design milks 
 the game, art design is so free since this is a unreal universe, the level designers did alot of 
 nutty and awsome things, this isn't as much a sci fi action shooter and a fantasy game in respect 
 to some of the level design, the artistic minds behid the levels of profesional and use rmade levels, 
 are truely milking the engine this game looks beautiful and unique. the only think i'll biff about 
 is i want a bigger explosion out of my tanks main cannon.
  10
  SOUND:
  generally sound is good, sometimes great, but some of the sounds need work the redeemer sound canned, 
 but other times the sounds are awsome, like the alt fire rail gun combo with the shock rifle. that 
 sounds massive .
  9
  VALUE:
  hands down the best value, the collectors edition out now should cost you maybe 30-40, and if you 
 have 2003 you get a ten dollar rebate, awsome, considering that this is the most played game i 
 own, next to cs and united offense, wich i play often but not for as long. this game never tires, 
 and it keeps getting better even over a year after it's release.
  10
  REVIEWERS TILT:
  this is probably my highest scored game ever. well i gotta say they set out to make a awsome and 
 unique multi player experience, and they did that, this is hands down the best multi player ever, 
 it has classic and revelutionary elements that make it timeless.
  10
  
  9.9
  
  
  buy it, or atleast demo it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  HEADLINE: "Crazy yet satisfying"
  
  UT2004 REVIEW
  By: StarFry64
  
  For a long time, the Unreal Tournament series is known for it's great multiplayer yet still hasn't 
 bring up alot of players into which is sad. Until now! This game has the best graphics for a multiplayer 
 game like this. For some reason, I am saying that this is a multiplayer game because it really 
 is. Unlike World of Warcraft and Counter-Strike (Source) it has a great community. You can make 
 clans and such and being able to play with your friends in this game is a great experience. Besides 
 the multiplayer is the campaign and it is horrible it really is. The campaign pretty much has the 
 exact same story like all of the UT games. The story is that your team or yourself has to win the 
 Unreal Tournament and you will be known as the best. Being able to play with your team in the campaign 
 is much more fun than going all by yourself in the campaign. But probably, you will stick into 
 the multiplayer right? Well you should. This really is meant to be a great multiplayer game and 
 it truly is with it's modes and vehicles and weapons and etc. that brings you to a new world waiting 
 for you besides Azeroth (WoW) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2005 2:15 am PT
Review:  I got this game since it came out last year, and I'ts still one of my most played even though I 
 have half-life 2, evil genius, so on so forth. The game never gets old, because you get 12 Gametypes, 
 over 13 weapons and thousands of maps, mods n' mutators. The game is CPU dependant, so you need 
 a good CPU, but one of my friends has a 2.4 GHZ and a Geforce mx 440 and it's just fine. There's 
 tons of difficulty settings, from Novice to Godlike, and you'll own, get owned but that's ok. Now 
 what you really want to hear about: The Gibs! You can blow off arms, legs heads, guys get blow 
 in half so only their legs remain. The Gibs leave little marks on the ground, and they don't have 
 any Physics so they just bounce around. The dead bodies have Ragdoll physics however so thats fun. 
 When you shoot somebody theres a little cloud of blood and blood leaks out of the place you shot 
 them in for about 5 secounds in gushy sprays. You can catch a guy on fire is you use a explosive 
 weapon, and you can burn them down to skeletons is you use the "Link Gun" or the "Ion Painter" 
 which is a large satellite laser beam. Over all, It's really fun Good Graphics, and good "Graphics". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadafeig
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  As gaming has gone on over the years its becoming clear that multiplayer portions of games are 
 becoming just as important as the single player. And Unreal Tournament 2004 is no exception.
  
  
  What makes UT 2004 such a good multiplayer shooter is its unreal (not a pun) amount of 
 modes to choose from. I'll just list a few Onslaught, Assault, CTF, Mutant, there are many many 
 more but the mainones are assault and onslaught. Assault is a teambased objectives style gameplay 
 that is very well balanced for each map and speaking of maps there is a very good variety of maps 
 and weapons for each one. Now for the best mode Onslaught: It is very fun because it requires a 
 good amount of strategy and teamwork. You fight for nodes which are spawn points, and each node 
 you capture links you to another node which ultimately leads to the power core. Wprds cannot describe 
 how fun this is to do and its teamwork and skill it requires. Headphones only add to othe excitement 
 so i recommend you pick up a pair. Gameplay isn't the only place where this game shines though, 
 the graphics are very well done. The weakest part of the game for me was sound, its not bad it 
 just could have been better. 
  
  MUltiplayer shooter fans you have waited long enough, go out and be prepared to spend hours upn 
 hours of entertainment in this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roleplayer2004
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  When the first installment in the ever growing popularity of Unreal Tournament back in 2000. It 
 set the standard of what should be equipped with multiplayer/online first person shooters and it 
 set the standard for all multiplayer games ever created and this was the start of the evolution 
 of multiplayer focussed games. Then recently the long awaited sequel to Unreal Tournament was born. 
 Unreal Tournament 2003. This was ment to be the start of the revolution in PC first person shooters 
 but it was a huge let down. So what do Epic do? Go back and fix up all the problems and add in 
 the long awaited Assault mode and let out some big guns with new modes like Onslaught which is 
 now the king of multiplayer gaming due to the team work and strategy. But the greatest new feature 
 that you would say is the Vehicles. Who would've ever imagined a bloody shoot em up like Unreal 
 Tournament could pull something like this off? But they did and this is the evolution of multiplayer 
 gaming.
  
  What Multiplayer game could boast so many high quality modes like Unreal Tournament. Forget six 
 different modes. Let's just bump it up to ten and see how people feel. And let me tell you no other 
 game has this much to offer and the possibilities are endless. When you have ten completely different 
 features like the old classics Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Last Man Standing 
 and even the brilliance of Assault, this still isn't it. The developers have scratched Domination 
 and turn it into Double Domination. Which basically there's two points now instead of three A and 
 B, and the game is now definetly more territorial than the original in back in 2000. But with the 
 newer features like Bombing Run which is team focussed based on scoring points like a game of football 
 or soccer. Invasion which is a blast because your killing old classic creatures coming in swarms 
 at you from the original Unreal, in an arcade kind of feel. Then with each wave you take out you 
 make your way up to the harder monsters. Thare's also a Mutant mode, which is basically one person 
 is ultra mega powerful and someones the bottom feeder who's basically trying to kill every one 
 else, while all the rest of the players are trying to kill the mutant. which means you can't harm 
 anyone but the mutant until somebody kills the mutant and then becomes it. Then it's a never ending 
 cycle until you reach a certain frag rate or time runs out.
  
  Another big noticable change is in the gameplay. No longer you have small spaces with long corridors 
 and buildings with a roof just above your head. The game is now about three times as big, twice 
 as quick and your characters seem to be half the size your used to. This is very noticable when 
 your trying to shoot someone or your chasing them down. The Rocket Launcher now can't shoot up 
 to six missiles at a time and it's now reduced down to a modest three. The snipers Rifle now has 
 smoke coming out just after you shoot a bullet which cuts down the dominance this weapon once had. 
 There's also a few additional weapons to the game which nicely mixes things up, but they don't 
 have a dominant impact on the game.
  
  The gameplay is nicely done and the games feel has a refreshing new feel to it and it's still highyl 
 addictive like the original. But the main difference is that the feel of the game is the opposite 
 to the first Unreal Tournament which gives the game a fresh start and great new atmoshphere .
 
  
  The graphics are just stunning. You have to see the graphics on the highest settings to believe 
 it. The game has so many different levels from being on ice to running around in a forest. This 
 game has so many new possibilities detail wise and the characters detail just looks brilliant. 
 You have to see the graphics, environment, the physics and every little bit of fine detail to know 
 your playing a game that's quite unique and in a class of its own.
  
  The background music in the game adds a nice feel to the game but it can easily become very dull 
 which is where the MP3 compatability comes into it. You can store and play your own music on Unreal 
 Tournament 2004 which just gives you so many options and new doors to be opened. The voice overs 
 turned out nicely but at times it can get a touch repetitive and in the way. But a surprisingly 
 superb element to the game were the sound effects of the weapons. I thought they turned out great 
 and the creaters didn't try to do too much, but the overall sound effects turned out crisp and 
 polished.
  
  You won't be thinking of trading in this game for a very long time, because the online gameplay, 
 all the different features and new level designs will keep you busy for a very long time. All that 
 can be said about Unreal Tournament 2004 is that it is the best multiplayer focussed game on the 
 market today. You won't be getting sick of Unreal Tournament 2004's multiplayer mode for a very 
 long time.
  
  The only dissapointment you could say about Unreal Tournament 2004 is that its single player campaign 
 could of been so much better. Just a few new added in options to the single player mode and a few 
 extra game features could of made the single player mode a classic just like like the first Unreal 
 Tournament. 
  
  But Unreal Tournament 2004 has taken a huge step into the evolution of multiplayer focussed games. 
 I wouldn't be surprised in a few years time there'll be a new genre just based on a games multiplayer 
 mode. Unreal Tournament 2004 has taken the next step in the revolution of online multiplayer based 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwiggles11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2005 7:39 pm PT
Review:  
  If you think that Halo or Halo 2 are the best online multiplayer games of the past years, than 
 you are dearly mistaken. Unreal Tournament 2004 offers every single online function that your heart 
 may desire. Whats best about this game is that it runs smooth on a variety of computer machines. 
 Low ram? No Problem! If you are patient enough to wait through the loading times you will definitely 
 not be disappointed with the shear amount of action and under-estimated worth that this game brings 
 to the table.
  
  Recently, the game has come out with a DVD version of it so you would probably be better off picking 
 that one up rather then the 6CD CD-Rom version. The DVD version probably has additional features 
 and bonus material for the Unreal community to dwell over but I will strictly focus on the CD-Rom 
 version of the game which I had purchased almost a year ago.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is basically a lot of fun. The game offers a single player campaign where 
 you earn money and collect better and stronger team members to fight alongside you in the Unreal 
 Tournament. The game offers many game modes suited for a variety of players and their tastes. Some 
 games include: assault, onslaught, double domination, death-match, capture the flag, team-death 
 match and base assault. Each game mode is fun in its own degree. 
  
  This game is definitely a win-win situation for any trigger happy player. You can truly run into 
 an enemy base jump around like a maniac and offer a tone of damage to the opposing team. If you 
 are a reclusive player who does not like the rush and attack technique of first-person gaming, 
 then you can stay back at your teams base and defend the flag/base or simply hold your own ground 
 to attain pride and valor for your team. However, if you are a camper and do not like to venture 
 out into the maps battleground, you will find that your technique is not as effective as it could 
 be. Players will seek you out and eventually massacre your breathing body. The game is clearly 
 an action game with some aspects of strategy in the assault and onslaught modes.
  
  Just like the single player campaign, the multiplayer is very similar and is basically an extension 
 of your abilities into the internet lobby. You will need to have some talent or skill to perform 
 at a feasible level online. If you find that you are being totally massacred no matter where you 
 go or who you fight with, you either need more practice in the single player mode or you are simply 
 having a bad day. I found that some days when I played this game I did very well and the next day 
 I was at the bottom of the barrel.
  
  A stat-tracking system is available for you to sign up on which displays all your faults, kills 
 and other notable accomplishments that you have incurred. Unreal Tournament 2003 gamers will probably 
 be used to the gameplay and the shear overwhelming intensity that this game offers and will feel 
 like season veterans to the new season of the Unreal Tournament.
  
  The game offers a decent amount of weapons that will suite any players tastes. Some of these weapons 
 include: bio rifles, flak cannons, sniper rifles, redeemers, link guns, machine guns, grenades, 
 rocket launchers, shock rifles and many other weapons that can deal a large amount of damage to 
 your foes. Each weapon offers two firing modes which can come in handy at different locations. 
 For example, the shock rifle can be used from afar to kill enemies at a distance and its alternate 
 fire-mode releases a round ball of electricity that when shot at, can explode and deal a large 
 amount of damage to a group of players. The weapons have a large variety of effectiveness and different 
 weapons are used in different areas. Launching a nuclear weapon on a rushing crew of red team 
 players can be quite fun. The redeemer offers tones of damage and will definitely keep the opposing 
 team weary and cautious of your enormous capabilities. 
  
  The online component is a strict red team versus blue team mode. This is as simple as it gets and 
 I bet nobody would like it any other way. The game offers various skins for characters so you will 
 not have to worry that you look like all your other team members. There are about 60 skins to choose 
 from that suit your liking. Not only are the skins different but you can also change the announcers 
 voice in the game. There is a large amount of changes that you can make to your guns cross-hair, 
 to make them suit your liking. Each skins voice taunts and communicating sounds are different. 
 If you are a robot you will find that you actually sound robotic and if you are an alien you 
 will sound awkwardly un-human. 
  
  When playing in a battle you can collect additional weapons on the battlefield to help you deliver 
 that evaporative onslaught on your enemies. Weapons do not carry over after you have died so you 
 will have to regain them through more searching. It is better if you find a weapon as soon as you 
 spawn because you are only launched with a machine gun which is basically very ineffective in the 
 game and you will find yourself in the spectator mode more then any other form. Adrenaline tablets 
 can be picked up which help you attain special abilities once you have collected 100 tablet points. 
 Special abilities can be equipped by tapping left-left or any other movement key combination 
 on your keyboard. Some of these specials include: constant healing, invisibility and speed. Double 
 damage power ups and health packets can be picked up to help you survive the battle and help your 
 team attain victory.
  
  The online component comes with an inbuilt chat lobby that you may enter when on a server. You 
 are able to chat with your team-mates to plan a strategy against your foes. This in built communication 
 system is a vital component of online gaming and unreal has obviously understood that. The speaking 
 function can help you and your team attain victory.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 offers a massive amount of maps. It offers old classics from previous Unreal 
 games and it adds many new maps with this new installment. Not only does the game offer tones of 
 maps but the Unreal community generates new maps almost daily for you to download and enjoy the 
 Unreal experience on. These maps are generally well done and vary depending on the designers preference. 
 For example, one round is a young boys bedroom with shelves, a desk, a bed, a closet and other 
 room things. Personally I thought it was cool but there were other people (as usual) complaining 
 about this and that. Some maps take place in space. If you are unsure what this means, ill tell 
 you; space has no gravity. You will find that when you jump, or perform a double jump you will 
 go much farther and seem to float over the battlefield. This is kind of cool until you accidentally 
 fly off the moon or base which the battle is occurring on. But if you get the hang of it this and 
 many other maps will become your beloved killing sanctuaries.
  
  The game comes with a mature rating due to the online component. Many individuals type obscenities 
 and with the microphone function even can speak obscenities. This is obviously an abuse of the 
 system and is sad but one must remember that Epic wanted the game to be a communicative tool, not 
 a cursing nightmare. Also various taunts do have curses. This is probably not the #1 choice for 
 your youngsters if you do have any.
  
  The game play in Unreal Tournament 2004 is well done. The game is very simple to get a hold of 
 but is difficult to master. It is this difficulty and urge to become a better player that will 
 keep people playing this title for many years to come. I will say this again, 1st-person shooters 
 play very well with a keyboard and mouse correlation. I enjoy using the mouse much more for aiming 
 than I do using an analog stick like in Halo 2. The games controls and minor special features like 
 double jumps, zooming and other special abilities are easy to get a hang of.
  
  The graphics in Unreal Tournament 2004 are very well done. The planets and the attention to detail 
 is a big priority of the developers. The game offers many rounds with various digital strengths 
 and minimal weaknesses. The overall atmosphere of the game is built on a futuristic setting and 
 the graphics and details support the games theme. The attention to detail is not as strongly placed 
 on the character models but it defiantly does not take away from the game experience. Although 
 the game does not have any revolutionary graphical steps forward it clearly represents modern graphics 
 to a high level.
  
  The sound in the game is well done. The addition of the communication function defiantly helps 
 the game attain online superiority. Although players could use Teamspeak or Ventrilo for their 
 communicating needs, the inbuilt function does its job well. The voices behind the taunts sound 
 really cool and are made out to represent the gender and race of the character skin. Explosions 
 and the commentary are also well executed and help deliver the game to an exceptional level of 
 multiplayer appeal.
  
  Overall, Unreal Tournament 2004 is a success and has clearly made its presence known as one of 
 the best online shooters around. The games low price, simplicity and minimal system requirements 
 should definitely attract more individuals. It is sad to see that not a lot of people play this 
 game. People are more pre-occupied with titles like Halo 2 and Grand Theft Auto which honestly 
 do not offer the same intensity and immersive experience as Unreal Tournament 2004 does. The game 
 is a definite buy if you are a fan of the series or a fan of first-person shooters. The game 
 correlates to a wide variety of players and it is this deep density that has lured many players 
 to fight for the gold in this years Unreal Tournament. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotageClock
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Theres nothing more satisfying, for me, than fragging a tank with the flak cannon in the middle 
 of an onslaught. UT2004 has everything you'd want in a FPS mulitplayer. 
  
  The single player isn't anything special, although you can manage your own team in a series of 
 tournaments (similar to condition zero from counterstrike) but where this game really shines is 
 the multiplayer. 
  
  There are so many modes. All of the classic modes (CTF, deathmatch, team deathmatch) are all there, 
 but the #1 mode in my book is Onslaught. 
  
  In onslaught, there are two teams, and each team has a main reactor. You then build power nodes, 
 but they have to be connected to your reactor. To kill the enemies reactor, you have to have a 
 power node directly linked from your main reactor to the enemies reactor. Its difficult to explain, 
 but within 10 minutes of playing the game, you will get the hang of it. 
  
  Gameplay: all out 10. The controls are perfect WASD controls, and everything is visible and distinguishable. 
 There are double jumps, and everything runs smoothly. The guns are balanced, and even newbies have 
 a chance at killing people. Nothing revolutionary though.
  
  The vehicles in this game are great. I love the leviathan, a tank sort of thing that supports 5 
 people. All kinds of vehicles are in this game, like fragile hovercrafts that move super fast, 
 raptors, which are like a space fighter from starwars (they look a lot like the cargoships that 
 the empire uses) and land vehicles. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good, but they're not topnotch. The character models look a little 
 fuzzy sometimes, but they are still fine. I'm glad that they didn't make amazing graphics for this 
 though, because it would have to sacrifice framerate for the lower end pcs. THis game is open to 
 a wide variety of gamers this way though. 
  
  Sound: The sound is great, but not amazing. Each level has its own soundtrack which goes with the 
 enviornment. my favorite being the level, arctic stronghold. (love it) . There is also music during 
 all the menus and everything, so its pretty nice. no complaints. 
  
  Value: you'll play this game constantly, and it'll be one of those games which you'll play till 
 the early hours of the morning. Although onslaught gets boring after a few hours, there are other 
 modes of play. You should be taking a break anyway though. The game is no longer expensive, so 
 it is definatly worth getting, even if you are new to the genre. 
  
  Tilt: I gave it a 10 because i cant stress how good a deal this game is. Six discs of material 
 and free (and awesome) online play make this the best 15 bucks you'll ever spend. (yes, i've found 
 my copy for a price that low!) 
  
  And dont forget the mods, mainly red orchestra which is a total conversion. Its basically an extra 
 game! and it is just as good as most of the modern day FPS that you'll see.
  
  Conclusion: If your looking for multiplayer with great action and neat guns, vehicles, great value, 
 and affordability (is that a word?) , look no further. Unreal Tournament 2004 is your game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeegloo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I really had no experience in online games or even FPS for that matter, but I 
 was sucked in. Despite the extremely shallow single player, it is an incredible game and perhaps 
 the best PC game of '04.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag, depending on your graphics card. I for one have a very bad one, so 
 they don't really impress me. However, I; m sure it looks fantastic on a better PC. The sound can 
 get very annoying with the somewhat tedious music and the over the top voice acting, but it fits 
 with the game and you can hear the other people online very well. 
  
  Definately the best aspect of this game is the multiplayer. I spent hours and hours on this multiplayer 
 mode and it never gets old. Be warned, though, the people on this game are very good and sometimes 
 VERY MEAN to n00bs. However, if you ignore the jerks and don't take yourself too seriously, you'll 
 have a blast playing this and love UT2k4 to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudyroundhead
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is the most complete multiplayer shooter I have played. The single player 
 campaign isn't that great but you won't be picking this game up to frag bots. It's all about the 
 multiplayer and the many different game types available for play. You have Assualt, Bombing Run, 
 Double Domination, Capture the Flag, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Vehicle Capture the Flag and 
 the big daddy of them all Onslaught. There are also what seems to be an endless amount of mods 
 for this game. Deathball, Jailbreak, Frag OPS, Damnation, Alien Swarm, UTXMP, just to name a few. 
 Not to mention new maps are being made and released almost daily for download. The mods are worth 
 the price of admission alone.
  
  The control is similar to UT2003. Vehicle control in the Onslaught and Vctf modes is very easy 
 to get used to. The physics in the game are terrific. There are many interesting and deadly weapons 
 available for your use as well. This is an all around great game and I would reccomend it to anyone. 
 You will spend hours at a time online playing with and against up to 32 players. 
  
  If you like futuristic shooter with tons of replayability then pick up Unreal Tournament 2004 today.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stereolite
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004, the next expansion in the growing Unreal Tournament franchise, brings back 
 what you have come to expect from the Unreal franchise and adds in it's own twist, vehicles. Vehicles 
 have been introduced into the unreal world in this release, along with some new game types to use 
 them in. The Unreal Tournament franchise is primarily meant to be played online. The single player 
 portion of the game solely consists of playing what would be the multiplayer modes but with bots, 
 computer players, instead of real people. That being said this isn't a game to buy unless you can 
 play online, otherwise you will not get the full experience. This is a large game though, for reasons 
 we will get to later on in this review, so look for the single disc DVD version if you have a DVD 
 drive.
  
  The gameplay of UT2004 is, simply put, fantastic. The only big problem with the gameplay are the 
 vehicle controls, they aren't as tight as they should be. The UT2000's introduced double jumps 
 and dodge jumping into the franchise, which adds a whole new layer of gameplay to it, because if 
 a player is skilled enough they will know where you will dodge and shoot there or where you will 
 be ahead of time and it will be too late before you realize it since you have little control while 
 in the air. You have access to nine different vehicles, more if you download the free Editor's 
 Choice Edition patch. These range from flying vehicles like the Raptor and Cicada, car type vehicles 
 like the Scorpion and Hellbender, tanks such as the Goliath, and even a hover craft called the 
 Manta. The manta is shockingly similar to the ghost vehicle from Halo, in both design and function. 
 Most of the vehicles have a method of attack, whether it be a weapon attached to it or some type 
 of melee attack. The scorpion, which is a dune buggy type vehicle, has blades that come out on 
 the sides that you can run people down with, and the goliath tank has a huge cannon and machine 
 gun that you can fire.
  
  There is also a literal arsenal at your disposal. There are at least twenty completely unique guns 
 in the game, all with their own strong and weak points. Some are specific to certain game types, 
 like the Mine Layer and Anti-Vehicle Rocket Launcher, which are specific to the vehicle game type 
 Onslaught. While some guns have alternate uses, like the Link gun which is used to heal vehicles 
 and capture nodes in onslaught, or the shield gun when can be used as, well, a shield. But then 
 you have your regular weapons with the soul purpose of killing, like the rocket launcher, flak 
 cannon, lightning gun, shock rifle, minigun, bio rifle, and many others. All the weapons are well 
 balanced and there is no calling any gun a "n00b" weapon because if you master a specific weapon 
 and dodging then it doesn't matter what you go up against. If you have good accuracy and timing 
 you will find a hit scan weapon like the shock rifle or lightning gun to work the best for you, 
 if you're not up to that level yet then a weapon with high splash damage like the rocket launcher 
 or flak cannon will serve you best. 
  
  You have free choice of over one hundred maps, yes, I said one hundred. Most are fairly large and 
 good for any number of players. Once you get above 32 players the game will suffer from lag, plus 
 it's more fun with around 16. Having a lot of people isn't a good thing, a smaller amount means 
 they will usually work better as a team where as in large games every goes off and does their own 
 thing. You also have endless user made maps that can be downloaded. You will play for weeks and 
 still find maps that you've never played before. These maps span over many different environments 
 and architectural designs. You may be playing in a castle in the snow, or a castle in a volcano, 
 or perhaps a high-tech ship in space, or maybe just a cave, steel plant, forest, junkyard, war 
 torn city, roof top, ice cavern, Egyptian temple, high-tech facility, or anything else you could 
 think up. If the maps aren't enough to keep you busy then the ten retail game types should be. 
 They include the classic Deathmatch and Capture the flag, plus the return of Assault. You also 
 have some more unique ones like Onslaught, which has you capturing different nodes across a map 
 to take the shield down off of a power core allowing it to be destroyed. If those aren't even enough 
 then you can try some user made ones like Jailbreak, which has you trying to kill and therefore 
 trap the entire other team in their jail and prevent them from hitting the switch to release their 
 team.
  
  With over one hundred maps you would think that corners would have been cut and that they would 
 have sacrificed some graphical detail to be able to make more maps quicker, you would be wrong. 
 Every map in the game is highly detailed and many are fairly large maps that span all different 
 types of environments. Every vehicle and weapon also has a high level of effort and thought put 
 into it and they all look marvelous. UT2004 also has quite a large collection of player models 
 to choose from and every one of them is highly detailed and well designed. Basically, the game 
 looks fantastic.
  
  The audio is, like in many games, the lowest point. It is still great but it is not up to the same 
 quality level as the graphics or gameplay. Each level doesn't have it's own music but instead there 
 is a lot of music that is spread out between all the levels. Personally I found the music to be 
 annoying and it really took me out of the game. Luckily you have the option to import your own 
 MP3s, so I quickly turned to that. But the more you play the more you rely on player sounds, especially 
 in 1v1s. So I ended up turning off the music permanently. That's the bad, the good is the rest 
 of the audio effects. All the weapon sounds sound exactly how you would imagine they would if they 
 were real, and the ambient sounds in the levels are very well done. The audio's not bad, it's actually 
 quite good. It's just not as good as the rest of the game.
  
  If you have access to a high speed internet connection then this game is a simply amazing value 
 and there is no sane reason for you not to own it. This game has been out for close to a year now 
 and you can pick it up cheap. Even if you don't like the game there are also some mods out there 
 like Alien Swarm, an over the head multiplayer alien game like the classic movie, and Red Orchestra, 
 a WW2 conversion which some people consider to be better than UT2004. There are not a ton of people 
 playing UT2004 online compared to other games out there and there is no reason for that. Apparently 
 a lot of people never bought this, if you're one of those people then go and get it right now. 
 This is the best multiplayer game out on the PC, period. A well deserved 9.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The first time i got this game i took it to my friends house, he could not let go of the game, 
 he stayed up untill 2:00 in the morning playing the game. I wasn't shocked i know he would act 
 in some sort of stupid way=P. But this game is the #1 game that any FPS person must have if not 
 you are a dissapointment. They added a bunch of knew crap like veichles, new maps, patches, etc. 
 This game a makes a perfect edition to LAN rooms or online gaming. Now the game gets boring only 
 if you have it on the same difficulty, everytime you change it though it's like a whole new character 
 that can own you easier, and easier=P. Editor has been simplifyed a bit, if you get the DVD edition 
 it comes with a bunch of tutorials that 3D Buzz developed helping you to build better levels, weapons, 
 veichles, etc. 
  
  The bottom line is if you don't have this game and you are a true FPS fan than you must go out 
 and get this game=] . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximusmmii
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 30, 2005 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original Unreal Tournament, but its sequel, ut2003 left me disappointed. 
 Its gameplay was repetitive and the new engine felt too much like Quake III's, making battles too 
 quick and vague. 
  
  Even though ut2003 wasn't very satisfying i couldn't wait to play ut2004; the promise of vehicles 
 made me look forward to the game. When the demo came out, i downloaded it and hoped for the best 
 but expected the worst. I tried playing the game online on the deathmatch mode and quickly got 
 bored. i then tried the new onslaught mode since i wanted to see the vehicles. I played it for 
 about an hour and found it a bit confusing.
  The next i played the onslaught mode again and started doing better. After about a week of playing 
 on the onslaught mode i really got the hang of the game and started getting more points than anyone 
 else. That was when i became absolutely addicted. i spent at least 30 hours playing the demo until 
 i finally got the game.
  
  The best part about this instalment in the unreal tournament series is the new onslaught mode which 
 features vehicles and huge, sprawling outdoor maps. the vehicles range from hover bikes to giant 
 5-person tanks. my favorite, i have to say, is the manta, a sort of hover bike has a plasma canon 
 and has the ability to jump and crush people.
  
  the bots are extremely good but are no substitute for the impulsive style of real people. Also 
 you can't hurt a bot's feelings; one of the best aspects of the game is the pride you feel after 
 killing someone 30 times in a row.
  
  ut2004 is extremely adictive and has excellent replay value. i have spent more time playing it 
 than any other game, i would estimate at least 300 hours. There are countless usermade maps that 
 are available to download and epic, instead of capitalizing on the extra content published 2 bonus 
 packs that bring the total number of maps available into the hundreds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JumpingMirrior
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 23, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is the follow up to UT 2003. If you thought UT 2003 dissapointed you, UT 
 2004 WILL change your mind.
  First, The graphics. Look for yourself! Get vehicles and fantasic environments. The framerate for 
 the most part is solid, About 60 FPS. Whats also great is that you can get good graphics on differnt 
 PCs. I run it on a Radeon 9200, which is outdated, Yet I get some good Vistas!
  The sound is good overall. The music is pretty good. Some of it Is Crazy guitar rips, others may 
 be differnt. The sound effects are really well done. The down sides to the sound is the voiceovers. 
 Most are annoying. Its tough to focus when you have an alien sreaming, Wait! I Must Break You!! 
 Alot of the VO makes no sense.
  Most importantly is the gameplay. Its great! Good, Responsive, precise control on foot. Once you 
 learn how to control the vehicles it becomes second nature. The AI can be easy or tough depending 
 on difficulty ratings. For example, my biggest problem in Halo 2 is that Two weapons are vastly 
 overpowered. That takesaway stragety and teamwork. It becomes a race to get the Plasma sword and 
 Rocket launcher. However, in UT 2004 the weapons are great. The only really powerful weapon is 
 the Lightning rifle, Which is a sniper. Their is also a weapon called the Ion painter. It creates 
 a supernova blast that goes though walls. But this not much of a problem because it comes very 
 little, plus its normally hidden. You can adjust gameplay so you have big heads or instant kill 
 guns. These are known as Mutators. There are alot of them. This is one of the most fun games i've 
 played in a long time.
  UT 2004 will last a long time. It comes with about 96 maps in it. 96!!! It has many game modes 
 as well. With killer online, yourplay for months, maybe a year or two. Plus you can download so 
 much Mods and maps via the internet. This is my second favorite game of 2004, Perhaps you can see 
 why? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scisco
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2005 5:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is an excellent addition to any fps fans collection. It now has a thriving mod community 
 that includes the excllent addition Red Orchestra. Because of these factors, this is a game that 
 will be played consistently until its successor comes out, most likely in 2006.
  
  The game has an excellent assortment of weapons and vehicles that are pretty well balanced. Although 
 you can jump in a tank that gives you lots of firepower, you must remember that you are now a big 
 slow target that can be locked onto and destroyed from distance by homing missiles. This keeps 
 the game from turning into an uber-tank war.
  
  For those who won't believe a good review unless it has at least some critical aspects, I would 
 add this one criticism. The character models seem to be small on the map. At times it feels as 
 if your a mouse running around. However, this is a minor criticism and does not detract from the 
 game too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wierdlizard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2005 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Basics: Unreal Tournament 2004 is the game that Unreal Tournament 2003 was supposed to be. The 
 single player is comprised either of an instant action that puts a single player against computers 
 in a single game or the actual Tournament. For any who havent played either Unreal Tournament 
 games or only the original this is how the tournament works: you take a single player through different 
 game types you hire a team to lead and try to overcome opponent teams. A major problem in the tournament 
 mode is that this version (like 2003) has many more team games then death match (standard free-for-all) 
 this provides a problem when you are expected to take on a really good computer in an one-on-one 
 death match. I find this tournament flawed, because there is little practice with death match and 
 that makes the final match difficult due to the lack of death match experience. This game does 
 include some very nice game modes including the return of assault and a new mode called onslaught.
 
  
  Gameplay: If you have played any fps on the computer this game will be a quick learn. The gameplay 
 itself runs good, tons of weapons and such
  
  Graphics: The graphics are indeed good, but there was no real improvement from UT 2003 into UT 
 2004, which there should have been so that prevents any 10.
  
  Sound: Good sounds overall. A nifty feature is the ability to change your announcer voice including 
 a sexy voice. While I havent used it UT 2004 has a feature to let you use a microphone to communicate 
 between players as well as control computer players.
  
  Value: If you enjoy multiplayer action online then this game could very well be worth your money. 
 If youre not into online multiplayer then dont spend your money on this, buy the original UT 
 and save the leftovers.
  
  Tilt: This game is good and worth putting in a number of hours into, but remember that it mostly 
 for online multiplayer and if you dont play a lot of that youre going to spend a lot of time 
 frustrated with the seriously lacking single player.
  
  Best Aspect of Game: In fixing a number of the problems of UT 2003 the best features are new game 
 modes are exciting and provide the excellent multiplayer opportunities on the web. 
  
  Worst Aspect of Game: It isnt the original Unreal Tournament, and that is just sad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirJordanVlad
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  UT 2004 is really an amazing game. Not only is it the best multiplayer FPS to date, but it's one 
 of the best action games ever. You don't need Quake 3 or anything else if you got this. The gameplay 
 is really great and will keep you entertained for hours. There's just so much to do, and with the 
 number of maps included and multiple mods you'll never get bored. Moreover, UT 2004 looks so damn 
 great! Although you'll need a high-end PC to enjoy it (AMD Althlon XP 1800+ for high settings) it's 
 well worth. The sound is also great, and you can just enjoy hearing the pieces of meat flying from 
 your opponent! There is some entertaining music too.
  The game also has outstanding replay value, and Onslaught will probably be the main attraction 
 after you've finished single-player. With so many textures, it's a field day for mod makers, and 
 the sheer plenitude of mods will make you play it again and again and again...
  Great job Epic! A truly superb game! Keep it going guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhodes1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Yeh, i got UT a while ago and loved it. Its the total package. Nothing can even come close to it. 
 Taht and with 2002 is the bestestest game evars.
  
  Alot of people whine at UT for bein short, but i thought it was just right, about 15 hours of play 
 time. The ending was to easy though, could of been longer and maybe an actualy boss would of been 
 nice, but otherwise it was perfect and fun..
  
  Looo ooooo ooooo ooooo oooo ooooo oooo oooo oooo oooo ooo ooo oooooo ooooooooo oooo oooooo ooo 
 ooo oooo ooo ooo oo o ooo ooo ooooooooo ooooo ooooove it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opticon12000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game by far in te fps range. With this game the posiblities are endless. If you 
 were thinking about getting a new computer to get this or an xbox to get halo 2. Go with a new 
 computer because this wipes the floor with halo 2. There are loads of add ons as the game has its 
 own editor. You can create your very own levels, charicters, guns, vehicals, and anything else 
 that a game has, evern your very own game type. 
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is very addictive and easy to learn. Basicly the same as the other UT games 
 and half life type games. You are allways on the edge of your seat comeating in competitions and 
 picking your team mates in the main game. The game has everything that UT 2003 has and loads more. 
 There are lots of old game types comming back into play for this game including assult where you 
 have to defend and then in the second round attack the base. Also a few maps from the first UT 
 have returned being slightly revamped for the new game such as Mopheus.
  
  Graphics - This all depends on your grapics card really and how it can cope with the game. But 
 im sure you will agree that with the latest graphics card with the game on top settings that it 
 is the best thing out. It evern beats xbox's Halo 2. The graphics react very well to light and 
 the Karma Data/ Ragdoll effect (the thing that makes people go floppy when u kill them) works realy 
 well.
  
  Sound - Sound is also excllent. Supporting surround sound. It also works very well with just two 
 speakers next to each other, one each side of the screen. You realy get a feel from where you are 
 being shot or where something is happeing or exploding in someones face.
  
  If you own a PC with a grapics card above a G-Force 2 or equivelent buy this game, and join the 
 mayhem! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattock5656
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2004 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 has been on my list for a long time, of wanting it. I just never got around 
 to getting it. I regret doing this because this is one of the best game's I ever played my life. 
 (I haven't even played it online because of slow internet)
  
  Anyways, the gameplay is great with fast action killing, getting into cool vehicles and cutting 
 peoples heads off; its quite entertaining. The newest addition to Ut2004 was the vehicles and Onslaught 
 mode. Onslaught is such a fun mode, capturing points, while using vehicles to destroy your enemys. 
 This is simply the best part of the game.
  
  Besides gameplay, the graphics, if you turn the settings all the way up to high-highest, you will 
 get great graphics. With detailed characters, and beautiful enviorments. The only problem i had 
 was when I bought the game, I had to download so many patches (Thats a pain with 56K) but hey, 
 its good in the long run.
  
  The a. I for the bots is really good, but not better than humans. You kinda figure out their patterns 
 and they way they kill. They can get diffcult at first but then they are a breeze to kill.
  
  Overall, Excellent game.... I recommend the game to anyone that is a gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzfreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2004 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is without a doubt the most underappreciated FPS of 2004. The game is a 
 blast to play alone or online. The controls handle very well and the action is fast paced. The 
 vehicles are also a joy to drive around in. Especially when you play online and have multiple teammates 
 in a vehicle. Even if you don't want to play online, you can turn the difficulty up to offer a 
 fair challenge. The AI can actually be challenging at times, but not overly challenging. There 
 are also plenty of mods online, so if you start to get bored with what you initially got, then 
 you can go online and download some other offerings using the UT2004 engine. Although I don't know 
 how any one could become bored. There are so many great game modes to choose from. You be able 
 to spend hours playing Onslaught, a game in which the purpose is to control power nodes and try 
 to take opposing team's power nodes so you can destroy their power core. The great thing about 
 this game is that if you take control of a power node, it will spawn vehicles around the node, 
 so you feel rewarded for taking over a node and it gives your more motivation. You can also use 
 a headset online to coordinate attacks with other team mates or ask for help.
  
  My advice to people, is if you own both a PC and an X-Box, is too skip Halo 2 and buy this! It's 
 purely gaming bliss like no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrinkingRobot2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2004 1:18 am PT
Review:  Graphics- The game graphics are great, and smooth. You don't need to have a high powered computer 
 just to run its best like Half-Life 2 and Doom 3. When you play a online game you would never have 
 that much lag, just a ping of 84-30 which you would have fun fragging other people. The game is 
 so smooth its so fast, like when I was playing a 10vs10 CTF and first I had the flag then when 
 I was about to put a winning score and guy behind with a rail gun shoots me and lost the flag. 
 Having a indoor map is very crazy since you would just shoot everybody, even your teammates in 
 TDM. Thats why I give it a 10/10
  
  Gameplay- Like I said before this game is smooth and the great part is its very fun. The game is 
 so fun that when you play on a game on 3:00 P. M. it will turn to 7:00 P. M. like it felt like seconds. 
 You would never want to stop playing this game, and this game has alot of great mods to download 
 and great tools to make a mod. You just want to keeping coming out in UT2004, thats why I give it 
 a 10/10
  
  Sound- The sounds in UT2004 are mostly in UT2003, and some are new. Sometimes when you would not 
 here a sound when you shoot on a Raptor with plasma at the same time. The music are great, but 
 some are annoying and loud even on 50. Thats why I give it a 9/10
  
  Value- The replay value is very high. When you play the greatest server and it ends you would just 
 cry about and get mad. You would spend 100 hours of playing this game each week or even over!! 
 Just like the other UT games it gets a 10/10
  
  Overall- If your a fan of the UT games then go out there and buy it, also download some mods in 
 your computer so you don't have to wait a hour to get it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2004 1:42 am PT
Review:  Its a very fun game and the multiplayer is a blast!!! The new vehicles are sweet and Onslaught 
 is a great new addition! Single Player is still very fun and addictive! The graphics are amazing 
 and the levels are detailed! I cant believe it 100 maps!!!! WHOA!! I love Assault the best I think 
 and the return of the sniper rifle is welcome! The mods are great and the skins look sweet! Now 
 the vehicles are very neat! Great variety of them! I hate the flying one (cant remember its name) ! 
 You cant really control where it goes!! The SP may get a little repetative at times but this is 
 a sole Multiplayer Package! GREAT GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgb12345
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2004 3:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-8
  Just as good as ever. Basically, it includes every map from the other UTs plus an insane amount 
 of new maps. They all are great. All the weapons you'd ever want. Onslaught is good, but compared 
 to Halo, it's nothing. Long load times take away from the experience. 
  
  Graphics-9
  Just like UT 2003 but bigger, more detailed.
  
  Sound-8
  What you'd expect.
  
  Value-9
 
  Whole mess of modes, maps, and mod community adds to it. Hours of fun.
  
  If you like UT, there's no question you're gonna love this. But personally, after playing Halo, 
 this is just second rate. Adding vehicles is cool, but they don't control as well as Halo. I was 
 more than content with the shooting alone. I wish there was a deathmatch mode with the onslaught 
 maps and vehicles. If you want vehicles, you have to play onslaught. This is why Halo is superior. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitaniumAlloy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2004 12:24 pm PT
Review:  --In the year 2362, the Liandri Corporation is holding the most anticipated Tournament ever- a 
 kill or be killed gladiator championship, utilizing the latest in technology and bloodcurdling 
 warfare. The finest of competitors run teams, all in the competition to lay waste to their opponents 
 and claim the Trophy for themselves. There are 13 teams. It's up to you to lead yours to upmost 
 victory, lest fail in miserable defeat. --
  
  The Unreal Tournament series is and always has been a classic, and this is by far the best yet. 
 You create and manage a team of gladiators, and struggle your way to the top of the ladder. Through 
 a multitude of game types, using a vast array of highly advanced technology, and manipulating giant 
 machinery, you fight your way through this crazy fast game, so addictive it's impossible to step 
 away from the crossfire.
  
  In a unique to Unreal FPS style, this game is packed to the brim with action. 
  
  Maps- Varying 
 maps from indoors to out, come in all shapes and sizes. Some are obviously better than others, 
 but the maps are generally great. Especially those downloaded from the mod community, the maps 
 are customized for all game types. Not much to say, they are almost perfect.
  
  Game types- In UT2004 there are 10 different game types, including 2 new ones. All are immense 
 fun, but different people have different favourites (usually what they're good at) . Some, but not 
 all, are ladders in Single Player, but they're all available for, and for the most part designed 
 for, Multiplayer. The game types all come with their own special rules, regulations and weapons 
 which can be customized to make a unique experience.
  
  Weapons- A better than average 17 different weapons are standard with UT2004, all with insane effects 
 and high technology. The weapons are not necessarily as balanced as I would have liked, but again 
 it depends on what you cling to. 4 of these weapons are new to UT2004. The weapons are one of the 
 best aspects of the game, and their difference in effects again amplifies the fun factor in both 
 Multiplayer and Single Player. 
  
  Vehicles- An awesome and brand new feature is the ability to use vehicles. 9 vehicles have been 
 added to the game types Assault and Onslaught. These range from heavy to lightweight and sky to 
 ground, the vehicles give that extra burn in wreaking havoc. Mods can be downloaded to add vehicles 
 to other game types, although I would have liked to have seen this standard.
  
  Other- With the game comes the engine Unreal used to create the game, enabling those more skilled 
 at computers among us to create killer mods and new weapons, characters, vehicles, game types, 
 maps and mutators to keep this game replayable for years. Also, the multiplayer on this is one 
 of the best to date. The Single Player is quite lacking compared to Multiplayer, but still fun. 
 And although there is claimed to be all these new teams and characters to play as, most of the 
 characters are either exactly the same model with a different name, or a slightly changed model, 
 which disappointed me. 
  
  All in all this game is loads of fun, and will stay that way for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2004 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The online shooter genre is pretty big, and if you're looking for something a little different, 
 this isn't the place to go. If you are interested in jumping around like a kangaroo, throwing caution 
 to the wind with rocket after rocket, this spam fest is right up your alley.
  
  The thing I like about a game like battlefield, is that while your success is assisted by knowledge 
 of the maps, in games like this, it's totally dependent on it. The players who know exactly where 
 the weapons, health packs, shields, etc are all located on the map will do very well. So this becomes 
 less about tactics, and more about simply memorizing the maps.
  
  There's not a lot of substance here, but if you are into fast arcade style action with very little 
 thinking involved, go pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leogudina
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2004 6:07 pm PT
Review:  A must have for PC FPS fans. I rated this game's difficulty as hard. The reason is... you will be 
 owned when playing online. You can manage to get through single player easily enough, but go online 
 and be FRAGGED! Get your skills up offline by playing against harder AI. Don't be discouraged though. 
 Getting blasted to bits, repetedly, has never been so much fun. This game has great weaapons, and 
 some awesome vehichles that are so much fun to drive. Plus great maps and tons of downloadable 
 mods for this game makes for an experience that never gets old. I love this game and highly recommend 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattman734
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2004 5:29 am PT
Review:  unreal game have always been about doing whatever is fun and cool and ut games are about just haveing 
 fun online. So i will first start with the gameplay its kinda like being somebody who wants to 
 kie so they do what ever they want. All the time u will see bullets fireing lasers ziping around 
 rockets going off but u dont fear death u dive head first into it with a chaingun. so its kinda 
 your basic fps gameplay u would think of a fast paced fun game u run faster than any normal person 
 could and u have a god like power to jump while your in the air (double jump) and just blast away 
 at anything that isnt on your team. I did say this was mainly built for a multiplayer game if u 
 dont play MP games u might not find too much use for haveing this game even though the AI for the 
 game is very good u dont reall feal like u have won anything after u win becuse there isnt really 
 a story besides u are kinda i think thease people on some kinda gameshow sport thig.
  
  The game uses the unreal 2.0 engine to make it and looks about the best u will be able to get outa 
 the engine and thats not bad at all. i gave it and 8 because while everything looks awsome its 
 not too real looken (not that its tryen to be) but u will see cool things such as shadows on objects 
 and enviroment and stuff blows up very nice. all the modles for the people are very nice looken 
 also the move and look awsome even if u zoom in on them a whole lot it looks very good. but the 
 thing u will see is the enviroments look very very good all the textures and stuff use a very nice 
 looken way that even up close they look very good even better up close. there are things in the 
 maps that move to like fans and machinesand stuff that move and add more to the game.
  
  The game also sounds really good with all the rocket fire and what not u hear it all and never 
 miss a beat. It supports full 7.1 sound but i only got to test it on a 5.1 system u can use the 
 sound nicely to tell where people are in the map. the only bad thing about the sound i can say 
 is that sometimes the weapons seam under powerd so if u do stuff like fire a rocket u dont really 
 feal it but this helps keep up with it fast paced action.
  
  Also did i say this game has a TON of maps i mean there are really over 100 maps not to say that 
 there is a huge mod base for this game so u will always see more and more new maps for it so i 
 can tell u i havent even tryed all the maps even that come with the game yet so it will give u 
 endless playtime.
  
  over all its a game that really dose everythin u want a game to to and is well well worth the 30$ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2004 4:52 am PT
Review:  I bought this game some time ago but only now I am starting to enjoy it using the GeForce 6800. 
 I did not expect for this game to be like that, its fantastic and addictive, I start playing and 
 I cannot stop, the levels and graphics are incredibly well done, this game is about kicking ass, 
 as soon as you go in and start competing you feel the adrelinin pumps.
  
  What is really good is the AI, very clever and challenging, when you play with bots you feel that 
 youre among a team of real humans, fighting with you, covering you when needed, fantastic and 
 enjoyable in every way possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notquitehere188
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 5, 2004 4:32 am PT
Review:  UT200 is quite simply, the best game ever made. Fast paced run and gun with amazing weapons, spectacular 
 multiplayer, almost unlimited replay value, and some guy with a deep voice that replaces annoying 
 commentary.
  DOMINATING!
  The game is based around multiplayer, with the single player consisting of multiplayer against 
 bots. these bots are almost human at the highest difficulty but can be toned down for those of 
 us more mortally inclined. Despite the fact that there would really be no way for Liandri to cash 
 in on their "sport" due to it moving to fast to be videotaped, this "unreal" istic setting gives 
 us weapons like the shock rifle, flack cannon, and rocket launcher.
  Nothing will ever compare to the joy of cutting a bloddy swath through to your enemys base it CTF 
 even though it is incredibly hard to get back. Halo step back we have a winner
  add to this all of the customization options available. if you feel guilty for abandoning halo 
 for this then just create your own character model of master cheif and recreate blood gulch.
  This game has a euphoric feel to it and i would need way more words to begin touching on it all. 
 Suffice it to say that if this game could never get the hype it deserves because it is so amazing. 
 now im back to my instagib matches, don't bother me
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crodeman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2004 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Unreal tournament 2003 came out I have been a fan of this type of high action FPS. I 
 know some would say that I was not a true fan because I did not play unreal tournament the original, 
 but they would be wrong. I may not have participated in the multiplayer action of the original 
 but I did own and play, and beat unreal the original (and the expansion) , so I think I qualify 
 as a true fan. Anyways Unreal tournament, not only brings many new charcters into the game, but 
 also a host of dangerous vehicles in which one easily slays their opponent. For the most part the 
 weapons functions remain the same, other than a few tweaks to some. New weapons have been added 
 though. One new gun is the spider mine, which is basically a mechanical spider attached to a grenade 
 that happens to follow an a beam of coherent light the user shines at an enemy. Once this is done 
 the spider immedietly goes to the opponent and kamakazis ( blows itself up) . Another weapon change 
 is the AVRIL, this is a rocket laucher designed to take out vehicles (AVRiL - Anti-Vehicle-Rocket-Launcher) . 
 The next weapon is the sniper rifle, very similar to the Shock rifle as far as the zoom goes, but 
 the it does not have as much delay between shots. The final addition is the grenade launcher which 
 is self-explanatory. 
  On top of new weapons to frag your enemies there are 45 new maps to do this on. They still have 
 the original maps from 2k3, which are basically maps randitions from the very original. These new 
 maps however revitalize the gameplay, pros of the game now have to go into this game relearning 
 the maps so they don't get fragged by trigger happy newbs. The vehicles also add a really unique 
 dynamic to the game, one that I believe also revitalizes this title. This makes warfare not so 
 fair, well if your on foot at least it does. For the most part person versus vehicle have terrible 
 odds. However I have been known to destroy many vehicle while on foot, thus the reason Epic put 
 the AVRiL in the game. Of course just about any weapon can destroy vehicles, effectiveness is the 
 key. I will not talk too much more about vehicles. To check them out go to http://www. unrealtournament. com/ut2004/vehicles. php
 
  Though the graphics remain much the same as the original the game still looks beautiful. The environment 
 lighting may not be dynamic, and just baked light sets, it still is pleasing to the eye.
  This game is must for anyone seeking some FPS action / addrenaline rush. The game is absolutely 
 excellent. If I say anymore I will just be repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2004 9:10 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tourament 2004 took some of the best parts of the original UT and UT2003 and summed them 
 together to make the complete package. The gameplay is more balanced than ever, as the developers 
 took time to listen to the complaints people had about UT2003 and fixed almost everything. The 
 end result is a great gameplay experience unmatched since the halycon days of the original Unreal 
 Tournament. There is very little to find wrong with this game, basically it comes down to a matter 
 of taste. If you prefer a faster pace and high intensity, yet balanced gaming this is the online 
 FPS for you. However if you are more methodically minded you might prefer something a bit more 
 realistic, but thats why they call it UNREAL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clash04
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2004 12:46 am PT
Review:  I played the first Unreal Tournament when it came out years ago. It was as fun then as it still 
 is today. A definitely superb game. But playing UT, and UT2k4 is like king arthur waking up in 
 2050. Its a huge leap in the genre. Hands down, UT has the best graphics I have ever seen on any 
 game console, be it pc or the atari or whatever. The gameplay too is astounding, my personal favorite 
 is the classic Capture The Flag mode, but Bombing Run, Onslaught, Assault , and Duels are mad fun 
 also. If you want a fun gaming experience, and an unbelievable tour de force of visuals (if youve 
 got the rig) , definitely pick up Cliff Blezinski's Masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SauronHimself
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2004 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing; so many gametypes, so many choices, so much fun. First of all, the 
 graphics are exellent, sporting the Unreal 2.5 engine. The sound is excellent, and some of the 
 music is surprisingly good, not something you'd think an "Unreal" game would have. The gameplay 
 is fantastic. Easy interface and balanced weapons. 
  
  In addition to being an excellent game, UT2K4 has an excellent community; there are so many different 
 gametypes, with so many different mutators to change the game to just the way you want it. I'm 
 addicted to bombing run at 1.35 speed, instagib, translocator. 
  
  Buy this game! You won't be dissapointed at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_of_fire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2004 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is too good to describe. I have had this game for about 4 months and I still playing 
 it. I think i should describe this game rating that i gave.
  
  The gameplay is great. It lets you choose any character that you unlocked. The modes for playing 
 are just superb. I think that if you get the modifications (mods) for this game it grows and grows 
 over you. About two weeks ago i wasn't playing the game but when I downloaded a mod it was so good, 
 now I'm playing it almost 5-8 hours a day. 
  
  The graphics, well there too good. This is the first game that has taken my video card to the eXtreme. 
 I had other games which were too easy for the video card and my computer, but when I bought this 
 game it was fun for my video card and Think that it has one of the best graphics. I have a nVidia 
 video card so it runs really good.
  
  The sound sometimes is kind screechy, but I love the way they give commands and say things that 
 just make other players more wanting to get you. I suggest that if you get some some patches, this 
 game might even beat your music library.
  
  The value and reviewer's tilt, well, the value of this game is good. I think that if you haven't 
 played the game and try the demo you'll still feel the game, and that's how I got my game it was 
 very good and still is. 
  
  Everything is great, but it gets better and better as you download new mods and patches. There 
 are over than 250 mods already and think of it in a year it might double or triple. I sure can't 
 download all those, but the ones that I have too good to let go and I can't get enough of them.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spectlaser
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 3, 2004 11:12 pm PT
Review:  This is an incredible game that fans and even newcomers to the Unreal universe can enjoy. The gameplay 
 has gotten a major facelift from last year adding tons of new modes of play, brand new weapons 
 and my favorite part, there are VEHICLES! The graphics are great from the amazing particle effects 
 to the detailed character models. Just seeing a small explosion can be eye-candy. One complaint 
 I have about the graphics is that sometimes when firing a tank's main turret there won't be an 
 explosion. I think its just my videocard, though. The sound isn't the best but it isn't bad. Sometimes 
 the tanks' miniguns will make 1 noise after you stop shooting it which isn't that bad. So go buy 
 this game! It will be good for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2004 5:11 am PT
Review:  The unreal series has been around for a long while now, some games have been good, some have been 
 bad and then theres Unreal 2004.
  
  Graphics- One of the best looking games out there. Just like all other Unreal games the graphics 
 are excellent, and even though the levels are huge, the slowdown is almost always very minimal. 
 The single player is pretty fun, but it's all about the multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay- Still Unreal, but now it's even better thanks to vehicles. The gameplay is just so much 
 fun. Not only is it extremely fast, but when you have giant vehicles ripping around crushing people 
 it adds that much more. Huge variety in weapons also adds to the experience.
  
  Sound- The sound is very good with old announcers back, along with a couple of new ones. The music 
 is done very well, as are the weapon and vehicle effects, top notch all the way.
  
  Value- Aside from gameplay heres where Unreal will really stand out, not only will the game itself 
 last you for a good long time through mainly the multiplayer. It will keep you going for months, 
 and when your finally bored you'll be able to pick up some of the great mods the community has 
 made. Red Orchestra mod is a reason alone to buy this game. 
  
  So all in all Unreal 2004 is an excellent package that will keep you going for a while. It's the 
 best in the series and maybe the best multiplayer experience you'll ever have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 21, 2004 2:17 pm PT
Review:  UT2004 is the true sequel to Unreal Tournament. UT2003, while a great game in its own right, lost 
 the feel the original UT had. It almost felt more like Quake 3 Arena instead of Unreal Tournament. 
 Well, Epic came back with an epic of a game, UT2004, that brings back the original feel of UT and 
 packs a ton of new content and of course updated graphics.
  
  Graphics: Top notch, player models, there are a ton of them, are done perfectly. The environment 
 is very colorful, sharp and full of all kinds of little details that give each map a unique feel 
 to it. The Unreal 2 Engine used here is one of the best engines out there, it packs some of the 
 best graphics ever seen and runs smooth on modest systems and it is very scaleable to allow it 
 to be played on a wide range of systems even pretty low end machines. Lighting is done very well 
 and weapon effects and weapon models are very detailed and some of the best you will see in a FPS.
 
  
  Sound: There is a wide variety of announcers from the original UT announcer to a sexy female annoucer. 
 There is a lot of music usually some ambient tracks that are mostly different for each map. You 
 can tell they wanted to bring the feel back of the original UT right away as the opening menu music 
 is a retooled version of the original music from UT. Weapon sounds are strong and very varied for 
 each weapon and each weapons alternate fire mode. No complaints or flaws at all with the sound 
 in UT2004.
  
  Gameplay: The best online FPS there is. You won't find a more fast paced twitch shooter around. 
 While it is fast and twitch based it takes a lot of skill in order to become one of the great players 
 in the game. People have been playing UT since 1999 and you can tell when you are up against a 
 great player. It will take a lot practice and playing before you can compete at a high level, but 
 that shouldn't deter new players as it is still fun even when you lose and there are so many game 
 modes to play. You have Deathmatch which thankfully has the feel of the original UT, there are 
 even some new versions of classic maps that everyone loves like Deck 16's brother Deck 17 instead 
 of green acid in the pool below it is filled with red lava, it plays and feels just like Deck 16 
 did. You have CTF, Team Deathmatch, Bombing Run (think of a UT Football game) , Domination, Last 
 Man Standing and a couple more and they brought back the very popular Assualt mode that was missing 
 from UT2003. The new and most popular and exciting mode is Onslaught. A team based game with a 
 bunch of cool vehicles. The maps for Onslaught are very big and the premise of the game is to control 
 team nodes and a team power node/base. You must take the other teams nodes and link it to their 
 base and then destory their power node while defending your nodes and taking them back if they 
 are captured by the other team. It is incredibly balanced and probably the best mode of play in 
 any online shooter to date. UT2004 comes with over 100 maps, all the maps from UT2003 and its bonus 
 packs and then around 50 brand new maps new to UT2004. There is enough game modes and maps to keep 
 you busy for years. And if that is not enough UT2004 has a big mod community and creates some of 
 the best mods for any game available, so you will be able to download many mods some of which are 
 the quality of brand new retail games.
  
  UT2004 is the best online FPS ever created it takes the crown from the original UT back in 1909. 
 For those dissapointed in UT2003 will find that UT2004 brings back the magic from UT and gives 
 a lot more with it. Unreal Tournament 2004 is THE definitive online First Person Shooter. Get it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megazorro1615
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2004 7:12 pm PT
Review:  this game truly deserves a game of the year award and anybody who owns it will agree with me on, 
 it's just a plain fact that unreal tournament 2004 is way better than the first one and other wannabe 
 games, that want to be as good as unreal tournament 2004. the game is really cool. here is my review 
 of Ut 2004, probably not the best one but it's all good right?. graphics 10 out of 10, environment, 
 10 out of 10, bad guys, or monsters or enemies a definite 10 out of 10, weapons 10 out of 10, main 
 charcter 10 out of 10, and finally, the entire gameplay, is a 10 out of 10. buy it. trust me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebesian
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2004 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Need I say more. This game has it all. Graphics, multiplayer, sound and much much more.
  Step aside Halo! This one has you beat! It has better graphics, better multiplayer, better sound, 
 and about the same stupid storyline. You get to choose your character instead of having a game 
 where everyone who plays it looks alike. I am not a fan of lack of variety. Anyway this game has 
 tons of vehicles, weapons, and so many things to do. Onslaught is an 
  awsome multiplayer mode and its fun when you are playing with 32 people. What can I say?
  This 
 game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaphaelKorland
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 13, 2004 10:45 pm PT
Review:  When I talk about this game I put most of the emphasis on the online play. The single player is 
 amazing too, but playing online with a bunch of buddies is what makes this game so fun. There are 
 thousands of servers to choose from and tons of different gameplay modes that include: Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, Assault, Onslaught, Bombing Run, Mutant, Last Man Standing, Capture the Flag, 
 and my personal favorite, Invasion. I could really take hours and hours to adress all the amazing 
 features of this game but to put it simply, this game is unbelievable, outstanding, fantastic, 
 every good word you can think of.
  
  I personally have gone out and spent the extra 20 bucks for a headset just for this game. I have 
 my own online clan, and I've met a whole bunch of friends online, which really says something about 
 the community of Unreal Tournament. And if your not so good at playing this kind of genre there 
 are tons of people online who will be glad to help you out.
  
  The only cons to this game really are the computers needed to play it. I don't have that good of 
 a computer but I manage. If you have a slower computer you will take a bit to get into the servers 
 and once you do you'll probably lag for a while but other than that there are really no problems 
 with this game.
  
  Conclusion: If you played any of the previous Unreal Tournament games and liked them, you will 
 definately like this one, and if you haven't had the opportunity to play this game yet, you should 
 really think on buying it. This game rocks the gaming world.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 12, 2004 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Everything was talked about UT2004, so instead of a classical review here I'll argue on 3 things 
 saying it all why it's still king of the hill in my book: ''completeness'' ( tons and tons of ultra-professional 
 content ) ; fluid gameplay; and POLISH - a level of polished design in both the technical era and 
 the gameplay implementation. Simply awesome. The best maps of UT2004, and it began with UT2003, 
 are a pure manifestation of modern art in which we can interact. Epic has some of the best designers 
 in the business. 
  
  Every compound of the game is near perfect, aside the sounds a bit too tamed in quality for my 
 taste ( especially with all voice chat functions on ) , though the overall coding is diverse and 
 well done. The only real drawback of UT2004 comes from its very hardcore community: still hampering 
 the game's ONLINE popularity. WHY? Though it's only one of many reasons, it's clear the hardcore 
 UT online gamers and organized clans are very INTIMIDATING for the ''noobs'' and the casual gamers, 
 which we must admit are the bulk of the more popular and online-friendly games such as Call of 
 Duty, etc.... Still they can rely offline with the SP ladder and every map in Instant Action, since 
 the bots are indeed quite adept and yes - the best for the genre. The learning curve is not immediate, 
 oh ironic for a carnage shooter. Onslaught, Assault, and special double moves like wall jumps need 
 dozens and dozens of hours of gameplay so it's no surprise why some casual gamers never taste the 
 real feeling UT has to offer. Practice!
  
  That being said, UT2004 remains a favourite of mine after many months of consecutive gaming, and 
 almost the only real MP-oriented shooter to have a decent AI thus rendering it as interesting to 
 play OFFLINE. It appears also that the majority of UT2004 owners play it..... offline. A curious, 
 yet rare achievement these years for a MP shooter. Anyway it can be considered now as the new reference 
 - a huge one with all its gameplay modes. The carnage shooter genre is not dead yet, despite all 
 the hype for the realistic/semi-realistic FPS, thanks to UT2004.
  
  Ownage and Pwnage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_Poulin
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2004 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I originally bought this game because it was going to be the main attraction at a Lan party my 
 school was throwing in June. I haven't touched it since. The graphics are good, there are truckloads 
 of maps and modes, the sound is good but... bleh. BORING! There's no atmosphere in this game. I 
 don't know how to explain it but it didn't work for me: I play for ten minutes and it's just not 
 interesting anymore. I got tired of Quake III two years ago and this is the same thing but with 
 just more. Try it yourself and you'll know what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 30, 2004 4:52 pm PT
Review:  While games like DOOM 3 and Half-Life 2 may seem to dwarf Unreal Tournament 2004, the Tournament 
 just keeps on getting better. Atari and Epic Games have made UT 2004 a fun, exciting and endless 
 game thanks to it's well planned out Instant Action, excellent multiplayer and the ablity of making 
 your own maps for the Tournament.
  
  The gameplay modes are all online FPS classics with some UT exceptions such as mutant, where everyone 
 wants to kill a super charged player to gain his powers, assault, the recreation of famous Unreal 
 battles like the Attack on the Skraaj Mothership and a new Onslaught mode, where each team attempt 
 to destroy each others power cores by linking the power nodes to the enemy core and directly attacking 
 the enemy base.
  
  The bots have some of the absolute best scripts I have seen and at higher bot settings, bots can 
 be almost as good as some of the best human players out there due to the bots amazing damage and 
 acurracy on Inhuman and Godlike modes. This is one of the few multiplayer FPS games to have bot 
 worth anything and fighting the bots in instant action provides an enjoyable experience overall.
 
  
  Vechiles are another new feature to the UT and wheter it is the cheap and fast manta hovercraft 
 or a slow but extremely power Goliath tank, all vechiles are fun to use and are a nessecity on 
 the Onslaught maps.
  
  All in all UT 2004 is a great game for any online shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyg_20
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2004 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I will keep thsi short but this is one of the best online experiences i have. You at times feel 
 so insignificant because some people just dominate the game, but by the end of the match you look 
 at your score and think about what happened and you really did accomplish stuff. The online play 
 is never laggy for me. and there are so many different game modes and maps, its insane, more than 
 any game. The second best part is easily the bots and mods/mutators. If you dont have the internet 
 and you enjoy killing you can do so, for hours on end. because the bots are stupid. BF1942 bots 
 always dispointed me, but these bots wont let you down, they will kill you over and over if you 
 have them on the right setting and are as good if not better than some online players. the mods 
 are always getting better. Try deathball, its odd, but one of my favorites.
  
  Get this game, classic someday. unless they keep making the game better lol.
  As for score, i 
 cant think of anything taht isnt good about this game in any category. Get 5.1 sound, and its sweet. 
 graphics are crisp and nice, value, gosh al the game mods and maps! comon. 
  Scotty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2004 9:08 am PT
Review:  Most people expected not much change with the announcement of Unreal Tournament 2004, the succesor 
 of Unreal Tournament 2003. But this seems to be 99% incorrect.
  Altough they run on the same, famous Unreal Engine, UT2004 improved incredibly at many points. 
 The graphics are now even much better, the gameplay became cooler with more features, the sounds 
 are upgraded, well ... in fact the whole game has been upgraded. 
  
  In single-player as well in multiplayer you can change alot of maps into a bloody detailed arena 
 by playing one of the ten gametypes. And if your creativity comes above you can open the attached 
 UnrealED 3.0 and make your own map. To play, you can choose one of the many characters, those will 
 give you the feeling you're a futuristic gladiator. In multiplayer you can (max.) meet 31 other 
 freaks that will do anything to win.
  
  When in a battle the meaning is to have a good weapon, jump around, make some tricky moves (on 
 an edge :for example) and try to kill the enemy. If you play Onslaught you will have to be a bit 
 more strategic because the maps are much bigger and you can move by sitting in some cool vehicles. 
 Assault is something more "campaign" with cool and realistic objectives. The other gametypes are 
 Capture the Flag, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Mutant (first players becomes mutant till he's killed, 
 the killer will become mutant) , Last Man Standing (like elimination, word explains itselves) , Invasion 
 (players vs monsters) , Bombing Run (taking the bomb off of the enemy and get the bomb at the enemy 
 goal) and Double Domination (hold 2 points in your team's control for 10 seconds)
  
  In singleplayer you have to work yourself to the top by making up a team and beat the other teams. 
 Every team has his own leader like you are a leader too. When you're one match away from the top 
 you'll have to beat Xan, Malcolm X or Clanlord. Actually that's the only (little) different between 
 Singleplayer and Multiplayer. But ... most people that are able to play multiplayer don't use singleplayer. 
 Singleplayer is just an alternative for if you can't go on-line.
  
  I give it 9.6
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 26, 2004 3:10 am PT
Review:  Just to get this out of the way an 8.9 is a very high score for me.
  
  This game had all the makings to be a classic, but it fell short for the first 5 or 6 months. Simply 
 because the game felt so cheap. I would be shooting a guy for a long time only to have him turn 
 around and take me out in no time, its was just un balanced in this respect. Well lately something 
 fixed that cause after a good play session and getting some updates and the Bonus Pack, it's a 
 complete blast to play.
  
  It plays smooth i did have it lag a little (even a little bit offline too..) so that's about all 
 the stops this from being perfect. Sometimes it happens in somewhat unreasonable moments, I understand 
 in the first few seconds it goes slow but after 30 seconds... yea that sholdnt happen. Obvioiusly 
 it can be a problem when your battling lots of guys. The good part is a good strategy is to stay 
 out of that big pit of fighting going on and take guys out like that. At some points you'll be 
 forced into that fighting pit but it doesnt slow down all the time. Vehicles cause lag when they 
 go to fast, out side of that they handle pretty flawlessly and each has a good feel of its own. 
 The Bonus Pack adds a good amount of extra vehicles in too. The bottom line its all done as good 
 as anyone else, even as well as Halo 2. (even though they are different types of FPS) 
  If not for the lag its flawless. (maybe a top end rig could fix that too)
  
  Of the games modes 
 Onslaught is the most strategic (as strategic as you want it to be) and Deathmatch is as flich 
 and twitch as it gets, meaning no strategy at all shoot what ever you see while things happen to 
 fast for your brain can't comprehend it all. With everything in between... Wheter thats Team Deathmatch 
 a step up from Deathmatch in strategy, because of cover fire and that stuff. Double Domination, 
 a less strategic version of Onalught. Bombing Run is somewhere in between actually giving a sportish 
 feel to the game but keeping it Unreal Tounament 2004 style. Well there's a bunch of other modes 
 too, they are all fun. They all fall somewhere in between Onslaught and Deathmatch. 
  
  Now graphics are hard to judge my comp isn't great, but it plays the game solidly. Its a little 
 rough looking but overall there isnt much to complain about. Lag and a few rough looking textures.
 
  
  The game gets the job done giving each map a good feel with the sounds and music. Nothing too great, 
 but definitely adds to the game.
  
  As for value where do i start, YOU'LL PLAY THIS GAME FOREVER! I seriously think you could play 
 this almost forever. It'll last you untl the new one, even if its not for another 5 years. You 
 can make you own maps and textures and essentially make everything from scratch, it will take you 
 forever but to have a map just the way you like is sick. There's tons of user made mods and even 
 completely different games based off of it which you get for free. I know its obvious that this 
 would happen im just saying you'll get as much as you can ask for out of it.
  
  Well its alot of fun, almost too much fun. If it didn't lag we'd have something revolutionary. 
 You get more then you pay for, im done.
  
  No im not, download the demo you play Onslaught on the Torlan map, you'l have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyralph023
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 24, 2004 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Epic Games continues its tradition of the ever so beloved Unreal series with its next installment, 
 Unreal Tournament 2004. It seems as though with every new Unreal game, Epic Games gradually adds 
 newer and better features while still managing to keep the best graphics possible. In Unreal Tournament 
 2004, Epic Games not only kept on that tradition, but also added a whole lot more to that mixture.
 
  
  For a newbie to the Unreal series such as myself, I feel it is important to bestow upon you a brief 
 storyline and history of Unreal Tournament 2004. UT2004 takes place in the year 2364. You are part 
 of an intergalactic tournament called; you guessed it, the Unreal Tournament. Your main goal is 
 to win the Tournament Trophy. 
  
  As with most games, you start at the bottom and work your way up. As you work your way up, you 
 can eventually add a cast of characters to your team that will help you on your journey for the 
 prestigious trophy. As you progress through the game you will meet a many cast of old and familiar 
 characters and factions, and you will most likely have to beat them to a bloody pulp, but I am 
 sure that it is worth the Tournament Trophy. 
  
  Now onto the details of this great game called Unreal Tournament 2004.
  
  G R A P H I C S
 
  The graphics for Unreal Tournament 2004 are quite up to date, and it really shows. It seems as 
 though Epic Games always adds that minute detail to its designs that make its graphics so great 
 and astounding. For example, while playing the game the gore is just incredible. For the weaker 
 stomachs sake, I will not go into detail of the precise portions of that gore, but it is truly 
 astounding, and graphic to say the least.
  
  The minor downfall in the graphics department has to be in my eyes the character selection photos. 
 I feel these images could have used a little bit of touching up to keep with the nice shiny interface 
 of the UT2004 selection screen process. Of course, this is a minor detail and certainly does not 
 affect the graphic detail in the heat of battle. 
  
  With all of that said, UT2004s graphics lived up to its predecessors graphics and is up to date 
 with what graphics should be this day in age on a personal computer.
  
  S O U N D
  Sound is the single department of UT2004 that needs a tad bit of improvement on. UT2004s in game 
 soundtrack is mainly composed of symphonic string instruments and the occasional hardcore metal 
 to help clarify the importance and background of a certain level. I feel Epic could have done a 
 little bit more in this department by possibly adding a more detailed techno soundtrack into some 
 of its darker levels, and add a more raunchy metal attire during the heat of battle, or close combat 
 levels. This would have definitely got the adrenaline pumping even more during this game.
  
  As for the sound effects, they are definitely up to par. The firing of a high tech machine 
 gun or the sound of the Link Gun really helps exemplify the magnitude of that weapon. Also the 
 sound effects heard when you are a defeating an enemy really helps brings out the monstrous strength 
 of that weapon.
  
  Also, if you are playing multiplayer you will probably want to lower your music level and sound 
 effect level in order to hear your comrades speaking to you in real time. That is another really 
 cool sound feature of UT2004 if I do say so myself.
  
  G A M E P L A Y
  The sheer number of options and the sheer thrill of tearing through your enemies is what Unreal 
 fans have come to expect, and Epic Games as changed none of that in UT2004. They kept the good, 
 and added a lot more. The single player mode of UT2004 will be a good way to hone your skills and 
 prepare for the intense battle of online multiplayer with real humans. 
  
  In single player, as mentioned above, your sole objective is to gather a team and win that Tournament 
 Trophy. You will battle vigorously through many levels and death matches, and depending on the 
 difficulty you choose that can be fairly simple or extremely difficult. 
  
  As for multiplayer, a lot of options have been added back from previous Unreals to UT2004, such 
 as Assault, and the newest feature to be added is the mode called Onslaught which is a continuous 
 battle of teams trying to capture each others bases. It is truly gruesome, bloody, and highly 
 entertaining.
  
  Overall, the game play department of Unreal has not changed, and that indeed is a good thing. You 
 simply need the pure thrill of killing off your opponents and the fact that you can re-spawn means 
 vengeance is a possibility every time you go out in the Tournament to play.
  
  V A L U E
  UT2004 does not lack any replay value whatsoever. With the extensive single player mode and the 
 even more extensive multi player option, theres no reason to take a break from UT2004. All you 
 will want to do is strive to get better and better by practicing, and then going out to the Tournament 
 online and kicking the poop out of your buddy. It is truly a great feeling when you accomplish 
 that (of course he will re-spawn and get back on your ass in two seconds) .
  
  Truly, Unreal Tournament 2004 as no real time limit. Until the next Unreal comes out in the series, 
 expect to be playing UT2004 for a very long time, and believe me that is not long enough.
  
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 in my eyes has turned out to be way more than we expected it to 
 be. Its huge interactivity has made the Unreal game franchise a household name, and hopefully 
 thats the way it will be for years to come. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsharkhunter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2004 1:16 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament has always been a good series of action games/FPS, and so far remains that way! 
 To start, the graphics look incredible, and feels great too! Very customizable and you can choose 
 from a variety of over 75 skins! If you have been looking for an intense Halo-like shooter, this 
 is for you!
  
  The gameplay is where the game shines the most, it's intense and very fast-paced. The variety of 
 weapons and maps add to the game's longetivity and you'll be playing this game for a long time. 
 This game is great single player too. The bots are very advanced and will give you a tough challenge 
 on the harder difficulties. Online play can keep you playing for hours on end, it's that fun! It 
 also comes with a map-maker so you can put your own ideas to life.
  
  The only down-sides are that Single-Player is nothing special compared to online, once you beat 
 it, you won't be interested in playing singleplayer again. It comes in 5 CDs, so get the DVD edition 
 to make installing quicker. Lag can make the game very frustrating online and there's a pretty 
 big learning curve. Other than that, the game is much better than your average FPS and keeps the 
 Unreal series as great as it's always been, pick this game up now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:16 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is without a doubt the single most critically acclaimed multiplayer focused first 
 person shooter ever made. It came out at a time in the genre lifespan when not just the typical 
 run and gun single player campaigns would cut it. Games like Quake and its sequel had started pushing 
 the multiplayer barier very much so and had made it a nearly expected aspect of any game that followed 
 it. Unreal Tournament, on the other hand was the first truly multiplayer focused first person shooter, 
 and by all means it was the best. Up untill the release of Battlefield 1942 in 2002 it had not 
 been dethroned in the slightest. Unreal Tournament has always been the fan and critic favorite 
 over the last few years, so it's really no surprise that when the best multiplayer first person 
 shooter gets a followup sequel that it gets a lot of attention is it? Not at all, because Unreal 
 Tournament 2004 not only lives up to the hype, but it surpases it. It is safe to say this is exactly 
 what fans have been waiting for, and it will last them for years to come.
  
  It goes without saying that if you liked Unreal Tournament, or Unreal Tournament 2003, this is 
 a must-buy for you. It really is that easy to reccomend. It's quite possible not only the best 
 multiplayer PC game since Battlefield 1942, but it easily could be said to be the best ever. The 
 one and only problem that is really noticeable with the game is that it requires a pretty good 
 PC. If you're running a rig from 2001 or so, you might want to update it before you spend the money 
 on this game. A 1.2 GHZ Processor, 128 MB of RAM, and a 64 MB GeForce 2 (or some equivelant) is 
 what is reccomended. It may not sound all that grueling on your PC, but it really is. You'd be 
 better off going in to the game with at least a 1.5 GHZ processor, 256 MB of RAM, and a GeForce 
 4 Ti series card. These things aren't terribly expensive anymore, and it is well worth the price 
 to make this game run smooth enough where you'll have steady framerates for online and off.
  
  The game itself is multiplayer focused. There is a single player, but it isn't like Half-Life's 
 or Halo's single player. It's just the multiplayer maps with automated bots. So basically it's 
 just the multiplayer offline. There are plenty of difficulty ranges for the bots on the maps, and 
 as you get to the higher difficulties they can provide for a pretty decent match. Generally though, 
 this is an online shooter, and that's what it does best. If you're not going to be playing this 
 game online, you have to ask yourself if it's really worth playing against bots all of the time 
 rather than real human oponents. In UT2k4, there are over 40 newly introduced maps for you to play 
 as well as a barage of older maps from the previous games. There are 10 different modes to play 
 in that are packaged with the retail version of the game, and more are on the way from the fabulous 
 community and their amazing modifications to the games. The retail modes include; Assault, Onslaught, 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Bombing Run, Mutant, Invasion, Last Man Standing, and Capture the 
 Flag.
  
  Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch are pretty basic. Easily the most popular modes in the game, and 
 the modes that get the most community modifications, this is where the classic Unreal Tournament 
 gameplay is up. If you've never played either of these two modes in a previous Unreal Tournament 
 game, or any other online FPS for that matter, what you do is players are pitted against eachother 
 to play basically a game of kill or be killed. You want to kill as many people as you can, and 
 die as little as possible. Person with the most points by the end of the match wins. Team Deathmatch 
 is almost exactly the same thing, it's just with selected teams.
  
  Double Domination is a fairly simple game as well. Each level holds two different domination points, 
 to score you must run and gun your way in and capture each teams Domination points. The way you 
 capture the Domination points is by running them over. The way to score the point is by holding 
 them in your team's possesion for 10 seconds. Once you've successfully captured the Domination 
 Points the clock will reset and you will be able to do it over again.
  
  Last Man Standing is exactly what the name says. From the beginning of the match you start with 
 all of the weapons, but there's a catch, you have a limited number of lives. As you play through 
 the match, you try your hardest to remain alive by the end and make sure you are the last man standing.
 
  
  Bombing Run is one of the more unique games that you can play in Unreal Tournament. It's a lot 
 like football, actually. There is one ball in the middle of the arena and the first team to shoot 
 it into the other teams end zone so to speak, wins the game. There are two ways to score points, 
 shooting it in, or going kamikazee and killing youself by throwing your whole body with the ball 
 in to their goal. It offers up a great game of death-ball.
  
  Invasion is where you have a team that must stand fast and hold strong against hordes of enemies 
 as they try to invade your territory. You have wave multiple waves that last between 90 seconds 
 and four minutes. You can't respawn during a wave if you die, and as long as one of your team members 
 makes it through the wave all that have fallen will respawn for the next round.
  
  Mutant is another new addition to UT2k4. The beginning of the match starts out as a regular deathmatch, 
 but as soon as one player draws first blood he then becomes the Mutant. After that, everyone is 
 then pit against the Mutant, and only the Mutant. Mutants have super powers that include lots of 
 ammo, invisibility, and beserk. These things offer for a very intense match that is actually quite 
 fun and pretty original. This is one of the better new matches in the game.
  
  Capture the Flag is the same as it has always been. There are two teams, the objective is to capture 
 the opposing team's flag. The goal is to go in to their base, capture the flag, then return to 
 your base alive. There are many great maps for CTF this time around. There are also many great 
 maps from the older games, including December, and even Facing Worlds Classic and it's sister map, 
 Face 3. To anyone that has played the older Unreal Tournament games, they know it's all about the 
 Facing Worlds maps, because they're back and as good as ever.
  
  Assault is another great mode in the game. There are two teams, the attackers and the defenders. 
 The point of the game is for the two teams to battle it out throughout various locales in the Unreal 
 worlds. There are some that take place on vehicles, some that take place in space, and some that 
 take place on land. The ones in space offer up an interesting gameplay feature that allows you 
 to fly space vehicles around the territory and gun out your opponents. It's actually quite a great 
 mode and really suped up the gameplay.
  
  Last but not least is the fantastic Onslaught. Easily the best mode in the game, is also the most 
 original. Teams in this mode battle eachother for control of various points on the map. The point 
 of this mode is to be as careful as possible using your best strategy and wit to make sure you 
 win. This isn't like Deathmatch where you just run and gun, you make every move count in order 
 to secure all the points on the map and make your team win the match. The game delivers great gameplay 
 that hasn't been seen in any of the Unreal games in the past with the introduction of vehicular 
 gameplay. Like games such as Halo, and Tribes 2 you have the ability to control various vehicles 
 that will help you move across the map and totally control the points that you must take over. 
 The first team to successfully secure all of the power nodes and destroy the enemy's power core 
 wins the match.
  
  With such variety in Unreal Tournament's gameplay, it's tough not to applaud it on every level 
 imagineable. There is really nothing wrong with it that is even remotely apparent. Almost everything 
 about it is flawless. Every mode features a tutorial mode, and there is even a single player campaign 
 that basically just shows you the ropes of how to play Unreal Tournament to get you ready to go 
 face the bots or if you have the means, to face human opponents online.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004's graphics look very similar to 2003's installment. They are very good. 
 Easily the best you will find for any multiplayer focused game out there right now. But after seeing 
 almost the same thing over a year ago, it leaves you feeling a little underwhelmed after all is 
 said and done. Don't take that the wrong way, though. Because the graphics are flat out superb, 
 they just don't compete with the top of the line stuff we've been seeing come out over the last 
 month or so. They are close, but they aren't the best.
  
  The sound in the game is pretty good. It's not the best out there, but it certainly suffices with 
 the rest of the game. The soundtrack works great with the game, although it isn't really all that 
 noticeable. You won't be humming the toons after you get out of a match most likely, so don't expect 
 anything too memorable. However, the voice overs and sound effects are flat out fantastic. The 
 announcers in each match fit the game perfectly and really add to the atmosphere of each match 
 and the mode you will be playing. It features all of the classic Unreal Tournament narration, and 
 then some. It's definitely the best sounding and best looking Unreal Tournament that is out today.
 
  
  This isn't a game you'll be playing for a week and then never again. This is one game that will 
 last you for years. With games like Half-Life 2 and the like on the horizon, there is going to 
 be some stiff multiplayer competition. But with Unreal Tournament's great variety in gameplay, 
 there is a good chance that it will remain the King of multiplayer games for quite a long time 
 to come. There are already new maps, and modifications to download only a very short while after 
 it's retail release. So if that doesn't say something about the dedicated community, not much else 
 will.
  
  It's really simple. If you're looking for a single player first person shooter, look elsewhere, 
 this is not the game for you. But, if you're looking for perhaps the best multiplayer experience 
 ever created in the history of the industry, this is definitely the game for you. It's tough to 
 make such bold claims seeing as there are so many incredible games in its genre, but Unreal Tournament 
 comes out of the dust and reclaims the crown as the most complete multiplayer action game available. 
 Unreal Tournament 2004 is the most realized version of the series that has been seen yet, it's 
 also certainly the best. 2004 has a lot of great games coming its way, but this one is already 
 a possible shoe-in contender for game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlascott
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 21, 2004 7:49 am PT
Review:  Ok, I bought it when it first came out, and was blown away. Gamespot's review got this right. If 
 you own only 1 game to be played multiplayer/online, this is it. If you have the rig, turn all 
 the graphical detail up, and you will not miss any DX9 details.
  
  I am reviewing it now because I have since played the FarCry demo, as well as Doom3 (Im about 1/2 
 through it) . I just fired up UT 2k4 again, and the 'newness' still hasnt worn off. There are now 
 twice the number of maps available for dl as were shipped with the game, and it bears mentioning 
 that the game shipped with a massive number of maps, and that the fan maps are as good as any Epic 
 or Atari ever released.
  
  Bottom line, friggin fraggin great game. You can get this new for $30 at most stores, and if I 
 had to rebuild my admittedly-massive game collection, this would go in the cart first, before Doom 
 3, before even the excellent, awesome WC3, and even before Medieval: Total War, before, Freedom 
 Force (the best game no one played) , and before No One Lives Forever (second best game no one played, 
 but the best fps I have ever played) , and before Return to Castle Wolfenstein (rather maligned 
 but basically in a tie with NOLF2 as best fps -- both of these arer better than Doom 3) .
  
  If you dont own it, you should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osuc69
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 24, 2004 2:09 am PT
Review:  This game follows on from the surpise slump that was unreal tournament 2003. While improving on 
 the gameplay a lot it just dosnt have the feel to it that the original version had. The original 
 game had the essential balance of gameplay, and felt special to play. The community dosnt seem 
 as hardcore as the community surrounding the original unreal tournament.
  
  Part of the reason why i scored the game lower than a lot of other reviewers here, was because 
 they have taken away a lot of elements that made the origianl great, the speed of the game play, 
 especally capture the flag is much to hetic to be considered as tactical as the original. The level 
 designers have made the levels overly intricate in order to show of the game engine, while underemphasing 
 what made the original levels a joy to play.
  
  Maybe one saving point of this new incarnation on unreal tournament is the graphics which have 
 improved slightly from the 2003 version, while being significantly more eye opening than many other 
 shooters on the market.
  
  One thing that developers need to address is the rebate, old copies are still in circulation. People 
 that have bought the game after the initial hype had died down, can no longer get the rebate if 
 they have unreal tournmanet 2003, which seems very unfair.
  
  If i had to find areas of this game to improved it would be a comprimise on map content, and bringing 
 the game back to its grass roots, and slowing down the pass a little, game modes like capture the 
 flag are more enjoyable when they are tactical, not fast paced, and although servers can opt to 
 decrease the game speed, this rarely happens.
  
  Hope you enjoyed my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swamination
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2004 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Certain not-to-be-named genres of gaming have been beaten to death so badly, they lose depth and 
 innovation with each iteration that rolls forth from the Black Morass. Every so often a game rejuvinates 
 and encourages another look at an old set of favorites.
  
  Unreal Tourney 2k4 is an excellent continuation of the Unreal Tournament series. Tried and true 
 features are back with slight tweaks and suprises, graphics are bold as ever, and mayhem is as 
 severe as I remember any of the series being.
  
  There has been a trend among developers, however, to release "safe" games. Lucasarts' Jedi Academy 
 added features onto Jedi Outcast, Neverwinter Nights has eaked out more expansions than Guns n 
 Roses had "Use Your Illusion" albums, and Unreal Tourney 2004 adds on a few gimmicks to Unreal 
 Tourney 2003. You can see this pattern at the movies, too. Familiar superhero flicks, Lord of the 
 Money/Rings, Harry Potter and the Easy Bankroll, and so on. Few devs from the many series we enjoy 
 are branching outside the familiar box. (This behavior may indeed be a saving grace for Half-Life 
 2 this fall, as it will not be outdone yet outside the horrifying Doom3 project) . If you have UT 
 2003, then 2004 is still a worthy pickup. You will find, though, that the new features are throwbacks 
 to ideas already included in previous versions or in other games. 
  
  So do not expect a NEW game. Expect to find things that you wish were included in the FIRST UT 
 game.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous UT engine, complete with amazing character models, physics engine effects, 
 lighting effects, and beautiful skyboxes. The sound is fully directional, which adds a whole new 
 level to gameplay. The pace is fast and competitive, with great gamemodes to challenge each other 
 in. The AI is painfully good, and scalable for the n00bs.
  
  Since this is another take at a game already using the UT engine, already containing the great 
 character models, already fast-paced, already with a physics engine, this feels like an expansion 
 more than a standalone product. If it were standalone, then I'd expect to still enjoy playing some 
 aspect of UT 2003. (All you Battlefield Vietnam players out there load up BF1942 and dogfight over 
 the Coral Sea, and you'll know what I'm talking about.)
  
  As an expansion, this is an 8. As a standalone product, this is a 9.
  
  Swamination 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbomb999
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 3, 2004 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I havent played a game as fast paced, and frantic as Unreal Tournament in a long time. if you liked 
 UT2003 and do not iwn a copy of it I suggest that u go to your local BestBuy right away and pick 
 up a copy of in my opinion is the best shooter of the year. I really enjoy the fact that you can 
 put your own custom music in while you are playing. That really adds the great extra touch on to 
 an otherwise great game. The graphics on this game are extraordinary. Even if you dont have such 
 a great video card its still will play great. So go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeChris
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 8, 2004 11:34 am PT
Review:  Well that's the game that i am the most addicted. While they modify the gameplay a little compare 
 with it's predecessesor, it bring a new refreshing twist to the game.
  
  Those modification are almost not perceptible depending of which setting you are playing. There's 
 so many mode in that game that you can't possibly get tired of playing it.
  
  One downfall of the game will be the lack of online security. In the first week of the games we 
 already saw more cheaters than the 2k3 series. Still that's something that can be corrected with 
 new patch that will surely comes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2004 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is the third installment in what has become the benchmark for the online FPS 
 genre. This latest chapter brings more innovations to the table than ever before, making this installment 
 the deepest in the series.
  
  UT2K4 is a gameplay monster. It caries over half a dozen modes of play, all of which are excellent 
 modes in their own right. The single player ladder campaign involves most of them, and the rest 
 are available in online play modes. Choose from classics such as Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and 
 Capture the Flag, or turn it up a notch with the intense Bombing Run, Double Domination, Last Man 
 Standing, Mutant, Invasion, Assault, or Onslaught. All of the modes are fast paced, well balanced, 
 and a lot of fun.
  
  The final two modes, Onslaught and Assault, showcase vehicles, a newcomer to the Unreal Tournament 
 series. They have been implemented seamlessly into the game, and afford a new element of play without 
 taking infantry out of the game. The vehicles include flyers, tanks and buggies, as well as the 
 multi-turreted Leviathan. A couple of the vehicles can be manned by multiple players, so your buddy 
 can drive while you blast the competition.
  
  One of the best features of Unreal Tournament is the unique weapon design, and UT2K4 continues 
 the tradition with even more innovative weapons. In addition to the current load out, players are 
 now also equipped with the deadly Anvil anti-armor missile launcher, and the Spider Mines; anti-personnel 
 mines that home in on their target!
  
  The Bot AI in UT2K4 is second to none. Both enemies and teammates present a constant challenge, 
 and will actively employ different tactics and challenge you. I have frequently mistaken bots for 
 real players online, and you can actually mix the two for a very enjoyable experience.
  
  Unreal's Graphics continue to lead the pack, and UT2K4 is beautiful. The level design is amazing, 
 featuring a huge diversity of maps from forests, cities, space stations, castles and industrial 
 plants. The new vehicles all look amazing, as pilots can be seen through canopies, and players 
 names are actually stenciled onto the license plates! Even the game menu is polished, with big 
 fonts, colorful graphics, and an ease of navigation which is heavily missed in other games.
  
  Sound is a perfect 10. UT2K4 has some of the best player sounds, weapon effects, and musical 
 soundtracks out today. Combined with in game voice support with positional audio is a text-to-speech 
 mode which officially makes this a next generation game. When your teammate behind you and to the 
 left says something, you hear it behind you and to the left... wow. This level of immersion only 
 adds to the amazing explosions, rumbling tank treads, and com-chatter insults that mark this game 
 as exceptional.
  
  My only minor gripe with this game is slight, but important enough to lower the score in my book. 
 The single player is just not what it could be, and hasn't evolved since the first game in the 
 series. The team management feature is something I was looking forward to, and it feels hopelessly 
 tacked on. I kept on hoping for some kind of stat increase or special mission that my team would 
 be sent on, but to no avail. You basically meat grind through to the end, although Unreal's amazing 
 diversity of gameplay still makes this a good time. I took the value down a notch for this, since 
 even the most die hard player will eventually only look at UT2K4 as a multi-player game.
  
  All in all, UT2K4 is the best shooter you can currently own on your PC. Any fan of the series or 
 genre must own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 27, 2004 6:16 pm PT
Review:  In 2000, Epic released their groundbreaking Online Multiplayer First Person Shooter, Unreal Tournament. 
 It was a smash hit, and many mod makers made prominent use of its excellent engine. But with the 
 release of last years dissapointing Unreal Tournament 2003, fans of the series questioned Epic's 
 credibility. Now with the newest edition to the series, Unreal Tournament 2004, fans no longer 
 have to worry, because this game, simply put, rocks.
  
  Before you run to your inevitable doom of hearing annoying players online screaming into their 
 microphones (which you recieve free with the purchase of the Special Edition of UT2k4) , dive into 
 the rich single player. Although the first few stages of the campaign mode only consist of the 
 re-submitted modes that were in the previous installments to the Unreal Tournament series (Team 
 Deathmatch, Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and Bombing Run) , it's well worth the wait to reach the 
 Onslaught/Assualt phases. The AI is solid, and when playing team based matches with bots, they 
 work together in unison to defeat you. At times, however, the bots can be overly challenging, even 
 on the easier difficulty settings. But overall, the single player is abounding with entertainment 
 until you're ready to step into the online arena.
  
  On with the multiplayer. With an immense collection of modes -- all ten of them -- it is very difficult 
 to lose interest in the game quickly. But it's the spectacular introduction of the series' new 
 Onslaught mode, and the valiant return of the original Unreal Tournament's Assualt mode. Onslaught 
 can be compared with the likes of the Battlefield franchises "Conquest" mode, where you and your 
 enemy alike strive to gain control of the power nodes distributed throughout the map. When all 
 choke points have been captured, the opposing force can then attack their enemies Power Core. Assualt 
 has two clearly different teams. The offense, which is the team persistently trying to complete 
 a list of objectives striving to get to the final goal. The defensive team is basically trying 
 to stop their adversaries from accomplishing the goals they need win.
  
  The graphics in Unreal Tournament 2004 are very good, with some nice touches on some of the darker 
 more gothic-type maps. Some maps are rich with foliage and can span hundreds of virtual yards. 
 Though the visuals aren't absolutely mind blowing, they offer a very soothing aesthetic appeal 
 without a top of the line computer in service.
  
  The sound is refreshing and it provides for incredibly hectic battles over the apprehension of 
 power nodes in Onslaught. If you choose the right people play with online, a microphone can be 
 put to great use for coordination. Although, if you do enter a random online game, and you do hear 
 the horrid screams and chants (and the occasional irrelevant singing) of others, all you have to 
 remember is that it is as easy to set up your mike as it is to mute annoying players.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2004 is a fantastic compilation of the best of the best from the UT series, and 
 much more, including the series premiere of Onslaught. It offers such variety, that you will feel 
 like you are playing a completely different game when you change your mode of play. With the games 
 solid netcode, the vast array of modes at your disposal, and crisp graphics and sound, make Unreal 
 Tournament one of the most complete online multiplayer games that has been released in a long while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wicked
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 23, 2004 6:23 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost you have to like First Person Shooters (FPS) . There, we've got rid of those 
 people. FPS games have become boring. It's the same old thing; fire, duck, reload, fire, new wave, 
 duck... you get the idea. Even Unreal Tournament was boring for a while. I'm not saying UT2k3 wasn't 
 good, it just didn't bring anything new to the table. I remember how cool the first Unreal was... 
 and then Tournament... oh yeah! There really is nothing like low-grav and quad-jump with a sniper 
 rifle. UT2K3 upped the graphics (and in my case didn't run right) but that felt like all it was. 
 Perhaps bad nerves played a part and the gameplay was too frantic... Then along came Battlefield 
 1942. Now that's what I wanted; vehicles!
  UT2k4 essentially brings back all the graphical eye-candy from 2003 and adds vehicles... at least 
 that's why I bought it. Now I'm sure you're thinking "big [bleeping] deal! there are vehicles in 
 a bunch of games"... this isn't about the vehicles... it's about the massive maps and strategic/frantic 
 battles. I've been in matches that have lasted 2-3 minutes and ones that have gone on for almost 
 an hour. Strategy is the key as your team frantically scrambles to own power-nodes on their path 
 to the enemy's core. Try the demo, you'll now what I mean.
  The other gameplay types are pretty standared; deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag [CTF] , 
 Bombing Run, Domination. But Epic has brought back the old favorite; Assault. Assault places 2 
 teams in a reenactment of a famous Unreal-universe battle. One team takes defense, the other offense. 
 Awesome!
  
  UT2k4 truly shines when you've become tired of the massive amount of levels that have come packaged 
 with it. "Well, I should uninstall, right? I'm done, there's nothing left...*cry*". There, there 
 dear friend... go online. If I haven't already implied, all the above mentioned game types can 
 be played online with tons of people. You must live in the antartic under a very large (and cold) 
 rock if you can't find a server to play on. But what's this? The server you've tried to join is 
 loading awfully slow and you have bloodlust that needs satisfying... Why, there seems to be a level 
 downloading... perhaps my bloodlust can wait.
  
  The community for the Unreal universe is bigger than any I've ever seen (save, perhaps, Counterstrike) . 
 You can download maps for all game types, new character models and skins, 'Mutators' which alter 
 the game universe in some fun way, and even new voices for your characters. 
  
  "But I don't want to play more UT, I'm tired of this kinda game" Wow! you're really whiny, eh? 
 FINE! Why don't you download one of the total modifications out there? These 'mods' use the same 
 game engine but are totally brand new games made by hard working monkeys in their parents ba****t. 
 What? I'm sorry, I've just learned they aren't monkeys, they're PRIMATES. My apologies. lol!
  
  Really long story short. This isn't just a game. It's an investment. Sure, the game is best 
 enjoyed on a high-end system and Sure! it takes up over 5GB of space on your drive. But you can 
 actually play UT2k4 every night for a month and never play the same game or map. It's amazing. 
 One last thing, buy more RAM, you're PC wants it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whisky Bravo
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 23, 2004 5:25 pm PT
Review:  If you don't like this game then I want to know "WHAT GAMES ARE YOU PLAYING!!!". You know I was 
 tired of this title last year, but when I played the new Onslaught Maps I was VERY impressed.
 
  
  The Graphics sets a new standard for gaming, I have taken at least 100 screen shots already over 
 a two day period. Currently I'm playing Battlefield Vietnam, Far Cry, and URT2004 (Onslaught) ... 
 and guess what the first two game that I mentioned currently have dust on them.
  
  Personally I wish this game wasn't so fast, so I could enjoy more of the graphics during game play, 
 you could have naked characters and you wouldn't even notice it.
  
  I also wish that the weapons weren't so deadly against vehicles, unless you give the vehicles extra 
 armor just as you can get for your character.
  
  I just get the feeling as if no matter how good you do you going to DIE!!!! That's the only gripe 
 I have of this game.
  
  Some gamers (on this site) are overly critical with out letting you know how GREAT some games are, 
 they just need to realize and appreciate where technology is today.
  
  Oh yea and BTW this is for game spot: add a section for gamer credentials I'll start off by giving 
 my GC baby!!! other gamers fallow suite!
  
  Gamer Credentials:
  Screen Name: IM_UH_BOXER
  Fight Night (PS2) : Ranked top 100 On-Line
  Madden 2004 (PS2) : Ranked 
 top 50 in the bay Area (BABC)
  SOCOMII (PS2) : Clan tag CEO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutDAVE3
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2004 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2003 was a disappointment to a once loved series. After a game that should have 
 been great, how would Epic try to win fans back? The answer was easy. Go back to your UT roots 
 and make a fast paced game with excellent graphics and sound that is easy to play yet hard to become 
 great at. UT2k4 succeded at all this, and has rightfully earned the dubious honors it has revieved. 
 The vehicles prove fun, and add a certain thrill to the game. However, they prove to not be too 
 powerful as they all have their disadvantages and can be taken down by someone on foot. The weapon 
 system works great as you have many different hitscan and non-hitscan weapons to choose from. Once 
 again, one is not overly powerful. UT2k4 competes with the likes of Far Cry for an early GOTY canidated, 
 and is worth picking up if you're a fan of fictional FPS'. See you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marvin_Snipes
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2004 4:37 am PT
Review:  When Unreal tournament 2004 is at its best, the action is unparalleled by any multiplayer orientated 
 game to date. When at its worst its the same game you played last year with UT2003.
  
  Lightning fast action is what the game promises, and thats exactly what you get. Whether it be 
 storming a factory in assault or getting the crucial frag in a death match you'll get little more 
 than a moments peace - and once more the game is better for it. 
  Essentially everything thats in the game has been seen before, in some incarnation or another. 
 However, each mode is well refined, and all together well balanced, and lack of originality in 
 this instance is definitely made up for in pure playability.
  
  Offline the game is somewhat disappointing in comparison to the outstanding multiplayer, with a 
 lacklustre single player campaign, but this was always going to be an experienced best tasted online. 
 Although in saying that, the Instant action mode is very good, with extremely competent bots, whom 
 for the most part can give you a run for your money.
  
  In all, Unreal tournament 2004 is an outstanding success, and makes up for the somewhat dreary 
 and shallow experience of 2003.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirPetra
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2004 7:25 am PT
Review:  This is the best PC multiplayer game out there. The game modes and mutator (game options) combinations 
 are extensive. Also, there is a great fan base and mod community so that the game has almost limitless 
 replay value. The graphics are crisp and the framerate is quick (with the right settings) . I have 
 a p4 1.5 GHz machine with 32 MB nVidia card and 384 MB ram and the game runs great even with 10 
 bots. I don't have the graphics turned up all the way, but it still looks great. The sound is good 
 too, but I have the music turned down because I like to hear the sound effects and people talking. 
 The voice over IP enhancement works great and I have not seen any noticable lag while using it. 
 The only thing about the voice over IP that I don't like is you have to press a key to talk.
  
  The biggest problem I have with the game is that you have to have the CD in the drive to play 
 it. I play at work (you bet!) and at home and I hate to transport the CD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weirjf
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 6, 2004 7:51 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2004 is Unreal Tournament 2003 with vehicles, and better graphics. I shouldn't 
 say better graphics, just less shiny metal maps and more earthy/natural environments.
  
  My biggest complaint with 2003 was the fact that the feel and physics were too much like Quake 
 3 Arena. In fact; that hasn't changed in 2004. If I want to play Q3A, I'll play Q3A. The feel and 
 physics in the original UT are still superior to 2003 and 2004. If they had bothered to come out 
 with a whole new suite of weaponry, I might enjoy it more. However, I'm back to playing BF:1942 
 over UT 2004 nine times out of ten. While I do appreciate the addition of vehicles; its just not 
 enough. The instant respawn is idiotic (no death penalty) . While defending one point, you can kill 
 the same people 6 times each in a minute until they finally wear you down. So, in other words; 
 requires team work. Any veteran of online gaming knows that relying on team work is like relying 
 on an child to help you carry something heavy; most are just not capable of it. The average online 
 gamer is so busy staring at the sky or griefing to seriously help you in any way, shape, or form. 
 Well, except maybe as a meat shield.
  
  Nice try, but no banana.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2004 11:10 am PT
Review:  When I first heard that UT2K4 would have vehicles, I thought to myself "Uh-Oh, Halo ripoff !!" 
 and thought the game would be exactly like UT2H3... but with vehicles added. Man oh man was I wrong 
 !
  
  First off, let me say that this game is a masterpiece. In every way, shape or form, this game lives 
 up to what a REAL online shooter should be.
  
  Let me break down my review for you guys :
  Gameplay (9) : the gameplay is pretty much the same 
 as it was in UT2K3 except for riding the vehicles in Onslaught. But if you've played Halo or another 
 type of driving game, you shouldn't have any problems with it.
  
  Graphics (10) : Remarquable graphics in this game, the details are so rich and the colors are so 
 vivid, it's wild. The details on the vehicles really struck me : they are very lifelike. Naturally, 
 all my graphics settings are at maximum.
  
  Sound (9) : Sounds in the game are good, pretty much the same sounds as in UT2K3, except for the 
 vehicles once again. But the best part about the sound in this game is the "Text to speach" they 
 included. Also the use of the microphone, incorporated directly in the game, is awesome. It's the 
 best way to really get into the team oriented modes and makes them come alive.
  
  Value (10) : The new Onslaught mode is an incredible addition to UT, it is the best mode in the 
 game in my opinion. The return of the Assault mode is great too, and also the addition of the Mutant 
 mode is great. Naturally, CTF, Bombing Run, Team DM and DM are all back bigger and better than 
 ever. 100 maps total included in the game, plus new maps coming out everyday, you can't ask for 
 anything more.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (10) : After playing this game... I ain't sitting at home waiting for Half Life 
 2, Halo 2 and Doom 3 to come out anymore... I finally have a game to quench my fragging needs ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrgrimm312
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2004 4:12 am PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing. You can find this at most stores going for only 29.99$ comon how can 
 you beat that price. Load time may take some time since it is six disk but that just to take care 
 of all the levels. If you were an Unreal Tourny/Tourny 2003 fan this this is the game that will 
 grab your attention. It has UT classic play mode and lots of mutators from 2003 still so your favortie 
 games arent gone. The downfall to this game would have to be how there arent many people playing 
 a few of that game types. Suchs as Double Domination, Muatant, and Last Man Standing. 2 Of these 
 which i love to play but there arent anyone else feeling the same way. Lots of room are filled 
 with noob bots and i cant stand it.
  
  My conclusion is if you liked Unreal and enjoy playing against the world then i would highly suggest 
 this game. If you more less like Call of Duty or Baatle Field and like the realistic slow pace 
 of life then its not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudvayne49
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2004 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I would have gave this game a 10 but for some reason its buggy on my comp heres what i got for 
 my pc. Processor AMD ATHLON 2800+ 2.8~, Video card ATI 9600 XT 256mb, Ram 512. Now for some reason 
 it skips alot iam not sure if its the game or my computer but i hope they come out with a patch 
 soon to fix these bugs or whatever. I read the readme file but all it says that is messes up or 
 something for the sound like sound blaster audgie or something i dont have that iam just running 
 the sound of my motherboard. But get this the demo work a hell of alot better then the full game 
 whats up with that but whatever. For now ill just wait for less buggy games that soon be coming 
 out like Painkiller or whatever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrygauthreaux
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 25, 2004 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight, this is the same game as Unreal Tournament 2003. If you didn't like 
 that game, chances are you won't like this one. Graphically, its the same. Gameplay-wise its the 
 same. The guns are the same. There are 2 new modes this time around, Assault and Onslaught, although 
 Assault is returning from the original UT. The game does feature an impressive number of maps, 
 although alot are from previous installments. The new onslaught and assault modes do feature vehicles, 
 a popular trend lately. These vehicles are not nearly as polished as other similar games. When 
 driving, your vehicles wheels don't even touch the ground, though only an someone with a good eye 
 for perspective will notice. Also, the vehicles travel perfectly still alot of the times, and it 
 just doesnt look right..... In fact I don't think there is even vehicle body sway when turning 
 with ground vehicles. With all that being said, the game is relatively bug free, it has great net-code, 
 a heck of alot of content, and the graphics still look great. Though if you didn't get into the 
 demo, you most likely won't get into the full game as its just more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junglejim99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2004 5:37 am PT
Review:  The evolution of the Unreal francise continues in its upward path with the release of UT2004. Having 
 played all the Unreal cames (yes, even Unreal 2) , I have seen Cliffy B. and company work to improve 
 all aspects of the game (graphics, sound, gameplay, variety) and UT2004 has gotten the formula 
 right (not that the others games were bad) . 
  
  Other than the large variety of game types in UT2004, I see the biggest improvement as the Bot 
 AI. I am not a terribly good on-line player (anyone who has killed me over and over can attest 
 to that) , so I spend most of my game time playing bots. I have found that I am having to work a 
 little harder even on Average to survive and the bots have shown me a couple of tricks I need to 
 work on (who'd of thunk it!) . 
  
  Speaking of playing on-line, the inclusion of Onslaught in UT2004 has finally allowed me to play 
 on-line and actually survive for longer than 30 seconds (I am a great - ok, mediocre - base guard!) . 
 After getting mauled repeatedly in UT and UT2003 Death Matches, it is great to be able to join 
 the community and expand on my Unreal experience.
  
  Well done, Epic - keep up the good work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 19, 2004 5:48 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt in my mind that UT2004 is the BEST FPS/Action game on the market today and it 
 is by far the most reasonably priced game to come out in a long time.
  
  You get so much game for $40 that other companies getting ready to release their games should really 
 review their $50 price tags because Epic got it right A great game at a great price and a lot 
 of old fans of UT happy with a lot new UT fans coming onboard.
  
  Ill only say that all of the positive reviews here are absolutely correct and kudos to GameSpot 
 for pinning down the rating on this.
  
  Buy this you wont regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fett35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2004 10:08 am PT
Review:  (review written using a machine with the following attributes: 3GHz P4 with 1 GB RAM, 256MB Raedon 
 9800, SoundBlaster Extigy, 128kbps wireless DSL connection)
  
  GAMEPLAY: (10)
  
  Wow. I have played many, many FPS online games, and there hasnt been one nearly this smooth and 
 intense with such large maps. I rarely experienced a period of lag, even with a slower-than-average 
 broadband connection. 
  
  Either on-foot or in a vehicle, controls are precise and responsive. The weapons vary and each 
 has its own strengths and weaknesses, which makes various weapons more suitable for certain styles 
 of play. Gone are the days of each player looking for the insta-kill rocket/grenade launcher. Each 
 weapon is useful in its own right, and differing players will have differing favorites.
  
  The vehicles on the vehicle maps have exactly the same attributes: each has differing strengths 
 and weaknesses -- and each can be taken out by a foot soldier. Because of this, being stuck on foot 
 isnt as big a handicap as it is in some other team-play games with vehicles. 
  
  Two minor complaints: it would be nice to see a total frag count at the end of each match. Bear 
 in mind, I havent explored every aspect of the game, and the frag count totals may be buried in 
 a hotkey somewhere. Secondly, the it can be very difficult at first to figure out what one is supposed 
 to be doing on the Onslaught maps. . .but Im sure that will become clear once I RTFM.
  
  One point of note, I am not a big fan of the SciFi genre, but the intense, fluid gameplay and truly 
 differentiable weaponry has made this my new favorite.
  
  GRAPHICS: (10)
  
  This game is beautiful. The textures are crisp, character and weapon models look great, and little 
 details like water and plantlife look better than anything that has come before. The outdoor areas 
 are vast and the framerate high. Little detailslike not being able to see the character names 
 of your enemies, but being able to see the names of your allies, allows you to easily not target 
 friendlies while not unduly giving away the positions of the hostilesare welcome, and noticed.
 
  
  SOUND: (8)
  
  The sound is workman-like and appropriate. The canned taunts are funny, and I like the announcers, 
 but there is nothing outstanding here. The in-game microphone/headset is a good idea, works better 
 than Roger-Wilco, but still isnt as effective as one would hope.
  
  VALUE: (10)
  
  The special addition retails new for $39.99, and I have seen internet and in-store specials for 
 as low as $29.99. Add a 10-dollar rebate for owners of UT2K3, you could pick this up for $20. In 
 an era where most new-release games cost upwards of $50, having UT2K4 cost significantly less is 
 refreshing. Because the game is nearly value-priced; so well put together; very, very detailed; 
 value is easily a 10.
  
  TILT: (9)
  
  Addictive and fun, UT2K4 is my new favorite game. As I mentioned before, not being a SciFi fan, 
 the setting detracts for me, but only slightly. I hope other game studios are listening: a new 
 era in online FPS gaming is upon us.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2004 7:22 am PT
Review:  Amazing. Thats the best way to summarize my feelings after playing this game a few days.
  
  Let me say I have never been a big Unreal fan. In fact the last Unreal game I bought was the original 
 Unreal. I skipped all the following "Tournament" editions because I was more on the CS, DC and 
 BF side of the fence. Anyway... after reading the great glowing reviews of this version I decided 
 to give it a try. Wow, am I glad I did.
  
  The Gamespot review says it all so I wont repeat. But a few thigns I have to touch on... first 
 of all the game is beautiful and fast. If you have a ddecent system you will be impressed. Make 
 sure you have 1 gig of ram.. it really helps. But the action is fast and furious but now with the 
 great Assault & Onslaught modes you get some strategy in the madness.
  
  There are tons of little great features... a coupel the review didnt mention... the game has a playlist 
 editor so you can setup playlists of your favorite mp3's while playing.. nice. It also has exceptional 
 bot AI which the series has been known for. I played a few Assault games and the Ai played so proficiently 
 I was amazed. There is one Assault map that you play entirely on big semi type rigs which will 
 make you feel like your in a Mad Max action sequence... very cool.
  
  There is a ton of graphic and performance tweaks in the options so regardless of your system horsepower 
 you should be able to get it to run. The game also has all the editing tools included to make maps 
 so it should be only a matter of a week or two before we start seeing tons of great new maps from 
 the community.
  
  Anyway... I havent been a UT fan in the past but they have me now. Great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: labuerkle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2004 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I can't get enough of this game. There is so much on can do in this game ,with all of the different 
 types of stuff you can get into. I bought unreal 2003 and wasn't happy with what I got. I want 
 to see vehicles in UT 2003. I heard they were going to have it in UT 2003 , but pulled it out because 
 of deadline that had to be made. Well i think it is worth $30, well it's $30 if you own UT 2003. 
 You get a voucher for $10 off if you own UT 2003. I LOVE the The Leviathan vehicle / tank / Satan 
 beast. Come's with a whopping 5000 hit points and can carry 4 other people as extra gunners. It 
 acts like the siege tanks from StarCraft. Very cool!! The stages to are also very nicely done. 
 They have a nice alien feel to them. Some have weather effects to which i have always liked in 
 a game like dust blowing and snow falling.
  
  This is also a great game if you have a good graphics card ( nice textures ) . It will also run 
 on low end card to. I have an ATi 8500 128MB and it runs great, AMD Barton 3000+ 400 fsb, asus 
 A78X - D , and one gig of corsair XMS 3200. I do Photoshop stuff. Any way's this games rocks. They 
 have been getting really good at voice over net. Some people don't know how to use the head set's 
 effectively.  : ( It seems many people are using there head set's well. It makes for a more intense 
 fight when people try and get together by talking with real time chat. I bought a head set just 
 to talk sh** to other players. If you liked any of the unreal series you will love this game. It 
 is what HALO should of been like but wasn't  : ( UT 2004 is an A+ in my book.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimal
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2004 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Pros - Assault and onslaught are just amazingly fun. There's tons upon tons of maps to explore 
 and master. There's some ut99 maps remade that are just perfect in 2k4. As you would've guessed 
 the games environments are beautiful. Especially AS-Junkyard where you have all the vultures flying 
 over head. The voice chat online works pretty good and is a great way to make planning strategies 
 easier and you can do it on the fly. Plenty of skins to choose from. The new robot skins are awesome. 
 Xan's new look is superb. The new sniper rifle brings a little of the ut99 feel back to snipers. 
 
  
  Cons- Some of the sounds are weak. If you remember Xan's evil robot voice from ut99 you will be 
 completely upset with how it is now. Onslaught vehicles are fun, but in my opinion they aren't 
 as polished as Epic says they are. The raptor is completely useless. If you do get in it you will 
 either be dead before you do anything worth while in it, or you will be jumping out in the air 
 and having a nice fall to the ground. The tank's cannon is completely inaccurate. And sometimes 
 it's shell goes right through other vehicles doing no damage, or it doesn't fire at all. Single 
 player is still boring and limited and not even worth playing. This game is all about online war. 
 
  
  You can't go wrong buying this game. Take my word for it. 
  
  -Optimal
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: russlc
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 17, 2004 6:20 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for almost 16 hours since I got it yesterday and I wont repeat what you 
 will hear time and time and time again about this game: the game play and graphics are absolutely 
 phenomenal and perfect.
  
  What I will comment on the unbelievable value of this game. I did get the special edition DVD for 
 $39 and it comes with a $10 rebate. I opened the box (which was nicely packaged) and to my surprise 
 it comes with a set of decent Logitech headset w/microphone. So for $29, you get an absolutely 
 incredible game, the bonus disk, and headset. It also comes with the Linux version on the DVD. 
 How on earth can you beat that deal (I guess if it was $19) ? I fired up the game on Linux and it 
 runs great too. The OpenGL graphics under Linux arent as crisp but it doesnt matter because its 
 the game play that matters. For people that dont have the best video card out there, they can 
 still thoroughly enjoy this title.
  
  I remember when I fired up the original Unreal Tournament and I said, This is unreal. It wasnt 
 until I unwrapped UT2004 that I could say that again. Get this game and support the developers. 
 They should be commended with such a gaming perfection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuskue76
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 17, 2004 5:49 am PT
Review:  First off, I would like to say ut2k4 has a unique feel that no other games can compare. The thing 
 with UT2k4 is that it does not show any weakness on the gameplay nor the graphics, thus enhances 
 them both at the same time. The special thing about ut2k4 is the complexity of the game, you can 
 basically do a lot of different things to achieve objectives, it is also overwhelming to believe 
 some of the ways of achieving the objective will leave you a breath-taking experience as ever. 
 The other thing I would like to add, which most of you might already know if you played the demo... is 
 that it took what we liked in unreal tournament, and matched up with the graphics in ut2k3.... thus 
 creating one of the best combination of games ever... the developer really took their time to find 
 out what the fans like and what it lacked.... it not only look better and plays better... but it 
 has also surpass manys' expectation.... needless to say that it is probably the best game out on 
 the market now..... since HALO 2 and HALF-LIFE 2 is not out yet, predicitions can still be made.... but 
 all I can say is that these 2 games has to put into some GREAT efforts into finalizing the game 
 or else...... UT2K4 might just be the next big thing.... the game did came out earlier than I expected, 
 so I was not expecting much before I even play the demo.... but aften being said that, I honestly 
 have to gave credits to those work hard and long that make this game so much fun.... I only can 
 hope that in the future, UT2K5 will do the same, and surpass our expectations again !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordsArmy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2004 9:37 am PT
Review:  WOW! I can't believe how incredible this game is. The demo only gave us all a small taste of what 
 this game has to offer. Theres so many incredible things about this game its over whelming.
  Since I got the game this morning (16th) I've played single player, and have just gotten to the 
 assault mode. THIS IS THE MOST EMERSIVE, SINGLE PLAYER FPS EVER. The way they set up the assualt 
 mode with the video walkthrough is awe inspiring. I can't remember the last time I felt this way 
 about a game... oh wait... Unreal Tourney... the first one came close... that this game not only 
 comes close to, but surpasses the original UT is amazing. 
  I'm officialy no longer looking forward to HALO 2. UT2k4 RULES ALL! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
