-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unreal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/unreal/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 10, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.9, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,613 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: Epic Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Apr 30, 1998 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What gives Unreal an edge is how these differences, while not always positive, distinguish it from 
 the legions of other 3D shooters. 

 The difficulty in reviewing a game like Unreal is keeping in mind what has come before it while 
 at the same time allowing the game to flesh out its own sense of style and gameplay. Unreal is 
 not Quake. The look is different. The feel is different. And what gives Unreal an edge is how these 
 differences, while not always positive, distinguish it from the legions of other 3D shooters.  
 

 In Unreal, you are a prisoner aboard a ship en route to a penal colony. The ship crashes on a mysterious 
 planet where the mystical Nali race is being subjugated by the cruel and technologically advanced 
 Skaarj. As you journey through the many environments on the planet, you must find a means of escape 
 from the planet and help the Nali defeat their oppressors. Unreal intertwines the feel of the medieval 
 Nali architecture and culture with the sci-fi design of the weapons and the Skaarj warriors to 
 create an environment that's a step above other games of its ilk.  

 As far as the game itself, the graphics are incredible. Unreal has the best graphics of any first-person 
 shooter - and possibly of any game - to date. The palette is bright and varied, while the textures 
 are intricate and well defined. The quality of textures deserves high praise - they help create 
 environments that really take hold of you. The levels are so detailed and distinct that it's easy 
 to distinguish one level from all the others, and you won't confuse the prison spacecraft for the 
 Nali village. In conjunction with the graphics, the level design is advanced and complex. The mix 
 of wide-open spaces and cramped hallways is refreshing. As far as graphics go, you just can't beat 
 Unreal's immersion factor.  

 Combining an alien world with weapons that seem alien themselves has produced some interesting results. 
 As varied as the ten weapons are, there's also an alternate method of firing each of them (the 
 8-Ball Launcher, Unreal's equivalent of a rocket launcher, can also be used as a grenade launcher) . 
 This wide range of attack styles will undoubtedly produce higher degrees of strategy in deathmatch 
 play. As for single-player, the weapon placement and location was spaced out evenly, and finding 
 ammunition was not a daunting task.  

 One of Unreal's best features is the enemy AI. In other games, the logic of certain creature actions 
 seems to be linear and undefined. In Unreal, each opponent attacks with its own style, using a 
 combination of melee and ranged attacks. One of the most impressive experiences (if not the most 
 aggravating) was seeing a well-placed rocket shot miss because a Skaarj dodged it at the last second. 
 Another eye-catching sight was watching different enemies power up shields to protect themselves 
 in the midst of battle.  

 As far as problems go, there are some, but they don't hurt gameplay enough to reduce the overall 
 experience. The first is that there are too few enemy model types. Unreal has only six main enemy 
 models, but the design team has done a pretty good job of using different skins to create a variety 
 of opponents. In addition, there are other models for the random critters that you fight throughout 
 your adventuring.  

 Another complaint deals with the pace of gameplay. Sometimes the pace of action seems too stretched 
 out, and it feels as if each battle is just the same as the last. However, these gaps were few, 
 and for the most part the game pacing and plot development were enjoyable. On the puzzle-solving 
 side, there isn't much to be had; most of the game you simply push buttons to open a path leading 
 to the next level. But your actions involving them are well integrated into the plot. There are 
 few complex puzzles to solve; it's doubtful that Unreal would benefit from more in that area.  
 

 Lastly, the weapons are pretty cool, but there's no simplicity in design. Each gun takes some practice 
 to understand its use and benefits, but in the end, you spend too much time learning. Rather than 
 give you instinctual weapons (like a basic shotgun or machine gun) , Unreal's unusual weaponry forces 
 you to adjust the way you play, without much added benefit of weapon ferocity or visceral gratification. 

 If you're looking to hone your deathmatch skills, however, you're going to find playing online to 
 be next to impossible. The developers have stated in the readme. txt file that the game is still 
 in the tweaking phase as far as Internet play is concerned. But with seemingly boundless game customizability 
 options as well as in-package deathmatch levels, Unreal gives you everything you need to practice 
 for the big time. It even gives you a choice of bots designed by Steve Polge to test your mettle. 
 This was probably one of the most enjoyable features, and after you've finished the game you can 
 go in and set up your own games for a single-player deathmatch experience.  

 Unreal is a truly great single-player game. It's hard to say whether it will stand the test of the 
 first-person action-shooter wars and become a classic in and of itself. It will definitely have 
 to overcome the lack of a decent Internet experience if it wants to obtain any more accolades, 
 but, apart from that, it offers as much as you could possibly want from a game in this genre.  
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: The_Breadcrab
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:42 pm PT
Review:  1998 was a great year for video games. Revolutionary games like Half-life, The legend of zelda: 
 OOC, Rainbow six, Metal gear solid, and Banjo-Kazooie were released. So its no surprise that many 
 great games were overlooked. But one of the most overlooked was Unreal.
  
  Back in the day, its graphics were great. It was the Crysis of 1998. Many people had to get good 
 rigs to play it, which might be why it was overlooked. 
  
  But there was more to this game. The story is told similarly to half-life, where there are no cut 
 scenes. It takes place in a sci-fi world, and you see the world through the eyes of an unnamed 
 prisoner, who wakes up in a crashed prison vessel. You escape the vessel to find out you are on 
 an unnamed planet. You discover an alien race called the Nali, who have been imprisoned by a race 
 called the skaarj, and throughout the game you learn more about both races and ultimately defeat 
 the skaarj.
  
  The gameplay is a lot like most old shooters, and you collect many weapons and defeat enemies, 
 but all the weapons and enemies are very creative and unique. You'll find weapons like a gun that 
 shoots crystals, one that shoots razorblades, and an electricity gun. There are many types of enemies, 
 and they all have superb A. I. and will often dodge your bullets and run away on low health.
  
  The sound and level design is also fantastic and makes for a memorable experience. There is 
 a wonderful soundtrack, and the levels are all great. Some are fantasy, some are technological, 
 all are memorable.
  
  However, its not for everyone. The game is very long, and there are a lot of difficult puzzles. 
 You will also be pretty clueless in some places, and the game is pretty hard. Still, this game 
 is a classic and pioneered many things into the gaming world, even though we don't know it. So 
 on the end, if you're up to it, you should definitely pick this up or get the unreal anthology 
 (great deal!) . Its one of my all-time favorite shooters. Remember, it isn't real. Its unreal. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  "Prisoner 849... escaping" - Vortex Rikers Prison Ship.
  
  Alrighty, you start out as prisoner in a prison-ship that crashed on a planet called Na-pali and 
 obviously, you're pretty clueless about where you are until the you have read some logs later in 
 the game. Everyone in the ship is either killed by the crash or by the aliens called Skaarj that 
 took a good look inside the ship and finished off a good rest of the crew. After you clearly hear 
 someone get slaughtered behind the door and an alien running away (oddly, it could kill you too...) 
 you find a trusty Dispersion Pistol that will help you later in the game...
  
  Storyline:
  I only rate game's storyline only if the game came out after 1998, so this is it. 
 Unreal's storyline is probably the weakest of all of it's aspects because all you do is practically 
 read people's logs with no dialogue or anything, just reading... well, if you were dumb enough 
 to not pick up the Translator at the start of the game, there would be no story at all. All this 
 reading will bore you soon enough, depending on how much of a patient person you are. The story 
 itself is quite interesting, it's just the way of telling it is no good.
  The Good - You get curious at the start because it is pretty intriguing and curious to find out 
 what these aliens are up to and what had actually happened!
  The Bad - The way of telling the story, all these logs get frustrating a bit. No dialogue, you 
 don't meet any friendly NPCs in the game, just corpses.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is really interesting. There are numerous weapons in this game and all of them have 
 an alt-fire that could either be combined with the main-fire for a special effect (Shock blast with 
 your ASMD) or they're just very different from the main-fire which makes up for alot of different 
 ways to kill yer enemy. The weapons are all very nicely placed throughout the whole game so it 
 will give you some time to get used to the one you are using at the moment before going over to 
 the next one. If you had played Unreal Tournament before you will be very familiar with the weapons 
 due to the fact that the weapons you are using in Unreal (1998) are all used in Unreal Tournament 
 3 (2007) , which is very interesting including the fact that the games are almost a decade apart. 
 The aliens you're fighting have a great AI, they always dodge your missile in the last second which 
 will surely piss you off sometimes, their death will be a result of great satisfaction. Unreal 
 has some scary scenes that are pretty unusual for an old game but very entertaining... and scary. 
 Some enemies will feel like too long to take down compared to the other games, but that's not much 
 of a factor. Monsters may use your own weapons against you which is a twist sometimes after getting 
 used to the monsters you fought before. This game has a multiplayer, not only that - but a deathmatch 
 with bots in 4 different AI levels. The multiplayer feels a bit undone, but the problem is fixed 
 in UT99
  The Good - A large variety of weapons and ways to kill stuff! Great AI! Had some scary scenes! 
 Deathmatch with Bots!
  The Bad - Sometimes it is hard getting used to the numerous weapons if you haven't played any of 
 the Unreal series before. Multiplayer feels undone.
  
  Graphics
  Ah, the graphics... the best aspect of the game. Epic is known for it's great graphics in all of 
 it's games. Even in the past, it was as beautiful as a great engine of 1998 could ever do. Simply, 
 Unreal's graphics are Groundbreaking. The graphics of this game is what makes it believable and 
 sometimes scary. The second you walk out of the prison space-ship you notice that waterfall, brilliant. 
 Enemies in the game look good enough for you to make em want to explode in pieces. Weapons' missiles 
 look real good. Overall, graphics are epic for a 1998 game.
  The Good - Groundbreaking graphics. Good missile animations. Makes up a great atmosphere to be 
 ambushed by another monster.
  The Bad - this may not be a problem right now, but it was in 1998. Since Unreal's graphics are 
 that good, people needed a 3d booster and maybe a new videocard. Some people would rather play 
 Quake 2 then waste money on a video card just to experience some bad ass graphics of Unreal. That 
 is probably the only reason why Unreal didn't beat Quake 2.
  
  Story - 8
  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 10+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoAssKicker47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  Great presentation; good balance between incredibly intelligent and plain enemies maintains good 
 flow; a lot of content in the single-player campaign; Nali presence is a great touch; very atmospheric.
 
  
  Bad:
  Occasionally frustrating level design; some weapons simply don't do the trick; thin plot line.
 
  
  Some developers have a way of taking games that are utterly fantastic and riddling them with questionable 
 design decisions that detract from their quality, lowering their status from instant classic to 
 just plain great. Such is the case with Epic Games' Unreal. In almost every way, Unreal is a brilliant 
 shooter  it has a lengthy single-player campaign that feels completely fresh, excellent artificial 
 intelligence and a great audio-visual presentation that brings its world to life. Unfortunately, 
 it also has a series of flaws that keep it from reaching its full potential.
  
  In Unreal you assume the role of a prisoner on board a space ship that crashes on an Earth-like 
 planet called Na Pali. You awaken in your cell, realize that everyone's been killed and find your 
 digital diary (which also translates alien languages) . From here, you embark upon a quest to save 
 yourself and realize where the hell you are. You soon realize that Na Pali is inhabited by a psychic, 
 spiritual, extremely peaceful race called the Nali. Of course, to make things more interesting, 
 the Nali are enslaved by a group of reptilian brutes oddly named the Skaarj. Soon to see that the 
 Skaarj are about as happy to see you as they are to catch their wife in bed with a Nali, you are 
 to free the Nali of its Skaarj enslavement on your way out.
  
  The first thing you'll observe when you fire up the game is that it looks really good. The environments 
 are huge and the textures are sharp, and some of the visual effects, including dynamic lighting, 
 water and fire, are unmatched by anything as of the game's release. All of the animations are very 
 well done, and admittedly, while some of the indoor surroundings aren't as impressive as you might 
 expect, the outdoor ones are absolutely spectacular.
  
  It sounds just as good. Positional surround sound is marvelous, and your various enemies have distinctive 
 and distinguishable battle cries that help sell the illusion that you're actually there, fighting 
 those beasts. There's also a dynamic soundtrack, which means that it's atmospheric and measured 
 when all is peaceful and quiet, and becomes intense and rhythmic when things kick into high gear. 
 In all respects, Unreal sounds just as good as it looks, and that's saying a lot.
  
  You'll explore various environments throughout the game across circa 30 large levels. The environments 
 vary from lush valleys through underground mineral mines all the way to Skaarj spaceships and differing 
 Nali temples. The developers have done an excellent job of setting each locale apart from its brethren 
 and making each of them memorable on its own. However, some of the level design in Unreal is questionable 
 at best. The game sometimes resorts to backtracking or requiring you to find a small, dark passageway 
 in a tremendous area, which can be very upsetting. One particular example would be one level named 
 Sunspire, where you are to fight your way to the top of a tower. This level is the equivalent of 
 other games' spider missions, and not only do they have the ability to annoy the hell out of any 
 sane player in a darkened room, they actually respawn. But wait! There's more! The level has two 
 secret corridors that you need to find else you'll find yourself walking around in circles for 
 two and a half hours. This sort of irritating design happens occasionally throughout the game, 
 but thankfully, for the bulk of the experience Unreal is smooth and engaging.
  
  One of the finest aspects of Unreal is how much it teaches you about the Nali. You'll explore their 
 towns, their castles and their amazing, Egyptian-inspired temples and have a good time doing so. 
 You'll learn of their religion and beliefs and that's arguably the most interesting part of the 
 game's otherwise thin plotline. That's not all there is to the Nali  should you happen to keep 
 one alive long enough, he'll greet you with a bow and, more often than not, show you to a secret 
 stash where you'll find weapons, armor, ammo and other pickups. Helping these guys out can be really 
 rewarding and adds another layer of urgency to the combat. 
  
  and urgent the combat is! Unreal is a fast-paced, challenging game whose combat is its best trait. 
 Among the various enemies in the game you'll find reptilians, big rocket launcher-touting guardians 
 and of course, the Skaarj themselves. For anything other than the Skaarj, keeping your distance 
 and avoiding projectiles is the way to victory, but since the Skaarj are your main adversary throughout 
 the game, simply dodging and shooting won't get you very far. The Skaarj are the most intelligent, 
 brutal enemies seen in a computer game to date; they'll evade, flank you, ambush you and basically 
 just give you a hard time pushing on. Fighting the Skaarj is almost like fighting another human 
 player in how effectively they evade and approach our hero, and when they come in different variations 
 and groups, they can be a real horror.
  
  Unfortunately, while Unreal gives you a large arsenal, most of the weapons seem unfitting for battles 
 against the Skaarj. Since they move quickly and dodge a lot of attacks, creating a game where most 
 of the weapons fire slow-moving projectiles creates a strange imbalance. The weapons that are instant-hit 
 will be the handiest throughout the entire game, but if you want to use the game's more punch-packing 
 weaponry, you'll want to get much closer to your target which would usually have you sustaining 
 much more damage.
  
  However, despite all of its flaws, Unreal has a very distinctive atmosphere that's so thick you 
 just might forgive its occasional frustrations. There's something mystic and intriguing to the 
 game, something that distinguishes it from other first-person shooters out there. The graphics, 
 level design, sound and different locations all add up to one mind-boggling, amazing atmosphere 
 that'll surround you for hours playing the game.
  
  Unreal's ambitious single-player campaign should take you between 20 and 25 hours to complete, 
 and for the better part of it, it's a smooth and impressive experience. However, as good as it 
 is, the more I played this game the more I couldn't shake the feeling that it is very bipolar  
 when it's good, it's more than good. It's really excellent. When it's not that good, it's just 
 frustratingly flawed. So yes  this is what Unreal is, a flawed piece of ingenious game design. 
 If you're looking for a long and challenging experience that feels fresh and don't mind the occasional 
 frustrating spot, then Unreal is well worth a look.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Man I remember when this game first came out. At the time I wouldve easily given a 9.5 or even 
 a 10. However now as we are a decade later the game still is very intrigueing and lots of fun. 
 It is definitely old school and brings back a lot of wonderful memories. Regardless now that we 
 have evolved this game is utterly a classic and still loads of fun even to this day.
  
  I recommend to any pc gamer if you have a pc then you should have this just to say you have it 
 in your collection. The game is wonderful and has a vast story line that will keep you busy for 
 quite a while. Bottom line is enjoy it because the game will enjoy you......
  
  This is one that you will look back on and say, oh ya that is where it comes from. This was the 
 origin and one of the greatest classics amongst games. After you play this you realize exactly 
 why unreal has been able to stay around for over a decade dominating in sales and as of now as 
 much as I hate to admit it but surpassed quake. This is a great shooter for and shootem up fan. 
 Go now and buy it. You have my kingly approval. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcticadvance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Having played Unreal Tournament and Unreal Tournament 2004 for a long period of time I decided 
 to go back and explore the roots of the Unreal franchise. I purchased a copy of the game and instantly 
 fell in love with it. The first level was the perfect introduction to the game, with the controls 
 being familiar under my fingertips I thought I could do know wrong, however the well scripted events 
 and sounds trigged a warning in my brain that taught me to be cautious. After leaving the metalic 
 introduction of the prison ship I entered Na Pali, a place that felt so familiar as I crawled my 
 way through the games expansive yet exititing level. The levels of ammo and health pickups were 
 all well spread out for the optimum experience and the well placed enemies and suprisingly efficient 
 AI made fights exhilarating. The game is one of my favourites for all the above reasons, but mostly 
 for it's atmosphere; as your playing through it feels as the places your exploring actually exist. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertBowen
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  When it was first released, Unreal was a visually stunning FPS with huge outdoor areas and a lot 
 of atmosphere. Unreal was intended to steal the crown from Quake 2, and although initially I was 
 unsure, the more I played it the more I liked it.
  
  The AI of some of the enemies made them harder to kill, the colour and textures were far-removed 
 from the bland browns and greys of the Quake engines, and the inclusion of passive Nali whom 
 you could choose to protect (or kill) and a simple inventory system made Unreal more than just 
 another shooter. This was the game that inspired me to get a 3D accelerator card, and it was worth 
 every penny at the time because the game looked beautiful.
  
  Refreshingly, just like Half-Life this game does away with cut scenes and keeps you firmly rooted 
 in first person view. Also just like Half-Life the environments you traverse are all stitched together 
 so there are no jarring swap-outs to completely different environments. The environment simply 
 changes around you as you progress. And there is so much to explore.
  
  The premise of the game is that you are a survivor of a crashed prison ship, and must find a way 
 to get off the planet. While that might seem very simple, you get the opportunity to learn what 
 happened to other crew members and prisoners who managed to escape by reading their journals, as 
 well as picking up the odd Nali journal to find out what has been happening on the planet, and 
 how you might be able to help them.
  
  The large outdoor areas, great special effects such as flailing electric cables, rippling pools 
 of blood, venting steam, green fog, beautiful reflections, etc., all give the game a stunning visual 
 impact. While it may not be as beautiful as recent games, the visuals are still good even today.
 
  
  Sound and scripted events are used to excellent effect to build atmosphere and tension. If you 
 choose to help the Nali, they will reward you by opening secret areas that would otherwise remain 
 closed to you if you kill them, or allow them to be killed by the Skaarj.
  
  The AI of some of the enemies is good, especially the Skaarj, and there is a good variety of different 
 alien creatures you will encounter. The game also excels in making the environments seem alive 
 with the inclusion of native flora and fauna that is neutral to your presence. Nali rabbits scamper 
 across the grass as strange birds fly in the sky and fish swim in the water. These sorts of things 
 had rarely been included in FPS games of that time.
  
  The weapons are also quite creative, from the devastating flak canon to the ASMD shock-rifle to 
 the biorifle, some of which had secondary fire modes.
  
  Unfortunately Unreal didnt carry through the visual or menacing promise seen in the first half 
 of the game, and the tension gradually faded away as you progressed. The level design also could 
 have been a lot better in parts, though overall it was well done with some secrets that were not 
 obvious on the first play through.
  
  A couple of the creatures in the game looked a bit silly, like the Brutes, but other than that 
 creature design was also very well done.
  
  The inventory items do come into use throughout the game with some nice touches, such as dropping 
 seeds that grow quickly into healing plants that you can use to replenish health, torches and flares 
 to light really dark areas and some other bits of gear you pick up along the way.
  
  At it's heart, though, Unreal is very much a solid shooter, and most of the gameplay will entail 
 taking down the variety of enemies arrayed against you as you seek to find some way to get off 
 the planet and escape.
  
  I actually liked the ending of this game.
  
  The inclusion of a decent multiplayer, with good level designs and bots to play offline, were just 
 the icing on the cake - although those elements formed the basis of the excellent Unreal Tournament 
 that arrived a year later.
  
  Design - 10 out of 10
  Sound - 9 out of 10
  Gameplay - 9 out of 10
  Replayability - 8 out of 10
  Value - 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollierules
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  You might think that unreal would be a bog standard FPS, well you're right (to some extent) . It 
 has all of the usual components of a game of this genre: decent graphics (if somewhat dated now) , 
 a fair amount of gore, a good array of weapons and violent monsters to blow to pieces with them. 
 Its also set on and around an alien planet, like most FPS's, but the gameplay is much different 
 to that of any of the Star Wars titles, or even modern ones like FEAR. Unreal has you looking around 
 corners, not only in the game but also rather stupidly from your computer chair. The lighting and 
 textures are brilliant... the textures while not as detailed as some others, still deliver and 
 give the game a creepy edge as you try to decide whether you did see a 'Skaarj' move or whether 
 it was just the wall. The maps are also fantastic. While confusing in places the maps do offer 
 a good deal of player interaction, exploration and mental puzzles. They are also jam-packed full 
 of monsters so there is a good deal of model-dismembering action (especially if you use the 'razorjack') 
 to balance out the wandering around. The storyline is quite good aswell. Trapped on an alien planet 
 because your prison ship hit the deck; how fun... All of these things (especially if you download 
 the latest patch) make Unreal one of the most challenging and enjoyable FPS's i've ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSZX
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 18, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Unreal is a First Person Shooter in which you are a prisoner on the spacecraft Vortex Rikers. The 
 Spacecraft lands on the planet Na Pali. You are marooned on the planet and you have to get off. 
 On your way, you'll encounter the natives, an alien race known as the Skaarj, traps, and be able 
 to use several power-ups, and wield 10 powerful weapons.
  
  The visuals are very nice. The Unreal Engine is equivalent (if not superior to) the Quake II engine. 
 The textures are detailed and diverse. Even in the Mothership, you almost never see the same set 
 of textures twice. The lighting is pleasing to the eye. When you fire laser weapons, light is given 
 off and travels with the beam. The way the character models react to the lighting is realistic. 
 The animations are smooth. The models are detailed. Unreal is a good looking game indeed.
  
  The gameplay is indeed similar to the game play of other First Person Shooters like Quake and 
 Marathon. You run around and shoot people. However, Unreal does some things different. These differences 
 though, can draw in or push away players. For one, every weapon has an alternate firing mode. By 
 pressing the Middle Mouse Button (the default binding) your weapon can unleash a different attack. 
 For example, the Stinger's primary attack is similar to that of the Machine Gun from the Quake 
 games, and the secondary attack takes five rounds and fires them in the same fashion as a shotgun. 
 Also, you never have to look for a key. Instead, you solve puzzles (usually consisting of a system 
 of levers used to pull off a great event.) in order to progress. The downside to this is that you 
 can spend a large amount of time trying to find a switch or lever. Sometimes, you might have to 
 take an entirely different direction, or even start a level over. Impatient players may want to 
 have a guide handy. The enemy Ai is decent. Every once in a while, you might run into an enemy 
 who'll run to the start of a level to get away from you. The levels are interesting with different 
 ways to get around obstacles, secrets that only the natives can unveil, and plenty of traps to 
 impede your progress.
  
  While the audio isn't the best in the world, it is more than enough for a Shooter. All of the weapons 
 have an individual sound. The game has some tunes that will get stuck in your head for a while. 
 The enemies each have distinct voices and grunts. The grunts also differ depending if they are 
 attacking, running, or just talking to their alien chums. The only real complaint is that some 
 of the guns sound the same whether it's hitting a wall, a tree, or an alien.
  
  Overall it is a well-made game that would make a worthy addition to a shooter fan's collection. 
 If you like shooters, then you should definitely take a look at Unreal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoolieWool
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  (A note to Unreal Tournament owners: if you own both Unreal and Unreal Tournament, you can play 
 Unreal through Unreal Tournament. First, you must download and install the Oldskool mod for UT 
 from http://www. usaar33. com/main. html. Then, copy your Unreal sounds, maps, and music to Unreal 
 Tournament [note: UT contains updated versions of some Unreal files. DO NOT OVERWRITE THE UT FILES] . 
 Then enable the Oldskool menu system and select Start single player game from the menu. You can 
 configure Oldskool to substitute the better-looking and sounding Unreal Tournament weapons in favor 
 of the originals if you like through the options menu, and even apply UT mutators to single player!)
 
  
  Modern gamers are no strangers to delays in the game industry. Witness Doom 3, Half-Life 2, the 
 PlayStation 3, et al. But things were different in Unreal's time. The project was announced in 
 late 1994 and completed in 1998. For a game to be developed for four years in the 90s was outrageous. 
 The legendary Doom took 10 months. However, the four years of spit and polish put into this game 
 show through in one of the greatest single-player experiences ever.
  
  Unreal is perhaps the most famous product of Epic MegaGames (now known as Epic Games) whose previous 
 claims to fame were text adventures, Galaga-style shoot 'em ups (Tyrian being the best of them, 
 and possibly the most beautiful and the besr American top-down shooter ever) , and platform games, 
 including a fairly entertaining Sonic the Hedgehog knockoff called Jazz Jackrabbit. Not exactly 
 a sterling resume, but Epic really, really had a feather in their cap with Unreal.
  
  Compared to other first-person shooter games, Unreal is huge. Really, really huge. It has nearly 
 40 levels (Wolfenstein 3D had 60, but each was a fraction the size of an Unreal level) , and massive 
 outdoor scenes that wouldn't become standard in FPS games for several years. The draw distance 
 and detail of Unreal's levels far surpassed Quake and Quake II, the then reigning kings of FPS 
 (Doom could render scenes as large as Unreal's. but with very unattractive results, until the advent 
 of limitless sourceports and advanced mapping technique allowed Doom mappers to create maps that 
 would make Quake curl up and die) . Nothing in early FPS games could prepare one for the stunning 
 vista at the start of NyLeve's Falls, the second level of Unreal (Far Cry prepared me, but I was 
 8 years late to the Unreal bandwagon) .
  
  Lighting is another of Unreal's strengths. While it's no great shakes today, and the gouraud shading 
 is fairly crude (especially if you crank the gamma up) , it's a lot better than Quake II, and the 
 light reacts dynamically to moving objects and changing scenery. Colored lighting is used extensively, 
 and the lights interact properly, unlike in Quake II. Flare-like sprites called blooms appear over 
 some light sources in a surprisingly convincing imitation of real light bloom (which was not to 
 come for many years) . It's completely static, only appears on map scenery (not actors) , and the 
 way they scale and fade as you get closer or farther away is fairly wonky, but the bring a nice 
 touch to many of the lamps and torches in the game.
  
  Unlike most of its contemporaries, the world of Unreal feels unfied instead of a collection of 
 levels. This is largely trickery, as Unreal is in fact a linear collection of levels, but Unreal 
 uses foreshadowing and level connections to make you feel like you're moving through one monstrous 
 place. The illusion is nearly perfect except for understated loading screens between levels. In 
 this way, Unreal is a role model for the construction of many later games.
  
  Unreal puts you in the role of a convict aboard the prison ship Vortex Rikers, which is taking 
 you to a prison moon as punishment for some unknown felony. The Rikers makes a brief stopover on 
 the planet Na Pali, where a strange interference field projected by a mineral called tarydium disables 
 the Rikers and causes it to crash land on the planet. Most or all of the other people on the Rikers 
 are dead, leaving you to wander Na Pali alone. Except you're not alone. The indigenous population, 
 a pacifistic race called the Nali, are enslaved by the malicious Skaarj and various alien races 
 they've brought along as hired thugs. You'll see Nali going about their business, leading you to 
 valuable items, and being murdered by the Skaarj in various gruesome and entertaining ways. Of 
 course, if you get trigger happy and shoot them, they'll be terrified of you and won't share their 
 secret item caches. Basically, if it's not a Nali (four-armed dudes wearing loincloths) , shoot 
 it.
  
  The plot is fairly deep for a first-person shooter of the 1990s, and slowly unfolds, largely through 
 messages you can read with the handy universal translator, which the game basically makes you pick 
 up in the first level. Besides story information and fluff, translator messages also often contain 
 important clues about your environment and puzzle solutions, so it is important to read all of 
 them. Fortunately, they're pretty well written for the most part, with a few exceptions.
  
  Of course, there's no point to a first-person shooter without weapons to shoot, and you get ten, 
 each with a primary and secondary fire. While a few are pretty simple (most notably the sniper 
 rifle and automag pistol) , most of them are a little, uh, idiosyncratic. Many of them do weird 
 things, and have wildly different primary and secondary modes. They take a little getting used 
 to, but most of them to the job adequately (the flak cannon is golden, at least when the game gives 
 you ammo for it, which isn't very often) . Experimentation and practice are required to master the 
 various guns. Unfortunately, while they do huge amounts of damage compared to your own hit points, 
 most of the monsters take a very large amount of damage to kill. Almost every creature in the game 
 has more hit points than you do, so in the end the weapons often feel underpowered, and often the 
 game is very stingy in giving out ammo.
  
  The models and textures for weapons, enemies, etc. are for the most part pretty good, although 
 there are some real stinkers (the automag pistol, cybernetic Mercenaries, and the Cyberdemon-esque 
 Warlord boss are particularly unattractive) . The game pales in comparison to 1999's Unreal Tournament 
 in this regard, indicating that the modelers and skinners really polished up their technique after 
 the release of Unreal.
  
  Far more impressive than the monsters' models and skins is their AI. Unreal's monsters swerve, 
 dodge, leap, strafe, and duck fluidly to avoid your fire, and will employ a surprising amount of 
 tactical ability to flush you out of hiding places and take cover when threatened. The monster 
 AI is so heinous that it's amazing that it was possible on the primitive CPUs of the day. Try to 
 nail a Skaarj with the slow eightball rocket launcher a few times and you will soon lean the error 
 of your ways. The monster damage, quantity, and AI are adjustable through four difficulty levels, 
 ranging from fairly unchallenging to truly insane. When Unreal offers hard mode, it means HARD.
 
  
  The game's pace is a bit more leisurely than the Id Software games, with larger maps, fewer but 
 more challenging monsters, and more puzzle solving (Bluff Eversmoking in particular is a head-scratcher 
 of a level) . It isn't an adrenaline overdose, although their are some tense moments (most notably 
 the terrifying first encounter with a Skaarj warrior) , and the moment you let your guard down is 
 usually the moment the game decides to throw a nice ambush your way.
  
  The minimalist heads-up display is one of the game's weakest aspects. It can be set to a variety 
 of layouts, all of them pretty small. This is OK in low-res, but at 1024x768, the HUD is fairly 
 difficult to read, and there is no scaling function. Unreal Tournament is a great improvement in 
 this regard.
  
  The multiplayer mode just sucks. You get some horrible deathmatch maps to play online and a primitive 
 bot match with, uh-huh, bots, but only four of them. However, there's not much of a reason to play 
 Unreal multiplayer when you can play Unreal Tournament instead, which runs on the same engine and 
 is better in every conceivable way (and the Oldskool mod mentioned in the preface can put Unreal 
 weapons and items into UT) .
  
  Unreal is highly moddable, and Epic supplies an official editor for the game. Many single-player 
 campaigns have been released, although most of the more ambitious ones actually run on Unreal Tournament 
 with Oldskool because of Unreal Tournament's more advanced feature set, so you need UT if you really 
 want to play a lot of custom Unreal maps. Unreal was in a class by itself at the time of its 1998 
 debut, and still has a majesty to it that sets it apart from most first-person shooter games. Couple 
 this with the fact that you can pick it up with UT for a mere pittance due to its age, and you 
 have no excuse not to buy this game.
  
  What's hot: Groundbreaking graphics, level design, and AI; massive and engrossing single-player 
 campaign; one of the most captivating game worlds ever.
  
  What's not: Often excessively large and convoluted maps, inconsistent quality of models and skins, 
 some rendering bugs on certain modern machines, token multiplayer is just plain bad
  
  Also try: Quake II, Half Life, Dark Forces II: Jedi Knight, Unreal Tournament, Return to Castle 
 Wolfenstein 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Unreal is a very good game, yeah thats how to start a review. Gameplay is very similar to that 
 of the QUAKE series but a little less speedy and staightfroward. Graphics smash all the other games 
 of it's time including QUAKE 3. Now my memeory of this game is very foggy but I 'll try to refer 
 to what I actually remember. I think in this game I had a guid who popped up every now and then 
 and I got annoyed with him and killed him.. sorry. Big green monsters were as fun to fight those 
 days as beating up gangsters in games is these days.
  
  An alright variety of weapons, some little pistols you wouldn't want to use against a big green 
 monster which could be easily killed by the big guns. Not much more to say than this is an old 
 classic to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Man, this game brings back memories. When it was released, some pre-built desktops were still being 
 sold with, like, 4 MB graphics cards with 2D capability only. This game was at the forefront of 
 the 3D graphics tidal wave. Boy, it sure had a lot of patches and technical issues. But, wow, if 
 you were able to get it running and tweaked for playability, it sure was worth the trouble.
  
  I finally got it working on my old Packard Bell PC, onto which I had installed a 3D Monster 
 Fusion card, sporting the one, the only, the 3DFX Voodoo graphics chipset (rimshot here) . I ventured 
 into the game, just to see what it was all about. Next thing I knew, the sun was coming up and 
 I had to get ready for my college commute, sleep deprived. My eyes sure felt grainy. LaPlace transforms 
 and expository writing were a tad out my intellectual grasp, that day.
  
  This game has style and so much atmosphere its spooky. At the time (and for years afterwards) 
 the graphics were without peer. It contains my all-time favorite musical soundtrack of any game 
 to date. I still listen to the soundtrack for this game, even when Im not playing it. Like I said, 
 I have fond memories of my Unreal days.
  
  Another thing, the game felt like it would never end -- but in a good way. Level after level after 
 level, you are taken on a journey through an alien landscape. You travel across plateaus and valleys, 
 through caves, mines, arcane temples, the wrecks of spaceships, castles, towers, toxic waste facilities, 
 and a city in the sky. Just to name a handful of the places youll fight through.
  
  And there are many, many secrets and surprises. For instance, theres one poor soul staked up on 
 the side of a cliff a mile away in the background, barely even noticeable unless youre really 
 paying attention. Put him out of his misery with your sniper rifle, and a lightning bolt delivers 
 a super health pack at your feet -- his spirits repayment for your mercy. I found that neat.
 
  
  Is it just me, or do they not make many games like this anymore? Imagination, atmosphere, balance, 
 and a full bellys worth of adventuring. Not to mention some damn good weaponry. (Ka-chunk! goes 
 the Razor Jack. Off with their heads!)
  
  By comparison, hyped neoclassic titles such as Doom 3, Halo (for PC) , and even Far Cry are pretty 
 uninspired. This here irrelevant sentence is actually thrown in because Gamespot has some stupid 
 protocol against short or one-sentence paragraphs, and so when you post, it ignores some of your 
 breaks and instead lumps paragraphs together in most unseemly manner -- ain't idiot-proofing wonderful.
 
  
  Unreal. Ahh, the memories. Multiplayer was a total blast, and the people I encountered playing 
 this game (over my pitiful 56K modem connection) were among the most colorful, interesting, no-nonsense, 
 down-and-dirty rat bastages I have ever come across in online play.
  
  When I upgraded to a Riva TNT chipset way back around 1999 or so, I jumped back in and played it 
 all over again. The game is so long, you forget many of the maps. And there was a significant gap 
 between my first run-through and my second, so the replay felt like playing a new game.
  
  Other older, single-player fpss worth playing are: Serious Sam; Serious Sam: the Second Encounter; 
 Half-Life; Clive Barkers Undying; System Shock 2; and Quake II. Listed in approximate descending 
 order of their greatness. You could toss in Medal of Honor: Allied Assault as well; its good but 
 I am on the fence as to whether it belongs among such esteemed company.
  
  When I come across some newer single-player shooters that are truly inspired -- and playable on 
 a reasonably modern, reasonably powerful system -- perhaps I will list them in a Gamespot review 
 or two. Most of the newer shooters I have tried ended up in the unfinished pile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmauro25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I just brushed the dust off this game and started playing it and was completely surprised how a 
 game dated back to 1998 could hold my attention so well here in 2006 going on 2007 in the age of 
 PS3 and Xbox 360. It is an amazing shooter, with a surpisingly decent story line for a game in 
 this category. Anyone whose played recent Unreal games but never touched this one should immediately 
 pick this up. There is no online multiplayer feature but the single player is awesome. Just the 
 fact that I got playstation 2 and 3 sitting there now collecting dust because I can not stop playing 
 this game instead should instantly tell you something. Anyone else who things any less of this 
 game for any reason should really consider just playing with barbie's instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentenced83
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  its amazing despite that ive played it a long time ago but till now i consider it the start of 
 an era on the pc ... it was overshadowed by half life .. but i prefered it , great atmosphere .. 
 especially in some parts when the lights are off and you can only hear sounds of an enemy not knowing 
 from where and you start shooting everywhere! on the graphical side it was really good , really 
 gives you the feeling that you are on an alien planet and the music and sounds are quite immersive
 
  in short in its time its a shame for those who never tried it .. its amazing even better than 
 its sequel .. hope there would be an UNREAL 3 or a movie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshOMEN
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Unreal is a great game that was so ahead of its time the levels are so big on unreal and the single 
 player mode lasts for ever quite a scary game back in its day aswell the enermys A. I are quite 
 good and the level desighn is great we need more games like this its a shame unreal2 sucks so mutch 
 cos if it waz more like this it would own and this game would make a great movie too i love this 
 game great fun even though it came out nerly 10 yrs ago it still owns ill give it 9.5 out of ten 
 big thumbs up baby  review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaddyW
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Unreal is one of the best FPS of all time - that's for sure! The atmosphere is one of the best 
 i know - it's a cool feeling to be the only one on a planet full of monster and secrets! The music 
 is awesome too! And the graphics were revolutionary, when it first came out in Summer '98. I think, 
 that even Half-Life couldn't reach it. The only problem is, that Half-Life was more into mods & 
 mutliplayer and that kinda stuff... that's what broke Unreal's neck! Unreal was very laggy and buggy 
 when it came out and could be playing well after a couple of patches.
  
  The other think i can't understand is, why there isn't a Unreal movie out? The story of Unreal 
 is much more interesting (for me) than DOOM or Dungeon Siege or whatever!
  
  If you like a awesome singleplayer experience you have to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lallu_narmad
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Admittedly the FPS genre is overcrowded with below par games but this game stands above the rest. 
 It is called Unreal and no, it is not the same as UT. It was after the success of Unreal that its 
 multi-player version was released as UT. The game is more than six years old, so it runs peacefully 
 on low end systems ( like mine which is a PII, 350 MHz, 64 MB, 4 MB AGP) . But that does not reflect 
 on its graphics which are comparable to the more recent pseud P4 level games. But the real pseudness 
 lies not there but in the overall excellence of the game.
  
  To start with the storyline is simple but not linear and forms the basis of the game. The game 
 starts as you find yourself in the prison cell of a spaceship wrecked on an alien planet. As you 
 explore the ship you find out how the crew was killed by aliens who are taking over the planet. 
 You hear shouts and screams of people being killed but are helpless as you have no weapon. As you 
 get out of the spaceship you get weapons and the real action starts. 
  
  There is only one word to describe the weapons  sexy. My favourite is the eight ball heat seeking 
 rocket launcher which is very useful against fast moving enemies as the rockets follow them. The 
 primary weapon, which is self energizing and upgradeable, is also novel. All weapons have a pseud 
 secondary fire mode activated by a right click (this has since been copied by many games) which 
 gives more punch at the cost of extra ammo.
  
  All the enemies/monsters/aliens have good AI and are difficult to kill. Even at the easiest level 
 you will have to put strategies to kill just the basic grunt. Unlike other FPS all aliens are not 
 bad here. Some aliens called Nali priests help you and lead you to treasures if you save them from 
 the bad aliens. The enemies are varied and different strategies are needed for different creatures. 
 Some of the boss aliens are really good. The one I remember clearly is a huge Titan which chases 
 you across a vast field throwing rocks at you. The trick there was to run between its legs and 
 shoot it from behind. Of course it was not as easy at it sounds but it was fun none the less.
 
  
  The art in this game is exemplary. The stage designs are complex and colourful. Underwater tunnels, 
 concealed chambers, levers, push buttons etc have been extensively used to add to the complexity. 
 The indoor lighting is eerie and adds to the feeling of impending danger. Each stage has a distinct 
 feel to it and the outdoors are just out of this world (pun intended) . Creatures resembling rabbit, 
 mice, birds, fish and plants swarm over the alien landscape. Not all of them are there just for 
 the effect. Some birds attack you and some fish can bite you to death while the berries of a certain 
 plant have healing properties. The landscapes themselves are beautifully sculpted and are diverse 
 with hills, valleys, streams and waterfalls.
  
  But if I had to point one thing which makes this game stand out, it would be the music. The music 
 is not arbitrary and changes with the situation. For example if you are just exploring a vast open 
 area the music would be slow and soothing, but suddenly as an alien appears and attacks you the 
 music will become loud and pacy adding to the shock. In fact there are a number of such shocks 
 in the game, where the lighting and the music give an effect which can scare the wits out of the 
 most hardcore of gamers. 
  
  Most of what Ive written above would be inconsequential for the casual gamer. The most important 
 thing for him would be the gameplay (the way or method to play the game) . Unreal was among the 
 first games to use the keyboard and mouse combination for movement and shooting control. This interface 
 is now universally accepted as the best for FPS games. Weapon reloading is automatic and other 
 actions such as jumping and crouching can be performed using the keyboard. Although combat is the 
 basic element in the game but exploration, path finding and puzzle solving also form a large chunk. 
 There are some stages without any enemies where you will need logic and navigational skills to 
 get through.
  
  Viewed in comparison with todays games Unreal lags behind a little in graphics and detail and 
 the multi-player mode is grossly inadequate. But it more than makes up for it in the pure enjoyment 
 you get out of playing it. No other game in its genre, other than Half Life, comes close to it 
 in overall gaming satisfaction. The game is not easy and you will need to save often, but it is 
 this difficulty that is half the fun. If you can keep yourself from using cheats, I have no doubt 
 that you will have great fun plotting the death of each enemy, exploring alien landscape and saving 
 a planet from destruction.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  "The Nali Water God Chizra and his holy temple have been overrun by the water serpents and the 
 demons who came from the stars. Only the messiah can purify the temple now."
  You (the player) is the messiah - a prisoner in the ship called 'Vortex Riders' who crash landed 
 into a planet called 'Na Pali'. Your mission - escape the planet.
  
  "Log: Guard, R. Bijl: Situation critical: Last night large, extremely powerful alien forces penetrated 
 our camp. Fired small missiles from hand-mounted launchers. We lost five men."
  It would not be easy to escape the planet. The inhabitants and visitors will ensure to test your 
 skills. They have superb AI and do react to certain situations (e. g. ambush) . Some will claw, dodge, 
 leap, shoot and anything else to eliminate you. Perfect!
  
  "1400 Hours - Commander Mac Harrison: SITREP: These local natives have a six-barreled rocket launcher 
 on an altar, but it is heavily guarded by those salamander things. The stick of six fires' is what 
 the Nali keep calling it. I'll try to sneak in tonight." 
  Some areas just don't rely on shoot-and-kill approach. This game has puzzles to solve as well as 
 carnage. A prefect balance for any FPS fan.
  
  "Prepare to Embark." 
  The strongest points in the game are the sounds and graphics. Nothing and I mean nothing can surpass 
 this. Even the soundtrack is worth listening to without playing the game. The land, trees, water 
 effects, lighting and the random eerie sounds makes this game stand out in the crowd.
  
  "The path to be followed is long and harrowing, but the strong of heart and purpose will prevail 
 against the challenges." 
  The game is long - but in a good sense. I wish it didn't end. A definite two thumbs up. Play it 
 and you will never leave... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was an interesting start to a highly successful series of games. I found the FPS action 
 mixed with an RPG/mission context to be highly enjoyable. The graphics are excellent. The detail 
 from even far away views are good. The little details like flying creatures (which you can shoot) 
 add to the overall ambience of the game. The sound is pretty good in the game. I liked several 
 of the weapons firing and hitting sound. The missions themselves were rather mundane. While there 
 was several interesting monsters to fight, I found the whole plot to be a let down. The last scene 
 after you finish is you just walking out- no cut away or anything. While this may be one of the 
 first of many FPS genre, it is only marginally good as a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XmasterX01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent if you are a DOOM, Duke Nukem 3D, Quake, or any FPS fan. Even though this 
 game came out in 1997 or 1998 (it shows it's age with some minor pixels, but the water effects are 
 awsome for it's age) this game is still great. The only bad thing with older games is that most 
 of them don't support CABLE/LAN (like Diablo, which only supports DIAL-Up, but it was released in 
 1995. And how Duke Nukem 3D's TEN only works on Microsoft Windows 95) , but the good thing is that 
 UNREAL does support CABLE/LAN, but I think you need to download a patch for it (free) . When you 
 progress through the level, you'll find all the classic weapons (the razor gun for example) . The 
 levels are nice with good environmets. The defauld controls are the same as any FPS ( ; is to strafe 
 left and ' is to strafe right, [ and ] select your inventory items, the numbers [1 - 0] select 
 weapons, Ctrl is to fire, Alt is for alterneate fire, SPACE is for jump, and so on. If you don't 
 like these controls, you can customise them to your loving. If you ever run across this game, and 
 you love FPSes (especially classics like this one) you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:50 am PT
Review:  You wouldn't want to play this game anymore i think, except if you're going for the vintage experience 
 of a first person shooter classic. The game was so well appreciated mainly because of its creation 
 of the fantastic world you had to cross while shooting aliens and solving some minor puzzles. And 
 particular the atmosphere is outstandingly done in this game. First you're in a prison spaceship 
 that has crashed on an alien planet. You wake up from being blown unconscious by the crash. You 
 hear screaming from your fellow cell-mates while you have to find a way out off the ship. Then 
 the first scene (the music makes it like a scene from a movie) when you step into this alien world. 
 Pretty well done. 
  
  Almost all of the features that make this game a success have been recreated by other game developers. 
 But the original still has its unique style. This is the atmosphere Doom3 is trying to create for 
 instance. Being a solitary soldier up against creepy aliens... a frequently used format. Also very 
 well adapted by alien vs predator 2 and games in that genre. Unreal was not the first with this 
 format but the first that made the world alive almost like in a role playing game. The original 
 doom and quake series for instance also creates a world with aliens, but a highly unlikely one; 
 which was created for the gameplay, with rooms, chambers and doors that sealed off different levels 
 in the game. The world of unreal was a world on its own. 
  
  Soon after Unreal came Half-life which made us all forget about the innovation brought by unreal 
 a bit, and the era of Unreal Tournament started. Nevertheless a game to remember and one of the 
 all time classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 1, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The original Unreal stands as one of the greatest first person shooters that ever hit retail shelves. 
 It may not have the story of Halo or the critical acclaim of Half-Life, but it has charms of its 
 own: atmosphere and imaginative level design. The story in Unreal functions a little like Half-Life, 
 you play as a mute character referred to as Prisoner 849' whos name and appearance you can set 
 in the player setup for multiplayer. There is no point in the game where you leave the eyes of 
 Prisoner 849; then again there isnt any other real points of views to follow. The game begins 
 with you waking up in a cell on a crashed prison ship The Vortex Rikers, everyone around you 
 is dead and this obviously gives you the opportunity to escape. The story is pretty simple: you 
 are stranded on an uncharted alien world where the native intelligent species is enslaved by the 
 ruthless Skaarj; a species of aggressive aliens. Your only concern, however; is escaping the planet 
 in one piece.
  
  Unreal features run of the mill first person shooter gameplay Over the course of the game youll 
 pick up bigger and better weapons and kill nastier enemies while encountering some of the peaceful 
 Nali who will either just run there and cower when the Skaarj are near (and you if you harm enough 
 of them) . The weapons in Unreal are a disappointment to say the least; unique maybe but their appearance 
 and function isnt what bothers me... its their balance. The guns are either too weak or too powerful 
 and in first person shooters it doesnt usually take five or more rockets to kill an enemy; in 
 Unreal it does. Also most of the levels consist of flipping switches and pressing buttons to open 
 doors and get to the exit so you can move on; which fits with the overall plot but this form of 
 gameplay was dated even by 1998's standards.
  
  The level design and atmosphere is where Unreal really shines. Over the course of Unreals long 
 single player mode youll travel to many unique and amazing looking places. From temples built 
 by the Nali to worship their Gods, Nali Castles, Skaarj bases, to an island floating in the sky 
 Unreal will take you on one very memorable sight seeing ride while the lighting and decorations 
 give off an amazing amount of atmosphere not common in shooters.
  
  The graphics in Unreal even by todays standards are breath taking, and back in 1998 they were 
 practically revolutionary. The textures are low res but detailed and the character models are crafted 
 well enough to fit in with their surroundings. The graphics are unreal; excuse the pun.
  
  The sound in Unreal is a mixed bag; the gun sounds serve their purpose but the footsteps sound 
 the same no matter what surface youre walking on. Theres also practically no voice acting since 
 the aliens just speak in grunts and gibberish and since your character is mute youre left with 
 the music; which is good. The music in Unreal not only sounds nice but adds to the overall atmosphere. 
 The music helps the mood as you progress through the games amazing locales and picks up during 
 some battles.
  
  Unreal is a somewhat generic, but still impressive first person shooter that draws you into an 
 unreal world and sends you on an action filled adventure where your only concern is survival. If 
 you want to see some amazing places and youre looking for a first person shooter to kill time 
 with, and you havent tried Unreal; this is one game that is worth trying at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roleplayer2004
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 21, 2005 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Unreal is a true classic. I couldn't Imagine what this game would've been like back in 1998 when 
 the game was released. Unreal has so much to offer and it is a very rare and unique game to find. 
 I found that all the different creatures you encounter in the game are so interesting and fascinating 
 in the game you'll be hooked as soon as you load it up.
  
  The story I found is very fascinating and interesting. The fact that your in prison on a space 
 ship travelling through the galaxy while you can't describe the pain that your character is going 
 through is so gut renching. All of a sudden by luck your space ship crashes and your then released 
 into this free world filled all sorts of wonderful and amazing creatures filled with beautiful 
 surroundings. 
  
  Without me going into too much depth into the game everything is stunning and so well put together 
 this is great gaming experience waiting to draw you in. Unreal also is very different to other 
 FPS's because it defies the law of most FPS's. You all new never seen before weapons, which are 
 completely alien orientated and I haven't found this in any game before Unreal. The best part is 
 the weapons are so varied and even, there isn't any time in the game that you'll feel like throwing 
 away one of your guns for another. Each one has there own purpose and design to deal with certain 
 confrontations. I haven't experienced a FPS where everything comes together so well.
  
  All I can say about the sound is that it's so funky and the beat is cool that it gets you in the 
 mood to boogie. A great soundtrack that'll entertain you for a very long time, and it seems the 
 gets better with age.
  
  If you haven't ever approached Unreal or have even heard of this game I suggest you find a copy 
 and get stuck into it. Then you'll see and appreciate the design and inspiration this game gave 
 the Unreal Tournament series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinkyfriend_85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 9, 2004 11:27 am PT
Review:  You have crashed on an uknown planet, You are to make your way into several places of the planet. 
 But you are not alone, not by any means. The tension is there when you make your first step to 
 learn knowing the planet's citizens. But be aware, they are not as friendly as they may look like. 
 Keep that in mind and you might survive for a while. The first meeting with a Skaarj seems rather 
 easy but there are different kind of Skaarjs and they are not as dumb as you would like them to 
 be. Map after map you think it soon got to be the last map, but when you find out that it's a very 
 long game and that it has many different kind of monsters with their own weaknesses and strenghts.
 
  
  Unreal in 1998 was a sight you could experience nowhere else but in Unreal, Unreal was the most 
 advanced real time based FPS game at the time. But it was also very different, not another Quake 
 game or Doom game even. It was it's own kind and at ways it created a new meaning of reality in 
 games, even today Unreal engine is quite powerful.
  
  Graphically there was nothing else to say than that it was refreshingly awesome.
  It had high 
 res textures, very detailed environments, huge atmosphere. Detailed 3D Models and powerful effects 
 such as bumpmapping.
  
  Sounds in the game kept the high quality feel of Unreal, though some sounds sounds more low quality 
 than others. But yet it has better sounds than many other FPS games at the time it was released.
 
  
  The value of this game for a collector is priceless, it is a game to have and certainly one to 
 not forget. The tilt can't but score a high score as since it has incredibly great environments.
 
  
  Now to the cons of the game;
  It feels a bit of a test, like if it introduces a new sort of world but fails a bit at making it 
 as stable as some other games, slow-downs can cause some anger among some people.
  Some maps gets repeative and linear as if it was not meant to be played but to be looking at. Multiplayer 
 requires quite some, especially since the game needs quite some power under the hood.
  
  But once you get around that, and if you got a good or decent computer then you could aso enjoy 
 this game entirely for what it is.
  
  Overall it is simply a 9.2/10 game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 7, 2004 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Apart from Doom2 this game has to be my all time favorite. I am a die hard FPS and I would rank 
 Doom2 then Unreal and then Half-Life and FarCry tied for third.
  Unreal sits way above the rest in my opinion becuase when it came out I thought it revolutionalized 
 many aspects of FPS. The terrain, the AI, the complexity, LIGHTING, and much more. This game had 
 so much depth yet stayed true to the basic form "killing many bad guys". It didn't go overboard 
 like Doom2 and serious sam, but it had beautiful graphics for when it came out. the different sections 
 of the world and the gritty music blarring when you come across aliens.
  The only thing that stopped me from giving this a 9.9 is the fact that there were no movies or 
 story line. but Unreal was so amazing that you really didn't need one because in your head you 
 were trying to figure it all our and survive.
  This game is my all time 2nd.
  I can't wait to see how Doom3 and HL2 will fair. FarCry came close but not close enough ... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
