-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unreal II: The Awakening
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/unreal2theawakening/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  3, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,557 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Legend Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Feb 3, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It has the look and polish of a great shooter, but the gameplay of a merely good one. It's also 
 a fairly short game with no multiplayer support to speak of. 

 The good news is that Unreal II is better than Unreal. It's both more eventful and more focused. 
 Unlike the first game, it doesn't reach its dramatic climax during the first couple of missions 
 and then peter out over the next 30 hours of endless, forgettable levels. The bad news is that 
 Unreal II isn't as good as the best shooters currently available. It has the look and polish of 
 a great shooter, but the gameplay of a merely good one. It's also a fairly short game with no multiplayer 
 support to speak of.           Unreal II borrows a few elements from RPGs. Unfortunately, it borrows 
 the dreaded dialogue tree.    

  While it takes place in the same futuristic universe, Unreal II doesn't share any plot points or 
 characters with its predecessor. You play as Dalton, a space marshal patrolling the "ass end of 
 the universe" with a crew of two former space marines and one malapropism-spouting alien pilot. 
 Once you're in a given mission, the game does a good job of laying out a clear set of goals and 
 then walking you through them, usually in the form of a character (often your first officer) relaying 
 information to you via a headset. Between each of the missions, however, there's usually a largely 
 pointless intermission level in which you walk around your ship and talk to your crew. Presumably, 
 this is supposed get you more involved in the plot, but the dialogue is bad enough that it'll just 
 make you anxious for the game to get on with itself. Every conversation in the Unreal universe 
 is an exchange of the worst type of sarcastic, tiny-cigar-chomping action-movie one-liners ("Go 
 to hell, Dalton!" "I'm already there, toots!") . That is, until it comes time for each character 
 to reveal his or her dark secret. Worse, even the cutscenes have cutscenes -- almost every one of 
 these long and pointless interactive intermissions ends with a 20-second load into a pointless 
 noninteractive scene that usually shows nothing more interesting than your landing craft speeding 
 toward a planet.           The fire effects are really nice.    

  Back in the plot, one thing leads to another, and Dalton and crew end up embarking on 12 missions 
 in pursuit of seven mysterious alien artifacts. Apart from the tedious preliminaries, these 12 
 missions are well designed. To its credit, Unreal II sets up many situations in which you must 
 defend a position rather than simply assault one. One level, for instance, requires you to fight 
 your way up to the top of a tower, use a sniper rifle to protect a marine while he repairs some 
 equipment, make your way to a forward base, and then defend it with the help of some friendly troops 
 until a rescue ship arrives. In some of these defensive sections, you can give simple orders to 
 a handful of troops under your command by "using" them and then choosing an order from an onscreen 
 menu. You can really only direct them to cover a certain area of whatever it is you're defending, 
 and even though everyone appears to be equipped with a radio headset, you can communicate with 
 them only when they're standing right next to you. You'll also occasionally get stationary turrets 
 and protective force fields that you can place to help set up a defensive perimeter. Although other 
 shooters have included a few defensive levels here and there, Unreal II has the most complete implementation 
 of this mission style to date.    

 The missions take place in a variety of surroundings -- there's a desert planet, a snowy planet, various 
 research and military facilities, and the inevitable H. R. Giger-inspired biomechanical alien hive. 
 Without a doubt, Unreal II's most impressive feature is the technology powering its visuals. Every 
 couple of months there's a new winner in the competition to present the best flame effects, and 
 this month we're proud to give the prize to Unreal II. Milking the pyrotechnics for all they're 
 worth, the designers made it so a full third of the game's 12 weapons ignite opponents on contact. 
 The lighting, particle, and smoke effects are also well done. For instance, one enemy emits green 
 gas when dying. After the gas collects around the body for a few seconds, the corpse explodes, 
 realistically blowing the cloud in all directions and clearing the air. Some of the interiors -- especially 
 an early level in a lab called "Hell" -- look better than the prerendered cutscenes of just a year 
 or two ago. The engine is also capable of creating large outdoor areas, and many levels take advantage 
 of this by requiring you to first approach from a distance whatever building you're attempting 
 to infiltrate.           Unreal II features the best-looking terrified scientists of any shooter 
 to date.    

  Combat is where Unreal II starts to fall apart. Nothing about the combat is especially bad, but 
 nothing about it is particularly memorable, either -- not a good trait for a shooter. The arsenal 
 isn't the problem. It includes a nice selection of traditional weapons, including a rocket launcher, 
 a sniper rifle, an infinite-ammo laser pistol, a shotgun, a flamethrower, and an especially weak-sounding 
 automatic assault rifle. Every weapon has an alternate fire mode. For instance, the rocket launcher 
 can fire homing missiles, the shotgun can set enemies on fire, and the laser pistol features a 
 powered-up mode that's accompanied by a neat animation of Dalton trying to control the glowing 
 weapon with two hands. True to the Unreal heritage, there are some crazy-clown weapons as well. 
 The nuttiest is an alien device that fires a swarm of biting spiders. There's also a flying ball 
 that navigates intervening obstacles to track down and attack enemies. In its secondary fire mode, 
 it goes into orbit around you, providing a defensive shield. It's a cool weapon, but it's introduced 
 so late in the game that you really don't get a chance to use it much.   

  The gunfights are fast and completely straightforward. The enemies range from dumb alien beasts 
 to theoretically smarter human and alien soldiers to a handful of unimpressive (and surprisingly 
 unimpressive-looking) boss monsters. A few enemies will stand in place or make a desultory run 
 for cover, but, for the most part, they all exhibit some variation of the old-time zigzag rush 
 tactic. Some don't even bother with the zigzagging part. Battles tend to be head-on demolition 
 derbies. They lack the deliberately paced hide-and-seek style of gunplay that the shooter genre 
 has been moving toward over the last few years. In that way, perhaps the gameplay is meant to be 
 a throwback to a "classic" shooter style. But to succeed as that, it would need to ratchet up the 
 frantic action to some level approaching the Serious Sam series. Instead, Unreal II only manages 
 to reach the level of, say, Quake II. Compounding the problem, the great-looking environments show 
 virtually no reaction to the munitions exploding within them. A little shattering glass would have 
 gone a long way toward making the gun battles more satisfying.           The Unreal engine is capable 
 of producing some impressively huge outdoor environments.    

  Because the missions are strictly linear and because there's no multiplayer, there isn't much incentive 
 to play Unreal II again after the roughly 10 hours it takes to beat the game on normal. It has 
 really good graphics, and, apart from its awful dialogue, it's certainly not painful to play -- but 
 it lacks the spark that separates truly great shooters from all the rest. It doesn't have Halo's 
 vehicles and clever AI, Serious Sam's over-the-top action and spectacular boss battles, No One 
 Lives Forever 2's inspired level design, or Medal of Honor's memorable set pieces. As shooters 
 go, it's competent but for the most part unremarkable.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  "Go to Hell Dalton" - Aida
  "I am already there, toots" - John Dalton.
  
  You're John Dalton, you're Marshall of the Space Marines (or somethin', played this game a long 
 time ago and since I don't have my PC right next to me with the game at the moment, I may not give 
 more specific information, but I know enough) and your superiors have downgraded you thus taking 
 away your Marine status and giving you a bit worse missions than you have had before. So you get 
 back to your ship, meet Aida and Isaac and some alien Ne'ban. You get a distress call from some 
 Liandri Mining Corporation saying that aliens attacked them after they have discovered some artifact (Liandri? 
 From UT? Why can't they just send their Gorge or Malcolm to take care of it) . You go down, get 
 the artifact and finally find out that there are 7 of artifacts, your next objective will follow 
 after you actually buy the game or read a spoiler walkthrough, which this is not.
  
  Story:
  One of the weaker aspects of the game, the Story may not satisfy you in all possible 
 ways but it is alright, since the Story itself is not main problem of the game... it is the way 
 the Story is being told. \. Right before each mission, you are going to have a lengthy briefing 
 of your mission before you can actually go out and get to the thing, it happens so often and it 
 is so lengthy that you may not want to listen to it no more. Since the briefing is the main source 
 of the story of the game (you don't get much story during the missions) , it hurts the story altogether 
 no matter how good the plot is. Another bad thing of Unreal's 2 story is that it has almost no 
 connection to the original Unreal. It did infact have a little, while I was playing Unreal's expansion 
 - Return to Na'pali, there was a mention of 'Dalton and Marshall' in the logs, but it was so small 
 and unnoticable so I thought that there is not going to be a sequel with Dalton in it.
  
  The Good: 
  1. Good enough story for a game of it's time.
  
  The Bad:
  1. A way of getting 
 the story across.
  2. Little or no connection (depending if you played a rather bad expansion of Unreal 1) to it's 
 original game.
  
  SOUND:
  
  The sound overall is pretty good, monster sounds are alerting but not too distinctive. Sarcastic 
 remarks (quotes above) by Dalton and Aida keep up some of the amusing feel of the game. But there 
 is a downfall again... remember the briefing I mentioned in the Story? Oh ya, it is pretty bad 
 in here too. It is just a fact that you get to hear Aida and Isaac way too often, and since their 
 'story-telling' isn't as great as it could've been, their voices become a bit annoying. Nothing 
 much to tell though, just some goods and bads.
  
  The Good:
  1. Dialogue during the missions with occuring funny and sarcastic remarks keeps the gameplay a 
 bit more entertaining.
  
  The Bad:
  1. The Briefing!
  
  GAMEPLAY: If you don't feel like reading all this, scroll down to good/bad.
  
  This is frankly 
 the worst part of our lil game right here. Where to start... it pains me to mention that the briefing 
 burns the Gameplay as well - lengthy dialogues is something that every game should avoid. There 
 is no apparent way to avoid going on to your mission without talking to Aida, and the Loading Time 
 afterwards makes a nasty combination of time-wasting.
  Like in Unreal 1, every weapon has an alt-fire. In Unreal 1, I liked it because all of them were 
 quite balanced and I used all of them occasionally, in Unreal 2 on the other hard - some alt-fire's 
 of the weapons are practically useless unless you're using it for a specific move that is Required 
 to kill someone, Unreal 2 just has too much weapons to carry around, you may not even use some 
 of them, it is not necessarily a bad thing - but switching is a bit tricky in Unreal 2. One more 
 bad thing about Unreal 2... in open areas - it takes you awhile to get around... John Dalton walks 
 so slow, it gets annoying. If you're walking carefully on a some ledge and you fall... guess what 
 - you're going to have to walk again just to get somewhere Gordon Freeman could've mashed 'Sprint' 
 and got there in seconds. The AI of the enemies are pretty good, the Zigzagging Skaarj are a nice 
 touch but may get annoying. The battle with humans is sometimes tedious due to the fact that you 
 can't possible dodge any of their bullets against a human with an automatic rifle unless you have 
 cover - so you can only win if you have a certain amount of health left. The Boss fights are bad, 
 I have found a way to kill one with no effort or health loss, even on Hard... Another good thing 
 about this game is that there is a Strategic approach to most of it's parts that will either let 
 you blow everyone up in one grenade or have you fight all the monsters at once thus injuring you. 
 Strategic thinking of this game forces you to use different weapons - you will not be able to spam 
 only one weapon on hard mode or you will die.
  
  The Good:
  1. Good weapon projectile.
  2. Strategic approach to the FPS game.
  3. Good Zigzagging AI of the Skaarj, but gets a bit annoying 
 sooner.
  4. A possible use of Ragdoll Effect on John Dalton upon death.
  Ragdoll Effect was first used in 2002 so it is quite possible, but I cannot determine.
  
  The 
 Bad: 
  1. Hard Weapon Switching/Too many weapons
  2. John Dalton walks incredibly slow.
  3. Briefing and Loading Time is a nasty combination.
  4. Boss Fights are not developed properly, 
 a simple exploit can beat the boss with no effort.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  I am very tired of saying bad things about the game... let's talk about the good. The Graphics 
 are purely brilliant, they look very close to the Graphics of Half-life 2... outdoors are great, 
 indoors are great too. Great Weapon projectiles, great atmosphere in a dark forest. Fire looks 
 very very good for the game of that time. Epic has always been great with it's graphics, anytime 
 you expect a game from them, expect a great polish and detail - everything you need for a satisfacting 
 view. Best graphics of 2002.
  
  The Good:
  1. Great Atmosphere.
  2. Great Weapon Projectiles.
  3. Good Shadows...
  
  The Bad: None
  
  
  OVERALL: 
 
  Unreal 2 is a game that looks absolutely amazing. Unreal 2 has an ok gameplay and story, but it 
 may get absolutely annoying to some people. Fans of Unreal series may not like it because it doesn't 
 include any of the weapons used in UT and the original Unreal. The only monster used in past series 
 in this game was Skaarj, you may see the mention of Brutes or Krall in there, but no actual fight.
 
  This game is an okay game. It doesn't hold anything special and it does have some annoying problems, 
 but if you like FPS, you may want to try it.
  
  SCORE: GAMEPLAY - 6 STORY - 7 GRAPHICS - 10 
  
  OVERALL: 76.7% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Released in 1998, Unreal was considered a milestone game in the shooter genre. Along with games 
 like Quake II and Half Life, Unreal was among the games that took the task of redefining what shooter 
 games could offer. A lengthy single player campaign that went beyond just laying senseless encounters 
 one after the other along with a very satisfying multiplayer mode quickly established the franchise 
 among the best in the shooter genre. When Unreal Tournament was released, the franchise reached 
 legendary status. However since that game was strictly focused on the multiplayer aspect, there 
 were many people eagerly waiting for a "true" sequel to the first game. Unreal II: The Awakening 
 was the answer for them. Unfortunately some people had to high expectations for this game and that 
 led to a general consensus that the game was a "flop". But putting any unreal expectations (no 
 pun intended) aside, Unreal II is a solid shooter with a better than average story that may not 
 be destined to be a classic, but it sure is an enjoyable ride.
  
  Unreal II is set in the future and you play the role of John Dalton, a marine who has been assigned 
 the task of helping out a roaming team that performs different missions through the universe. Eventually 
 though, an important task of recovering certain artifacts takes over as the main mission and most 
 of the campaign will focus on that quest. Along the way you'll be able to interact with your squad 
 mates and gain a better insight on their personalities as well as how they got along before you 
 went in. They'll also help you unmask a ongoing conspiracy that threatens the life of all of your 
 squad mates. The story may not be award worthy, but it does a good job at setting itself apart 
 from the typical "save the world scenario".
  
  The gameplay is also very solid, if not necessarily spectacular. You array of guns features some 
 typical weapons like shotguns and assault rifles, but there are other odd weapons like a spider 
 throwing rifle and a weapon that creates a shield around you. All of the guns are satisfying to 
 use, though there are probably too many weapons, and you'll likely reach the end of the game never 
 having used all of the weapons the game has to offer.
  
  Missions in Unreal II feature some typical scenarios where you must infiltrate a base and retrieve 
 some documents or escort back a NPC. But there are also some great defensive missions where you'll 
 be tasked to set up a defensive perimeter and command some of your teammates to aid you as you 
 try to repel the enemies. It's a great departure from more typical scenarios as you desperately 
 attempt to survive rather than annihilate.
  
  The graphics are one of the best aspects in the game and even today they remain very impressive. 
 Shadows and textures are particularity impressive and they give the game a very crisp look. The 
 art direction behind the level design isn't particularly great, though it's not bland by any means. 
 It's a very good looking game overall.
  
  The sound effects are a bit subdued, but they do the job alright. The voice acting is adequate 
 and helps develop the relationship between the characters. There's also plenty of music in the 
 background and it works very well at upping the tempo of the game.
  
  Unreal II: The Awakening may not have been what many people expected it to be, but it's hardly 
 a mediocre game. The game overall sports a great deal of polish and there are plenty of missions 
 that make the game stand out from the rest. It's short enough to finish in just a few days, so 
 as a game to keep you occupied during a weekend, it's a very suitable one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Those of you that know me know that I am a huge unreal fan and have been since the beginning when 
 it came out in 1998 over a decade ago. Now if I remember correctly this was the first unreal tournament 
 for the xbox and is extremely dissapointing.
  
  I say pass on this. It is a run in the mill shooter that has little replay value and the graphics 
 are nothing to look at. I bought this when it was first released and it was a waste of money in 
 my opinion. 
  
  Even now I look back and like it even less then I did. The biggest thing is how in the hell are 
 you going to have an unreal game with no multiplayer. ARE YOU OUT OF YOUR DAMN MIND! Unreal is 
 known for its great multiplayer and great everything for that matter. This one was a let down and 
 it was completely over hyped and ridiculous. The game had a short story line and offered no redeeming 
 quality. I am upset with this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Developed by Legend Entertainment and published by Atari, Unreal II: The Awakening (2003) is a 
 bit disappointing. Despite the fact that this game uses one of the best engines ever created (Unreal 
 Engine 2) , it's just another generic First-Person Shooter, but with great graphics and some really 
 interesting moments.
  
  First of all, do not expect Unreal II to be a faithful sequel to the original Unreal (plus 'Return 
 to Na Pali' expansion) . You don't play with a nameless character anymore, the action is more sporadic, 
 the gameplay is very slow, the game ends pretty quickly... but the Razzie Award goes to the multiplayer, 
 simply because you don't have it. At least, a free multiplayer mod (XMP - eXpanded MultiPlayer) 
 is available to download, but still isn't as good as the original Unreal, mainly because there 
 isn't Cooperative mode. But Unreal II actually does have a few better qualities than its antecessor, 
 starting with the graphics (obviously, this sequel came five years later) and ending with some 
 unique and satisfying moments.
  
  The story, as you can usually expect from a First-Person Shooter, isn't too complex. You play as 
 Dalton, an ex-marine who is now traveling through the space, away from any real action. The game 
 starts with Dalton speaking with his superior, just after requesting to go back to the marine squad. 
 His request was denied, but he's called back into action to retrieve seven artifacts to forge a 
 powerful weapon. There is also some dialogue, especially when you're on your ship, talking with 
 the only three people (aside Dalton) that form the crew: Aida shows the mission briefing, Isaak 
 gives information about your weapons, and Ne'ban, an alien who is a very experienced pilot. You 
 can walk in your ship between some missions and make those conversations, but it's pointless. There 
 is no real important stuff to force you waste your time with that, especially when talking to Ne'ban. 
 But Isaak actually does have some relevant information, simply because he talks about what really 
 matters: using your weapons.
  
  After the mission briefing, you can go to your personal ship and land on the destination planet. 
 Unreal II starts very slow and boring, but it gets better as you accomplish your first four or 
 five missions. That's the problem. The game has only 12 missions, so approximately 40% of its length 
 is wasted with tedious action sequences. And everything gets worse because your character moves 
 very slowly. But when the game is good, it's really good. Some levels you have to give orders to 
 your soldiers, build a defense using force walls and auto turrets, entering in a bizarre alien 
 planet, or breaking into a well-defended fortress. In addition to that good stuff, most of the 
 weapons are OK. The assault rifle, although it sounds weak, it's very useful in most situations; 
 the shotgun is extremely dangerous at close distances; the sniper rifle, despite its weird looking, 
 is very powerful at long distances or to take down humans with a head shot. There're more good 
 weapons, like the rocket launcher and the flamethrower, but I found those first ones the real deal. 
 Unfortunately, the Magnum (called 'Grace') , one of your most deadly weapons, has very few ammo 
 and you'll probably soon forget to use it.
  
  The new graphics engine can render impressive outdoor environments, and everything looks great: 
 mountains, water, shadows, lightning, character models, weapons (mostly) and special effects. The 
 sound is OK and the music is similar to Unreal Tournament 2003/2004, which isn't a bad thing. Also, 
 the scenarios are very convincing and variety, so Unreal II can be an immersive game and will easily 
 put the player into the context.
  
  Sadly, considering all the above qualities, most of your enemies have a poor Artificial Intelligence, 
 which makes the gameplay uninteresting. Apparently, the developers didn't know exactly what to 
 do with this game: a First-Person Shooter with fast-paced action and mindless enemies (at least 
 close to the original Unreal) , or a slow and tactical Shooter with smart opponents? Well, they 
 did a mix that isn't good, since Unreal II is slow-paced and the enemies are usually brainless. 
 Nevertheless, the default difficult setting does a good job when offering challenges to the player, 
 but nothing that's too punishing, maybe because there aren't many targets to shoot at.
  
  If that wasn't enough, the levels and missions are very straight, and you don't have anything to 
 do that isn't doing your job. I mean, the maps are short and there are no optional places to visit, 
 so this linearity suddenly becomes a problem. The game lasts only 8 to 10 hours, and it could be 
 even less if your character wasn't so slow when moving around. It's noticeable that Unreal II: 
 The Awakening had a great potential, but the developers decided to release this game (perhaps before 
 its time) with a very short single player and no native multiplayer to speak about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Unreal 2 is a great shooter that just has a few problems. Now, do a agree with what the reviews 
 say, that this game is not really that great. Kind of. This game is great, but like I said above, 
 there are some problems.
  
  You play a soldier named John, that was removed from the marines, because, of somethings that he 
 did in his past. But now, you are in charge of finding these artifacts that have some sort of power. 
 You go to a bunch of different planets, and fight a bunch of aliens and humans to try and recover 
 these artifacts.
  
  The game play is like most shooters. You run and shoot. But this game can be really hard at times, 
 with some of the bigger enemies, so you will have to use a lot of skill. Luckily, you have a load 
 of weapons to take them out. You have you assault rifle and shot gun, but all of those have a secondary 
 fire, not to mention that all the weapons are powerful, and use ful even in the harder levels. 
 Some of the cooler weapons are this weapon that fire out a bunch of spider, to get the enemy to 
 stop shooter, and run around. There is also this weapon that takes live ammo, a shoots out a blast 
 of energy.
  
  The graphics in this game are awesome, for its time, but even now they look good. The character 
 models look good, and the environments look really good.
  
  The sound is good. Some of the voice acting is good, and a bit funny, but some of the voices are 
 bad sounding. The weapons sound pretty good when they fire, but they could of sound better.
  
  The game lasts about 8 hours. There is not a lot of replay value, but a few mission are worth 
 going back and playing. The thing that brings this game down to the ground is that there is no 
 multi player. I think you might be able to download a multi player, but I'm not sure. So this game 
 does not have a lot of value to it. But it is still fun while it lasts.
  
  If you like single player FPS's then you have to give Unreal 2 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised that Unreal II didn't get a higher score. Personally I thought the graphics were 
 solid, and the storyline was pretty good as well. Weapons were pretty standard as with all FPS 
 games, with the exception of a few. The gameplay is very linear but people have to realize that 
 this was before games like Far Cry, where open ended gameplay became something to be desired. There's 
 not really much to comment about this game in actuality. It didn't set any new standards nor revolutionize 
 anything but that doesn't mean it was bad or anything. Didn't really run into to many bugs, only 
 a few here and there but nothing major. None of the bugs I ran into prevented further gameplay 
 and required very little effort on my part to get around. All in all it's a good game and worth 
 play, especially now since it should have a budget price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 10
  Sounds: 7
  Value: 6
  Tilt: 8
  
  Since its debut back in 1998 with Unreal, I was totally amazed of my feet with this technological 
 marvel. Ever since, it has placed a special place in my heart and then always looking forward to 
 Unreals newest games. UT1999 was an absolute blast as it was a fast paced no-nonsense multiplayer 
 FPS action and UT2003 equally same. So when I heard the news about Unreal II as a single player 
 game I really couldnt contain myself.
  
  I normally dont buy games at full price as my PC generally couldnt take any newer 
 games at high settings however basing on for what I have seen and/or read, I purchased Unreal II 
 at full Australian price. The games promised the same fast-paced action with a great story, conversational 
 trees and of course, mind bending graphics.
  
  Well, to my surprise, the game was not what I have anticipated. The game was a lot slower, did 
 have a good story (not a great one however the ending is quite good) , conversational trees was 
 more like clicking on all the available options (as there is no reward principal of selecting the 
 right line of conversation) however true to their word it remained that beautiful eye-candy graphics.
 
  
  Unreal II did not follow the storyline of Unreal at all. I was expecting Kralls and Nalis yet nothing 
 was mentioned. Only the Skaarj made the appearance and it was a pretty lame excuse of why they 
 were there in the first place. In spite of this corporations like the Liandri and Axon were mentioned 
 which gave the game some ties to the original.
  
  This is not to say that the game is overall meager. The developers should have prepared this game 
 under a different title other than Unreal (or even stated from the creators of Unreal) . 
 Looking at another way; I found this game enjoyable not knowing if there were any ties to the original 
 Unreal at all. The game play was a lot slower; thats not a bad thing but linking to Unreal, 
 it is. There was no mention of Na Pali either; again not a bad thing however linking to Unreal, 
 it is. Then again, the Skaarjs are known to be nomadic and continuing to spread terror (as they 
 do) .
  
  On the surface, Unreal II does feel like the run-of-the-mill FPS. Enter, grab the item or person 
 and leave whilst blasting away anything that moves. However the game went one-step further as there 
 are missions that requires defending an onslaught of attackers. You have the opportunity to order 
 your men to defend certain location/s and involves you placing turrets and force shields. This 
 requires more than just blasting away as there are quite a number of different entry points. You 
 can say a limited RTS game play. This places a refreshing way to tackle your enemies besides that 
 shoot-first, ask questions later as you feel that you are part of a larger playing field.
  
  Still good to their word, the graphics for Unreal II is unbeatable. Stunning backdrops, first-rate 
 lighting and smooth frame rates gives the new Unreal engine two-thumbs up. You really didnt 
 need a beefy PC to run this game in its fullest glory as the engine is fully optimised. Considering 
 the story involves planet-hopping, I feel that this was primarily designed to boast 
 their engine for future outsourcing. All the planets are quite unique in the flora and fauna as 
 it ranges from forestry to dying, bleak ones to futuristic extraterrestrial types. 
 Even the space backdrops are actually pictures from NASA.  a nice touch indeed. This goes 
 to show the versatility of the new Unreal Engine and what its capable of.
  
  It will be a hard case to beat when it comes to sounds. The original Unreal boasts some excellent 
 tracks therefore well suited for the adventure at hand. Unreal II used a different approach (like 
 the game play style) therefore orchestral scores are replaced instead. These scores make the game 
 feel more like a cinematic movie and well suited. The voice acting was indeed on par as well coupled 
 with limited emotions. This was a definite mark up from the original Unreal as there was no voice 
 acting (other than the expansion pack which was limited) . On the other hand, the weapons sounded 
 a little feeble and needed a little more vigor. General sound effects like creatures squawking, 
 lightning storms and even the bleeps from the computers are reasonable.
  
  As far a FPS goes, this game is quite short. There are twelve levels in all and wont take 
 longer than one hour to complete each level. There is very little replay value (other than the 
 obvious difficulty settings) however those defensive missions are worth another shot 
 so you can employ different tactics. Basing on the normal settings the game is not too hard to 
 beat if you use the correct weapon at the appropriate time. However using the incorrect weapon 
 can be quite punishing indeed (e. g. using a toxic grenade on robotics is not a good idea however 
 using EMP instead will short-circuit them) .
  
  There is no multiplayer to speak off as stating the obvious that is what Unreal Tournament 2003 
 is designed for. However due to the public dissatisfaction there was another release of Unreal 
 II called Unreal II XMP, which is a free add-on that consisted eight maps, three vehicles and three 
 character classes. I havent really touched on this multiplayer experience yet however for 
 what I have heard and read, its actually a blast to play.
  
  Unreal II by another name would be a much better option. I feel that the main cause of the mediocre 
 public attention was (like me) expecting Unreal II to be like the previous Unreal (or UT1999)  
 fast-paced action with Nalis. However when playing this game it was a totally different experience. 
 The game itself presented that cinematic feel and did produce an engrossing story. The developers 
 tried to encourage interactive with other characters instead of that  
 feel. I thought this was a good approach to this genre however it fell just a little short of being 
 from a good game to a great game. Its worth playing for the experience (and to add to this, 
 I did quite like the ending) however don't expect anything 'Unreal'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  As a single player experience, Unreal II is not up to par with its predecessor which was terribly 
 involving. Graphically, it is definitely a great achievement for a game of this generation. But 
 neither the story nor the gameplay succeed in making you feel involved. Anyway, the qualities of 
 the game are sufficient to let you play it for a while, until you finally get as bored as the in-game 
 characters seem to be themselves. 
  
  Check your bargain bin and give Unreal II a try. If your expectations are not too high, you will 
 certainly enjoy it for casual gaming. The story won't keep you awake all night long, but the smooth 
 gameplay and very nice sceneries will entertain you, until the point where the level of dullness 
 surpass the pleasure's level.
  
  Also, all along the game I had the sensation of moving too slowly. I mean, when you are running, 
 you actually have the feeling of walking. Doesn't add much to the excitement...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vakbarom
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I played this game 3 times. I like the graphics, I like the music in the game, I love the action, 
 I simply enjoyed it on max. I advise everyone to try it, cause it worts. The story although is 
 a bit confusing, and flat, but if you want to feel fear, adrenalin, happiness and joy at the same 
 time, this game would be the best choice. 
  When I started to play it, it was a bit difficult, cause I wasn`t used to it, but I knew that I 
 have to play it. I played the Unreal game, the first one, and I loved it very much. For me, that 
 was the firs 3D first person shooter, a great memory. So when I heard about the second release, 
 I almost cried of happiness. 
  Believe me, when I say: this game deserves more, than it has taken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mintoo2cool
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  When I played the original Unreal long back, in 1998, I was amazed by its genius. It stood right amongst 
 the other legendary FPS like Quake II, Half-Life, shogo of that time.
  
  Then I got Unreal 2. At start I was happy to see that graphics and sound were very good. It seemed 
 as if they had made a worthy sequel. But as I started taking up missions I realised that this was 
 not something out of the ordinary. The cut-scenes were not good. The interaction with others did'nt 
 feel that good. The gameplay was like UT99, more of run n gun type. Having been playing games like 
 Quake3Arena and UT99 shooting here was too simple and was not challenging at all. Everything was 
 simple and straightforward and there were no puzzles or blockades in the game, like half-life offered. 
 Everything was too easy. It was as if the developers were just trying to show off their engine 
 through this game. 
  
  Although the game lacked it the interactiveness and immersiveness of FPS standard that games like 
 Half-Life and Shogo had once set. the game certainly raised the bar at graphics and sound and models. 
 The space ship in the game looked great. The weapons looked futuristic and powerful. The level maps 
 were huge and well detailed. I feel that Halo, in terms of the game concept, (ie. flying around 
 in space, visiting planets, and killing alien scum on that planet) , was a successor of Unreal 2. Where 
 Unreal 2 failed Halo succeeded.
  
  Having said that, all I say now is that this is a fun game to play, but dont expect this game to 
 rock your world because this game just lacks that intensity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  So here it is: the first volley in the Great FPS Wars of 2003. For those keeping track, this is 
 Round Two in the head-to-head shootout between Epic and id for having the most impressive, noteworthy, 
 and bowel-ejecting graphics engine in existence.
  
  So why is it, then, that a game subtitled The Awakening has, on occasion, made me want to take 
 a nap?
  
  Truthfully, Unreal II is not a bad game. I dare say its even a good one. But its not a great 
 game, and when you rate this sequel in terms of its predecessor, thats almost like saying its 
 a failure. Unreal was unique, envelope-pushing, and magical; Unreal II is safe, derivative, and 
  while utterly gorgeous  certainly not the mind-bending leap forward in graphics that the first 
 game was.
  
  So, lets all forget about the Unreal legacy, and judge Unreal II on its own merits. (Easy enough 
 to do, since Unreal II has far more in common with the mission-based feel of Halo, Aliens vs. Predator 
 2, and Elite Force than it does with the  motif of its forerunner.)
 
  
  In this one, you play John Dalton, an ex-Marine now earning his corn as a marshal for the Terran 
 Colonial Authority, the force that polices the backwaters of the 24th-century Unreal universe. 
 Your ship is the Atlantis, a creaky old rust-bucket thats nearly as weathered as your crew: First 
 Officer Aida, the requisite tattooed hot chick; Isaak, the ships engineer and tinkerer who provides 
 you with weapon upgrades as the game progresses; and lastly, token alien Neban, the ships pilot, 
 whose gelatinous appearance makes him look like a shambling Jello shot.
  
  If this sounds like the setup for some generic syndicated sci-fi TV showwell, it plays like one, 
 too. In fact, the introductory dialogue between you and the commander of the TCA (who sends you 
 out on missions) is so riddled with bad cop-show clich&eacute; s that I thought somebody had sent 
 me the joke review build. But no  much like a space-age T. J. Hooker, Dalton is a tough-but-fair 
 cop with a heart of gold who doesnt like to play by the rules.
  
  The plot concerns a series of lost artifacts that have been scattered across various exotic alien 
 worlds. The artifacts hold such dangerous, mysterious power that youre ordered to retrieve them 
 before nastier aliens (like the Skaarj) can get their hands on them. Without giving too much away, 
 the Awakening in the title occurs when the artifacts are joined togetherand its not a friendly 
 wake-up call, either.
  
  Most of the games 12 missions are pretty straightforward. Youre briefed by Aida or your superior, 
 receive a weapons upgrade from Isaak, shuttle down to the planet surface, and shoot any enemy that 
 stands between you and the next artifact. Only a few missions break from this formula, and not 
 surprisingly, theyre among the best.
  
  For example, in one level the Atlantis has to make an unexpected surface landing. Since youve 
 just lifted an artifact from under their noses, packs of human mercenaries siege the entrance to 
 your ship, leaving you as its sole defender. Theres even a bit of strategy involved, as your loadout 
 for this particular mission includes force-field generators and turrets, so placing them for maximum 
 benefit is part of the challenge.
  
  Other missions include escort jobs, covering a friendly with a sniper rifle, and even some squad-based 
 action where youre briefly grouped with Marines. Unfortunately, unlike the organic flow of the 
 first game (oops, there I go again) , the mission structure of Unreal II is so transparently intent 
 on introducing you to new play styles and environments in a mechanical fashion  Look, heres 
 the acid-rain levelooh, reflective surfaces  that you can almost see the nuts and bolts sticking 
 out from underneath the beautifully bump-mapped visuals.
  
  And perhaps thats really my biggest beef with Unreal II: it plays like a game-length demo for 
 the graphics engine. While the production values are all first-rate  including terrific voice-acting 
 and sound, and, of course, a graphics engine that really shines when rendering sprawling outdoor 
 environments and weird alien habitats  the razor-thin plot, writing, and overall game design fall 
 flat.
  
  For instance, the onboard soap opera  a secondary story set around the ships crew  depends on 
 your caring about their lives, which you dont. Since they appear only during between-mission down-time 
 aboard the Atlantis (when you can wander the ship aimlessly) , and not during the in-game action, 
 you have no Wing Commanderlike emotional investment in the characters.
  
  And remember the original Unreals first big scare? The lit hallwaylights going outka-chunk, 
 ka-chunk, ka-chunkand then a terrifying Skaarj attack? Well, its here again, but this time in 
 an elevator. Now, itd be fine if this sequence was intended as an homage to the first game  but 
 its the only major scripted event of its kind!
  
  One last frustration is due to the lack of a multiplayer mode. Yes, I knowthats what Unreal Tournament 
 2003 is for. But Unreal II introduces so many cool new weapons  like the blistering flamethrower, 
 an incendiary alt-fire on the shotgun, and seeker orbs  that you feel cheated not getting to play 
 with them against others online. Mix that with the games limited replay value, and not even the 
 pretty visuals can make Unreal II a must-recommend title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  After playing MOHAA and Call of Duty in the last 2 weeks, Unreal II's graphics were incredibly 
 nice. That's the best thing about this game, by far. Combat is ok. Ammo can be scarce at times, 
 and so is health on later levels. Varied missions range from Corridor Crawls, Defend This Area, 
 Cover Your Buddy, and the occasional Jump To The Next Mission type sections.
  
  The story takes some time to develop and each character has a unique background. Not essential 
 to the core game but certainly adds another dimension to the overall experience. It's not great, 
 but notable for how few games even try to build in compelling storylines. Max Payne did a far better 
 job, but Unreal II made a nice effort.
  
  On a C2D Extreme X6800 with 4 GB RAM, 2x8800s, and Vista x64, loading times were absurdly long. 
 So it's really painful to die. I didn't find any way to skip past the in-mission cutscenes, so 
 save after each one. Your character seems to move very slow. I guess it's because he's wearing 
 substantial armor, but it was frustrating how slowly he ran.
  
  On first blush difficulty struck me as high on several missions, but after a few attempts (and 
 consulting the GS GG for the missions I didn't particularly like) it's really not that bad (at 
 Medium difficulty) .
  
  My general impression of this game is pretty good, despite the fact that I hate Defend This Area 
 type scenarios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 29, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  i got this game a couple of months ago because i heard that the original Unreal was very fun. Amazon 
 was sold out of Unreal 1 so i got what i thought would be the next best thing, Unreal 2 i was wrong.
 
  
  the good: the only good thing about this game is that it is part of the series that is all and 
 the fact that there are different weapons.
  
  the bad: the storyline is crap so are the characters (which look like midgets by the way) and the 
 voice actors sound bored too. All of the weapons do hardly any damage like the ASMD that takes 
 about fifty shots to kill one skaarj and don't even get me started on the assault rifle.
  The game gets very boring after a while as well.
  
  Overall: do not get this game it is definitely 
 the worst one in the series and it was a waste of time to play trust me. If you want a real game 
 then get either Unreal tournament 1 or Unreal tournament 2004
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I got Unreal II: The Awakening through the Unreal Anthology pack. Unreal II: The Awakening had 
 spectacular graphics for its time, so I can't make a critique on the game now for the bland visuals 
 at the present. Make no mistake..... it is definitely an Unreal Game. Though what's completely 
 missing is the trademark Unreal-replayability. There is simply no online mode in the original version.
 
  
  Yes, I have heard that there's an XMP but what were the developers thinking when they released 
 this in the beginning?!!! It's like they decided several months after the game is out that they 
 have changed their minds and realized their horrible mistake. Further note, why bother with the 
 XMP when UT2K4 is a better option. Let me judge games as the way the developers originally intended 
 them to be and in this case it's without a multiplayer mode.
  
  The number of missions are fairly short and easy to zip through. The fire fights have no luster 
 whatsoever and with rarely a few memorable game play moments. The cut scenes in the game are simply 
 pointless as well as the interactive scenes where you can explore around the spaceship talking 
 to boring characters wasting your time. The only saving grace for The Awakening is the Unreal environments 
 that will please but disappoint even the most die hard fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evac156
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  I know it's late to be reviewing this game, since it's been out for almost five years now. But 
 I just had to say my piece. I loved the original Unreal. I've never really gotten into the FPS 
 genre, with two notable exceptions -- Half-Life, and Unreal. When Unreal II was due out in 2002, 
 I waited eagerly for it. When it was due to be released, I bought the best gaming machine I could 
 get my hands on -- and when I tried to play Unreal II, I was incredibly disappointed. All I experienced 
 of it was constant run-and-gun; none of the strategic or tactical play, or puzzle-solving, that 
 I had enjoyed with Unreal and Half-Life. It was nonstop battle, and even on the normal setting, 
 it was incredibly difficult. I played it for a couple of days, repeating the same fights over and 
 over until I managed to live through them. After a couple days of that tedium, I put it back on 
 the shelf and left it there.
  
  Now it's five years later. I once again have a hot gaming machine, I've just finished HL2, and 
 I was in the mood for some FPS action. So I installed Unreal II again, to see if it was any better 
 than I remembered. It isn't. It looks great -- even five years after its release, it's still about 
 the best looking game I've seen. But I find the controls unresponsive, and the gameplay is (as 
 I remembered) just a nonstop series of nearly impossible battles. I am only in the first mission 
 (the first time I tried playing, I got somewhat farther) , but already I am frustrated, exhausted, 
 and bored. You'll notice that my time spent playing just trying to get through the first mission 
 (twice -- once each time I've installed the game) is more than most people claim for the entire 
 game.
  
  On the normal difficulty, the very first enemies you encounter (gibbering four-armed blue creatures) 
 come at you in a continuous wave, often surrounding you (all sides and above!) , firing weapons 
 of enormous power, and dodging your shots as they come at you -- or if they are hit, they don't 
 seem to take any noticeable damage from it most of the time. Of the weapons you start with, they 
 fall into two categories: Can't hit them and Can't damage them. There is one weapon which will 
 kill these guys -- but to hit with it, you both need to be standing still long enough to draw a 
 bead on them; and the moment you stand still, you'll be swarmed by enemies. I've had to play each 
 fight at least half a dozen times in order to get through it with any decent amount of health and 
 shielding left. I finally got past those, and found myself trapped in an elevator with a Skaarj 
 berserker. Imagine fighting an armored grizzly bear on speed, in close quarters. There is no escape, 
 and you can't really damage it with your puny weapons; it will slaughter you every time. I know 
 I somehow made it past this scene the first time I tried playing, but at this point I have no idea 
 how.
  
  Constant running and gunning isn't my style, and although I'm not the best player of shooters in 
 the world, I'm certainly not that bad, either. This game is just way, way, way out there on the 
 difficulty scale. Too bad that something that looks so good is so unplayable.
  
  What would make it better? Well, I would say variety -- but maybe that comes later, so I can't 
 really judge. A more appropriate level of difficulty in the early missions would help; enemies 
 that don't have you outnumbered, outgunned, and outmaneuvered in every fight. And some chance to 
 actually use your brain to get an advantage against them, instead of just using your trigger finger 
 and blasting away at everything that moves. I suppose I could try it on the easier difficulty setting, 
 but I've never had to dumb down any game yet, and I really don't want to start now. The game options 
 describe the easy setting as a walk in the park. That sounds too easy -- although maybe it's a 
 park filled with gun-wielding muggers, which still might be a challenge.
  
  Also, a note on stability -- I downloaded and installed all the patches I could find for it, so 
 I should be completely up to date. However, it frequently crashes while reloading a saved game. 
 And considering how many times I've needed to reload, that gets to be a major headache. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuban100
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  If you say the game was very short.. then I'll have to give you that. But this game is one of the 
 best good looking games (compare to Half Life 2, Halo and Prey) , specially if u have a good video 
 card . In my case i have 2 nvidia 7800 gt working as SLI, all this games are working like a charm. 
 With extremely game appealing. LOVED THIS GAME from the beginning to the end. The Dialog is so 
 Adult and Funny that will make you immerse each second in the game. Each level will bring you a 
 higher levels (but not impossible to beat like other games like Quake IV or boring like Doom III) . 
 Now that this game you can get it for $19 or less there's no excuse not to play such a wonderful 
 first shooter short game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BentSea
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  MODers: Unreal 2, Unreal 2K3 doesn't matter, you're buying one hell of a graphics engine to play 
 with.
  
  Action Gamers: It's a cool game, if you're die hard go ahead and shell out the 50$, but frankly 
 it will be just as good for 20$ when you find it in the bargain bin in the future.
  
  Everyone else: Would be a good buy if you ever see it in a bargain bin. But don't sweat putting 
 it off to play something cooler.
  
  Full Review:
  
  The proof of the game cannot be found in the pudding of the code. Nor the fun in the graphics, 
 though Unreal 2 tried desperately to show us all that it could be there. And to a large extent 
 they succeeded. It cannot be denied that by the end of the game the awe inspiring eye candy still 
 inspired pauses from active progression in the game to stop and smell the roses, almost literally. 
 The environments flood the player with details and immersive locations, and here, I believe, lies 
 the feeling of mediocrity that has been attributed to The Awakening. The action achieved both furious 
 heights and intense firefights, and slower paced strategic fights that seem less than common in 
 recent action titles.
  
  It can hardly be said that Unreal 2 shines as the most innovative game in the world, but the polish 
 glows a little. Some of the best missions left a little bit of the job of shaping the battlefield 
 to your needs. Allowing you to put down destroyable, but strong enough to give you time to move 
 around, laser walls as well as placing turrets for defending areas you dont have the time to defend 
 properly. Further innovation involves torturing the player with the personal lives of the crew 
 in a truly, though sometimes interesting, soap with the crew of your ship.
  
  Imagine playing Days of Our Lives in space. Dull and tedious and there was no way around half of 
 it. Granted down time in a game gets complained about pretty seriously, however all of the downtime 
 in Unreal 2 felt extra, and useless. The characters, god forgive the designer who put real characters 
 into a hardcore action game, managed to be boring and useless as they never come into play anywhere 
 but in the cut-scene material. After Half-Life a good many people thought cut-scenes were the way 
 of the future, I tell you now that no they are not. Not when game-play reduces you to have nothing 
 to do but run around the room goofing off listening to the other character as more of a voice over 
 while you hop around and try to entertain yourself. To my pleasurable surprise the story line of 
 said soap opera explored unfamiliar territory for modern games. The ending genuinely did something 
 unique, with a bitter sweet series of events that suddenly made me feel for the characters I previously 
 thought might as well be dead. And sadly it happened to be the only thing there is to say about 
 this game that crossed the line defined by the word bad. Every other complaint attributed to this 
 game is something good used in a less than stellar way, leaving the player with the feeling of 
 playing something very good but very mediocre.
  
  Some of the environments surpass the levels of expansiveness seen in any other pure first person 
 shooter. And in fact, it might be said that this is both a blessing and a curse. Rather than holding 
 the cut-scenes in these environments and perhaps giving you free time to waste while your crew 
 members are yakking to you. Instead, experiences that should be fluid and fast paced are frequently 
 spent lounging around admiring little details. It all serves to slow the game down that much more 
 and pace feels important after all the dull time aboard your ship, The Atlantis. At least none 
 of the weapons were pretty enough to just sit there and shoot at thin air to admire the special 
 effects.
  
  There is a lot of good material here. Unreal 2 has been loaded to the hilt with quality and visual 
 appeal. The action is first rate and the story managed to compel even though you wont ever hold 
 your breath wondering whats going to happen next. What you love in this game, you will absolutely 
 adore. But there is easily enough irritation and boring downtime to balance that out and leave 
 you with an overall feeling of how okay the experience was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Can't say this did much for me. I do like my first person shooters to have some plot. I like playing 
 the campaign. Moody scary stuff is the best. This one started right. There was a great scary sci-fi 
 vibe, but then, it just lost it.
  
  It rolled along ok. There were moments. It just didn't keep up though. It was ALL mood, and occasional 
 good parts, but the overall effect left me really hanging. The ending was atrocious. Was a s#$%ty 
 way to end a story.
  
  The action was ok. The graphics were pretty. But, seriously, what's the point? If you wanted to 
 skip the campaign and just do deathmatch, you'd buy Unreal Tournament, right? So, I guess this 
 game was pretty much pointless on all levels.
  
  Aida was hot though. That's one good reason to beat every mission. Maybe that's why I hated the 
 end. Why GOD!!! WHY!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  When Unreal first came to PC in the late 90's, it set the bar for a three dimentional fps' incorperating 
 story and mood in a way that few had at that time. With its expansive outdoor environments, many 
 players were sucked into its virtual world, making it one of PC's most popular and recognised franchises.
 
  Since its move towards multi-player games, Unreal has tried another foray into single player, 
 story driven gameplay with competent results that leaves me feeling that it is an overall lackluster 
 experience given what I have come to expect from the Unreal name.
  The story is your typical space marine single handedly saves the day type stuff. Few revolations 
 truly present themselves throughout the experience, and over-all it feels tacked on to the last. 
 Voice acting is competent and the presentation is decent given its age, but it certainly didn't 
 blow anyone away when it came out in 2003 and won't make impressions now either. The graphical 
 presentation is decent given its age. Even a less than steller machine today can run this game 
 at top settings and the effects and character designs are fine, but nothing to write home about. 
 The enemies tend to be plain and uninspired for the most part. You typically encounter the same 
 low level creature over and over and then the occasional big baddie that is harder to kill, but 
 mostly they just swarm you and run straight at you, showing little in the way of AI scripting. 
 Even when the action heats up, it runs at a decent speed, making it fun enough for a fps. The poly 
 counts are pretty low and the textures are repeated and ugly in parts.
  The music and sound effects get the job done, but it doesn't really leap out at you. The weapons 
 fire is a little weak and explosions and other sound effects are done just well enough.
  The game plays well enough, although there is not much in the way of variety. You begin a stage 
 with a mission to kill or be killed, move your way through outdoor or indoor environments, use 
 keys to open doors, and blast bad guys. You've seen it all before, and these days better. The weapons 
 that you are given don't seem to offer much in the way of excitement. You will typically use your 
 own machine gun more often than anything else, at least until you run out of ammo and have to resort 
 to picking up a lame enemy blaster. They don't excite much to shoot, and the combat can seem a 
 bit hollow.
  This is not a bad game through and through. Those wishing to pick up a cheap older game will find 
 enough fun to justify the purchase. Just don't expect to be wowed and if you do finish it, you 
 most likely won't touch it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Some of the innovations introduced in The Awakening (such as characters with more depth, and movable 
 sentry guns and barricades) are widely used today in other games. The story packs more punch than 
 many of today's games, and many of the interiors are reminiscent of the Alien movies. Several of 
 the missions incorporate some stealth elements which serves as a good break from the frantic combat 
 sequences. And the surprise ending, although a little sappy, may just tug at a heart string or 
 two. In short, although this is by no means a candidate for Game of the Year, it is certainly worth 
 picking up a copy from the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 5, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok here is my review of Unreal 2.
  First the game is just too damn short. That is a given but, it is also a testament to how much 
 fun this game is to play. Another short coming is that the end is completely stupid. I think this 
 is what turned a lot of fans off to this game.
  You spend all this time playing and the end if anything is depressing.
  Don't let this stop you 
 from playing the game though.
  This is almost as fun to me as playing Halo.
  Seriously as a shooter this game really rocks.
  I was so dissapointed when I heard that there 
 would not be an Unreal 3 I could have cried. It would have been so awesome.
  Well there is my two cents. Do with it what you will.
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  I played this game a few years ago and started it again recently. The first time I played it I 
 totally agreed with other reviewers in giving this game no more than a 7+ because of some let 
 downs. The biggest let down, was probably the fact that it didnt have a feature that really stood 
 out from all the other shooters at the time. But how does it hold up after some years of evolution 
 in first person shooters?
  
  This game is a recommendation to play nowadays if one doesnt have a hotshot gaming rig with a 
 second mortgage demanding hardware. It still delivers a satisfying visual experience. 
  
  Unreal II is one of the last classical old school shooters with really breathtaking graphics. With 
 graphics that sometimes have the quality on par with newer shooters like Far Cry, the game-play 
 is from the old age of the original Unreal. When I played the game I got the feeling this game 
 was made to be a sort of side kick next to the Tournament series. Some levels play like they are 
 set up as a possible scenario taken from the multiplayer Unreal tournament series. Especially the 
 base defending scenarios this game lets you play, mostly when you reach the end of the game. 
 These base defending scenarios are at the same time the only new element in the game-play the game 
 has to offer. But is that a bad thing? It holds up in its own rights some qualities some other 
 newer shooters dont have anymore.
  
  These qualities can be summarized as follows: holding up the old school fun of playing the space-cowboy 
 delivering items and accomplishing missions, trying to hold out in an alien environment; resulting 
 in an out-of this-world experience. 
  The best improvement to this genre I found to be the little mother ship, as a safe haven, to where 
 you return after every mission. It does seriously lack some elements to be a real cool addition. 
 Some of these elements would be a greater interactivity with the interior of the ship, a better 
 I. A. of your fellow troopers, a greater freedom of controlling the ship, more possibilities to 
 control the ship and making it have a bigger role in the missions (for instance when you could 
 return to the ship during a mission, beam me up Scotty) . But the idea I thought was a fairly 
 good one.
  
  If the developers would have taking the game more seriously as a standalone first person shooter, 
 in stead of implementing Tournament features into an otherwise old school game play; this game 
 could have become a classic like the original Unreal. Now its left to be a good choice for gamers 
 with a bit outdated hardware. And in that respect it performs better as a classic than many other 
 older shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 17, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Unreal II: The Awakening
  
  Unreal II could have been a contender. It has all the elements of what could be a truly great FPS 
 game. But it fails to deliver to its potential. While it is still an enjoyable gaming experience, 
 you are left wondering what couldve been.
  
  Unreal II puts you in the shoes of Dalton, a man forever trying to join the marines but always 
 being rejected. Instead he runs a scout ship with the Terran Colonel Authority, and is sent on 
 less dangerous missions. Hes not happy.
  
  However, he does get plenty of action, over twelve missions that basically involve recovering parts 
 of an ancient artifact  and its safe to say that his folk are not the only ones who want to 
 get their hands on them..
  
  Firstly, the graphics are superb. They really are the strongest point of Unreal II. The environments 
 are varied, imaginative and superbly designed, with the alien stronghold level having significant 
 WOW value. The enemies, usually the Skaarj, are well designed and some of the special effects 
 and excellent. Theres a bit of Hollywood to this game, especially once you add the rip-roaring 
 soundtrack. 
  
  Unreal II does it best to immerse you in its plot, which there was obviously a lot of time and 
 effort devising, but it doesnt really draw you in. The story in itself is an interesting one, 
 and you are updated during missions through the headset, or through your three crew members in 
 between missions, which includes finding out about their past and the history of the Unreal World, 
 but in the end you could take it or leave it. The trash talk and small talk doesnt really help. 
 Even when the token disaster occurs on the penultimate level  you are not left with any great 
 feeling of loss as there is no attachment, nor at the end closing sequence. Unreal II does its 
 best to dress the game up as more than a run and gun shooter, but it doesnt quite get there.
 
  
  Generally, the missions are fairly generic, get in  get the goods and get out, and there is plenty 
 of opposition along the way. But the enemy AI just didnt quite stack up. While enemies sometimes 
 would retreat or take cover, essentially they would keep running for you, with the odd side-step 
 or zigzag thrown in that looked a bit too scripted. It was all a bit easy, too. Of the twelve missions, 
 I think I only died on three of them on the default difficulty setting and only had serious trouble 
 on one of them. And Im no hotshot gamer.
  
  However, Unreal II provides some excellent defensive missions. On quite a few occasions, alone 
 or with a small team, you are required to defend a position from an enemy attack. This worked very 
 well, perhaps the best of any game I played, and provided a far more exhilarating gaming experience 
 that the standard missions. Your team members held their own and there certainly was a lot happening 
 during these skirmishes. It is another high point of the game.
  
  It also takes a while to get used to how slow you move. Without a doubt, your movement is not as 
 fast as other FPS games (and lets face, you are loaded with armour) and it is slightly annoying 
 at first. But once accustomed to it, it becomes part of the game.
  
  In the end, Unreal II is an enjoyable shooter. But in a market saturated by such games, its hard 
 to recommend this over not only more recent games, but also games that came out at the same time. 
 It would be for FPS fans and purists only and Id recommend putting it straight to the highest 
 difficulty level. Theres no multiplayer and no real replay incentive. A quickie, if thats your 
 thing.
  
  Im not going to argue with value for money, as my brother gave it to me because he could not get 
 into it. He paid $AUD25 for it which isnt too bad. Id be disappointed if Id paid full price.
 
  
  If you like FPS games and find Unreal II in the bargain bin or at a decent price, then give it 
 go. Just dont expect greatness, which is a bit harder than normal to accept because the missed 
 opportunity for Unreal II to be a great game is clear to see.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Having played every UT game released for the PC; Unreal II is the odd one out.
  
  Graphics were impressive for the time, the plot has some nice twists and at times, even a Hollywood 
 approach to some scenes. 
  Sound is ok, without being impressive, but unfortunately this game is broken at its fundamental 
 core gameplay: The fighting.
  
  Whether or not this is due to the lack of convincing physics, or the slow pace of the main character, 
 which basicly means that dodging bullets feels slow and futile, or combination of all the above-mentioned 
 flaws is hard to say, but IMO the fighting aspect of the game feels clumsy, slow and more like 
 a chore.
  
  The weapon selection is ok, but with the same lack of balance that can be found in the later game 
 Pariah, and the enemy combat AI is decent (meaning, it works.. but eons away from the F. E. A. R AI) 
 - in short: Perhaps the developers should've worked harder on the core gameplay and less on the 
 graphics. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what this game was meant to achieve at the beginning of its development, but whatever 
 was originally planned has grown into a faithful story-led outing for the Unreal franchise. Whereas 
 I was first sceptical of this game - I worship Unreal Tournament, and I wasn't sure about a full-length 
 campaign-based instalment. 
  
  I was wrong. After reading several reviews of the game, most of them with mixed views, I decided 
 to buy the game anyway, and I wasn't disappointed. Unreal II is in fact an enjoyable shooter that 
 really can't do FPS fans any harm for some clear, crisp, futuristic gun-toting action - adrenaline-fusing 
 gameplay, visuals to die for and a healthy aural experience really add up to an underappreciated 
 science-fiction tour-de-force. 
  
  Unreal II sees you reprising the role of John Dalton, a member of the Terran Colonial Authority. 
 The game opens up on a low note, despite an awesome introductory scene - Dalton is told his request 
 to join the ranks of the Marines has been denied. Again, it turns out - Dalton is one who has persistently 
 tried to force his way into the Marines; a force to be reckoned with throughout the galaxy, and 
 a lethal form of law enforcement. And unfortunately for Dalton, he's left with minimal action at 
 the Terran Colonial Authority, who see a lot less dangerous assignments than the Marines do. 
 
  
  But nevertheless, after this cliched opening, the game opens up into a sophisticated science-fiction 
 storyline that is miles better than the usual crap you're likely to get out of your typical FPS. 
 At least you can see effort dripping all over the plotline, even if the core components of the 
 tale are slightly frayed around the edges. I didn't think an Unreal game was capable of relinquishing 
 so much backstory. 
  
  The story also has a surprising amount of depth. Sometimes Unreal II borrows from RPG games to 
 further the storyline - the prime example is the branched conversation that Unreal II uses. When 
 interacting with any living being, be it alien or human, you can ask the highlighted person different 
 things and give them various answers to the question they ask. I found this branched conversation 
 element to be implemented well into the gameplay, and it at least gives you slight enjoyment by 
 shaping your assorted chats with other central characters in the game, such as Isaak, your weapons 
 specialist, and Aida, the girl who reels off your mission briefing. 
  
  The gameplay of Unreal II has been described as underwhelming by a lot of critics and game players, 
 but I have to disagree on that front. Sure, it's nowhere near as godly as its Tournament counterparts, 
 but still, if you're looking for a balanced FPS with some cool weaponry, look no further than The 
 Awakening. Gameplay is slower than the Tournament games, and a lot more methodical too - you can't 
 just run in all guns blazing a lot of the time. Sometimes you're forced to adapt a tactical, stealthy 
 approach, if only for the amount of enemies you're up against in the scenario. 
  
  Unreal II has some well-thought-out weaponry too, all with the customary long science-fiction titles 
 and their detailed descriptions. Your basic weapon is the Dispersion Pistol, which is best described 
 as a rechargable Plasma Pistol from Halo; despite its weakness it can come in useful in difficult 
 situations. There's also an Assault Rifle that fires depleted uranium shards (you know about as 
 much as I do on that front :P ) and an incredibly handy Sniper Rifle. The key weapon in the game, 
 though, is the Grenade Launcher, which can load astonishingly volatile grenades to adapt to the 
 scenario. The complete set of grenades comprises of six individual types - Fragmentation, Toxic 
 Gas, Incendiary, Smoke, Concussion, and Electromagnetic Pulse, all of which are equally indispensable 
 and come in brilliantly useful during the game. 
  
  Another welcome touch to the game is that you're not always assaulting alien fortresses in search 
 of seven mysterious artefacts. A few of the missions see you defending certain areas, fighting 
 off swarms of enemies with your allies. Oddly, these moments are often more satisfying than the 
 invasions - I'm not sure why, but there's a whole lot more adrenaline to be found when you're fighting 
 off enemies with a fiery determination instead of invading them with more ammunition than sense. 
 It makes the game lose a little bit of its mindless mood when you're concentrating on defense rather 
 than offense. 
  
  The graphics in Unreal II are simply stunning. And I don't mean that as in the generic adjective, 
 I mean genuinely stunning. The type of stunning that makes you immediately awake after long hours 
 playing at night; it makes you wonder and gasp at the majestic landscapes and futuristic detail. 
 It's a real eye-opener, this one. Character models are awesome, lighting effects are stellar and 
 the environments are nothing short of truly spectacular. The only flaws I can pick out are a few 
 glitches here and there in certain places, the odd blank texture or slight slowdown can sometimes 
 be relinquished from the otherwise sumptious environments. 
  
  The audio is pretty good too. There's a lot of speech in the game, surprisingly, and the voice-overs 
 are decent. The music is just a little bit generic, but it suffices, and the gun sounds are ear-shattering 
 - whether that's a good thing or a bad thing, it's up to you. 
  
  A great audiovisual showing and some good, solid gameplay add up to a really underappreciated game 
 that any fan of the FPS genre should buy. Unreal II has been overlooked slightly by many people, 
 but it doesn't deserve such status - you really can't go wrong with the game if you have any money 
 to spend. Sure, it's just a little bit short for my liking, but if you are willing to look past 
 its shortcomings in that department you will find an experience that perfectly fits the phrase 
 "short and sweet." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god2emperor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  when i first heard it was coming out, i was very excite, since UNreal I has been one of my favorite 
 games ever, i was the first one in my school to buy it, when i started the insallation, the picture 
 more great, great and great. but when started the game it became a bit dull, the story line is 
 great, but i has some extremly stupid weapon,, which does not do any dammage but stuns them. the 
 enemy are a bit low on AI, which could be improved. despite what i said it is still a great game. 
 if you are a true unreal or real tournament fan, like me, then buy it. if not then renting is also 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  Unreal 2 is a good game and this is why!
  
  Gameplay:
  Good and smooth gameplay with very good variety between maps and weapons.
  Enemies look cool 
 too (i love the skaarj) !!!
  
  Graphics:
  Good and smooth, pure unreal graphics engine!
  
  Online:
  No online at all, thats not very good.
  Online would have been very good.
  
 
  Variety:
  Very good variety, look at gameplay!!!!
  
  Value:
  Average value because it doesnt offer multiplayer.
  
  Sounds:
  Sounds do sound good, weapon 
 sounds arent hollow, music is cool sometimes.
  
  Thats my review about U2, good points and bad points, but still its overall a good game worth a 
 B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Unreal 2 is one of the fps that has a nice storyline and it's make you feel curious of what will 
 happen next!
  First of all let's talk about the gameplay. Unreal 2 has easy game control and you won't face any 
 problems! It's easy to learn to control the character and interact with the environment! And it's 
 also easy to aim with the gun so don't worry about the gameplay!
  Now the graphics are spectacular! Very nice visual effects from the explosions and the gun fights! It 
 makes you feel that you are inside the game! The amount of details is very high and you won't find 
 a flaw! Especially if you have a strong video card you will enjoy the game at it's finest!
  The sound is also adorable and makes the game even more real! (ironic though because the game is 
 unreal) . If you have a 5.1 sound system you are going to live an exciting experience! The gunfires 
 will blow at the back of your head and the bullets will pass by your ears! It's very exciting!
 
  So don't miss the game at all costs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightveil
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Unreal II is a decent game that tries to do a lot of things well. Unfortunately it misses on many 
 of them.
  
  The actual game-play is nothing new to seasoned FPS players. In fact, beyond some nice defensive 
 missions it's all been done before.
  
  Where Unreal II falls down for me is in the story. The game is so short that we don't really ever 
 get to connect with the characters. There are numerous "downtime" sections of the game that simply 
 fail to let us in on what's really going on in the heads of the supporting cast. This makes what's 
 supposed to be a bittersweet ending simply fall flat because we don't care about them.
  
  In all, Unreal II is a good game with some interesting ideas marred by bad storytelling and less-than-stellar 
 game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Wicked, but can be slow, if you dont have a good and fast graphics card, it demands alot of high 
 texture, but once into the game, you start off, looking around the main airship, and getting to 
 know your team mates.
  
  When you are ready, make your way to the small flight ship and the game will begin when you land 
 on the planet, you have to watch your back, as these unknown aliens attack with plenty of fire 
 power.
  
  Make sure you have a BIG gun, and take them down, protect your team mates, lose them, then you 
 dont stnad a chance out there on your own.
  
  Good luck solider.
  
  Sorry if this was short and brief, but i never got round to completeing the game.
  
  I just 
 know its a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxic_shock
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game together with Unreal Tournament 2004 for 30 euro... and both games rock.
 
  Don't judge Unreal 2 for the lack of multiplayer. This is why there is UT2004. So, it is all about 
 the single player which I am a big fan of.
  So, you are someone (doesn't really matter) who has to do something (doesn't really matter) and 
 in order to do it you have to go through lots of nice places and kill lots of enemies which actually 
 matter.
  Unreal 2 is a very nice game overall. The graphics is still an eyecandy. The sound is awesome... just 
 increase the volume of your headphones (speakers) on the max. The story - who cares... actually 
 there is much more story than in very pretentious FPS's. The missions are doable, sometimes too 
 easy on normal difficulty. The voice acting of the main guy is a bit flat but hey, it is all about 
 shooting , not speaking. The weapons arsenal is great. The fire weapon is an absolute must use. 
 There are lots of cutscenes that make the whole Unreal 2 experience even more alive.
  So, if you like FPS, go and get this game and don't listen to or read biased reviews.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: indraroop
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are beautiful, sounds are decent but it fails to match up to the standard 
 of voice acting of the 2003's. Voices nonetheless, the weapons have good believable sounds; I especially 
 like the assault rifle's mute roar :-) .
  
  The gameplay needs to be improved - I have *died* in gunfights strafing from place to place trying 
 to simply find the gun I want. There are too many useless guns in the game; you might want these 
 guns in just one of 2 missions. The shocklance and Grace are sterling examples in this field: I 
 can never find shocklance ammo apart from like 2 or 3 levels, and the magnum happens to be very 
 powerful but it also has a aiming reticule the size of "o" and which totally blends into the scenery. 
 I would use the magnum more often if I could see where I was aiming. Every other weapon has a big 
 aiming reticule, and all of a sudden when you see the magnum with the pinhole aiming system and 
 that too which merges into the background, you just get annoyed and decide to use a different weapon. 
 Atari have totally failed in the controls segment, as each weapon is not mapped to a specific key 
 and the 1-5 keys change according to what new weapon I pic up. I repeat: I have *died* in gunfights 
 strafing from place to place trying to simply find the gun I want.
  
  The player model ...................... wow. Bulky armor that makes you look like a walking crate 
 might not only be effective but also haute in the near future, but this - is - a - game. What happened 
 to aesthetics?! The player model that Unreal ships with should have never even been though of, 
 it looks so weird. Sad to say, after a few levels you get used to it. :-/
  
  Make no mistake, Unreal 2 is a great game with good enemy AI, and a huge assortment of weopons, 
 the only department is seems to have failed in was controls/gameplay, which unfortunately is a 
 big deal for gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:58 am PT
Review:  Unreal was a revolutionary game that came out in 1998 and gave players an action filled adventure 
 that took a good amount of time to complete. Unreal II arrived a few years later and manages to 
 not only have very little to do with the Unreal universe, but it also doesnt even try to do what 
 Unreal did right at all. Unreal II: The Awakening gives Unreal fans a better storyline this time 
 around by introducing a preset lead called John Dalton and some other characters that just walk 
 around your ship. These characters are developed over the course of the game, but their development 
 often seems forced and unnecessary since it has practically nothing to do with the core plot. The 
 storyline is fairly solid but near the end of the game it just falls apart; everything seems so 
 random and it feels like they fired the original writer and hired someone who had absolutely no 
 idea what he was doing to finish it.
  
  The gameplay like Unreal is generic first person shooter fare; you get guns, and you kill stuff. 
 While the guns seem more balanced than those in the original the level design in Unreal II suffers 
 greatly. The levels lack the imagination that was contained within Unreal and are forgettable at 
 best. Often times I just kept thinking when is this level going to be over? rather then hey, 
 this is pretty nice! The levels may be more mission oriented, but they dont have the soul that 
 Unreals did. Unfortunately this game simply seems to be a generic first person shooter with the 
 name Unreal slapped on for sales. The only relationship this has to the Unreal universe is the 
 Skaarj who are in two brief missions... thats it. The rest of the game fails to tie in with the 
 Unreal universe and proceeds to do its own thing while making barely any effort to reference past 
 games. This is somewhat forgivable, though; since there is not much to really reference. It would 
 have been nice to see the Skaarj more, however.
  
  The graphics in Unreal II are good enough; though like the first generation Unreal engine the character 
 models look better than the textures. There is also ragdoll physics in Unreal II which manages 
 to usually work well and not seem overdone like in some other shooters that make use of this feature.
 
  
  The sound is good, the music is forgettable, but the voice acting works well enough, and the gun 
 sound effects are what you would expect. One of the best parts of Unreal was its music, but sadly 
 Unreal II just doesnt have the atmospheric score that was present in the original game. Fortunately 
 the voice acting manages to at least be better than the Unreal expansion pack Return to Na Pali; 
 the voices fit the characters and never seem over the top or wooden.
  
  Unreal II: The Awakening is a decent game in its own right, but doesnt feel like Unreal and at 
 times the level design seems dull and uninspired. If youre looking for a time killer give Unreal 
 II a shot, but its a forgettable experience and the polar opposite of its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  When i played this, i was awed, when i finished it, i couldn't speak. This is one of the best games 
 i have ever played! PERIOD!
  
  Using the legendary Unreal 2 engine, the game brings you along a fantasy storyline based on a future 
 Universe. You start on your home planet, and set off in search of the 7 artifacts. Has a "interlude" 
 mission every other chapter, based on your own ship the "atlantis". This is where you can chill, 
 and find out more about the situations and alliances based within the plot. Has every type of gun 
 imaginable, some of which may impress even the most veteran FPS players.
  
  Anyone out there a FPS fan? If so, this game will stun you, literally! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 4, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Finishing Unreal 2: The Awakening I am glad I didn't buy this one when it was just out. At the 
 start there wasn't even multiplayer which makes that the short singleplayer campaign doesn't give 
 good value for money. I even tried to get XMP working but sadly no master server and probably now 
 it's already been outclassed by it's Tournament counterpart.
  
  The different missions in Unreal 2 do provide a sufficient level of variety. There are simple investigate 
 (run-and-gun) missions and defense missions (waves of enemies coming in while you have to wait 
 for repairs or a ship) . The different levels at times do provide for excellent vistas although 
 the level of detail on nowadays standards (played it in 2005, Unreal 2 is from 2002) is pretty 
 basic. Interiors look nice and sharp, an added advantage for me was that I could play the game 
 with all graphical options on full and highest resolution (1600x1200) .
  
  Some of the intermediary stuff on the ship could have been removed although they do give you a 
 little sense of connection between the different missions.
  
  Pick this one up from the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:34 pm PT
Review:  UNREAL 2: THE AWAKENING (Feb 2002) - Unreal is by some industry experts jokingly referred to as 
 an engine not a game, for it shows off its ability to show high-end graphics instead of pushing 
 for any innovative gameplay. Following the tradition, Unreal 2: The Awakening is filled with cliches 
 borrowed from many other successful FPS-s, and although credit should be given for trying to incorporate 
 a storyline this time, for all but newbie FPS-players Unreal 2 feels more like 8 hours of monotone 
 combat in pretty environments. The graphics are definitely awesome, but probably soon better games 
 will be made using Unreal 2's engine :) - Also in this series: Unreal (Apr 1998) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smitham
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2004 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Unreal II: The Awakening is a solid first-person shooter. The game suffers somewhat from high expectations, 
 which it does not live up to. However, the graphics engine, for which the orginal Unreal was also 
 known, does live up to expectations. The graphics in the game are fantastic. The gameplay is a 
 bit of a mixed bag. There are some interesting elements included that are not found in most FPS'. 
 For example, a number of missions involve setting up perimeters either alone or with the help of 
 up to four marines to defend a location. These missions can get pretty hairy at times. There's 
 also the attempt to create a real story in which you care about the main characters. This does 
 not entirely succeed in my opinion, but I didn't find it to be as bad as many reviewers have claimed. 
 In some ways it was refreshing. Otherwise, Unreal II is common shooter fare. I didn't find the 
 enemies or weapons to be particularly interesting. The weapons lack any real punch and the weapons 
 sound effects were sub-par. Your movement is very slow compared to games like Return to Castle 
 Wolfenstein. At first, it seemed so painfully slow that I thought something had to be wrong with 
 my computer. Surprisingly, only one other reviewer mentioned this phenomenon. In the very first 
 level, when facing a particularly tough enemy in an open courtyard while at low health, it was 
 like I was standing still while the enemy was bobbing and weaving at a high rate of speed. I was 
 ready to write the game off, uninstall, and trash it as unplayable, but once I was able to get 
 past this seemingly difficult situation, the rest of the game seemed to be at a reasonable difficult 
 level. Not too hard and not too easy. There was always plenty of ammo and health available. I bought 
 the game new for $14.99, which I think was a good value. I can recommend Unreal II at that price. 
 I'm not into multi-player games, but it's also noteworthy that Unreal II has no multi-player component, 
 although the Special Edition, released later, does. It's not the best shooter I've ever played, 
 but it was worth the time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 18, 2004 9:58 am PT
Review:  This was a good game. Not a great game, but a very good one. Its very hard to stand out in the 
 glutted FPS market, and Unreal II fails to do that, but it delivers a good, solid game from start 
 to finish, with the usual dark overtones Ive come to expect from Unreal. I love the variety of 
 weapons (again, pretty standard) and the levels are laid out well, providing challenge and excellent 
 eye candy. The graphics and sound were very good, and I enjoyed the game play very much.
  
  There is an attempt at a storyline, and its not the worst one Ive ever seen. Not as deep as any 
 RPG, or that of the original Deus Ex, but its interesting at least. The attempt to produce a tear 
 jerker at the end was a little blatant, but overlooking that, it kept my attention. And I cant 
 say the NPCs of your ships crew are boring.
  
  While playing, I encountered no game stopping bugs. There were some issues with my frame rate going 
 down in some very busy scenes, but thats going to happen in almost any game with great graphics. 
 It took a heckuva lot to cause any stuttering on my machine, so this really isnt a gripe, just 
 a comment that you might have problems if your machine is on the low end of the requirements.
 
  
  The ending was a bit anti-climactic, but I cant say the game disappointed. This is a solid FPS, 
 well worth the current price of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 12, 2003 10:03 am PT
Review:  Overall, Unreal 2 is a decent run-and-gun shooter that is at least worth picking up in the bargain 
 bin. It doesnt have a lot of substance or originality to it, but if you are an FPS player, then 
 you are going to enjoy the game, and thats what counts.
  
  The best part of this game becomes obvious when you see the intro screen  the graphics. They are 
 simply amazing, and they are the best that you can get on the PC in any game. This is still true 
 more than 8 months after the game came out. Not only do they look crisp and sharp, but they are 
 creative and colorful too. That makes Unreal 2 a beautiful and awesome game to look at. If you 
 have a high-end video card, then you will be blown away by all of the eye candy and special effects. 
 
  
  But then, next to the graphics, there is a problem. The locations in the game look gorgeous, but 
 they always seem empty and uninspired other than that. There is a mission that takes place on a 
 snowy landscape, and a mission that takes place on a giant, planet-sized creature. However, you 
 hardly notice the difference. The atmospheres are not interactive or immersive. The purpose of 
 the various locations seems to be to show off the Unreal 2 graphics engine. There isnt much substance 
 to them other than that. Everywhere you look, you get that feeling. So many things in the game 
 seem like they were put there to show off graphics or lighting effects, like a contrived puzzle 
 early in the game where you have to navigate around a bunch of deadly electric beams. 
  
  The best part about the game, other than the graphics, has to be the weapons, and the firefights. 
 The weapons in the game all look and sound very cool, and they all behave differently. The alternate 
 fire for each one is usually a twist that you havent seen before. For instance, the assault rifle 
 can shoot a big blast that you can bounce off of walls, and the shotgun can shoot incendiary shells. 
 It helps give you that primal satisfaction that you get from pressing your mouse button and mowing 
 down baddies with automatic fire. The crosshair looks distinctly different for each weapon too. 
 One of the fun twists to this game is a character who occasionally modifies the weapons that you 
 find in interesting ways. This seems to be the only area where the developers put a lot of thought 
 into adding something substantive and original to the game.
  
  This game has mostly dull, uninspired missions, but a few really exciting ones, which come mostly 
 towards the end. There are a lot of ordinary infiltration missions where you are going from room-to-room 
 gunning down enemies. These levels could have been put into any of a hundred different shooters 
 over the past 5 years and are mostly forgettable. A few missions require you to set up and defend 
 a perimeter, and another requires you to give sniper cover to a friendly marine. These end up being 
 the best missions in the game. 
  
  The game has a decent story that could have been better were it not for the terrible dialog and 
 annoying characters. The voice acting seems good, but it is wasted on bad clichs and one-liners 
 that even Arnold Schwarzenegger would be embarrassed to say. The main characters are the worst 
 kind of video game stereotypes, especially the hot chick with the tight leather pants and the shirt 
 that shows off her tummy and chest. She looks like a prostitute, but the game plays her off as 
 a brilliant military strategist, which is just laughable. 
  
  The action sequences arent as good as they could have been either. The variety of enemies in the 
 game are extremely low, and lots of them (especially the human enemies) are annoying. Your character 
 moves really, really slow, so strafing to dodge bullets and rockets is out of the question. The 
 Skaarj are fun to battle with, and so are the mechanical aliens that you encounter towards the 
 end of the game. 
  
  I bought Red Faction 2 at the same time as this game, and I like RF2 better, despite its outdated 
 graphics. Its hard to justify paying full price for Unreal 2, but it will probably be worth your 
 money in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rem25
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2003 1:09 am PT
Review:  If you want a fair, unbiased review, look no farther. For starters, THIS IS NOT A MULTIPLAYER GAME! 
 It never was and never should have made to be one. The orginal Unreal didn't have multiplayer functions 
 though I'm sure the producers of the game made a patch because people complained too much. Listen 
 up people, if you want to play multiplayer Unreal, buy Unreal Tournament! That's what that game 
 was made for, multiplayer purposes. Unreal is and always should be a single player game, not multiplayer 
 ever. I hate it that all the reviews I read for Unreal 2, people lowered its score because of no 
 multiplayer. Well it's just sickening, it really is. Alright, as for the game itself, the graphics 
 are just amazing. Unfreaking believable I tell you. The flamethrower effect is THE best I have 
 seen in a game so far. It handles just like any standard FPS. I do have complaints about the game, 
 it's not perfect by any means. One, there are way to many weapons. I didn't even use some of them 
 at all because you usually find 3-4 that you really like and just use those throughout the entire 
 game, resorting to the other weapons if you run out of ammo. There weren't enough Skaarj in my 
 opinion, which is what made the first game so great. Though I did freak sometimes when the Skaarj 
 did jump out of the darkness in your face. I still get freaked out playing Unreal all these years 
 later. The story isn't too bad, though it really has no following from the first story. Yes, the 
 recommended requirements are quite steep for this game. I don't have a top of the line machine, 
 as I'm sure most people who played this game have because of their complaints of steep requirements. 
 I got past that though and the lag wasn't too terrible, I dealt with it. I really like the game 
 though and felt it wasn't too tough or easy, though it was short. I think I beat it in about 10-15 
 hours. Overall, the game was good and I enjoyed it and that's all that matters. Also, NO MULTIPLAYER 
 MODES FOR UNREAL2!!!!!!!!! BUY UNREAL TOURNAMENT 2003 IF YOU WANT THE MULTIPLAYER YOU CHIMPS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megamillionz
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2003 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This Game looks fantastic. But I, have a old system and trying to play this game was such a b*****!!! 
 I got a 933MHZ P3 with 384mb ram plus an old 32 meg radeon. Even with the lowest res, level details, 
 and character details, it was hideously slow at some points later in the game.
  The story is alright, not the best or origional. When you first start playin this game its incredible, 
 how the creatures and monsters jump at you and so on.... then you just fight humans with the same 
 AI and gets REALLY repetitive. But just when you start feeling annoyed at this, the game is over!
 
  If you got a top-end system, even a 1.5ghz and above plus a good vc, you should have a better 
 viewing experience than I did...
  But I did enjoy most of the game and SOme time I will get that 2.4 ghz or something like that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2003 12:37 pm PT
Review:  OK... This is the review you want to read. Im going to tell it to you how it is.
  
  First this game does not suck as far as first person shooters go. It has a lot of pros and only 
 a few cons. The good things include descent story line, really pretty graphics and sound, good 
 game play, some fun weapons to use, and overall, fairly fun to play.
  
  The cons to this game are few but theyre BIG. First of all there is no multiplayer support whatsoever 
 and this game isnt exactly long. Its not really short either but its short enough to make paying 
 $50 seem about as smart as electing Hilary Clinton to the Presidency. If you have the chance to 
 buy it used for cheap or borrow it from a friend then I think that getting the game would be worth 
 it. As it is, all the good things about this game dont fit the price tag.
  
  And thats the way it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrael
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2003 10:23 am PT
Review:  Unreal 2 is a First Person Shooter being released to the market with much fanfare and much hype. 
 The first Unreal was a landmark in graphics, sound, and playability. Any gamer will tell you one 
 of their most memorable gaming moments was the first time you encountered the Skarrj first appeared. 
 Unfortunetly, Unreal 2 has no such moments. In fact, other than the graphics and sound of this 
 game, it offers very little found in some of the best shooters to date.
  
  
  You begin the game assuming the role of Dalton (or Marshal) , an ex-Marine who patrols the ass-end-of-space 
 as Dalton himself puts it. With two other former Marines and an interesting  alien from the local 
 exchange program, you fly around the universe doing a lot of nothing. Even better is in between 
 missions, you get to walk around your ship, and make small talk with the crew. Usually this is 
 more of a tutorial for new weapon upgrades, their functionality, and a brief look at the upcoming 
 mission. It seems to me that the developers perhaps had more planned out for this sidebar portion 
 of the game. It has somewhat the makings of an RPGish feel to it. However, the finished product 
 leaves this section uninteresting to the gamer, and more or less a waste of time.
  
  
  
  When you are on a mission, you get the same loadouts that any other game has. The Rocket Launcher, 
 the Shotgun, a FlameThrower plus more. These weapons seem at first to be tools for the extreme 
 hardcore players. However the weapons themselves are uninteresting, flat, and rather boring. Not 
 breaking any new ground here. At times, I would have rather used my fists than the shotgun. Ouch. 
 If you keep playing, youll discover a bigger picture in the game, it seems there is an *start 
 choir music* Artifact of Great Power, broken into pieces, and scattered around the galaxy among 
 different worlds. Yawn. I will e-mail the first person who answers this question, $5.00 fake money. 
 Ready? Guess who gets to hunt down the artifacts?. Yea. Great. Youll travel to different worlds, 
 exotic places, and Jersey. All looking for these artifacts, and fighting your way from one alien 
 to the next. Not all is lost however, you wont find yourself running from point A to point B, 
 at least, not most of the time. Often, youll find yourself protecting fellow Marines from a distance 
 with a S****er Rifle. Also lend a hand in evacuating a crash landing site. The game is filled with 
 a lot of these scenarios, which help keep the game going, and make it interesting at times.
  
  
  
  The aliens, and the humans you encounter in the game are rendered nicely, and look 
 pretty sharp. However, they move like paper. Using the same three or four moves over and over, 
 they get somewhat predictable. The AI could have used a lot of help here, its not all bad, but 
 it isnt great either. Now, one thing that does stand out in this game, is the lush environments. 
 You will feel like your standing on a foreign world. The beautiful skyline, the plantlife that 
 fills ground, the lifeforms that inhabit the planet, as well as the installations youll travel 
 through, all brought to life with a sense of realism. However, this game isnt a travel brochure, 
 were here to play, not sightsee. 
  
  
  
  The sound is exceptional as well. Nice Dolby Digital Encoding, making everything sound as if its 
 right there happening, and not coming out of speakers. The detail is extreme as well, from the 
 buzzing of the insects, to the winds and rain slamming you around from all sides. However, we have 
 one problem here, and its a big one. Theres a bug that likes to crash you, anytime, and all the 
 time. Now I put this here, because I believe its a sound bug that has to do with EAX. If you enable 
 this, you may have some serious problems. I however, turned it off, about two thirds through the 
 game, and the bugs have seemed to stop crashing my system.
  
  
  
  Unreal 2 is a success and a failure in many ways. While it does stand out for its exceptional 
 Graphics and Sound, its game play, and its AI needs some help. Its the little things in the 
 game, like the scenarios and traveling to alien worlds that keep you interested. But once you beat 
 this game, theres very little to bring you back to it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luvu01469
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 7, 2003 11:18 am PT
Review:  I've played a lot of FPS's. (Half life,  Never in my life have 
 I actually fallen asleep while playing a game. Literally. The graphics engine on this baby is without 
 a doubt the most incredible gaming experience. Problems? Zero plot, not enough heart stopping action, 
 WAY too much load time/cut scenes. I held off from buying the game initially when I read Gamespot's 
 reviews, and listening to my friends complain about how disappointed they were. When I saw it used 
 for a lower price, I figured hey it cant be that bad. The issue isn't that 
 I hate this game, or was sorely disappointed in it... its just that during the game and after I 
 finished it... I just didn't care about it anymore. The game really leaves you feeling like there's 
 no point what so ever. I remember salivating over pics/news of this game in development and thinking 
 man this game is gonna kick Halo's butt! Now I can't wait for Halo to arrive on the PC. 
  
  Buy unreal 2003. Same engine, without the dang cut scenes. Or get Battlefield 1942 and never fall 
 asleep during a game again!!!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
