-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unreal II: The Awakening Special Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/unrealiise/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 20, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 8.3, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 176 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Legend Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Dec 18, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The new XMP mode isn't all that original, but it offers a solid multiplayer gameplay experience. 
 

  When Unreal II: The Awakening was first released in early 2003, it failed to meet the lofty expectations 
 of critics and fans. Part of the disappointment stemmed from a short, lackluster single-player 
 campaign, a problem that was compounded by the absence of any multiplayer modes. In response to 
 the criticism, Atari has rereleased Unreal II in a new "special edition" package that includes 
 both the single-player campaign and a team-based multiplayer mode called "XMP" (which is available 
 as a free download for those who already own Unreal II) . The new XMP mode isn't all that original, 
 but it offers a solid gameplay experience.  

          The new multiplayer mode offers the same great graphics as the original.     

  There's 
 only one gameplay mode in XMP, and it's a take on the quintessential capture-the-flag mode. Instead 
 of capturing flags for points, the goal in XMP is to gather artifacts. Each team starts a match 
 with two of four artifacts in its base. The first team to capture and possess all four artifacts 
 simultaneously is the winner. Before spawning into the game, you'll choose to be one of three different 
 classes: ranger, tech, or gunner. Each of the three classes is prebuilt with a specific kit of 
 weaponry and items -- the game doesn't allow for mixing and matching, nor can you pick up weapons 
 from dead enemies or comrades. All three can revive a fallen teammate in the field (though only 
 the rangers can restore teammates to full health) , and all classes have the ability to fly a short 
 distance using jetpacks. As in the Tribes games, the jetpacks come into play when you're dueling 
 with an opponent and when you need to transport yourself across the map.  

  All three classes have distinct roles. The ranger acts as a combination of the traditional medic 
 and sniper classes, with the ability to heal teammates and attack from extremely long range using 
 the sniper rifle. The magnum pistol and shock lance are the ranger's backup weapons. Though the 
 ranger is the flimsiest class, it's also the fastest, and its smoke grenades can prove quite effective 
 at providing cover when used by a skilled player. The tech acts as the basic soldier and engineer, 
 carrying easy-to-use weapons like the assault rifle and shotgun, as well as kits for deploying 
 force fields and automated defense turrets. Techs can also repair a teammate's shields. The final 
 class is the gunner, who compensates for his slow speed by having the thickest shields and the 
 heaviest weapons, including a rocket launcher, a flamethrower, and mines.  

  Though the game may seem simple with just three fixed classes to choose from, Unreal II XMP is 
 actually fairly complicated and offers significant depth. Littered around the maps are a variety 
 of fixtures, including energy generators, spawn points, vehicle spawns, and manned turrets. These 
 pieces of machinery can be captured and are of great strategic importance. Energy generators supply 
 each team with power to operate key base machinery and deployables. Without enough power, your 
 automated defenses and manned turrets can go offline, making them inoperable. The struggle for 
 energy becomes a key subplot in each match as both teams try to balance how many turrets and force 
 fields they can afford to deploy. Coordinated teams will send out strike forces to seize enemy-controlled 
 generators just before an assault on the enemy artifact node, in order to pave the way to an easier 
 capture. Wrestling over spawn points placed in the middle of maps is also a key part of each match. 
 As in Battlefield 1942, having control of all the spawn points in Unreal II XMP can pin the opponents 
 in their base and allow your team to apply heavy pressure.  

  It seems overwhelming at first to try to keep track of so many different aspects of battle. Within 
 seconds, you can go from dominating all the generators to having an energy crisis. Forward spawn 
 points you thought your team had locked down can swing back to the other team instantly. Once you 
 get acclimated to the interface, you'll appreciate the way the battle flows from one area to the 
 next as each team probes the other for weaknesses. However, it's still important to remember that 
 Unreal II XMP is like any other team-based multiplayer shooter; the quality of the gameplay is 
 directly related to the experience level of the other players and how willing they are to work 
 as a team. To encourage teamwork, the scoring system in XMP is strictly points-based. You still 
 gain points for fragging enemies, but no specific kill count appears on the scoreboard. This style 
 of scoring encourages players to do more dirty work, such as escorting artifact carriers, capturing 
 generators, and playing defense, all of which are rewarded appropriately by the points system. 

          Though most maps in the XMP mode are well designed, this space map is hard to navigate, 
 making it easily the worst one.     

  Though there are only eight maps in the game, almost all of them are very well designed and fun 
 to play. Bases always have multiple approach points from either a wide landscape or via underground 
 passageways. Key areas such as generators and spawn points are scattered thoughtfully around the 
 map, making it nearly impossible for one team to defend everything. Even in 30-player games, there's 
 always going to be a weak point in your opponent's strategy. There's simply too much area and not 
 enough men to cover all the generators and spawn points and to defend the artifact node.  

  One might assume that the large maps in XMP put a premium on the use of vehicles. This hasn't turned 
 out to be the case in practice. There are only three vehicles to choose from, ranging from a quick 
 buggylike vehicle, to a lumbering tank with a powerful mounted cannon. Unlike in Battlefield 1942, 
 the vehicles in XMP can succumb rather quickly to concentrated infantry fire and are especially 
 vulnerable to manned turrets. For this reason, most players seem content to hoof it across the 
 map rather than rely on vehicles for transport. However, given the proper infantry support, a vehicle 
 can still turn the tide of a skirmish, simply because they can all pack quite a punch with their 
 mounted weapons.  

  As you would expect, the XMP mode leverages the same engine used in Unreal II, providing extremely 
 high quality visuals. A year later, the graphics still hold up very well, and the sound effects 
 are also the same ones used in the original game, so you can expect an attractive overall package. 
 Even though the single-player game hasn't changed in Unreal II: The Awakening Special Edition, 
 the XMP mode by itself makes the package worth a purchase for fans of team-based multiplayer shooters. 
 And, as mentioned, those who already own Unreal II should definitely dust off their old discs, 
 as the XMP mode is available to them as a free download. Our only worry is that Atari might be 
 spreading its Unreal fan base a little too thin, what with the existing popularity of the multiplayer-focused 
 Unreal Tournament 2003 and the impending release of UT 2004.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised when i loaded up this game for two reasons, one because i was surprised by how 
 well crafted it was, and two because it craved my taste for Halo till I got an xbox.
  I remember back...
  It was some monthes ago when i was looking for a game with a story line as 
 ambitous and indepth as Halo's. I tried Pariah, Snowblind, and a few others. However all were dissapointing 
 and didnt satisfy my intergalatic taste for exploration.
  Finally, i got my hands on Unreal 2. I had remembered seeing it in PCGamer sometime ago, and had 
 been interested in playing it, but had never gotten around to it.
  So I installed it and loaded it up. The graphics were nice, the sound was great (with headphones) 
 and i had a blast. Shooting basically anything that moved, i traversed the planets looking to kill 
 as much as possible, each time returning to my base to be **** out by my other crew, but it was 
 a love hate relationship you learn to care about.
  I had finally found something to help fill in the empty holes Halo had left.
  Thanks Unreal 2. 
 It was good.
  [Recommended for FPS'ers and people looking for a unique adventure] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiggles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2004 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Unreal XMP is one of the most incredible multiplayer games I have ever played. XMP combines the 
 fast paced action of Quake 3 with jet pack hopping reminiscent of Tribes and blends it perfectly 
 with outlandish weapons and the most well balanced vehicular combat in any game to date. The thing 
 that struck me first about XMP was its simplicity, you can pick up the game and start playing like 
 a pro within an hour. Theres is only one gametype, and thats more than enough for me, because the 
 XMP gametype is nothing short of outstanding. XMP combines the best elements of all of UT 2004's 
 gametypes into one. Players choose one of the 3 classes, the Ranger, Tech or Gunner. Each team 
 starts with 2 of the 4 artifacts on the map. To win, one team must control all 4 artifacts at once, 
 much like the domination gametype, but the artifacts are mobile giving the game the feel of CTF 
 with multiple flags. Using either one of the vehicles or your own jetpack (you cover ground extremely 
 quickly no matter which way you travel) a player must make his way across the map to the opponents 
 side of the map and pass through a gateway at their base to retrieve an artifact, and then return 
 it to their own base. The game isnt as simple as all of that, simply retrieving all of the artifacts 
 is not enough, your team must also take control of various items on the map to fuel their efforts. 
 There are not only stationary turrets throuhout most of the maps, there are also deploy points, 
 which act as respawn points for your team once captured. Individual players have to watch how much 
 energy they have, because energy is necessary for both using your jetpack, as well as use of your 
 deployables, such as turrets and land mines. Not only must you regulate your own energy use but 
 players must watch the energy use of their entire team, to gain more energy your team must capture 
 and hold power generators. Energy dictates everything, wheter your team can make turrets, your 
 deployables are operable and even if you have enough power to capture an artifact at all. The game 
 may seem complex, but it all blends seamlessly into the action. The single player is not half bad, 
 but the XMP multiplayer is so well done that I can easily recommend this game to any fan of first 
 person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legacynick
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 12, 2004 9:31 am PT
Review:  With the addition of XMP (which is all I really play because the single player is so flawed in 
 comparison) , you cannot pass this game up for 15-20 dollars. The multiplayer resembles team fortress 
 and some other class based multiplayer shooters, but with the addition of well thought out vehicles, 
 turrets, weapons, and a very fun scoring system that rewards you for carrying out even the most 
 basic of tasks within the game, most people who enjoy shooters in one way or another will find 
 something to like about this one. The graphics are polished and add to the gameplay as well, though 
 here's hoping your computer has some horsepower (all good on a Ti4200 for me) . Finally, the included 
 maps show off the many facets of the game without sacrificing playability and architecture. They 
 are as fun to observe for their sheer size and scope and craftmanship as they are to play. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
