-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Unreal Tournament 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/unrealtournament2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.8, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,208 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Digital Extremes
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Sep 30, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it's not all that it could have been, Unreal Tournament 2003 does deliver tons of bloody, 
 in-your-face combat in some beautifully designed arenas. 

 They call it the sophomore jinx: A rookie pitcher has a stunning debut season in the major leagues, 
 only to be sent back to triple-A ball the next year. A band puts out a phenomenal first album, 
 but there's only one good song at best on the follow-up. When Unreal Tournament was released in 
 1999, it was widely celebrated, widely played, and widely loved. Could the sequel possibly repeat 
 that huge success? Thankfully, Unreal Tournament 2003 manages to avoid the sophomore jinx, and 
 in many ways the game is even better than its predecessor. On one hand, it's not the really exceptional 
 game it could have been -- there's just not enough diversity, depth, or innovation in the gameplay. 
 But on the other hand, Unreal Tournament 2003 still delivers plenty of what you want from this 
 type of game: exciting, nonstop combat in wild settings, all brought to life with a stunning, state-of-the-art 
 graphics engine that leaves its competition in the dust.           The sequel includes a wider 
 range of player models.    

  In traditional shooter fashion, Unreal Tournament 2003 offers up a disposable background story 
 that you can forget as soon as you start playing. The real point of the game is simply to viciously 
 frag your opponents. You can challenge other players in four core game modes in either Internet 
 games or on a LAN. You can also play offline with and against computer-controlled bots in a ladder-based 
 tournament or in single matches. The bots' skill level can easily rival or even surpass that of 
 most human players, depending on the difficulty setting you choose. You can also give them orders 
 in team games, and they'll effectively carry them out, though there's apparently no easy way to 
 bind commands to single keys as in the original UT, which makes them too hard to issue quickly 
 in the heat of battle.  

  The selection of game modes includes straightforward versions of deathmatch and team deathmatch, 
 as well as capture the flag. While it's great to see those classics return, it's a real shame that 
 the developers only took the time to include two other game modes, and not very inventive ones 
 at that. The original Unreal Tournament's domination mode has been replaced with double domination, 
 in which your team must hold two control points concurrently for at least 10 seconds to score. 
 And as a replacement for the original game's late, lamented assault mode, UT2003 offers a less-than-revolutionary 
 new mode called bombing run. This is part of the designers' half-hearted and rather unconvincing 
 attempt to make Unreal Tournament into some sort of sports game franchise. In bombing run, your 
 team tries to grab a ball from the center of the map and then carry it to a goal in the enemy team's 
 base. The fact that you can't shoot your weapons while carrying the ball, but can pass the ball 
 to teammates, keeps things somewhat interesting.          You can play it straight, or use mutators 
 to enhance the game.    

  While there is a distinct lack of new gameplay modes in UT2003, you can at least tweak the gameplay 
 a bit using the small-scale modifications known as mutators. "Instagib," for example, arms everyone 
 with a weapon that kills with a single shot. "Low gravity" alters the movement physics, while "vampire" 
 heals you when you injure opponents. Those are just a few of the included mutators, and if the 
 continuous support for the original Unreal Tournament is anything to go by, you can expect to see 
 countless new mutators, maps, and mods to be released by the game's loyal fan community in the 
 coming months.  

  One of UT2003's brand-new features is adrenaline, which you stockpile by grabbing oversized pills 
 floating about the maps. When you collect 100 adrenaline points, you can perform keyboard maneuvers 
 that let you temporarily turn invisible, increase your speed, boost your health, or do extra damage. 
 These can have a major impact at crucial moments in team games like capture the flag. Even without 
 adrenaline, you can perform a number of special jumping and dodging moves that expand on the dodges 
 from the original Unreal Tournament. In addition to dodging quickly forward, backward, or to the 
 side as you could in the original game, you can also double-jump and jump off walls in UT2003 -- new 
 additions that help skilled players dodge incoming fire and get around the maps more quickly.  
    

 One of the most controversial elements of UT2003 will surely be the way its weapons have been implemented 
 and the way they differ from those of original UT. Many of the UT weapons were insanely powerful -- and 
 for many fans of the game, insanely fun to use. The game's obligatory rocket launcher, for example, 
 was no ordinary weapon: It let you launch heat-seeking rockets, fire up to six rockets at a time, 
 or lob a bunch of grenades all at once. Sure, this was overkill, and the same was true of the game's 
 devastating flak cannon. Those and other weapons tended to be abused by "spammers," players who 
 would attempt to fill up small corridors and hallways by firing blindly and repeatedly. But in 
 the original Unreal Tournament, everyone else could easily find a powerful weapon lying around, 
 so things balanced out in the end. Just as importantly, all the weapons looked great, and some 
 sounded truly brutal, which often made the simple act of pulling the trigger a real joy. The same 
 can't usually be said of Unreal Tournament 2003's weapons, which for the most part seem rather 
 dull by comparison.          Fans of the original game may take issue with some of UT2003's weapons. 
    

  In UT2003, you'll find some new weapons and some modified versions of the original game's weapons. 
 Veteran players will quickly notice that most of the weapons have been toned down and largely equalized. 
 The rocket launcher has been castrated for the new game -- the primary fire is limited to a single 
 relatively weak rocket and the secondary fire is limited to at most a slow, triple-rocket launch. 
 The flak cannon, which was absurdly powerful at close range in the first game, is but a shadow 
 of its former self in UT 2003.  

  That said, the action can still definitely be fast and exciting despite the relatively bland weapons, 
 and it now takes more skill to hit and kill your targets. In UT2003, it's not as effective to simply 
 spray and pray, hoping some splash damage might kill your opponent, as it was in Unreal Tournament. 
 Then again, since most of the weapons deal similar amounts of damage, they can start to blur together. 
 Most of them just aren't as distinctive, and don't have as much character, as the weapons from 
 the original game. For that matter, some of the weapon models, particularly the default assault 
 rifle weapon and the new link gun weapon, also look too similar.   

  Regardless of whether you feel the weapons should have been toned down, you have to admit that 
 the developers did a fine job moderating their power. Consider, for instance, the lightning gun, 
 which replaces the original game's sniper rifle. Now when you zoom in, you get only a small clear 
 area in the center of the screen with which to target your prey, while the surrounding area partially 
 obscures your vision. The gun takes a while to recharge and also gives away your position by firing 
 a glowing arc of electricity at your target when you pull the trigger, so you can't hide in the 
 shadows and repeatedly snipe people with impunity anymore.          The ion painter makes for some 
 pretty spectacular explosions.    

  Other weapons include a relatively useless default weapon, an assault rifle with a mounted grenade 
 launcher. You can also pick up a minigun, a shock rifle, a bio-rifle, and a redeemer guided missile 
 similar to those in UT, with roughly equivalent (though generally weaker) primary and secondary 
 firing modes. The pulse blaster has been replaced by the link gun, which has similar firing modes 
 but also lets you "charge" teammates with the secondary fire mode, which lets them dole out more 
 damage with their own link gun blasts. The impact hammer has been replaced with a shield generator 
 for blocking shots and causing melee damage. The new ion painter lets you call down blasts from 
 an orbital weapon, which is the ultimate in overkill next to the redeemer. You'll also get a slightly 
 modified version of the old translocator teleportation device. While it's not primarily a weapon, 
 you can still "telefrag" with it by teleporting on top of someone. It's usually more important 
 for navigating certain map areas, defending your base, dodging shots, or saving yourself at the 
 last second from nasty falls into a pit.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Hello ladies and germs. Your king of review is back in full force with a game so addicting you 
 will find yourself halucinating and filling out divorce papers. In all seriousness this game is 
 absolutely beautiful. Not to mention this is truly one of my favorite games and series that ive 
 played. I remember when this game first was released. I was very impressed however I felt as if 
 though it was trying to knock off of quake 3 arena. 
  
  Now this game is truly wonderful and offers many hours of murder and mayhem. Its just that it is 
 not the best on the market. It is the second best. Wether or not you agree with me is your own 
 problem. I still entered and won many tournaments through this game so I know what im talking about. 
 This game is second best because quake 3 arena for the pc is the top dog. This game however to 
 its credit is one of the only games that couldve stood up to quake at that time as many other knock 
 offs were thrown under the bridge with the police unable to identify the disk.
  
  Honestly you need to get this game. Even now that it has been so long. It is still highly addictive 
 and fun. I recommend it.
  
  Not bad for a sequel but still couldve had a lot more to compete with the monster known as quake! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gribb85
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament was one of the games of 1999, and ever since the news of a sequel was announced 
 from makers Epic, fans have been wondering 'how can you make the best online shooter better?' Thankfully 
 none of the 'doubters' are working for Epic, and the lead designer has his fair share of ideas 
 on how to make UT2003 a masterpiece. Innovations will be the key to UT2003 success. Instead of 
 a complete overhaul of UT (which must have been tempting) , UT2003 is a tweaked version of UT with 
 more features, involving game play, skins, weapons maps and team play, than you can shake a proverbial 
 stick at.
  
  The main improvement in UT is the graphics, with a polygon count that exceeds the original UT three 
 hundred times. When you look at the screenies below, you can see how much UT evolved. Unlike the 
 lifeless industrial complexes in the original, UT2003 is populated with wild shrubbery, trees, 
 waterfalls and other breathtaking natural phenomenon. Not only are these maps beautiful but they 
 stretch on and on, big is just an understatement. The skin movements and weapons are what anarchists 
 dreams are made off, with stunning explosions and satisfying player actions. This game really does 
 need to be seen in full flow, stills don't do this game justice. I urge you to download a movie, 
 because you need to know just how great this game looks.
  
  Enough about graphics lets talk about the game play. 5 modes populate the new UT, with one new 
 (very exciting) edition; you are going to love this. Death match, Team Death match and Capture 
 the Flag all make a welcome return to UT, being generously tweaked a long the way, but they all 
 remain essentially the same.
  
  Domination is also back under the disguise of Domination 2.0. The original mode was very chaotic 
 and a tad 'fluky' at times, requiring hardly any team play or skill. But 2.0 will change all that, 
 with only 2 markers on a map, both placed on opposite sides of the map, in order to stretch the 
 team, and making it impossible to hold both tags comfortably. The aim of this mode is to take possession 
 of 2 different markers placed on the opposite ends of a map, you do this touching them, thus turning 
 them your colour. But if your enemy touches them they will turn their team colour. Points are given 
 for the amount of time your hold the tags in your possession, the longer they are in possession 
 the more points you earn. Understand? Good lets move on.
  
  Finally we reach the coup de grace, the brand spanking new mode for Unreal Tournament 2003, Bombing 
 Run. This mode is truly a sport. The game play revolves around a ball which appears in the centre 
 of a map, the teams aim is to get the ball in the other team's base, to score points. Sounds easy 
 doesn't it well there is a catch. You cannot fire any weapons while holding the ball, and you have 
 to rely on your team-mates to cover you. While that happens the other team will be trying to frag 
 you will a full arsenal of redeemers, and rocket launchers. Many online teams, clans, and leagues 
 have already declared their support for this mode and have spawned universal gaming support. So 
 expect hundreds of leagues popping up on the release date, lead designer Mark Rein seems excited 
 "It promotes teamwork and strategy", "A true UT sport, which several UK based online groups, and 
 organisations are already backing." The potential of Bombing Run is limitless, it could be compared 
 to American football with more explosions and ton loads of excitement. We should all be very excited.
 
  
  Even though UT2003 is designed for internet play, Epic has taken considerable effort in perfecting 
 their single player experience. You have already been crowned the Ultimate Death match champion 
 (in the original) only one area is left unconquered, the Team death match scene. You are drafted 
 into a lowly division team, you are soon proclaimed captain and must take your band of merry men 
 (or women) to the top. Your team consists of five players, two offenses, two defenses, and the 
 captain's free role. You must lead your team to glory using strategy and skill. You will play against 
 over fifteen different races including Skarr, robots, Egyptians and many other surreal life forms. 
 All with a different playing style which adapts to your own as you play, the bots actually learn 
 as you play. The 'Matrix' future moves ever closer.
  Your team mates also improve and as you travel up the leagues, gaining valuable experience. You 
 can even use your winnings to draft other players in, in case yours aren't pulling their weight, 
 just like in real sports such as football, and soccer. A multiplayer game with an enthralling single 
 player experience? Well Half Life showed that dream is possible, lets hope Epic can pull off the 
 same feat.
  
  The weapons in UT2003 have been tweaked to perfection, with a few new additions. The Machine Gun, 
 Translocator, Rocket Launcher, Flak Cannon, Minigun, Shock Rifle and Redeemer all make a welcome 
 return. The first new addition is the Shield Gun, it replaces the hammer in UT, it covers the player 
 with a flat shield, it is however very ammo hungry, and doesn't last too long, although is does 
 recharge in time. The second new firearm is the Pulse Rifle, this gun releases a steady stream 
 of energy towards your opponent, slowly wearing him down after a few seconds, it can however be 
 charged by linking it with your team mates, thus doubling the damage to the enemy, this gun can 
 be linked with 3 of your team mates. All guns have been slightly altered to add a more balanced 
 form of game play, and to eliminate the 'Newb' always going for the Rocket Launcher.
  
  Throughout UT2003's development the fans have been involved every step of the way, with lead designers 
 such as Mark Rein giving q and a sessions on MIRC, and releasing videos of game play with every 
 new development. Epics dedication to the gamer has been absolute. This support will continue with 
 the new Unreal Editor that is shipped with the game. It is based on the original editor for Unreal, 
 but is much more powerful and easier to use. It has become a lot easier to create new levels, modifications, 
 and entirely new gaming concepts with this editor. It is so easy to use that the creators are confident 
 that they expect new levels and mods to appear days after UT2003s initial release.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: go-cizmek
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2003 is a great FPS. If you ever played a FPS, this one is certainly recommended 
 to everyone. It is intense, thrilling and best of all, bloody.
  Game modes are really just great and the weapon choice is good with beautiful arenas. It can also 
 be played online. In a deathmatch the goal is very simple: shoot and kill everyone. There's also 
 the team deathmatch in which you have a team to defeat another team. Deathmatch rules apply.
  In double domination you have two areas which your team must conquer and defend and stay on for 
 a certain amount of time to score. Capture the flag is pretty simple: every team has their own teritory 
 and the goal is to go to the enemy's turf, steal their flag and take it to your base. The hardest 
 mode is probably bombing run. In this mode the objective is to get to an orb, steal it and take 
 it to the enemy base. When you pick up the orb you can't change weapons so you will be exposed 
 quite a lot for the enemy to shoot you more easily. The artillery is quite advanced and pretty 
 destructive. The basic machinegun fires rounds and grenades, the flak cannon fires some sort of 
 a shotgun round but a bit more destructive, especially on the secondary fire. There's two superweapons, the 
 reedemer, a portable nuclear missile which can be fired directly and the secondary fire lets you 
 guide the missile yourself. The other one is the ion painter which fires a harmless laser beam 
 untill you hold the fire button for too long. Then a sattelite in space shoots down a huge destructive 
 laser strike which is almost as powerfull as the reedemer. The other weapons are the three-way 
 rocket launcher, link gun, the minigun, the lightning gun which is the most powerful normal weapon 
 in the game and some other guns. Unfortunately, the lack of the ripper makes the game a bit incomplete.
 
  The map choice is really good and almost all arenas are perfectly made. There's more than 30 maps 
 available, most of them for deathmatch.
  There's also a list of mutators, special mods included in all modes. There's the vampire mode which 
 allows you to regenerate health by killing enemies and so much more.
  The game story is quite simple; choose a character, choose your team members and climb up the ladder 
 in a combination af all modes and become the king of unreal tournament. So in story mode you'll 
 have deathmatch, double domination, capture the flag and bombing run.
  The graphics are excellent and the weapon design is great although the characters could have been 
 better. There should've been more maps included and better sound and speech but all in all it's 
 an excellent game and I recommend it to everyone who likes an intense and a thrilling action game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate1222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2003 isn't a deep, complex, story driven, tactical first person shooter-and, 
 frankly, I don't want it to be! That's not why I love the Unreal series. It gets the parts I bought 
 it for right. Admittedly, there are FPSs that have a heavy emphasis on story that I love (Halo, 
 Golden-Eye/N64, SWJK2: JO/PC&GC) ; but it isn't always necessary. Counter Strike is the premier "tactical" 
 FPS and has earned and wears its crown justly. But if there were ever somewhat "arcadey" FPSs; 
 Unreal and Quake 3 Arena would be them. I love both for very similar reasons. They do on PCs what 
 FPSs like Time Splitters kinda do on consoles; provide just enough of a story to give the game 
 a creative direction, then focus on the multi player elements with that aesthetic in mind. It provides 
 a very "jump into action" sort of feel. The weapons are pretty standard: machine guns with grenade 
 attachments, shot guns (called"flak cannons") , rocket launchers, sniper rifles,  
 ect... The levels are more diverse than I have ever seen in a FPS. They will simply BLOW YOUR MIND 
 as you gawk at the architectual detail and visual style, while trying to not get yourself blown 
 to bits. I'm sure UT2004 has its killer points as I've not played it, yet. And, of course, I'm 
 drooling over what UT III will be. But if you have an older PC (pre-2005) and can find a copy by 
 all means get UT2003. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizzyKid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  The good stuff:
  - Gorgeous looking enviroments with crisp texture detail
  - Great character movement with sharp control
  - A ton of different ways to blow your opponent 
 into pieces
  The bad stuff:
  - Not much in the way of content compared to the prequel Unreal Tournament - Weapons feel underwhelming
 
  
  Unreal Tournament released in 1999 was a superb game with high detailed models, a variety of unique 
 weapons that felt really good, a ton of maps and alot of ways to customize the gameplay experience 
 with a handful of mutators and very customizable match rules. Fast-forward to the future and in 
 late 2002 we have Unreal Tournament 2003 with an all new game engine which is nothing short of 
 visually stunning. Unreal Tournament 2003 is just as much fun to play, however, it isn't all that 
 you would expect from an sequel.
  
  The first thing you will notice upon starting a match is that the game just looks beautiful. High 
 polygon models and enviroments, high detail and crisp textures and wonderful lightning. The amount 
 of detail that can be seen in one small map is superb. Every level is decorated with lots of meshes 
 that stray from simple geometry. The big outdoor enviroments is just a whole another thing with 
 jaw dropping visuals. The only bad thing you could say about Unreal Tournaments 2003's graphics 
 is a lack in shadows, and the shadows do seem rather unrealistic. But the game looks gorgeous anyway 
 that you probably couldn't care less.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2003 plays wonderfully. You have alot of control over your character's movement 
 with very responsive and sharp controls. You have quite a good bit of air control, and a ton of 
 control of how and where you want to jump too. This kind of movement makes for some very competitive 
 gameplay online, and the maps where designed with this in mind with plenty of opportunities to 
 do a running jump dodge onto that otherwise unreachable area which allows for quick access to a 
 power-up. This may sound intimidating, and at first it is. The movement definatly takes a bit of 
 time to get used to, but once you do you just can't go back to another first person shooter without 
 it.
  
  A new mechanic in Unreal Tournament 2003 is the addition of adrenaline. Adrenaline is gained by 
 picking up pills scattered across the map or by fragging your opponents. Once you gain a hundred 
 adrenaline (Indicated by the HUD at the top left) you will be able to activate one of four different 
 abilities which depend on the key combo you used. You activate an adrenaline ability by pressing 
 a four key combo using the arrow keys. Up, Up, Up, Up for example activates speed which makes you 
 run really fast for a small period of time. If you get killed whilst using an adrenaline ability 
 however you will respawn with no adrenaline.
  
  Some of the traditional gameplay modes make a comeback in Unreal Tournament 2003 which are Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch and capture the flag. Assault and Domination haven't returned but two new modes 
 are Bombing Run and Double Domination. Double Domination is similar to Domination found in Unreal 
 Tournament in that there are control points located on the map and two teams have to try and capture 
 and hold them. With Double Domination there are only two control points on symmetrical maps and 
 a team can only score if they hold both control points for a period of ten seconds. Bombing Run 
 is like the bloody sport of Unreal Tournament combined with rugby or American football. A ball 
 is spawned in the center of a symmetrical map and must be put through one of the teams goals to 
 score. If you are holding the ball you cannot shoot any weapons, instead your weapons are replaced 
 with the ball thrower for as long as you have the ball. You can shoot anywhere you want or you 
 can pass to a teammate with a lock on feature.
  
  While Unreal Tournament 2003 has enough content to keep anyone satisfied for a long period of time, 
 it doesen't pack in as much as what was included with Unreal Tournament. A handful of the mutators 
 seem to be missing and there only seems to be about half as many maps. What there is tough is some 
 well balanced and competitive maps and many different character models to choose and play with. 
 Some fans from Unreal Tournament may be a bit annoyed to find the Ripjack (A weapon that shoots 
 sharp metal spinning disks which could bounce of walls and make for some easy head shots) has not 
 been included and the redeemer is gone. Instead of the redeemer there is a weapon called the Ion 
 Painter in which you indicate via a tracer where you want to strike. You must remain still for 
 a few seconds and then an orbital ion strike will rain down on the unfortunate combatants that 
 happen to be in it's path.
  
  All the weapons in Unreal Tournament 2003 look really good and are well balanced. There are some 
 changes made to them such as the Flak Cannon has a tighter spread but they remain familiar to what 
 was in Unreal Tournament. However they all feel underwhelming. The shield gun (Unreal Tournament 
 2003's Impact Hammer) can be used to slaughter an opponent with a close range impact and the alternate 
 fire can be used to project a shield around the front of the character. But the primary fire just 
 doesen't give much satisfaction, you just walk up to someone and it's as if they disappear with 
 a blood splatter. Same with the Rocket Launcher. You would expect it to look very powerful and 
 sound deafening, but the rockets give off a small, weak explosion and the sound of the rockets 
 getting thrown out of the launcher is quiet.
  
  Whilst Unreal Tournament 2003 doesen't have as much content as you would hope for, it's still a 
 solid, fast paced and competitive multiplayer shooter. Anyone who likes first person shooters should 
 definatly check out Unreal Tournament 2003. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The most immediately noticeable thing about UT2003 is the graphics. Theyre mind-blowing: brightly 
 coloured flashes, intricate attention to detail and minor graphical flourishes are all present 
 and correct. Make no mistake, this is one pretty title. But graphics do not maketh a game, and 
 so dont judge this game by its cover. Thankfully, I can say that the underlying mechanics of the 
 game are also sound. The in-game physics are often pleasing to watch as your character bounces 
 off walls after having mistakenly jumped into an opponents rocket. The weapons have been nicked 
 and tucked to perfection this time around, UT2003 eschewing the rather boring Ripper in place 
 of a slightly debateable Ion Painter, which brings a super beam of death to wreak vengeance on 
 outdoor maps (no, I dont understand the science behind it either!) . A blemish on this arsenal 
 gourmet, however, are the double enforcers, which are replaced by an assault rifle, stunningly 
 reminiscent of Alien Versus Predator. Ill leave you to decide its particular merits. The Sniper 
 Rifle has been modified to a cooler Lightning Gun and other weapons have been sexed-up to 
 create a glorious deathmatch experience. Deathmatch is only one of the game modes on offer here, 
 with the usual recruits of Team Deathmatch and Capture the Flag also available. Slightly lamentable 
 are the losses of Assault and Domination, but are replaced by the more than adequate Double 
 Domination, a brilliant combination of offence and defence bundled together, and Bombing Run 
 which is basically rugby, except with guns. Its a mad scramble to reach the ball, then charge 
 through the opponents goal in a mad rush of adrenaline. Adrenaline, while were on the subject, 
 is implemented in-game which affords you power-ups such as extra speed, health regeneration or 
 invisibility. You can also go berserk, giving you extra damage. You have to amass a healthy total 
 of adrenaline before you can let it loose, however, and while youre frenzied your adrenaline gradually 
 trickles back to zero. Adrenaline can be gained by picking up adrenaline capsules or killing enemies, 
 whichever you prefer. Another innovation of the Unreal Tournament series is the translocator, 
 a miniature teleporter allowing you to skip across the map. This is better implemented than ever 
 here, when you can access it via a video camera, allowing you to spy on enemies and track its path. 
 It also looks far cooler now, but can be turned off by use of a mutator. Eh? Whats a mutator? 
 A mutator is an option which is enabled in the Single Player Instant Action, which is basically 
 just Multiplayer (wait for it!) in Single Player, with bots, computer-controlled opponents. The 
 mutators range from the sensible to the ridiculous, and encompass things like low gravity and vampire, 
 whereby you heal yourself as you damage your enemies. They do, however, have a profound effect 
 when used, and are eminently fun to use. Instant Action is all fine and dandy, but if a game 
 doesnt have a main campaign, its going to suffer. UT2003 doesnt so much have a main campaign 
 as a series of maps, but it doesnt really detract from the experience. Ignore the lacking story, 
 its not too interesting. Basically, your character plays through maps, facing increasingly tough 
 teams of bots. This may sound boring, but its not. Another sparkling innovation is that you get 
 to pick your team  not inventive, but first you have to defeat them in a huge deathmatch: a brilliant 
 balancing dynamic, because if you draft an amazing team, youre going to have to spend a long time 
 beating them in a chaotic brawl. You also get regular offers from other teams, making UT2003 into 
 a bit of a sports game as well. UT2003 also strays into RPG territory, as each bot has statistics 
 that can be modified and tweaked at will. An extremely fun experience, but cannot really compare 
 to the thrills of Instant Action and online play. To make the most out of online play, youll 
 really need broadband and a decent server, as the lag can hit pretty badly on an ordinary modem. 
 Once you have broadband and a decent server, however, multiplayer becomes much more palatable, 
 in which you can easily lose yourself for an evening (or more!) . In addition, to make the UT2003 
 experience even better, turn your audio up to full, as the music, weapon effect and voice acting 
 are all top quality, although be warned: some mature language is used. Also bundled with the game 
 is a map editor. This is surprisingly difficult to use, with things like lighting and 3D effects 
 to be considered. Not for the amateur level-creator (like me) , but an essential tool for the semi-professional 
 modder. Overall, UT2003 is a polished update to a superb original, which is well worth a purchase, 
 despite slightly lacking in the innovation department. Especially as you get &pound;10 off UT2004! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 29, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  this is a good game don't get me wrong, But it's like a remake of UT99 really... just better visuals 
 let me take you through the good and the bad points...
  
  
  the good: this was a really great game in the time of 2002 and people still like to play it now. 
 The visuals have improved and so has the storyline (as seen in the beggining movie) and there are 
 a few new weapons like the assault rifle which replaced the enforcer and the ion painter which 
 is like the redeemer the best thing about this game is that it carried on the great series...
 
  
  the bad: this game has taken out Assault mode which was my favourite mode. And they have replaced 
 one of my favourite weapons, the enforcer.
  However i have UT2004 And UT99 to fill those needs such as assault and the enforcer. There are 
 not that many levels in this new one as the others either
  
  overall: get UT2004 if you are planning to get this game as they are both really the same except 
 that UT2004 has got vehicles, Assault, Onslaught and much more including new weapons. don't get 
 this game Get UT2004 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament 2003 gives us the best multiplayer that 2002 had to offer, its wicked graphics 
 and arena-designs and gamemodes were great for its time, and still pack a huge punch now.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2003 doesn't give us vehicles or Assault, which was expected from this game, 
 so lots of Unreal fans got dissapointed with that, but most of them didn't care because the game 
 was incredibly good back then, it was one of the first games using the Unreal Engine and ragdoll 
 physics, the maps were great and the gamemodes packed glory and blood.
  
  Gameplay:
  Amazing, Unreal games always had great gameplay because its designed to play good for online play, 
 you are given some new gadgets like the Translocator, where you shoot a disk and teleport to the 
 place where you shot the disk, this can take up to neat combinations of attack and suprise attacks, 
 other things are the weapons, all weapons have special ability's, power and firerate, like the 
 Flakcannon can shoot pieces of flak to you or shoots a ball of heaten flak to you, blowing you 
 into a shredded corpse.
  
  Gameplay in ALL Unreal Tournament games are fastpaced, the character you will be playing will move 
 fast, you'll be able to use diffrent jump technique's like dodgejump or doublejump, or strafejump, 
 or even off-the-wall jumping.
  
  Graphics:
  Amazing, Unreal had great huge maps to play in, textures look amazingly good and the scripted water 
 looks amazing to, the characters designs look pretty good and look good in longrange or in closerange.
 
  
  AI:
  You are able to make custom bots like in UT4, you're able to give their botsettings novice, average, 
 skilled or godlike, the bots you'll play in Singleplayer or in auto-action fights are aggresive 
 and retreat if their low on health, they'll use all weapons and use alternative fire if its good 
 against you.
  
  In games like CTF, bots will chose the role of attacking or defending, so in Autp-action you'll 
 never come thru the flagbase that easily.
  
  Story:
  This is the story: Another anticipated tournament comes up, and lots of people from diffrent guilds 
 and clans join in, in the demo of UT03 you'll be able to play the Juggernaut team, with all having 
 a backstory to learn about them, most of the story's consist of being the best or revenge.
  
  Sound:
  The announcer is back, weapon-sounds sound great, explosive sound good to and taunts 
 to piss of other players are laughable, Unreal never fails in the sound.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  If you liked any other Unreal game, buy this game, if you like FPS multiplayer, 
 mainly fastpaced you already should have this game installed in you're computer right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie_killer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  back in 1999 they where 2 Multiplayer fps games that took the multiplayer gaming to a new level 
 those where Quake 3 and Unreal Tournament. Both of em where 2 kickass games unreal tournament was 
 better and now 3 years later Unreal Tournament 2 is here. In fact that the sequel to UT is actually 
 called UT2003 because the developers have taken the series to a more sports game. Because now the 
 tournament you enter is a bloody sport game where real people enters a frag arena and kill each 
 other. And now its much more focused on sport. You enter different ladders with different gametypes 
 just like before. But now instead of picking a already created team you can create your very own 
 team. You can choose name for the team, choose team symbol and choose whos gonna be in the team. 
 And as more and more matches you complete your team gets more famous and in the main menu later 
 it will be players that will ask if he can be in your then you can choose yes or no. So for the 
 first UT2003 is a really team based sci-fi shooter game that no one should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  When it comes to multiplayer especially against a group of friends, nothing is better than a fragfest 
 or team playing. Online gaming has many advantages and skills that can be learnt or discover personalities 
 that you never thought exist. Unreal Tournament will unleash these traits and personalities and 
 test the theory of Survival of the Fittest to the fullest extend. Dinosaurs move over and make 
 way for the new breed of species! The Unreal Species.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2003 starts off simple enough; the single player option which basically is moving 
 up the ladder in a tournament style (funny that) , gather your army of destruction then prove that 
 you are the dominate specie (like the lion fighting off other lions to become the dominate lion 
 of the pride) , nurture them, cherish them then hit the big league of conquering four styles of 
 game play being Team Death match, Domination, Capture the Flag and the new game in the park Bombing 
 Run (similar to a futuristic basketball game) to meet the ultimate foes of Brock, Lauren and godlike 
 Malcolm and then challenge the god himself, Malcolm on a one-on-one death match! As I said, it's 
 the survival of the fittest.
  
  And that's the easiest part.
  
  The hard part is to jump online and meet other members of the species for an all out fragfest. 
 Here talk is cheap and stats don't lie. The rules are simple and everyone is treated equally - 
 you spawn, you pick up a weapon, you kill, you die, you spawn again. None of this rubbish 'leveling 
 up' thing and collecting 'rare' items as you can spend some 1000 plus hours online. Here you can 
 spend your 1000 hours and won't find any unique items at all. We are all equal save your skills 
 and your ability to survive. It's the only way.
  
  Graphically the game is a masterpiece. Carrying on the tradition of UT1999, UT2003 stands out like 
 a herd of elephants trampling on the African Savannah. You cannot miss it! It's loud, aggressive, 
 beautiful and yet bashful all rolled in one! How can one truly remarkable beast be so beautiful 
 and yet so malevolent!
  
  Sound wise is a similar tale. The music score, the taunts (ahh the taunts, so beautiful, so tactful) , 
 the explosions, the splatter of dead bodies... I'm in heaven. Even the AIs have a distinctive voice. 
 And what's new in this game (comparing to UT1999) is the commentator. He/she/it is a wealth of 
 information. You can even change the commentator's voice to suit your listening pleasure (like 
 a seductive voice?) . However as the saying goes 'beware the wail of the banshee'.
  
  As mentioned before, there are four styles of game play however it's definitely does not stop there. 
 Like inter-racial breeding, you can alternate the game as much as you like fit. Mutations (like 
 your head grows to reflect more kills) , brighten skins, more combos... well it's like placing a 
 limit on who you can make love to... another words minimal limitations. And this does not stop here. 
 Considering Epic Games released the UnrealScript the modding community can place their creative 
 touches so it's as limited to one's imagination.
  
  There is also an 'easter egg' where you can get a sneak preview of UT2004; namely the vehicle. 
 You really cannot do much with the vehicle however like a new-born child it will grow; another 
 words UT2004.
  
  So if you think there is nothing much about UT2003 then I might wonder 'what the heck are you thinking?' 
 Ok, you are right in saying that UT2003 is a 'watered-down' version of UT2004 and rightfully saying 
 'where is Assault?' Or you might say 'this game is slower in comparison to UT1999'. Like creating 
 a new life-form it takes time. And like life it needs to adapt to the rigidness of competition. 
 In saying that, the game once released was not riddled with diseases (like some I won't mention) 
 and did not die due to hunger. Actually it has a very large appetite, so large that the Unreal 
 legacy is still growing from limb to limb.
  
  3...2...1... play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaffleFries55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Well let's see ive been playin it since 2003. First online game ive ever played. Awesome game. 
 Mods make it a lot cooler. The graphics arent the best but the gameplay gives a 3 thumbs up! I 
 grew up on this game. Best multiplayer game i have ever played. The CTF is ok for the first month 
 or two. BR grows on you a bunch. Deathmatch is usually what i play. Invasian (comes in a packet) 
 is one of the best gameplay things ever! This game is great, gory, fun, but i have to say multiplayer 
 may get a little nasty with the people and their langauge. This game is worth playing over and 
 over again. The campaign stinks. This game will not dissapoint you. My name on UT2003 is S] [K 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament was and still is one of the best games ever. Winner of multiple Game of the Year 
 awards, it brought a lot of new thing to the FPS genre, like brilliant bot AI, great multi-player 
 modes, great modding tools, rock solid game mechanics and superb level design. The sequel, Unreal 
 Tournament 2003, didn't exactly follow close in the footsteps of UT. Although the general concept 
 behind the game is identical (adrenaline-full first-person action) , UT2003 brought a revolution 
 to the series, specially in terms of general art direction and weapons balance.
  
  The "feel" of the game changed entirely. The weapons locker has suffered radical changes, the overall 
 feeling is of more balance. Some have said that they feel a bit under-powered but it's not the 
 case, UT99's weapons were a bit too brutal. Also, the jumping and dodging mechanics are more complex: 
 now you can double jump, dodge jump, dodge off walls, goo-jump (it involves the Bio Rifle's alt-fire, 
 hence the name) and even elevator jump. Also, this time it's harder to aim and kill opponents and 
 not just because of the new moves. All this makes UT2003 considerably harder than UT, but also 
 more dynamic.
  
  Other changes include the game modes. The old Assault mode has been dropped for a thing called 
 Bombing Run (BR) . Assault was one of UT's defining modes so axing it was not the best of decisions 
 but BR is surprisingly good. What is it about? Well, you have a ball at the center of each map 
 which you need to deliver into the enemy base and shoot it through a round goal for three points 
 or jump through the goal with the ball for seven points. It can be pretty balanced and exciting, 
 overall a very fun mode. Also new is Double-Domination, a game type derived from the old Domination. 
 This time you have only two domination points which you need to simultaneously hold for ten second 
 to score a point. It is slightly more focused than the old mode but can be a bit frustrating; a 
 strange mode that plays great on smaller maps (where you can reach the domination points faster) 
 but not that great on big maps. Making a comeback are Deathmatch and Capture the Flag, which feel 
 as great as ever. CTF is especially good this time around. The rules haven't changed but UT2003's 
 game mechanics suit this mode perfectly. I've had some of the most exciting matches ever in UT2003's 
 CTF.
  
  As I said before, the game's art direction has changed a bit. UT had a large array of maps with 
 very different layouts and environments but managed to keep an even look. On the other hand UT2003 
 is pretty different, the developers dropped the gothic look of the first game for a larger array 
 of themes. Now you'll be battling in frozen wastelands, high-tech industrial facilities, egyptian 
 temples, green forests with huge trees or lush grasslands. It's a graphically stunning game although 
 it doesn't feel as even as UT in this regard.
  
  Value is a key word when it comes to an Unreal game. The UT community created many maps, mods and 
 mutators for this game, making it one of those games you will not uninstall anytime soon. If you 
 have this game I strongly suggest you install the Epic Bonus Pack (as it adds 2 new game types: 
 Mutant and Invasion, both of them are tons of fun) and the brilliant Community Bonus Pack, which 
 contains some of the best maps ever designed by a gaming community and many new (and unusual) weapons.
 
  
  Although this is practically a brilliant game that I've played for many many hours, I simply can't 
 recommend you buy it. This game's sequal, UT2004 includes all the content of UT2003 plus a ton 
 of other stuff like vehicle combat and the return of Assault mode. UT2004 is what UT2003 was supposed 
 to be. So I'd advise you to give that one a try. But I feel the need to congratulate the people 
 who worked on this game because they created one exceptional shooter and the perfect foundation 
 for the brilliant Unreal Tournament 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaacthedude
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  this game single handedly masterd all the fps's that i have ever played.
  where to begin.... the best thing is the multiplayer. the game is fast and full of players runing 
 around killing each other endlessly and there are many many mods to play... the weapons are the 
 best like the rocket luncher and the minigun they themself worth playing this game. the story mode 
 is not really exciting so youll basicly have the game for the multiplayer so if you read this i 
 guess you do have internet :) . many people say that counter strike is a better game... let me fix 
 them, in counter strike every time you die youll have to wait until the round is over so you cant 
 really do a lot many guys who are new to the game can freak out that they will die every second 
 and will be able to play on the next match... unlike in counter strike in unreal you can die as 
 many times as you want and youll stil return to the game also the game is much more fun and fast 
 and counter strike is very very very very slow so choose wisley i though unreal 2003 was better 
 then 2004 i canot explain why... maybe its becuse the game maps are way better and i really hated 
 the tanks and jetplain you get in unreal 2004 it wasnt right (for my opinion) anyway i recommend 
 to get this game this is the best first person shooter ever created and no other fps will overcome 
 it. anyway it gets a 10 outta 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit91
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 7, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  I loved Unreal Tournament on PS2 & Unreal Championship on xbox & then I saw this game with unreal 
 2 for a tenner & I was pleasantly surprised. The graphics have improved & it was more fun on pc... but... the 
 changes weren't that immense+This game is not really that challenging, the AI is a tuff SOB but 
 as you just have to shoot it makes it quite easy & fun. You can get 2004 a quite cheap now so maybe 
 you shouldn't bother with this one I don't know. I'll just say that this game rocks & its nice 
 that its not changed loads as you can feel at home & get into it fast!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  UT2003 has some nice features, but if you are planning on buying this game, better buy UT2004.
 
  UT2004 is basically the same but offers a lot more
  
  Gameplay:
  +Nice gameplay modes
  +Nice singleplayer and multiplayer modes
  +Good variety between maps and weapons
  -Plays just 
 like UT1, with only better graphics and some new stuff
  
  Graphics:
  +Plays very smooth
  +Looks great
  -Little bit too cartoony
  
  Sounds:
  +Nice old UT style 
 sounds
  +Cool gun sounds
  +Good music
  Overall sounds are pretty good
  
  Value:
  +Great amount of replayability
  +Both single and multi play
  -When you know all of the maps, 
 its get a bit boring though
  
  Tilt:
  +Nice easy to recognize interface
  +Good starting tutorial
  +Nice intro movie
  
  UT2003 is a good game, but it aint a big sequel 
 to UT1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlargh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the higher reviews i've given.
  
  First of all i'd like to discuss unreal 2003's value, because of Unreal 2004 massive awesomeness 
 and continuous publication, 2003's value has dropped like Fox in Smash Bros. Melee. The copy i 
 have isnt even mine! I got mine from a friend who got it at EB games for 7 $ canadian. And when 
 i played it, skirmish took me first, i mean its just too fun playing domination on skycity (or 
 Skyrail, whatever) with zoom instagib on. SOOOO FUN, its taking every inch of my willpower to shut 
 Explorer down and play it. And the graphics are just amazing, for a game that is 3 years old and 
 counting its pretty shnazzy. The campaing put the PAIN in campaing, its so frikin annoying, even 
 on the easyest dificulty. I like how all the different AIs have different playing personalities, 
 along with different stats, such as Mr. Crow
  sucks at domination and CTF and other team games but he's hella good in single deathmatch. The 
 dissapearance of the Stinger and Nali AND Skaarj kinda made me angry, but the stringer was replaced 
 by the chaingun. (all those things listed were in Unreal 1, and the last 2 are Races of Aliens, 
 not guns) .
  
  QUICKLY RUN NOW AND BUY IT WITH YOUR 10 DOLLAR BILL BEFORE IT DISAPPEARS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  i usually babble about stuff at the start of these reviews but im just guna get stuck in.
  technicals - the graphics are good - i would blame the graphics for any of the games problems, 
 i thought they suited te game well and in plces can be quite impressive, the detail on the guns 
 etc is great and it mkes it a hole lot more fun to play.
  gameplay - well, as there is no story, the single plasyer can lack a bit as it is in rounds where 
 you just pla bots and fight to the death basically, this is a bit of a letdown for those who love 
 sotry based games however that what this gae is about... so dont be too disappointed.
  some other stuff - the game plays incredibly smoothly and incredibly fast, battles never lack action 
 and games can bcome very tense. with the sheer force of many of the guns you really have to be 
 prepared.
  online - it is a very fun game online in all the modes as it is fast, deadly and really mental, 
 as there is a lot of variety in guns, characters and maps you wont get bored easily, not to mention 
 all the user created content which is in its masses.
  the bad bits - then double jump feature - people spam this like never before online which means 
 shooting people can become an almost impossible task and its even wrse when people put the low 
 grav mutators on..... also, no assault mode! instead they have replaced this with "bombing run" 
 wghere you have to gt the ball to the enemy base.... such a task can become rather tedious and boring....
 
  despite these few small flaws the game is a good addition to your collection as it can be very 
 fun att imes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clan_RoK
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Unreal tournament 2003 is one of those games that will stay around for years to come. Even as I 
 speak (2006) there is still a bustling community online, even with Unreal Tournament 2004 out. 
 But now lets talk about the game its self. The graphics in the game ar far from poor, if you have 
 a decent graphics card and acceptable RAM this will look like a dream. The textures are high quality 
 the charecter models look robust and animation is slick. The lighting engine is very good even 
 on a computer with no graphics card. So its good graphicly but what about gameplay.
  
  The Unreal series has diverted from that gritty feeling of the original and taken a more floaty 
 and sci-fi turn. And in turn the game is no longer about the rocket launcher and the flack cannon. 
 Its more about tatical shock combos and well timed sniper shots. This adds more tactics to the 
 game that i feel was a welcome change. The weapon damage is balanced so you can use any weapon 
 to take down the opponent including the assult rifle. Its a fair game online and even newbies can 
 get a few kills.
  
  To sum up, the unreal series has taken a turn in gamelay which i think works but seasond veterans 
 of UT maybe dissapointed. But for new players its easy to get used to well balanced and a graphical 
 forte. Its well worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  yes i AM a great fan of UT, of course, and once i heard my friend buy it (ahm.. not exactly) i 
 ran off to check- argh the great disappointment..
  
  graphics are great, i would give 'em 10 (why no? you can't stop me!) .
  
  now it's gameplay 
 part- and i am sure you won't like it.
  well the domination (base controling thing) is fun as falling into the toilets. boring and big 
 guns don't help ya!
  death match is ok. evn better than the first one's death match.
  team death match is good too.
  bombing run is boring, hell boring, more boring than watching 
 national geographic.
  
  well gameplay gets 8 because of the two new boring mods...
  
  sound is cool but the sounds are a bit strange and funny so i'll give it a 9.
  
  value? i'll 
 ignore it... i'll give it 9
  
  tilt- 9
  
  some notes-
  
  -toooo shoooort and eeeeaasssyy!
  -no story may hurt the game play
  -Mr. crow!
  
  that's 
 all every body, till next time, have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in this game is fun, just like UT2004 but the thing that i wasn't to happy about no 
 vechiles (the problem is solved now) , but thats one reason that i got out of the game so quick 
 because their was not a big challenge. Now in UT2004 you have big wid open areas, raptors and tanks 
 shotting in your direction and thats a chaalenge but still this game is good for what it has. The 
 AI in this game is great no stupidness or signs of mental retardation lol. One thing that I always 
 love about my unreal games is the guns... the guns in this game are well balanced no gun will kill 
 in a hit unlike AWPS in CSS, unless the redimer but it's tough to get. 
  
  The only reason why i gave the graphics a 9 is because most FPS's including this one are always 
 requiring a rig to play so for the first couple months i couldn't play this game till i got my 
 new computer. other then this games graphics are great i didn't notice any frame rate issues or 
 anything like that.
  
  Sound ehhhh i don't really like it the voices just don't make you sound like your in a fire fight 
 i don't know how to explain it really. I thought that it could've been tweaked a bit.
  
  The value for this game is a ten i expect every fps gamer to have this sitting on their computer 
 desk. lol but seriously this game deserves to be in the comfort of your home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  The original Unreal Tournament was a stunner. A ballsy, explosive, no-nonsense shooter with the 
 focus of running around corridors with over-sized weapons blowing everybody else up. But for a 
 concept as one-minded, Unreal Tournament was actually a monolithic experience; a thrilling, adrenaline-pulsing, 
 bullet-driven shooter that flattens all its competition and demolishes everything else in its genre. 
 I wondered, prior to this game's release, if 2003 could ever match up. I had my doubts, and this 
 doubts are definitely correct. In some ways, 2003 is underwhelming, as it's nowhere near as fast-paced 
 or jaw-dropping as its predecessor. But in other ways, it's a technical masterpiece with some awesome 
 weaponry, even if the gameplay itself lacks in panache. 
  
  Unreal Tournament 2003 doesn't add much to the formula of the original; actually, it takes away 
 a lot of it and replaces it with a bizarre focus on teamplay and "sports combat." Seeing as the 
 team mechanics of the original were minimal - only a few basic orders could be issued to warriors 
 with the same colour as you - and 2003 is exactly the same. The majority of the campaign is based 
 upon your team, and seeing as you can only press a few keys to tell your fellow (s) to carry out 
 an order, this focus is slightly out-of-place.
  
  Nevertheless, 2003 does subtract a few features of the original. The Assault Mode has been dropped 
 and been replaced with a similar Bombing Run mode - which is best described as soccer/football 
 (depending on your location) with weaponry and psychos. Also, the generic Last Man Standing has 
 vanished, leaving in its place absolutely nothing. And the single-player has been stripped down 
 even further, to maximize the focus of the multiplayer, either through LAN or Internet. Sometimes 
 the solitary package - i. e. the campaign, and the Instant Action mode (which is actually pretty 
 good) feels flimsy and thin, and I have to say, before I launch into the meat of the review, that 
 this game simply isn't worth buying if you don't play online regularly. It won't last long on your 
 own. 
  
  Another new element is the Adrenaline feature. Scattered around the various arenas are huge tablets 
 - I'm not sure how they're meant to be digested - and when these are collected, your meter will 
 rise. When your Adrenaline meter reaches 100, your character will become hyperactive. From here, 
 you can access some bewildering powers, activated by performing key combos. The Booster, activated 
 by pressing the backwards key 4 times, is a health regenerator, and the Speed mode, activated by 
 pressing the forwards key 4 times, obviously turns you into a Road Runner. I won't reveal any more, 
 as the game is all-too-keen for you to figure these out by yourself. 
  
  Features that make a triumphant return... well, the bog-standard Deathmatch mode is back, even 
 though it's not used very much, along with the Team version too (which is used quite a bit.) And 
 the same thing can be said about the excellent Capture the Flag (CTF) which also makes itself known. 
 The innovative Domination mode from the original has been overhauled, polished, and given a new 
 name (Double Domination) I won't go into the fundamentals of these modes, as each are pretty self-explanatory, 
 but these are the main modes you'll be killing things in. All these modes can be adjusted using 
 the trademark Mutators, such as the beloved Fat/Thin mode, and other bizarre changeables that don't 
 really deserve a mention. 
  
  Some of the overpowered guns from the original are here, with a nice new coat of paint and a mechanical 
 redesign. Some of the weapons in the original game were way too forceful; the Flak Cannon was horrendously 
 good at close-range, the Rocket Launcher far too explosive, and the BioRifle was a criminal shade 
 of luminous green. I like to think that these weapons, although they make a return, have been toned 
 down a notch. The Rocket Launcher now fires a slightly slower missile, and the explosion is nowhere 
 near as life-threatening as it was in the original. The Flak Cannon, although still dangerous, 
 isn't half as devastating as it was in the original. And the Shock Rifle now blatantly sucks, as 
 does the BioRifle. The excellent Pulse Gun has been replaced with the wimpy-but-fast Link Gun, 
 and the brutal Impact Hammer has been kicked. A pathetic waste of time called the Shield Gun is 
 now in its place. New additions include the Ion Painter, which seems weak at first but soon explodes 
 into a real death-dealer, and the Lightning Gun, which is simply an electrifying Sniper Rifle. 
 
  
  And by making these guns slightly weaker, 2003 loses some of the meatiness of its predecessor. 
 The combat packs far less punch than it did all those years ago and there's barely any brutality 
 in the gunplay. It's still a gory game - opponents can get mutilated, they can become unintelligible 
 crimson slush, they can go sliding across the ground in sickening positions - but it still is far 
 less satisfying than the original. And that really is a shame. 
  
  The gameplay is still advanced, and still manages to hit the spot, even if it is less in-your-face 
 than the messiah that was the original. The interface is even more honed, and the HUD is even more 
 sleek, and the gameplay is still slick and polished. There's a certain feeling of exhiliration 
 in unleashing a hail of bullets from the barrel of a minigun, and watching them barricade into 
 the skull of an enemy. The ragdoll physics are also entertaining, and they make the deaths a lot 
 more interesting - enemies will contort as they die, or their legs will crumple under them, or 
 they'll get pummeled backwards as bullets hit them in the chest. But when they're still alive, 
 enemy AI is hectic and disorganized. One chief example is CTF; if you're in possession of the enemy 
 flag, it's as if the other team will completely abandon their positions and follow you like a magnet 
 to a metal bar. A magnet that fires explosive missiles and shells full of white-hot shrapnel. Still, 
 they put up a good job of their positions when they actually keep to them - sometimes their base 
 can be crippingly hard to get into, or your base will become overwhelmed with fire and strife. 
 Determination is rife in the CPU opponents, and this turns them into deranged raving psychopaths. 
 
  
  Unreal Tournament 2003, despite its shortcomings in the gameplay, completely smacks jaws in the 
 visual department. At the time of its release, I had never seen anything like this before. The 
 graphics are, in a word, astonishing. The framerate is firm and smooth, and even if your computer 
 isn't quite up to the recommendations, the gamestill does a good job of spluttering the graphics 
 to life. There's some mind-boggling levels of detail on offer here, from hieroglyphics to sophisticated 
 lighting to intricate textures. And if you zoom out from all this microscopic detail, the environments 
 are virtual masterpieces as a whole. Each one of them are individual, with a heavy dose of artistic 
 innovation and style. From cold metal to magma to pyramids to woods, 2003 pulls off everything 
 with aplomb. Each arena is beautifully designed, and some more than others - just take the new 
 instalment of the classic Facing Worlds... from the top of a tower, everything looks unbelievable, 
 and then you can zoom in and admire the Egyptian intricacies and religious symbols painted on everything 
 in sight. And then look at the futuristic masterpiece of Phobos Moon (another returning favourite) 
 a brilliant space station in its own right, hovering some miles away from the hulking red sphere 
 of Mars, with the asteroid belts and cosmic debris... I could go on for hours, but this paragraph 
 is already too long. Unreal Tournament 2003 is an unbelievable technical achievement.
  
  Unreal Tournament 2003 also has some brilliant sound on offer here too. I have a Surround Sound 
 system installed at the moment, and I was blown away. 2003 has a diverse soundtrack that covers 
 every genre, from the orchestra to guitar riffs to techno, and pulls off them all with a level 
 of finesse rarely seen in-game. The music is superb, and it adds that little bit more to the art 
 direction I mentioned above; a real atmosphere is sprinkled all over the game with these amazing 
 musical pieces. However, this astounding soundtrack is sometimes ruined by a bizarre announcer 
 with a fruity voice - "5 minutes remain!" is yelled with such flamboyance that it almost spoils 
 the moment. The amusing taunts and murderous snippets from the original take a center role here, 
 too, with some hilarious sexual references and immature comments. Some environments, though, contain 
 an ambient, mysterious atmosphere that can be ruined by this self-confident announcer and these 
 stark taunts. 
  
  Don't get me wrong - Unreal Tournament 2003 has an audiovisual presentation not to be missed, whether 
 you're craving for stunning graphics and amazing sound or not. But it really is a shame that this 
 short campaign and this underwhelming gameplay lets down the side a bit. If you're an online gamer, 
 this is definitely worth a go, but if you're not, go for a game that's more fleshed-out. Let me 
 capitalize that in some ways, this game is a shadow of its predecessor, but in others, it's an 
 excellent shooter, a graphical masterpiece, and an aural journey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmario3590
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, UT 2003 is still a very solid and wildly entertaining game. The graphics are 
 improved, there's more character models, and a new game mode called Bombing Run that is UT's version 
 of Rugby/Football, which is very cool. Aside from bringing back the basic fun of the original, 
 there are so many things lacking. First off: the weapons. Yes they brought back old favorites like 
 the Flak Gun, Rocket Launcher, and Gatling Gun, but none of these are as fun to use as their original 
 versions. And where did the sniper rifle go! It has turned into a lame Lightning Gun that just 
 doesn't do it for me. It just seems that the updated weapons are overall not as fun to use. 
  The pace of UT 2003 is also so chaotic (which seems good at first) that it feels like you are merely 
 hopping around firing at whatever, hoping to strike your target. 
  My favorite game mode from the original UT was domination. The updated Domination 2.0 in 2003 is 
 not as fun. And while the maps are nicer looking, they do not seem to sport the same creativity 
 as some of the better maps in the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  The Unreal tournament series has always been the best in multiplayer. No matter which Unreal tournament 
 it is, as long as there's those two words, it's the best of the best. Unreal tournament 2003 is 
 no different and this is multiplayer gaming at it's best.
  
  Unreal tournament was an amazing game, and Unreal tournament 2003 doesn't mess with that formula, 
 it just adds to it. You don't really play as any one hero, instead, you create your character and 
 even create a symbol for you and your team. You then go through trials to find and pick your team 
 with credits that you have to buy. As you advance, you can get a better team.
  
  Unreal tournament 2003 has some superb multiplayer, I can't state that enough. Along with all of 
 the usual deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag options, you also have cool modes such 
 as Bombing run, a mode where you take a big ball and try to shoot it through the enemies hoop. 
 You can regenerate health and even pass it, so there is a lot of teamwork involved. Another great 
 multiplayer type is double Domination, this is basically trying to keep two or three different 
 flags to your team without the other team capturing them. 
  
  There's also a story to Unreal tournament 2003 but it's pretty forgettable. It's just basically 
 about the Liandri corporation going into dismay and you having to participate to make it all better. 
 The story is pretty convoluted, but it's interesting to see the series go into a story mode, I 
 just wish it were a bit better, but hey this isn't a game your going to play for the story, it's 
 the gameplay and multiplayer.
  
  The weapons in the game are fantastic. Although no new weapons have been added, except for a few, 
 the ion painter and Lightning gun, it's basically the same weapons as before. Still, with 12 weapons, 
 what more could you want, plus they've gotten all new looks that make them stand out very well.
 
  
  Speaking of new looks, Unreal tournament has always had great graphics, but Unreal tournament 2003 
 looks superb. The cartoonish graphics really stand out and everything is perfect, the textures 
 and environments are all great, especially the character models, which are well detailed. This 
 is one of the few titles with cartoonish type graphics where there is no flaw to them. 
  
  You can have up to 32 players at once, playing offline, online, and/or LAN, with about 50 maps 
 and eight different modes, now you know why this game has replay value in spades. Plus, there's 
 even a somewhat boring single player mode where you pick your own team, buy them with credits, 
 and win more with matches. You sometimes have optional matches to get extra credits, but I found 
 that I got just enough to get by with just sticking to the main story mode. Like I said, the story 
 wasn't that great and neither was the campaign, mainly because it just didn't take advantage of 
 everything the game had to offer, the max you could ever have was 16, half of what you could have 
 in the optional modes you could pick yourself.
  
  Unreal tournament 2003 has some great voice acting. Although the sayings can get old fast, such 
 as: "I'll slaughter you", it still delivers well, especially in how each of the different voices 
 from the different races all sound different and spot on. Plus the weapon sounds are great and 
 the music that plays, both dramatic and to get you into the action is superb.
  
  I really enjoyed Unreal tournament 2003, although assault mode is missing, there is enough here 
 to keep fans of the series going for a long time, and still remains as one of the better multiplayer 
 games, even with Halo two, Unreal tournament 2004, and Battlefield two out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnoutx1985
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  When Unreal Tournament was released, it came as a bit of a surprise to many gamers. Although there 
 was considerable hype, pomp and marketing of the game, not everyone expected it to succeed as it 
 had. With its numerous game modes, competitive graphics and unique levels it attracted a large 
 crowd of FPS players, many of them new to the online deathmatch scene. UT never competed successfully 
 against Quake III as a hardcore deathmatch game, but it had other features that made up for it. Enter 
 Unreal Tournament 2003. When the demo was released, we were stoked and ran out to buy the full 
 game as soon as it was available. The sequel, developed by Digital Extremes, a company partnered 
 closely with UT/Unreal developer Epic Games, faced some big challenges. How does one make a sequel 
 to an online deathmatch title? id software got blasted by many for rehashing the same old formula 
 with Quake III, and this was their first dedicated online title. UT2K3, being the second game in 
 the series, has a lot of question to answer. Is it just a patch game?
  Complaining about something is trendy. It gets attention, it often gets somebody a welcome to the 
 bandwagon and some might even argue that it looks sophisticated, since the complainer demonstrates 
 a critical eye. Even complaining about complaining is a fashionable activity  to call someone 
 out for being a whiner is as likely to get as much applause as being the original complainant. 
 Why bring this up? Inevitably you will hear comments like they couldve patched UT to do this, 
 as we heard them with Quake III why not just patch the Quake II gameplay and let map authors design 
 the maps? Ingore those comments  they do horrible injustice to the developers that work hard 
 at making the game.
  The time a developer spends updating or designing an engine, creating the textures, models, animations, 
 special effects, sound effects  and then putting it all together on levels with actual gameplay 
  is staggering. To suggest that Unreal Tournament 2003 could have been a patch to UT is an insult 
 to that effort. All that work is precisely what went into UT2K3, the same with any sequel. If Civilization 
 had supported a mod community, gave players access to the code and let them mess around with it, 
 would people be saying the same about Civilization II?
  With that out of the way, lets cover what Unreal Tournament 2003 brings to the table. The most 
 immediately noticeable change is the graphics, which have undergone a complete overhaul. There 
 are new weapons like the assault rifle, and modified old ones such as the link gun and lightning 
 gun (sniper rifle.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bond007dude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Story: Played demo at school, then played demo at house.
  
  Gameplay: Good but gets boring after an hour. Not sure what they could do to improve it though, 
 maybe give more weapons? Anyway its kinda like Quake 3 only slighlty better. Plus its not fun when 
 youre getting "owned" by a bunch of bots, or people.
  
  Graphics: Good, but not much to comment on. Nice amount or gore and bodies falling into pieces. 
 Overall good, but could be a little better.
  
  Sound-Good, but announcer is too manly for my taste along with everything else. The weapon sounds 
 are typical.
  
  Value-I can't really help you there, but I know for sure that you can change whether your right 
 handed, left handed, or ambidextrious. Plus you can change your FOV (Field of View.) Although personally 
 I think there should be more weapons.
  
  Tilt-The bottom line. its a good game, but does not deserve to be put in the videogame hallmarks.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:28 am PT
Review:  Has anybody seen Vince McMahon lately? Im betting the world famous pro wrestling impresario has 
 a hobby, when hes not prowling the ring on Pay-Per-View, pontificating about his next Vaudevillian 
 grapple-fest.
  
  Im also betting that his hobby is computer game design. How else to explain the appearance on 
 my computer of the much anticipated sequel to everybodys Game of The Year, Unreal Tournament, 
 as a wrestling federation shooter of sorts?
  
  Well, kids, that is exactly my feeling about Unreal Tournament 2003 (UT2K3) . Its all there, from 
 the Roman Coliseum-like opening with fans screaming for blood, to the wrestlers... er, combatants 
 strutting down a runway like bizarre amalgamations of Robocop and Hulk Hogan or Robocop and Chyna. 
 They flex, preen and scowl just like Vinces people while the animated crowd jeers and cheers their 
 every pose.
  
  After the pro wrestling like intro, my next impression of UT2K3 was shock. I was awed by how much 
 the graphics had improved, but something terrible had happened to the game play. What used to be 
 a game for all age groups (original UT) has become a game for the under 13 crowd and Im betting 
 half of them (including my oldest daughter) don't like it.
  
  What Happened?
  
  The worst crime ever committed against the slice of humanity known as PC gamers was putting out 
 the sequel to UT sans Assault mode. They might as well have lopped thousands of devoted fans from 
 their mailing lists.
  
  Assault was the best damn game mode I ever played in an arcade shooter. Instead were supposed 
 to be awed by a silly futuristic football-lacrosse hybrid mode called Bombing Run. But what about 
 Death match and Team Death Match? Come on. Those ancient modes are soyesterday.
  
  What were they thinking? My youngest daughter, a ten year old, loved the Assault mode as much as 
 I did. Ninety percent of the time that's all she played. I probably split my time between Capture 
 the Flag and Assault at about a fifty-fifty rate. Somewhere in this universe the gaming gods have 
 to be mad as hell for this sacrilege.
  
  More Issues
  
  What happened to the sound? I give the developers credit for providing three levels of sound selection: 
 software 3D, hardware 3D, and hardware EAX. My guess is this was done to help improve frame rates 
 for those with less powerful CPUs and video cards, and enables even EAX equipped gamers to lower 
 the sound quality if they discover a need to speed up on-screen action.
  
  But I have to tell you this: software 3D sound in UT2K3 is a joke when compared to the default 
 sound in the original. Weapon sounds are pitiful compared to those in UT. The best example is the 
 awesome minigun. Heard through software 3D, the minigun sounds totally anemic. A childs cap pistol 
 sounds better. The visceral thrill experienced operating this ferocious weapon in UT, of which 
 sound was a major part, is now gone even at the highest audio setting.
  
  What happened to the gore? Where are the gruesome, blood-soaked chunks of human flesh and bone 
 that I enjoyed watching bounce hither and thither after a direct eviscerating hit from one of UTs 
 nasty weapons? Score a kill in UT2K3 and youre treated to a Mr. Rogers version of gladiator death.
 
  
  Aside from the horrendous decision to drop Assault mode (the most popular mode in single-player, 
 which buttresses my anti-single-player conspiracy theory) , the second most popular weapon in single-player 
 is also gone: the sniper rifle. Is nothing sacred? I can think of no reason for dropping Assault 
 mode or the sniper rifle other than an attempt to rob the single-player mode of much of its enjoyment.
 
  
  With the sniper rifle gone, this time around we get to obliterate the enemy with something called 
 a lightening gun. Sure, its cool. It even has a zoom feature that is very futuristic. But one 
 of the reasons many gamers loved the sniper rifle is because it was the only real-world weapon. 
 I loved it.
  
  It was great fun in SP. Maybe it wasn't "fair" in MP, but that's my point. Many gamers dont care 
 about multiplayer. I want a great single-player experience, which unfortunately is ruined without 
 the Assault mode.
  
  Maybe the developers werent out to deliberately enrage a big portion of the gaming public but 
 I think theyve done it. This "series" has turned into the NHL 2K2 (a game I trashed) of arcade 
 shooters. It's gone from science fiction to futuristic Pro Wrestling. The problem is theatrics 
 like those in pro wrestling just don't cut it for more serious (mature) gamers.
  
  You might be wondering if there is anything great or even good about UT2K3. Aside from the impressive 
 graphics there is a new game mode called Double Domination. Instead of capturing and holding one 
 control point for a period of time, now you have to take two of them for double the fun.
  
  Some new weapons have been added, including a ball launcher (playable only in Bombing Run mode) , 
 and a rather creative weapon called a link gun, a descendant of the old plasma rifle. When fired, 
 it emits a beam that will kill the enemy but automatically become harmless if touched by a teammate. 
 You can link its power output to that of a teammates weapon and inflict major damage. Unfortunately, 
 this is extraordinarily difficult to do.
  
  Finally, there are far more characters to play as, including some absolutely hideous creatures. 
 I wont even attempt to describe them. I admit to a preference for the more human-looking bots 
 from the original. On the plus side, one or two of the human looking characters in UT2K3 look like 
 the women fighters in the Sega Dreamcast game Soul Caliber.
  
  If you enjoyed the game play in Quake III youll enjoy the game play in UT2K3. I didnt much care 
 for Q3, so ditto for this disappointing sequel to the greatest arcade shooter of all time.
  
  The bottom line on this pretty-looking Part Deux is the game play is now a yawner. Its the 
 same old stuff weve seen in the Quake games and its many clones. UT was vastly superior to its 
 rival Quake III. Why the developers of UT2K3 would want to imitate an inferior game escapes me. 
 Why they would want to make the single-player mode as boring as they have is less of a mystery.
 
  
  If youre a fan of pro wrestling (Im not) and repetitive arcade shooters youll love UT2K3. If 
 one or the other is less than a good time for you, steer clear of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_devster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  It may seem weird that i'm reveiwing UT2003 after 2004 but i thaught i had better rate it. The 
 game is great fun to play but the weapons feel a bit awkwid but the multiplayer makes that forgivable, 
 and what a multiplayer it is. but there are a few little problems
  
  1) the water effects could be WAY better in some places
  
  2) this needs the akimbo style usage 
 of the assault rifles in UT2004
  
  3) the lightning gun takes too long to charge
  
  4) the minigun sounds weird
  
  you should only really buy this if 
  
  A) you got UT2004 
 and you want to see how much of an improvment that is
  
  B) your computer can't run UT2004
  
  but still, this uses the same engine as UT2004 but you 
 don't have as many weapons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visor123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:02 pm PT
Review:  UT 2003 has great graphics, great sound and great gameplay. When I started playing this, I really 
 got immersed into it. I played and I played. I really played a lot. Now I've really got bored of 
 the UT series.
  
  If you don't play UT 2003, you might be missing something. The minimum graphics requirement is 
 a 16 MB video card so it has good compatibility too. This game is anyday better than Halo. 
  
  The animations and physics in the game are definitely breathtaking. This is one game that shows 
 that you don't need pixel shader and high end graphics for enjoying great games. Halo's requirement 
 was a disaster.
  
  In UT 2003, the bots use voice taunts just like in the previous version of UT. Playing this game 
 on the net is more fun. Really, you won't regret buying this game.
  
  Would I recommend this game? Definitely! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcxnickxcx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Once you put this game onto your computer, you will not stop playing it. First of all, there are 
 so many maps that you can play from and if you are not satisfied, you can download more from their 
 website. The Weapon selection is so diverse that it keeps the game from being another cliche FPS. 
 There are human type weapons such as a rifle or there are alien type weapons such as the pulse 
 rifle. There are many different characters you can choose to play and each one brings something 
 new to the table. 
  There are also many gametypes you can choose from such as deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture 
 the flag. However, there are gametypes that you won't see in just any other game. One of them is 
 called Domination. In Domination you start off fairly in the middle of the map and on each side 
 of the map there are an A point and a B point. Once you character goes over one of these points, 
 it changes it to your team color. Both teams will be going at both points so it will get pretty 
 hectic. Once you have both points, it counts down from 5 and then you score a point. 
  The other game type is called Bombing Run. Each level has one ball in the middle of the play field. 
 The objective is to pick up the ball, deliver it to the enemy base and fire it through their goal. 
 You must also defend your own goal to prevent the enemy from scoring. The ball is dropped when 
 a player is killed and can then be picked up by anyone on either team. If you throw it through 
 their goal you recieve 3 points and if you walk through it you will recieve 7. It is sort of like 
 football. 
  One of the new gametypes they have just recently added is Mutant. The player who makes the first 
 frag becomes the mutant and is immediately equipped with all weapons, extra ammo, invisibility, 
 agility and berserk. However, the mutant's health slowly decreases and can only be replenished 
 by fragging other players. Once there is a "mutant," all other players are charged with hunting 
 him down. Points are scored only by the mutant when they frag other players. As an optional twist, 
 the player with the lowest score becomes the BottomFeeder -- he can frag other players who are 
 not the mutant and receive points. As soon as his score isn't the lowest, a new player becomes 
 the BottomFeeder.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKombatant2
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2005 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is, in my opinion, one of the greatest games ever made. When UT2003 came out, 
 I was very excited. However, UT 03 dissapointed me with the exclusion of my favorite game mode, 
 Assault, and my favorite weapon, The Ripper. Also, the experience just isn't as fun as the original 
 was. One good thing is that the graphics are much better than the original, but still not great. 
 There is fun to be had in Unreal Tournament 2003, and it is a pick-up-and-play game, so lots of 
 people will get into it easily. Also, if you and you're buddies are bored one night you should 
 pick up UT 03, considering now its probably 19.99 or less. Or you could pick up the original and 
 have TONS more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefting_kill
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2005 12:52 am PT
Review:  Unreal Tournament is based around multiplayer, giving high multiplayer qualities but nothing to 
 expect from the single player experience. There isn't really a storyline just battling in a tournament 
 to exceed of being the best. It will last probably for a couple hours. But this game is truly based 
 on it's multiplayer settings.
  
  Gameplay:
  As i said before there isn't really a single player experience to be found, but the multiplayer 
 is fantastic. They have several different gametypes like Deathmatch, Capture the flag, Team Deathmatch, 
 and etc. Now online is where you need this game the most hook up to a great server and stay with 
 it not some lame one, so you can get your best online performance and enhance the gameplay without 
 any lag issues and so on. 
  
  Graphics:
  These are probably the best graphics in a game for its time, smoothly textured, polished beyond 
 beleif, and 60 rfames per second which is really great to get phenominal picture quality to see 
 the sweet graphics. I sometimes want to throw my hands down on the table and yell "I LOVE THESE 
 GRAPHICS" they are actually revolutionary for it's time, letting Digital Extremes know what they 
 are doing right and they did better with unreal tournament 2004, thumbs way up.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is kind of the same of the original and didn't change to much but they have 
 their good moment. i just love the sound of the guns or most of them, but the voice acting, the 
 people shouting when they kill someone is funny because they have these awful corny lines. They 
 have some good envirement sounds that try to help you feel your in a better place knowing whats 
 going on, oh he's over there (telling by the gunfire) . There really isn't much to be heard from 
 a musical stand point but thats alright its mostly about battle without drums (inside joke) .
  
  Value:
  Multiplayer wise this game has great value, single player wise it will just let you 
 down. its chocked full of guns, maps, and gametypes for your pleasure honestly a recommended buy. 
 But you can always set out an can unreal tournament 2004 which is tons better and newer, i'll be 
 reviewing that soon after i've played it more. honestly this game has its greatness and its just 
 obvious that it is fun.
  
  Overall: 
  Overall Unreal Tournament is an outstanding game with hi quality visuals, and extreme fast paced 
 gameplay that you or me can't forget. So get it and i will see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:07 pm PT
Review:  One of the most innovative and enjoyable FPS-s ever was born largely by accident. Unreal Tournament 
 was initially supposed to be a multiplayer add-on to the high-graphic single player adventure Unreal, 
 but during the course of the development it ended up as a stand-alone game. The little plot explaining 
 battles of individual soldiers in distinct environments regards it as a popular future sport. UT's 
 numerous innovative features were the result of each of the designers being able to concentrate 
 on their particular areas of speciality - AI, levels, weapons, combat moves - as the game's engine 
 was already in place and no single player adventure was to be developed. The biggest achievement 
 of the Unreal Tournament must be its AI: bots (players controlled by computer) fight just like 
 humans and can be configured to challenge players of any caliber. In addition to the usual Deathmatch 
 and Capture The Flag modes, UT developers invented the Assault and Domination modes which have 
 been almost compulsory for any multiplayer shooters released afterwards. The sequel Unreal Tournament 
 2003 improves on audio, level design and visuals, but is not revolutionary in other aspects except 
 that the Assault mode has been replaced with the US-football style Bombing Run. Bombing Run outlines 
 the direction of a sports franchise Unreal 2003 is heading to: similarly to EA Sports titles, a 
 new version will be released annually and it will probably make it first to XBOX.
  
  18/20 - Based on : 10 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - As good as they come. Thanks for the level 
 editor, too.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Point and shoot.
  3/4 PACING - No problems with this. Enough difficulty levels to satisfy any player, and the unsatisfiables 
 are being waited for online.
  4/4 INNOVATION - While the 2003 game was not, the Unreal Tournament series has been terribly innovating.
 
  3/4 IMMERSION - You can get carried away but it's nothing to think about when you're doing something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2004 10:06 pm PT
Review:  The all awarding Unreal Tournament 2003, the game that went farther then the first. Though the 
 first UT was a stretch and was just trying to put something out there, how did they know that "putting 
 something out there" was gonna cause pandomonium. This game has everything you could possibly want 
 out of a FPS genre. It has gore, marksmanship, and of course... ATTITUDE!
  The graphics in this game were WAY above average because i run a high end computer and i dont think 
 i saw one part of any character or map that made me cringe or turn my head so i wouldn't see it. 
 This game's graphics are REALLY polished and if anyone thinks otherwise needs to meet what my friend 
 "Redeemer" has to say in response.
  The Sound in this game is awesome nothing sounds better then hearing the sound of an exploding 
 rocket you just launched at someone rip apart there body and hearing the after effects of there 
 blood and limbs hitting the pavement. And what would UT 2003 be without the usual taunts and attitude 
 that came along with it. Unlike the other deathmatch type games that are out there UT2k3 really 
 put some effort into making the game sound really good and i believe they did an excellent job.
 
  This games replay value only gets a high score because there are PLENTY of people out there that 
 need this game to let off a lot of steam and to blow off somebody's head every now and then. Though 
 granted this game is not for the faint of hearts but it is for people who have the need to disembow 
 someone til there hearts content. Now go out there and insert some hot metal shards into someone's 
 @$$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoscang
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2003 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first was released and played for about two weeks and took it to a LAN 
 party and I never saw it again, (stupid a holes) I figured what the heck now I can play No one lives 
 forever 2 (which is a way better single player first person shooter) Now its July almost a year 
 after my days of Unreal and I felt a longing to play it. So I bought another copy of it and to 
 my suprise Atari has been really good on making new content!! It a whole new game now!! Its a blast 
 and Im addicted. Just watch out for that 1.5 gig install file!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
