-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Uplink: Hacker Elite
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/uplinkhackerelite/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  2, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.3, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 648 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Introversion
Genre: Sci-Fi Adventure
Date:     Oct 9, 2001 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The thrill of poking your nose into places that it doesn't belong is certainly satisfied here, courtesy 
 of an often smart design that turns every hack into a mystery waiting to be solved. 

 If he were still allowed to own a computer, Kevin Mitnick would undoubtedly approve of Uplink. Available 
 only by direct order from the UK-based developer, Introversion Software's new strategy game seems 
 to have been made for the infamous super hacker, given that the sole objective of play is to break 
 into as many computer systems as possible. Success is measured in terms of altered, stolen, and 
 destroyed data, and of course in being able to get in and out before tracer software gives your 
 address to those friendly people at the FBI.           Setting up a hack requires a lot of connections. 
    

  Actually, if Uplink had been around a few years ago, perhaps Mitnick wouldn't have gotten that 
 knock on the door. The thrill of poking your nose into places that it doesn't belong is certainly 
 satisfied here, courtesy of an often smart design that turns every hack into a mystery waiting 
 to be solved. However, little is provided aside from the break-and-enter tension involved in cracking 
 codes, as you'll spend all your time cracking systems and then terminating the connection before 
 somebody gets wise to your activities. Repetition and production problems make the game less than 
 it could have been, hampering your enjoyment of what amounts to a series of tough logic puzzles. 
   

  Most of these puzzles are provided by the Uplink Corporation, a shadowy organization that hires 
 anonymous remote agents such as yourself to hack into computer systems across the globe in the 
 year 2010. You start as a novice with access to rudimentary gateway hardware and software, plus 
 3,000 credits that can be used to purchase upgrades. More cash is earned by taking assignments 
 from third-party firms that post their current espionage needs in a mission database at Uplink. 
 As long as you have the experience level (you are ranked with a grade, rating, and an ever-changing 
 title that roughly determines your moral status) to meet some basic requirements, you can accept 
 the obligation. You're given a rate of pay for completing the work, which typically involves connecting 
 to the specified business and stealing or deleting a specific file, falsifying documents, and so 
 on. There is an option of contacting the employer to ask for additional information, or even more 
 money, but you typically just take the job and look over the specifics in an e-mail.           
 The password breaker is the primary tool of your trade.    

  Virtually every assignment begins by setting up an indirect path to the target system by routing 
 your call through a number of other servers on a global map screen. This is necessary to delay 
 tracing efforts long enough for you to complete your work. After establishing this roundabout route, 
 you dial in and then use a password-breaking program to gain access. Once you're inside, you can 
 go through the database, altering, copying, and destroying files at will. This is pretty straightforward 
 at first. You simply go in, complete the task, and get out. There is usually plenty of time to 
 accomplish your goal, particularly if you use plenty of other servers on the map to camouflage 
 your location.   

  Things get more complex in time. Your status with the company changes depending upon mission success 
 or failure, and your actions will be reflected in a news menu that tracks all the latest headlines 
 in the hacker underworld. As you proceed through the initial levels as an Uplink operative, systems 
 will boost their security and start detecting your presence more rapidly. Some will eventually 
 prove impossible to hack into unless you equip your machine with new hardware and software. Your 
 CPU, modem, memory, and security system can be enhanced to improve your capabilities. You can even 
 rig a self-destruct system into your gateway, preventing police agencies from seizing it and determining 
 your real identity. A dictionary program becomes necessary to get into some computers, while you 
 will also require the services of such arcane items as a proxy bypass, log deleter, decrypter, 
 and even a voice analyzer. Many programs come in different versions that get progressively more 
 powerful. As both software and hardware can be pricey, you'll have to pay your dues with a lot 
 of low-level jobs and be circumspect in your buying. Picking the right time to purchase is key 
 to quickly moving up the ladder.            Getting a university degree the easy way.    

  Of course, it isn't all about technology. As the assignments become more challenging, you'll 
 also need to improve your sleuthing skills. Instead of just deleting a file, you'll have to forge 
 a university degree for a friend by typing in fake credentials, alter someone's social security 
 records, snoop into a bank account balance, look into the activities of a rival, and so on. More 
 complicated jobs require quick thinking in terms of approaching your victim. In one instance, you 
 have to access a target through a trusted outside company with lighter security. In another, you 
 must use a proxy bypass program to alter key information -- after you think you've successfully broken 
 into the database. Many of these security systems will push you to the brink of discovery. There's 
 no shortage of tense moments, as you scramble to alter information or delete the log entries covering 
 your system access before your tracer detect program beeps up to 100 percent. The missions also 
 form into a loose plot after you get your feet wet. Later hacks are given added impetus because 
 you're trying to either uncover the intentions of the mysterious Andromeda Research Corporation 
 (ARC) or help the company achieve its insidious objectives, rather than steal anonymous files or 
 play with the personnel records of anonymous people.   

  Still, too much of Uplink is about just those sorts of routine expeditions. In the beginning, it 
 seems like every new mission involves hacking into the social security computer system to make 
 it seem like people are deceased. Or adding qualifications to someone's academic record. More variety 
 enters the game after a few hours of play, though even then there are a lot of similar assignments. 
 This is probably a limitation of the one-trick game design, as there really isn't anything a hacker 
 can do other than cracking passwords and browsing forbidden data. While the story does provide 
 more motivation, it doesn't hide the fact that you're doing the same thing over and over again. 
 The difference between going after crucial information held by the evil ARC or a generic file at 
 Apollo Networks is negligible when you take nearly the same steps to reach your goal in both instances. 
 As a result, the gameplay can get tired after no more than a dozen hours of play.           A story 
 is developed in the news screen.    

  More problems are presented by the interface. In an effort to streamline the controls for ease 
 of use, Introversion went too far. Although everything is organized into convenient menu and icon 
 systems, the use of some items isn't fully explained. Software programs, for example, can be activated 
 with the click of a mouse button, but they're sometimes tricky to actually fire up because of the 
 absence of a print manual and spotty in-game help. Figuring out how to use the proxy bypass program 
 was particularly tough, given that it was represented online by a cross with four incomprehensible 
 buttons. The visual and sound design compound the issue. As Uplink intends to mimic the workings 
 of an application program, it looks and sounds like one. This makes playing an unfriendly experience 
 where you move from one text screen to the next, the monotony typically broken only by photographs 
 on a personnel file and a generic techno music soundtrack. Perhaps this makes the game authentic, 
 but it also makes it slightly intimidating to use and dull.   

  Yet even with these shortcomings, Uplink is frequently enjoyable. When you're sweating out the 
 last seconds, trying to get the job done before your victim completes a trace, the design miscues 
 don't seem to matter. This is a game where you can get lost in the moment very easily.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ro_bodi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Having problems with my 8800GTS 640 (rest in peace) and being unable to play my favourite RPG games 
 (the replacement video card was, temporary, a 7200) , i searched for simple games that i could play 
 on my machine. I saw Darwinia + Uplink on Steam, at 7 euros and i decided to buy them. I knew very 
 well Darwinia... one of the most original games - very good, but i didn't know anything about Uplink. 
 One night, at 22:00 i decided to give it a chance. I launched the game and my first thought was 
 "What the hell is this ?... What a crap..." but i continued to play and slowly i understood why 
 this game is so nice... Almost no graphics (the Windows GUI is nicer than Uplink "HUD") but the 
 concept and gameplay... well, that first night i was playing until the next morning, so this say 
 everything. Even now, when a 260GTX Extreme+ replaced my old 8800GTS, i play hours and hours Uplink... 
 I almost forgot about Dawn Of War 2, Mass Effect and Drakensang :) .
  Give me some more computers to hack... i want to buy a new gateway and a new processor... i want 
 to upgrade my memory and buy some more hacking/cracking applications... Long Live Uplink !
  Play it if you know what a good game is... and give it a chance in the first 2 hours. I think you 
 will surely like it in the end. I give it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davoski182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:29 am PT
Review:  This game has everything that you'd want, to kick ass in the computer world... Yet, it has its 
 flaws... As all games do.
  Now, I will not diss this any more than I need to because I love this game. As with every other 
 game I've played it was hard to adore at the beginning, but once you get into it... It becomes 
 a near addiction. Those with an insatiable thirst of curiosity will love this game as it digs deeper. 
 And with an in-game ranking (all computerised of course) , the battle for top hacker is a tough 
 one.
  But, as you go deeper into it, you do realise there are several issues need to be addressed.
 
  
  For instance... On the global map, some of the squares have dotted lines around them... As far 
 as I can tell they indicate a server that has direct links to your host system or else is tracking 
 you. The solid squares, on the other hand, I'm completely oblivious to.... So most of the time 
 I just go onto that server and trash the living s*** out of it.
  
  But nevertheless, this game is a pump-action rush for those who love their keyboard skills and 
 are always willing to make the ultimate sacrifice for that perfect machine, those unlimited credits 
 and the sexy pictures of those guys on the Social Security, Global Criminal and Education Databases 
 ;p
  
  If anyone, who is new to this game and/or wants to get into it, needs a quick hand on anything, 
 send me a message. Always willing to help a fellow gamer :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni_2K
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Uplink is a hacking game, in which you play the role of a "Uplink Agent", looking to make money 
 from hacking. The game is pretty difficult at first, with very severe consequences if you mess 
 up (jail, or losing your computer, meaning game over) . Though once you get the hang of it this 
 should be a rare event.
  
  There's a great load of upgrades you can buy, including new software, better gateways and security 
 systems. These can enable you to crack passwords faster, store more data, or bypass security systems 
 on other computers.
  
  There is a storyline, but from what I've done of it it seems to be optional. There are unlimited 
 missions you can do, starting from simply deleting or copying files, to hacking banks and tracing 
 balance transfers, or changing someones academic details.
  
  Only bad thing I've noticed is the IRC that you can buy in the game. The community seems to be 
 fan-run, though the admins are pricks, and will happily ban you for nothing.
  
  Overall, it's a great game, and I'd recommend it to anyone who wants a change from strategy games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  The Good: Simple easy to use layout, you really feel like your hacking, lots of upgrades and missions 
 to use and partake in
  
  The Bad: Bland visuals and almost no audio, very repetitive after you get to the higher levels, 
 you can get lost and there's little help
  
  Hacker is a strategy game that simulates being well... a hacker. You have a simple menu layout that 
 shows your computer upgrades, whats in your memory, your finances and all that stuff. The main 
 purpose of hacker is taking missions from the mission list, figuring out the best way to do the 
 mission, then reporting back. You can log into your Uplink Network to upgrade your software, hardware, 
 and gateway (more on that later) . The way the game works is simple really; the main thing to watch 
 out for is being traced so you buy a trace detector and, depending on the upgrade, it'll tell you 
 how much time you have before being traced. You hack into a server by using a password cracker 
 and waiting for the password to be hacked. Once you get in you have to actually "do the mission" 
 and this can range from just copying a file, deleting a file, or more advanced things like changing 
 an academic record, getting financial information about someone etc.
  
  The simpler tasks are easy you just open your copier or deleter tool and once you find the file 
 you click on it and it either deletes or copies. Copying files have to added to your memory bank 
 and certain files are certain sizes. Make sure you buy a defrager to squish all your files together 
 for more room. Doing these tasks take CPU power so allocate the most important tasks to use more 
 CPU power or just upgrade your CPU. All of this costs credit that you earn from doing these jobs. 
 Some more advanced missions may need a proxy or firewall bypass before you can edit records. Either 
 buy a cheap proxy bypass program that automatically starts the tracing process or get a HUD program 
 that lets you execute more advanced programs for more advanced tasks. Editing records are easy; 
 all you do is type in what the missions log says and your done. Make sure you delete your log files 
 (if you have time) so you're not detectable and get caught later on in the game. If a big corporation 
 finds you and reports you Uplink will kill your Gateway and it's game over.
  
  Some of the most advanced tasks involve voice decoders that make you talk in a mic, and other decoders 
 so get into the banks (the most high security servers) . Upgrading your computer lets you store 
 more items, makes tasks go faster, and lets you use more advanced hardware. Once you get the best 
 hardware the hardest task becomes a breeze. While there are a lot of missions the game gets old 
 really fast and after the first 3-4 hours you'll start to get bored whether or not you ever get 
 to the higher levels. Bouncing your connection around the map is the key to slowing the trace, 
 but sometimes this isn't even good enough.
  
  There are a lot of great ideas in this game, but there just aren't enough to keep you interested 
 for long periods of time. A lot of times you'll get lost on to what to do since the tutorial only 
 covers the simple stuff like copying and deleting and doesn't say anything about proxy and firewall 
 bypassing. Most of this stuff you have to discover through trial and error and this can cost you 
 the whole game when you first start out. The game is also very bland both audio and visually. The 
 game is just a black screen with a bunch of pop up windows and simple text that you read. The audio 
 is very plain with almost 16 bit music and no sound effects. The music is elevator music style 
 techno and all it does is keep you from falling asleep. So, with just simple clicks and typing 
 and figuring about the best way to solve missions the game is fairly interesting for such a simple 
 concept. I really hope there is a full blown sequel in brew and I hope it becomes more advanced 
 than it is now. I feel the sequel could get major sales if it was done right, so all puzzle and 
 strategy fans should check this one out but if you're looking for visual flare... look elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rupes1986
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  I found this little diamond in the rough for only $2.99 at Big Lots five or so years ago, and have 
 to say;
  
  It's a very different game for those who aren't familiar with immersive simulations. You take the 
 role of a hacker who must complete certain objectives via the use of a network and simulated operating 
 system for various parties.
  
  A lot of these companies are out to sabotage one another and many have a deadline for you to meet. 
 This is where the realism sets in.
  
  Picture yourself in a dark room with naught but the light of your monitor casting a blueish sheen 
 over you, the target's network at your disposal, when you peek up at your tracking meter and realize 
 they're onto you. They've been tracking you and you're not even close to done. Your pulse quickens, 
 and you rush as fast as you can to delete, steal, or alter a certain file before they catch you 
 and notify the authorities.
  
  That's what it is to be a Hacker Elite.
  
  The only true flaw is the lack of mission variety. It gets very dull after a while when all you 
 do is steal this file send it here, or delete this file, or modify this person's records. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentronentron
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Uplink is an entirely different idea as far as games go. You take on the role of a hacker working 
 for Uplink. I must say that I have not seen a game of this class in my entire gaming history. You 
 start with enough to get you by, you take simple jobs such as deleting unprotected files from servers, 
 copying unprotected files from servers, and modifying database records; yet as time goes on network 
 security features such as proxy servers, firewalls, and other similar devices are added to the 
 equasion which in turn requires you to purchase software upgrades which would allow you to circumvent 
 these systems. All during this time, you are being traced back by the FBI and the corporations 
 which you affect.
  
  The game is engaging when you first begin, but wrong mistakes, not researching the security systems 
 on a network, and taking on too many jobs can cause an abrupt halt in the development of the game. 
 While I personally like the game play for its originality, this game is not for everyone. I would 
 recommend downloading the demo first.
  
  While my rating seems low, this game has a lot to offer, but the game does not provide a lot of 
 information about the security systems, upgrades, enhancements, etc; so the majority of the game 
 is based off of trial and error. Plus it is never fun when you make tight money decisions and one 
 choice causes the game to basically come to a halt. It is a game to TRY before you buy it, to make 
 sure it is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunken_munki
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Strange this one - It flew straight past my gaming radar and stayed hidden for years. Until my 
 brother gave it a go and told me about it. I didn't listen and then my other brother told me about 
 it. 
  
  So then I gave it a go - and I was gob smacked.
  
  Such a simple idea with basic graphics been, but executed so well that your spine tingles.
  
 
  I honestly can't compare anything like that first play through of this game. Sitting on the edge 
 of my seat until... GAME OVER. You have been disavowed!
  
  It just leave you wondering HOW did I get caught. Where did I mess up! It left me craving for more. 
 So you then register a new agent and start again.
  
  Truly a challenging game, but once you pick up the tricks you can master it.
  At first I didn't 
 even realize there was a story and story missions to play through - even better.
  
  Seriously I can't rate this game enough. Everybody should give it a go. Just to see what a game 
 CAN be. And even with no animated graphics, or 3d graphics how gameplay means EVERYTHING.
  
  I'd recommend getting the unofficial 1.6 patch and maybe the 'Onlink' mod to make this great 
 game even better. Seems to run fine on Vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Yoghurt_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  uplink manages to do what many newer games can't- it's extremely immersive and enjoyable, even 
 without flashy outside
  
  
  It's unbelevable, but I still have this on my HDD, after almost 7 years of playing it. Not many 
 games deserve some space on my drive, and that one earns it in every way possible. It's easy, yet 
 complicated. Doesn't have high-end graphics, but still looks neat. And one important thing- it 
 sucks you into it's hacking world like no other game.
  
  Really great thing in Uplink is a fact, that you don't have to know any programming skills to play 
 it. Many (mostly text based) games tried to depict hacking as closely as possible, but failed comercially 
 because of that. Uplink tries slightly different approach to the whole "hax0r" thing- lets you 
 feel like some uber-pro, in holywood-esqe kind of way, not the Kevin Mytnick way. And it works 
 fantastic. Yeah, You'll never be a hacker after playing it, but one thing to remember is- It's 
 just a game. And good game gives you an opportunity to become someone else, someone special. And 
 should make that transition easy. Uplink manages to do that with perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  purchased this in 2001 upon its release, we're now in 2007 and this game is still on my Harddrive, 
 not only addictive, it's also one of the best games ever.
  
  you are a hacker and you gotta show your stuff.
  
  you get money by working for some people, 
 there's an irc chatter inside, graphics are customizable thanks to mods, same goes for sound, music 
 is fine, the interface is real simple but the meaty gameplay is king of it all.
  
  watch out as your Tracer shows 60% and about to be detected as you try to break into a server and 
 deleting some FBI data :-D the tension is priceless.
  
  money allows you to buy new hardware for faster hacking, gateways, memory and more, it's all super 
 believable.
  
  this was and will always be one of the best games ever made.
  
  even though it came in 2001 it's never too late for you to enjoy and discover what REAL gameplay 
 is all about, drop Oblivion, HL2 and all this crap cause with UPLINK you're in for one hell of 
 a time.
  
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothgate4
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  A game which will leave you on the edge of your both seat and gateway. Why?
  
  The game starts with you registering to Uplink, a hacking organisation, and getting a crappy little 
 gateway. Hack into systems that dont even have a firewall, just a password which can be easily 
 cracked with your Trusty password breaker or your even trustier dictionary hacker. Delete and send 
 people restricted files.
  
  Then, as you move on, hack into socail security records, activate your Proxy Bypass, and touch 
 stuff you really should not be touching. With your Trace Tracker beeping, your keyboard clicking 
 like hell with all the typing your doing, and the words Proxy and Bypass showing several times, 
 you really will feel like your really are a hacker, and want to show the world that you are the 
 Hacker Elite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blutdurstig
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Uplink: Hacker Elite is one of the best games I've ever played to date. It's an immersive and addicting 
 game with a very well rounded storyline that you create as you go. The game itself is quite simple 
 but still intricate enough to provoke strategy in the player. With every mission you except and 
 complete, you gain funds and experience. With experience you can gain access to better missions 
 and with funds you can purchase better hardware for your computer which improves your ability to 
 hack. Uplink is a totally different game style then most people will be used to, but it's quite 
 easy to manage and definitely worth the time to learn. There are some pretty spiffy things to do 
 in the game, anything from simple copying or deleting files to changing a student or convict's 
 information to plain stealing money out of major bank accounts. You can be doing extremely well 
 in your game, but beware... you do need to be sure to bounce your connections and clean up your 
 tracks because it's very easy to be tracked and caught as a hacker, but the better you get at the 
 game, the more exciting the game gets. You need pretty quick thinking to endure some parts of the 
 game, it's easy to get distracted in some missions. In conclusion, this is a very good game. You 
 can try and find it in the US for sale, which is quite difficult, I've never met a GameStop employee 
 that had even heard of the game.. but I recommend you just buy it from a game downloading website. 
 Generally it's twenty bucks to download and it's totally worth it, but if you want to remain completely 
 faithful, go ahead and order it from the original UK site, but be prepared for up to 8 weeks of 
 waiting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cei13
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  For it's price, Uplink is a great game. The gameplay is very addictive and it keeps you on the 
 edge of your seat. The graphics are quite good considering the subject material and far better 
 than a lot of bargain games. You truly feel like a hacker using a futuristic terminal. There are 
 only two flaws with this game. The first is that it is pretty difficult, which is to be expected, 
 but can cause frustration due to repetition. The other flaw is much more serious. There is no way 
 to save this game from the game! I figured out that I could create a backup copy of my game, but 
 that requires exiting the game which is annoying. You HAVE to do this because if you get in trouble, 
 your game is terminated and you have to completely start over from the beginning, which is NOT 
 a good thing, especially if you've spent several hours acquiring new gear and information. However, 
 for the price paid, I can deal with these things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grarap
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  Uplink is a fantastic game, and really makes you feel like a hacker. Really. The UI is just great, 
 and the thrill of speedily  data on a foreign PC and then covering 
 your tracks never gets old. Sod's Law continues to rule though. Uplink has two major problems that 
 certainly may want you to spend your money elsewhere.
  Number 1) It's hard. Some objectives are near impossible if you don't know what you're doing. To 
 top it all of there are no 'lives' in uplink. Get caught once and you may get off with a fine. 
 Get caught again or refuse to pay and that's game over for you. You got me right, it's game over. 
 Whilst that may indeed add to the 'realism' of the game, it can be incredibly fustrating to see 
 all of that hard work go down the drain in a matter of seconds.
  Number 2) Uplink is an extremely intense game, perhaps due to its complicatedness. You have to 
 be really into it to enjoy it. That means that it isn't simply a pick-up-and-play title like Introversion's 
 other game, DEFCON. Perhaps its too open for its own good. There's no real mission path to follow, 
 other than a simplistic storyline thrown in after 30 mins or so. I haven't had the patience to 
 play Uplink for weeks, its that awkward.
  If you want to fufill that nerd dream of becoming a hacker, then by all means get Uplink. However 
 be warned that you'll probably find that hacking isn't as glamarous as you first thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garethcoker
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  A game that REALLY shows you don't need good graphics and good sound for a game. This game is essentially 
 about hacking, though I doubt any of the skills here would help you in the real world of hacking 
 - not that I would know.
  
  You start off as an agent for a corporation that employs hackers. The excellent tutorial mission 
 takes you through most of the basics, and then it's up to you to start completing various missions 
 that will give you higher rankings, and therefore higher clearance to take on more complex missions.
 
  
  To start with it's usually 'Steal data from another company' - and then it goes to 'Frame Criminal' 
 or 'Give someone an academic degree'. This is done by hacking into the various databases and changing 
 the details of the person that is involved.
  
  By the end of the game - the tasks can become extremely complicated, and you also have VERY little 
 time to do them, which I guess reflects the real world of the hacker. Once you break into a system, 
 you are traced, and if you haven't set up your security correctly, you're screwed. There is a story 
 that loosely holds the game together, but you can start it as and when you please - and continue 
 it as and when you please. It's very difficult for me to mention anything about the story, because 
 it would give the endgame away. Do a Wikipedia - and you'll find the story if you're intrigued.
 
  
  I believe this game can be downloaded on Steam for a VERY low price - and I would recommend all 
 users to buy it. The Steam version is very solid (the original was quite buggy) , and it's a very 
 easy game to pick up and play. Working out what to do later in the game is tricky, but that's part 
 of the fun and the challenge. An excellent strategy game focusing on espionage. Highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kastanok
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  It's four in the morning and I haven't slept in days. The room is strewn with coke cans and empty 
 plates. My fingers fly over the keyboard, its clacking beating a rythm with the Manson playing 
 in the background. My face is a mask of sweat, turned blue in the glare from my screen. DOS code 
 lines up to be processed. The trace tracker in the corner beeps ever more quickly. Come on... come 
 on, delete the logs. Beep. Beep. Right, delete the system files. Beepbeepbeep. Just a few more 
 seconds. BEEPBEEPBEEPBEEP! SHUTDOWN! BEEEEEEEEP!
  
  The screen goes black. My stomach wraps itself in knots as text runs out over the darkness, detailing 
 my successes and my ultimate failure. It was all over and all for the sake of a hundred thousand 
 or so credits.
  
  Uplink is an unforgiving game. You can rule the economic world from your computer but if you slip 
 up once it'll all come crashing down. Game over, man. Game over. But I love it.
  
  You are placed into the role of a newbie freelance hacker working with the Uplink Corporation. 
 It's 2010 and the world's economy is ruled by no more than 50 or so mega-companies. Each and every 
 one of them want your special services to ensure market dominance. And all you have at your disposal 
 is your computer and a gateway super-computer controlled by Uplink. You must hack, crack, delete 
 and steal your way to dominance amid the greatest IT-terrorist attack ever.
  
  As you may have guessed, it's a remarkably tense game. You see the world from your computer monitor, 
 all in retro blues and lines of code (think 'The Net') . The terrible beeping as your target's administrator 
 traces your location shreads your nerves and, as there's absolutely no save or load function beyond 
 leaving the game, every move counts.
  
  Uplink is also incredibly modable. New displays, computer types, targets, people, methods of hacking, 
 sounds and even an in-game IRC client means you can customise the experience to your own liking. 
 This is also necessary as the available faces, names, voices and such is very limited.
  
  So, overall, a perfect game when supplemented with community content. However, I'm here to review 
 the vanilla game. If you want to get hooked into a retro-sci-fi world of the keyboard and huge 
 rewards, this is definately something to sink your teeth into. A game to play before you die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodshed4REAL
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  When I first played the game (when it was released on steam) I had no idea that I would be spending 
 most of the day hacking into company mainframes or altering other people's academic records.
  The tutorial mission really helps you get a hang of some of the tools in the game, after 5-10 min 
 you are ready to for business.
  I've only "died" 2 times in the game because I was a little sloppy with covering my tracks, but 
 the game keeps pulling me back for more ^_^
  
  The game gets REALLY hard when you take on the more profitable jobs (if you don't have the right 
 tool's that is) .
  
  All in all this is a good game that you can put down and pick up again.
  
  footnote:
  You 
 can also find some really cool mods at http://modlink. net/ to enhance your hacking experience ^_^
 
  
  -BloodShed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerman92
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Zerg rush meets simple C++ app meets hacking. that is uplink.
  
  gameplay: when i say "Zerg rush" i mean "this game screws you over before you have the time to 
 make a valid defence" whick is exactly what a zerg rush is. you dont have the time to get the riht 
 defences before you get caught, however, there is some fun to be had. like... well it gets repetitive 
 even ifyou dont get screwed over RANDOMLY WITHOUT A SINGLE WARNING. Uplink is extremely discouraging, 
 it sucks.
  
  graphics: meh
  sound: sucks
  plot: what plot?
  value: something with the quality of a flash game shouldnt be for 10 dollars, it should be for 
 3-5$ or free.
  
  and the reason i am leaving gamespot is alot of stuff is rigged, and theres just too much dishonesty 
 in their reviews, take a close look at comparison between HL2, HL1, and Halo2. also, compare PSP 
 GTA with any other GTA game, its also good to look at whats listed in "the bad" on that review 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thepychomonkey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, They should have made more and add more of a storyline into it, something where 
 you make a character and spend the money you earn on not just upgrades, but say cars, houses, new 
 computers, things that arent really relevant but would be fun to do anyway. They should have made 
 more though... Or expansion packs to the game that brought in new ideas, new missions, new upgrades, 
 new locations, and maybe a multiplayer mode where you set up a secure site and whoever can get 
 past all the security wins or something, that would have been fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayjoh
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 8, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Uplink is a really cool game. I've never played anything quite like it. From the cool understated 
 interface, to the way you stress out because of the possibility that you might get caught ruining 
 a mans life, by changing his college grades. The game emulates sitting in a dark room with your 
 ultra-high-end pc, really well. You kinda feel like, a S. W. A. T.-team might come crashing through 
 the window, while you're playing. The team behind the game have been really uncompromising, when 
 it comes to keeping a certain style throughout the game. The game presents itself as a desktop 
 of some unknown OS, from where you connect to different servers around the globe either to buy 
 hardware/software, or attack/hack your way in to retrieve, delete og alter information. Really 
 simple, but it works!
  There are, however, some flaws in the game. The music is dull and repetitive techno muzak, and 
 the sound-effects are also kept in a simple way (for better and for worse!) . The story also leaves 
 something to be desired, the is a background-story of good vs. evil hackers, but due to the fact 
 that you spend the entire game at your OS/desktop, it's really hard to get immersed in it. The 
 graphics are absolutely nothing special, but this does not matter since it only adds to the simple 
 flair of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofgames90
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Well its a nice game but you will get baord after playing 8 hours in it and the missiona are the 
 same nothing changes in them the only thing is 
  EX Steal a file from that 
  delet afile from another
  change the database 
  
  but you will take maybe 8 hours to explore 
 every thing in the game or less you will start as a low rate hacker to the best one if you work 
 fine 
  
  if you are simelier with other games like BS hacker replay you will know that the tracing bowncing 
 system in uplink is bad is didnt get what i ment read when you have alots of servers in the world 
 screen and connect the all you will take time but thats not the problem lets say in the middle 
 you pressed the server you want to attack you will have to do all that bouncing again but in BS 
 hacker replay you jest can click in the right botton and that address will get out from the bouncing 
 line 
  
  but fore shure there is no fansy graphic i mean moving as a person and you should know that 
 
  but its a nice game it will give a little idea of hacking "no i'm rong" what you do in the game 
 is not hacking something similer to it
  
  one last thing if you atlast can steal an acount from a bank its all over i dont mean the game
 
  well in the game in mission becues then you can bey every thing in its last version and the best 
 gateway with the best Cpu s 
  
  but the hard part is in network hacking i wont talk about 
  
  but rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _MaFiOuS_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Uplink is an awesome game not only because of its great gameplay, but 
  even because of its great way of showing how a computer and how different 
  kinds of systems 
 react after your actions, its a lot far from the reality, 
  but its nice to do the missions, delete your logs and wait for the time to 
  go on.
  You start 
 as a simple agent with a crappy machine doing missions like 
  copying and deleting... as the time goes on you will be hacking into high 
  security system and 
 stealing research on a LAN.
  In uplink world everything is connected, you can put your money on a 
  company and then do missions 
 for saboting a rival company making your money grow more and more, its amazing the number of the 
 possible combinations of 
  action and reactions existin in this game.
  On the other hand this game counts with an awesome plot, you decides if 
  you go with arunmor 
 and saves the internet, or with Andromeda Research 
  Corporation (ARC) and destroy the internet releasing the most desctrutive 
  virus ever the revelation 
 (REV) .
  The choice is all yours.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  The date is 24th March 2010. You are a newbie hacker, who is searching for some fast cash. Your 
 friends told you that Uplink Corporation is now hiring people similiar to you. You are signing 
 up on their registration page... and from this moment you are a hacker. You are breaking most tight 
 security systems ever known on the Earth. You are robbing cash from bank accounts, decrypt stolen 
 data, decipher quadrant cipher systems, deleting files and logs, hacking into LAN networks etc. 
 As your work makes effect, you gain experience and you change your position on the top list. Graphics 
 are bad, but it takes no matter in games like Uplink. Readability matters. Gameplay is AMAZING! 
 That makes it the best game in its genre! Sounds and music are great too. That beep from Trace_Tracker 
 rocks. Value is perfect. It's cheap and it's cool. Summing up an amazing game which you have to 
 buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, but at the same time, hard to learn since there is so much to figure out 
 and even more to to understand and get the idea of. The concept of making a game weher you ARE 
 the bad guy, is very imaginative. (Okay, so you don't have to play a bad guy, you can be a good 
 guy by helping those who have lost their identity and help them get it back.)
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  What is really surprising is that most of this game uses Flash to do a 
 lot of the graphics and animation. But what really makes this game so great is how all the graphics 
 and button placement ties together. The complexity of how the programmer made this game is overwhelming. 
 I have never seen a game designed in such a way that you have to do so much and know a lot about 
 computers and about internet tracking and security. This game was not built on the idea of making 
 the game flashy, it was made by the use of pure imagination and hours upon hours of coding the 
 entiring game just right. All I will say is the design and concept is pure genius...
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  Since the game not only relies on the mouse, but the keyboard as well, 
 you can't learn this game overnight. The concept of this game is to learn while you play. This 
 seems to be the real idea behind the game. Because you have to know so much about the concept of 
 hacking, you have to know how to infiltrate a domain, search around for what you need, erase any 
 evidence of you being there, and then exiting without ever getting caught. One thing is for certain, 
 if you get this game, you better have a stron idea on how IP address works and on how internet 
 domains work. If you don't, you better starting reading up on your internet skills, just a little 
 bit.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  This game is not for the low IQ, it literally does require thinking and reacting. As mentioned, 
 it's not really possible to learn this entire game over night. The game was designed in such a 
 way that not all your opponents will be the same, you have to figure out how each opponent operates 
 and how you can outsmart them in the end. Even though the game's AI is not random, the learning 
 process is still very high. There are nuberous IP address to find and lots of quests to go on, 
 as well as figuring out some domains and areas on your own without any help. All I will say is, 
 if you get this game, you better put your thinking cap on, because you are going to need it. The 
 game is not as simple as the graphics would like you to think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolforever
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up the relatively unknown Uplink: Hacker Elite, I was skeptical of whether 
 or not it was any good; I've played countless "hacker" games and most of them were mediocre at 
 best. Uplink, however, is different; right from the beginning, you feel as though you really are 
 hacking a computer.
  
  The music is awesome; Introversion Software did a wonderful job matching it to the mood of the 
 game. Graphics are above average for the genre; I personally enjoyed them although you can simply 
 go to a mod site to download other skins for the game -- "http://modlink. net". This page, although 
 rarely updated, contains many mods for the game ranging from minor addons such as extra computers 
 to use to a complete makeover of the game.
  
  The storyline, however, is less than admirable; it depicts a company, ARC if I remember correctly, 
 engineering a virus to take over the Internet. Another corporation, Arunmor, is trying to stop 
 them. Eventually, you can choose to follow either the good or evil path; the "evil" path ends the 
 game if you win since the Internet was destroyed, but the "good" path allows you to continue playing. 
 The varied missions throughout the game allow you to supposedly hack anything from company mainframes 
 to whole networks. Unfortunately, the game allows you to ignore the storyline but will then force 
 you to end the game when ARC eventually prevails and destroys the Internet. If you can get past 
 the storyline in the game, you're allowed "free play"; this was my personal favorite part of the 
 game.
  
  My opinion overall of this game was that it was a wonderful game, but only if you could get past 
 the storyline flaws. By cheating, I believe you can bypass the storyline entirely, but that entails 
 using an odd username that most people wouldn't choose. In summary, Uplink is a good game with 
 some less-than good aspects, but still worthwhile to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsrarrow
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2005 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes the little guy wins, Uplink was created by the guys at Introversion a little UK based 
 games developer, who had a great idea; and actually made it happen. 
  
  Upink is a hacker simulator, as feels really authentic.
  
  This is truely a game for the ages, 
 fantastic gameplay. Which is what this game is all about, basicly a spreadsheet witha mouse click 
 interface, some typing involved but nothing too difficult. 
  
  You can play in almost a 'sandbox' kind of way, completely ignoring the storyline that is unfolding, 
 or you can play though the storyline, and enjoy a complex and well written piece.
  
  The music in the game is top notch and is a joy to listen too, the sound effects are wonderful 
 and the interface it self is really very visualy pleasing.
  
  Only downside is the potential difficulty of the storyline, (i have the brittish version so it 
 might be different) however it does seem to be a little on the hard side; but, i suppose, a challenge 
 is welcome.
  
  In the end Introversion has delivered a great game made by the little guy for the big bad world, 
 may we hack in peace. 
  
  Hey if you don't belive me, download the demo, it's free you know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhenixRogue
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 30, 2003 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game makes you go through repetative actions for every single hack, without any controls that 
 would automate what you need to do. It also is a pain to keep having to scroll through your programs 
 (while the clock is ticking) and find it. Uplink has NO QUICK KEYS TO SPEAK OF, which is idiotic, 
 since you're pretty much doing the same thing over and over again for each hack.
  
  It seems the primary goal of Uplink is how fast you can scroll your mouse around the screen before 
 computer you're hacking catches you. What a pain in the rear end.
  
  Not to mention that it has NO GRAPHICS worth looking at. A black and green screen, for the most 
 part, like the good 'ol days of Basic and DOS. It's not worth the $30 I paid for it. It figures 
 that it was a game that was sold on the Internet-only before Strategy First picked it up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
