-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Urban Chaos
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/urbanchaos/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  4, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 261 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Mucky Foot Prod
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 30, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The fact that Urban Chaos is an enjoyable third-person action game with no switch flipping, box 
 pushing, or key finding should be reason enough for you to purchase it. 

 Mucky Foot Productions' Urban Chaos is an attempt to meld a side-scrolling arcade beat-'em-up such 
 as Double Dragon or Final Fight with a modern third-person action game. All the standard ingredients 
 are intact: a trek across a metropolitan dystopia, baseball bats, evil gang members, scantily clad 
 karate prostitutes, punching, and lifebars. Unfortunately, perhaps in a misguided attempt to make 
 Urban Chaos more realistic, the developers have replaced retro-gaming's universal health power-up, 
 the big-boned hunk of meat, with a generic medical kit. But Mucky Foot can be forgiven for this 
 oversight, because it's one of the game's only significant missteps. Urban Chaos is a great looking 
 and ingenious reinvention of a classic genre.  

 Union City is a town in crisis. The end of the 20th century is approaching fast, and a gang of thugs 
 called the Wildcats runs rampant through the streets. Worse yet, their brand of chaos seems to 
 extend past mere delinquency to also include more sinister millennial cult activities. As rookie 
 cop D'arci Stern, you must first prove yourself to your superiors then take on the  
 Wildcats by uncovering their wicked plans and stopping them.  

 Your task of defeating the Wildcats takes the form of a series of assignments that occur at various 
 locations across a map of Union City. Often there will be more than one mission available at a 
 given time, and specific locations within the city are generally used for more than one assignment. 
 The several dozen missions offer a variety of unusual and engaging tasks. One early level requires 
 you to sneak up on a suicidal man and talk him out of leaping off a building into the gawking crowd 
 below. Another has you rescuing a hostage, who then fights alongside you as you battle your way 
 back to safety.  

 Although every level has one specific goal, there is generally no time limit in which you must accomplish 
 that goal. Each area is a fully rendered 3D representation of a section of Union City that can 
 usually be explored at your leisure before actually finishing the mission. Exploration will uncover 
 lots of little side tasks that can be completed for skills-building bonuses. The side tasks add 
 a huge amount of replay value, as they're often as complex and unusual as the primary goals themselves. 
 For instance, the suicide prevention level contains a completely optional assignment wherein you 
 help a fellow officer whose squad car has been stolen. You must interview the prostitute who witnessed 
 the theft, then locate and retrieve the vehicle. Retrieving the vehicle means climbing into it and 
 driving it. Along with fighting crime on foot, you are sometimes required to get behind the wheel 
 of various vehicles. The car control is a little off and doesn't have the feel of a more fully 
 realized city-driving game such as Driver or Midtown Madness. But it's still a nice bonus, and 
 after chasing down and running over a fleeing thug, then jumping out of the car and slapping the 
 cuffs on him while he's dazed on the pavement, you probably won't complain much.  

 Regardless of their underlying objectives, most missions involve a substantial amount of action-packed 
 hand-to-hand combat. Urban Chaos' fighting system is simple but effective. Aside from running over 
 her enemies, D'arci can punch, kick, grapple, and wield weapons she picks up off the ground, such 
 as baseball bats, knives, and guns. (Later in the game, a mysterious second character called Roper 
 also becomes playable.) The developers have created an excellent system for fighting multiple opponents 
 in three dimensions: Combat is initiated by moving within range of an enemy. At that point, a lifebar 
 appears above his head and you are locked facing him until one of you is subdued. If other enemies 
 are in the vicinity, they'll join the attack. A button press will cycle you to face each combatant 
 in the area. You can also use back kicks and side kicks so that you can beat up a thug who's creeping 
 up to blindside you. You'll need a gamepad to control all your moves effectively, and once you 
 get used to the system, you'll find that the melee combat is fun and also deeply satisfying thanks 
 to the excellent sound effects.  

 Urban Chaos also does an admirable job of making you feel as if you're wandering around a living 
 city. The texture work, architecture, and smoke and lighting effects are gorgeous. The streets 
 are packed with innocent bystanders and moving traffic. Leaves and garbage swirl around your feet 
 in an uncannily realistic way as you run down Union City's grimy alleyways. Standing on the roof 
 of a tenement building and staring down at the bustling city below with the moon at your back actually 
 makes you feel like a superhero watching over your city, and no game has yet produced this dramatic 
 effect as well as Urban Chaos.  

 The fact that Urban Chaos is an enjoyable third-person action game with no switch flipping, box 
 pushing, or key finding should be reason enough for you to purchase it. That it's also great looking, 
 inventive, funny, and even a little tactical makes it a must for anyone who can appreciate stylish 
 but relatively mindless console-style action.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TerryPeat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  hmm...
  I've been started playing this game since 5 years ago, and 'til now, i'm still enjoying it!
  
 
  I dunno why, but it is highly addictive, i never be so stressful when playing this game, unlike 
 when i played nowadays games like GRAW, Rainbow six Vegas e. t. c, maybe it caused by its easy to 
 play and controls are not confusing like ArmA
  
  And from what I have seen this is the only game that all of the players and NPC's are Left-handed
 
  
  this game also has several bonusses which allows us to search the whole map for it
  
  this game also, might be one of the father of open enviroment gameplay like the GTA's and other
 
  
  wicked I'm looking forward to see this re-engineered for next-gen game consoles and pc
  
  also the cool hand-to-hand combat is a nice part of game, i always prefer using hand combat 
 rather than gunfights, its really cool stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Urban Chaos is that antique game that never gets off your desktop. It is a rare relic, extremely 
 well-made, pleasurable and addictive. It's a pity that it didn't made so much success when it was 
 released.
  
  D'arci is the main character. Her attitudes are a crucial element to justify the good rating of 
 this game. The dialogues are quite exciting, and D'arci's skills are impressive.
  
  The plot is very traditional, however well-articulated. Taking the position of a big city's hero 
 is very fun, screaming "Stop, Police!" to the passerby (more usually to criminals) , running by 
 the streets, etc.
  
  Union City is one of the bests game-cities I've ever seen, with typical chaotic city environment, 
 New York style (who does not loves New York?) , dark alleys and leaves and cans all over the walkways, 
 floating around when you pass by. Also, the possibility to not just explore the streets, but the 
 buildings' roofs, is revolutionary.
  
  Although the game is pretty hard, and some levels can be very painful, it is definitely something 
 that is worth looking for to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Where would we be without Double Dragon? Let's face it - Tradewest's arcade classic introduced 
 us to the mindless fun of strutting around city streets, caving in people's heads with baseball 
 bats, and eating chicken dinners for health. Though Double Dragon spawned approximately six thousand 
 crappy clones during the late eighties (who remembers Bad Dudes versus Dragon Ninja or Altered 
 Beast?) , its street-brawling high concept is still alive and kicking - and this month, it takes 
 the form of Mucky Foot's Urban Chaos.
  
  It's the future, and the whole Y2K phenomenon has sent a number of Union City gangs into a killing 
 frenzy. You play the role of D'Arci, a go-getter rookie cop with an eye for trouble and zero tolerance 
 for crap. DArci is quickly sucked into a deadly blood feud, while receiving the occasional tip-off 
 from Roper, a grizzled ex-soldier (who becomes playable later on in the game) .
  
  Gameplay-wise, Urban Chaos is a hybrid of Tomb Raider and the aforementioned Double Dragon - you'll 
 leap from building to building and slide down cables just as frequently as you bust heads. Missions 
 are somewhat non-linear, with an extra side-story thrown in here and there for good measure. Meeting 
 certain people (or killing them) triggers gameplay events that allow you to progress, and a global 
 positioning system keeps you pointing in the right direction.
  
  The over-the-shoulder camera reveals some similarities with Eidos' Lara Croft cash cow, but to 
 be honest, the running-and-jumping portion of Urban Chaos is superior to any Tomb Raider game. 
 The environment that serves as your stomping grounds is pretty impressive - you get free run of 
 a working city, complete with traffic, pedestrians, and thug-infested back alleys. Dead leaves 
 and discarded newspapers are spread over the landscape, and dashing through the city sends them 
 sailing airborne and fluttering to the ground. On certain missions, you can hop into unlocked vehicles 
 and go for a joyride, mowing down any fools who manage to get in your way - or you can opt to ram 
 fire hydrants, which festively blast water into the air. The only downside to the mayhem is the 
 thick layer of black fog that obstructs your view at all times - it's the ol' Turok-style pea-soup 
 effect doubling as fog, and doesn't do much for immersiveness.
  
  While the gameworld looks cool enough, the fighting portion leaves a lot to be desired - a bad 
 thing, considering that seventy percent of the game consists of brawling. The tutorial introduces 
 you to a weak-ass combat system with unresponsive controls. While executing triple-kick combos 
 and special moves is near-nigh impossible, simply throwing your opponents to the ground and arresting 
 them is dead simple, and there's never any need to go for the flashy Jackie Chan stuff. Another 
 annoyance is that when you're knocked down, it takes a good ten seconds to get back up, and the 
 various hooligans you fight enjoy stomping you in the gut whilst you're incapacitated.
  
  As the game progresses, you can snag shotguns and machine guns from downed enemies, and then the 
 game takes off a bit - popping lead into a bad guy is much easier than going hand-to-hand. But 
 despite the addition of some half-heartedly scripted cut-scenes, the rinse-lather-repeat gameplay 
 gets old rather quickly, and you'll be wishing for more variety by the tenth mission.
  
  Urban Chaos also suffers a major case of consoleitis, featuring incredibly blocky character models 
 that would be better suited to a PlayStation than a high-end PC. But Urban Chaos' biggest sin is 
 that you can never save your game during a mission. You'd think that by now, developers would finally 
 get it into their thick skulls that PC gamers despise this challenge-adding feature. Give us a 
 break.
  
  At the end of the day, Urban Chaos provides a few hours of slightly enjoyable gameplay, but gets 
 more and more tedious with each passing mission. If the fighting controls were more compelling, 
 or the missions gave you more to do than beat up everyone in sight, Urban Chaos might have been 
 a strong action contender. Ah well, back to Double Dragon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game on and off since it came out 8 years ago. it was a perfect story. game 
 world for the 1999 release and D'Arcy was one heck of a female (and black, which we hardly see!) 
 character that needed to be seen in more games!
  
  She plays a police officer/detective who gets caught up in a major conspiracy, she has to hand 
 fight, shoot, drive and generally be well in touch with her body for the fighting and feelings 
 for the detective work! The graphics are gorgeous and really reminded me of Gothem City in the 
 early Batman movies, dark, mysterious and giving you the feeling a lot of dark deeds are taking 
 place! The world is a dark place, with puddles and leaves blowing around, a real feeling of December 
 without the snow but with the wind and the chill! It is one game that also really got 'height' 
 correct in my book. When I was high up on a roof edge looking down, with the wind howling and the 
 small figures below it really made me think 'vertigo'!!
  
  The voice acting from all the actors is brilliant and although there is not long drawn out conversations 
 all the characters are believable and personalities really come out in the game. This, along with 
 the dark, damp city really creates and immersive overpressing feeling of dread. Not like in a horror 
 game, but nevertheless and overpressing feeling of doom approaching with the new millennium! I 
 have tried to stay away from the story, as it is quite original in today gaming, in fact, get this 
 game and be surprised on so many levels, because there was not and has not been a game like it 
 for a decade or more!
  
  I will close by saying this game has lot's of replay value, as I have been playing it regularly 
 for the last 7 years, it keeps dragging me back and given me a lot of fun all over again!
  
  In closing I will say one last thing: This game has one the the best intro movies of any game 
 ever! It is full of action, suspense, gives a great viewing of the outlook/personality of the main 
 characters, and is a hugely well directed, good looking little action movie, with police cars crashing 
 into suspects vans, back wheels skidding into store windows, smashing them and throwing the displays 
 around, it is breath-taking and amazingly only about 45 seconds long but you'd swear it was 5 minutes!
 
  
  If you find this game for under $5 I would say get it for the intro alone, but even at $20, this 
 game will give you a lot of fun entertainment, some great characters and a heck of a immersive 
 story! Highly recommened and two big thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatboyvinnie
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Story-You are a cop in union city called D'arci Stern sent to try and rid the city of a local gang 
 called the Wildcats but then she meets a strange old man called Roper and the Wildcats start doing 
 more dangerous jobs.
  
  Graphics: Pros-City looks good, Special effects are nice (smoke, litter) , weapons look realistic
 
  Cons-Models are very low poly, lack of variety of skins, A bug cause cars tires and a few other 
 things to disappear
  
  Sound: Pros-Voice acting is solid, gunfire sounds great, music keeps the action tense
  Cons-Not 
 enough music, enemy speech can get repetitive
  
  Game play: Pros-nice Tomb Raider like moves, gun play feels tense and great, melee combat is satisfying
 
  Cons-Auto aim can be a nuisance (locked onto a guy with a baseball bat but a guy behind him has 
 a shotgun and you have to kill or arrest the baseball bat guy to lock onto the shotgun one) , controls 
 can get irritating (you want to run but you end up sneaking for example)
  
  Replay Value-Theres approximately 40 missions to complete which should take you just under 10 hours 
 to complete, then you can explore each level to find its own unique side missions and find stats 
 upgrades which can make you more powerful, faster or have more health so theres a lot to do
  
  Overall: Its a good underrated game that still shows that mixing genres in a game works well 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuruptt
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 21, 2004 3:40 am PT
Review:  hmmmm we go possibly with the Release date and of course the release Year....
  for that year this game was BOMB hehe in PS ONE wasnt any game like Grand Theft Auto Three or Grand 
 Theft Auto Vice City so this game was enjoyable i liked it the fightin was great than the arrestin 
 peoples was great the think that i didnt like in this was that this game was realistic untill 2 
 or 3 last missions where a man throwing fire like Godzilla head-ed 2 City to attack people and 
 the person that was me POLICE-GIRL must kill him before he Crash the city than the second thing 
 was with 1 like ghost he was LIKE MATRIX :D so it was hard to kill him because he was like ghost.. 
 whateva ... the graphic was nice maded this was a good point for the EIDOS Interactive ... we hope 
 they will release URBAN CHAOS 2 if they have it in their minds... it will be funn... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
