-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Urban Assault
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/urbanassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  3, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 107 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Terratools
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There are lots of missions and lots of branches so you can complete several missions in varying 
 order, but all the missions end up playing the same. 

 It's not easy trying to create a new genre of gaming. People generally don't like change, and history 
 has shown that gamers flock to the familiar rather than risk disappointment with the new and innovative. 
 So I try to appreciate the effort of a developer when it attempts to do something different. That's 
 why I'm rooting for the success of the new action/strategy hybrid. That's also why I wanted to 
 like Microsoft and Terra Tools' Urban Assault, the latest offering in this budding genre. Uprising 
 and Battlezone were the first games to herald this new type of gaming. Uprising was a decent game, 
 though hobbled with some problems. Battlezone, on the other hand, was a very good game that was 
 clean, intuitive, attractive, and fun. Unfortunately, it didn't sell well, which doesn't bode well 
 for this infant genre. So where does Urban Assault fit into this little pantheon? Can it become 
 the first critical and commercial success for the action/strategy hybrid? The unfortunate answer 
 is no.  

 I've watched Urban Assault throughout its development and always thought it was a good idea. But 
 that was before I played the game. In Urban Assault, you are mankind's last hope to stop both an 
 alien invasion and a three-way civil war among humans. It's a cliched setup that's overdone with 
 an overly melodramatic introduction and mission videos. When you get down to it, it's just an excuse 
 to bash through 40+ missions of finger-numbing action and unit building. The lack of a real story 
 is a disappointment in light of the excellent storytelling in recent games like Starcraft and, 
 to a lesser extent, Battlezone.   

 Urban Assault isn't too hard to learn. There are three tutorial missions that teach you the basics 
 of gameplay: how to build units, how to exploit vital power stations, how to command your troops, 
 and how to directly control individual units. It's a competent tutorial, although I wish there 
 were subtitles for the extensive voice instructions.  

 For those who are wondering, Urban Assault is more action than strategy. In fact, the design of 
 the game forces you to take active control of vehicles. You won't win a mission unless you do so. 
 As to be expected, there are plenty of vehicles to take over, each with its own strengths and weaknesses. 

 My first problem with Urban Assault was the interface. It's daunting to play this game with the 
 grid map, the unit-listing squadron manager, and command or vehicle HUD taking up three quarters 
 of your screen. Sure, you can turn off the map and squadron manager, but you need to keep them 
 open to command your troops while you're fighting. A game interface should also look like it belongs 
 in a game. Urban Assault's interface, with its gray colors and monotonous windows-like buttons, 
 looks like an old OS/2 interface, not a game interface.  

 The interface is also too cumbersome, especially when using the mouse, as it forces you to take 
 your hand off the joystick, even in the heat of combat, and click back and forth between icons 
 placed all over your screen. There are hotkeys for most of the commands, but they aren't arrayed 
 logically like Battlezone's interface and are almost too numerous and spread out to memorize. Even 
 with these hotkeys, you still have to use the mouse to resize the map and actually create a unit, 
 which forces you to disengage from the joystick, usually at the worst times.  

 The squadron manager is useful for organizing and ordering your troops. However, it would be nice 
 to be able to assign hotkey numbers to saved unit groups or to the most frequently used vehicles, 
 which would have made the constant jumping between vehicle and base less of a hassle. The map, 
 with its various levels of zoom, was also useful, although I had trouble seeing terrain on it. 

 The other problem I had with the game was the sheer monotony of missions. There are lots of missions 
 and lots of branches so you can complete several missions in varying order, but all the missions 
 end up playing the same. You arrive in a scenario, find a network of power stations to beam to, 
 start cranking out troops, and then start sweeping the map for the enemy bases and technology upgrade 
 sectors. Nearly every mission plays like this, with very little variation. Some mission variety 
 would have made this game more interesting, and an attempt to tie the story into some of the missions 
 would have been nice. As it is, each successive mission is just another deathmatch with more and 
 bigger enemies. The game just gets harder and repetitive, rather than becoming more fun.  

 The graphics and environments also further the monotony. The levels all look the same - gray and 
 dull, with scattered hulks of buildings, brown clouds overhead, and the same not-quite-shimmering 
 blue energy screen walling you inside your scenario. I wish that in addition to different types 
 of missions, there were different looks and environments to add variety. After a dozen missions 
 or so, everything just looks the same. As for the quality of the game's graphics, they weren't 
 bad, but even with 3D acceleration they failed to impress.  

 A few other problems surfaced that made me like the game even less. For all the production values 
 in the intro and mission videos, there is a surprising lack of detail in the game. When airplanes 
 and bombers take off, I want to see engines spewing exhaust from a vertical takeoff, instead of 
 hovering up and down like they were pulled on strings. Another thing that seemed silly was taking 
 over sectors - which you do by shooting the ground of the sector you want to control. Conquering 
 the sectors on a map is vital to your power output, but after the millionth time of shooting rockets 
 into the ground, it just seemed silly. Why couldn't there have been an automated drone that could 
 just take over all empty sectors? Regarding Urban Assault's force-feedback support, I think Microsoft 
 overdid it. Everything causes the joystick to bounce around ridiculously. Even when you're just 
 driving across flat land the joystick starts bucking. It got so bad that I had to switch to a regular 
 joystick several missions into the game.  

 Urban Assault isn't a bad game, but the truth is, I'd rather play Battlezone, which has more personality, 
 is more fun, and better looking. If the interface was cleaned up, made more attractive and intuitive, 
 and the missions and environments spiced up, this game would be good. The core gameplay is fun, 
 but it just gets monotonous. And without any story to drive you forward, there really is no reason 
 to continue playing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: THA_Rami
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  When I was young, I once played the demo of Urban Assault. It was fun, but a bit too complicated. 
 Now, I'm older, and I shelved out 25 dollars on eBay to buy a 1998 game, just to see if the game 
 is as fun as I recall it to be.
  
  In the future, mankind has sheltered in domes after the extinction of plankton triggered the entire 
 foodchain to collapse. Fighting over the remaining sources in an all-destroying third world-war, 
 the world turned into a toxic wasteland and all that is left of mankind has taken cover in these 
 synthetic shelters to survive. Little is known of the world before the Big Mistake, and there have 
 been generations born in the dome and living in them for all their lives.
  
  Now, if that were all, it wouldn't have been so bad, but an alien race decides to help us destroy 
 our planet, tapping into the core of the planet and in doing so, threatening to destroy our whole 
 planet. A second alien race decided that North Africa was a good spawning ground, and for that 
 matter, we humans decide that while our planet is being drained, fighting amongst each other is 
 a good idea, too.
  
  But enough of that. Urban Assault clearly doesn't thrive on its story, although the hidden areas 
 in the Help file are extremely entertaining and build up atmosphere, we're not here to talk about 
 how entertaining those are neither. No, we're here to discuss why Urban Assault is special.
  
  Urban Assault is a game made in 1998. That's one thing to remember. The graphics aren't amazing 
 and weren't amazing back then neither. Having lost the graphical battle against Starcraft, Metal 
 Gear Solid, Tekken 3 and Starsiege: Tribes, that clearly isn't what made it special. I mean, come 
 on, look at it. The graphics are dull, repetitive and really, the explosions aren't that impressive. 
 Nor are the units. No, it's not the graphics.
  
  The missions all come down to the same. You spawn somewhere with the units from the last map. You 
 try to gain ground on the enemies, conquering vital locations to improve your strategical situation 
 and either try to defeat all enemies, conquer all key sectors to open up the Beam Gate to the next 
 level to defeat all enemies later, or activate the all-destructive Studson Bomb. Now, there's variation 
 in the levels, and you'll have to think in most scenarios and evaluate your troops and power and 
 decide whether or not to hunt for unit upgrades or science upgrades in other levels. Some levels 
 are absolutely brilliant and require every ounce of strategy you can put into it. Later in the 
 game, when things heat up, though, the only thing indicating that it is heating up is the mission 
 briefing, which makes one think the level design isn't all that great. Then, it probably isn't 
 level design neither, right?
  
  The strategy, then? The squadron commander feels just right, with simple options to control and 
 manage your troops, which you can order around on a simple map. The feeling of control is reasonable, 
 and you can play the first levels without ever hopping into a vehicle at all. Later on, though, 
 hopping in, or virtual presence shift, becomes crucial in thinking out your strategy. The strategy 
 is quite nice, but its not as good as the competition. The focus of the game is more towards action 
 in most cases. So, its not the strategy neither.
  
  Then, the unit balance? Well, the unit balance was quite good. The triangle was Planes   Copters 
   Tanks   Planes, and the concept worked pretty well. Controlling the units feels good and inituitive, 
 with the superiority jet fighters feeling fast and agile and the Zeppelins feeling slow and powerful. 
 But besides that... No, I don't think its the units, neither.
  
  The controls? Good, responsive. Nothing very notable there. Not those neither. Multiplayer? Fun, 
 especially with the broadband era, but nothing that'll drop your jaw neither.
  
  You know, actually, Urban Assault is just a very average game. But, really, it has something, some 
 sort of feeling, that lifts it over games that are 'good'. Urban Assault brings all of its averageness 
 together in something that is far above average, far above good, even. It's special. Not any single 
 aspect of it, but exactly that mix that it offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMSTER-DANCER
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Urban Assault is a strategy game that can also be played as a first player game. You play as a 
 sorteve cyborg human that is put into a floating fortress powered by the planets energy, these 
 are called host stations. Your mission is to save planets earth from the following races along 
 with the reason they want to destroy humanity... (spelling may be incorrect)
  
  -Taertastic [human] angry because we destroyed the enviorment
  -Gorkovs [human] unknown
  -Black 
 Sect [pirates] probaly just to create chaos
  -Miakonions [alien] needs energy form the earth's core
  -Sulgergar [bionic alien] trying to turn 
 planet into spawning grounds
  
  Overall the graphics are not too good and the sound is quite weak but the game is highly addictive 
 because your economy is simply building power station and capturing sectors on the map so mainly 
 the game is just all out war!!! The game also doesn't get boring because the outcome of the matches 
 changes everytime. Also there are probaly over 30 lvls and the range of vehicles is great that 
 range form weasels that are pointless unless in great numbers to rhinos that can destroy a host 
 station in a few shots. There are also upgrades through out the game that give you a reason to 
 play all levels even the ones you hate.
  
  The online is quite pointless because nobody ever is on unless you plan a match with your freinds.
 
  
  I suggest you try the demo first if you are thinking of getting this game. They are probaly not 
 for sale now but i saw 4 for sale at amazon. ca and don't ask me for mine because I just found out 
 mine snapped in half. So think about the game you probaly will really like it.
  
  PS a cheat to get into an enemy host station is hold F5 while your in your host station (i think 
 it is F5 but if not which ever button makes you switch turret positions) right before your host 
 station dies and you will swith into another enemy host station. This may take a few tries. It 
 is kinda cool but this was the first cheat i ever found out on my own without finding it on a website. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Urban Assault is a rather obscure game that was released way back in 1998. Ever since then, the 
 game was apparently recalled for an undisclosed reason. This is a pity, since Urban Assault is 
 a fun game, even though it does suffer from several rough issues.
  
  The basic story is that a human-induced world-wide disaster called The Big Mistake occured and 
 ruined Earth as a whole. So now the survivors are forced to live within domed cities to protect 
 themselves from the now poisonous atmosphere. Unfortunately, the survivors have also split into 
 opposing factions in a struggle for Eaerth's remaining resources. Put not one, but two alien invasions 
 into the mix, and we've got a set-up for the single player campaign. You play as SDU 7, the last 
 hope for the Resistance which consists of the last survivors of the human faction that want to 
 re-establish a democracy on Earth. Hmm, sounds like a worthy cause to fight for eh? So your basic 
 goal is to conquer every territory on the campaign map, and eventually make your way to Parasite 
 city, the HQ of the insidious alien Mykonians, who are busy finishing off the planet with their 
 parasite device.
  
  You'll have to get through a lot of tough battles in order to complete the game however. In each 
 territory you chose to enter, your basic goal is always to destroy the enemy's host station before 
 they destroy yours. Some maps will have multiple enemies for you to deal with. So in order to complete 
 these objectives, you'll have to master using your own host station. Controlling the host station 
 is really quite easy, and so is producing your essential combat vehicles. There is only one resource 
 in the game, energy, and it used to produce new vehicles and help keep your host station alive 
 (If you run out of energy at any time and for any reason, you die) . You gather it simply by taking 
 the map's power stations and putting your host station as close to them as possible (If not on 
 top of them since your host station floats) .
  
  While producing vehicles and gathering energy is easy, things might get a little tricky for some 
 when it comes to actually ordering and arranging your vehicles into squads. In order to do this, 
 you'll need both the map and squadron manager open respectively. These unfortunately consume alot 
 of space on your screen, so while using them its tricky to see what's going on in the actual 3D 
 world. In fact, you might end up purely using the map to play its so dominant on the screen most 
 of the time. Fortunately, its a reliable map most of the time, so its easy to use when you rely 
 on it. This actually really doesn't sound as cumbersome as it does, (Though its still cumbersome 
 mind you!) and just takes some getting used to. If you can get used to it, you should have no problem 
 with controling your squads.
  
  The single-player campaign will take you a while to complete since many of the scenarios will pit 
 you against very difficult odds, along with some competent AI. The AI in Urban Assault is relatively 
 basic, but it tends to use a fair variety of its race's vehicles, and use very large attack forces. 
 They'll also build themselves new structures and turrets when their energy stocks allow. The actual 
 scenarios however don't have much variety. Its always destroy your enemy by whatever means necessary, 
 and then leave via the beam gate. There's some replay value here though, since there are multiple 
 ways to reach Parasite City. So you might want to see what happens when you try each path seperately. 
 The environments in the scenarios however do add some variety, so not all of the scenarios play 
 exactly the same.
  
  Urban assault also has some multiplayer options which allow you to play as 4 of the game's 6 factions 
 (The other 2 are not included in multiplayer at all, probably for balancing purposes) . You can 
 play against up to 4 players online, and if you can find any matches, then the game can be quite 
 intense. But right now, not much offering for multiplayer since the zone stopped supporting Urban 
 Assault a while ago.
  
  Graphically, Urban assault looks dirty all around, and not in a very good way. The vehicles all 
 look good, but the environments are all the same or very similar to each other, and don't look 
 very good. Sound wise, there are some repetitive, but well done gun sounds. There is also some 
 voice acting for your vehicles, but its not very good and is very repetitive.
  
  Ultimately, Urban Assault is rough in several areas, enough to drive some people away. But if you 
 can get past the rough spots, Urban Assault can be a blast to play through.
  
  Pros: Challenging Single-player campaign that is very rewarding for those who play through it. 
 Good looking vehicles. Good race balance for multiplayer. Decent AI.
  
  Cons: Single-player campaign gets repetitive very quickly. No option to face AI in a multiplayer 
 skirmish. Interface is a little cumbersome. AI controlled vehicles have some pathfinding issues.
 
  
  Recommendable for: If your looking for a strategy/action game that is fresh all the way through, 
 Urban Assault is probably not for you. Urban Assault is best for those who are looking for some 
 challenging strategy and combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deber_kanter
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 20, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  There are games that never die, like Master Of Orion 2 or Heroes of M&amp; M 3. Urban assault is 
 also one of them. A post-apocaliptic RTS where you can controle the troops you create? WHY HAVE 
 THERE NOT BIN GAMES LIKE THAT SINCE???? Not many or well known at least... I realy hope more people 
 start or restart theyr playing of Urban Assault, so that the game-creators see the meaning and 
 the money in this genre... you whanna rouam around in a big tank? Scout the skyes with an jetplane? 
 Hover whith a helicopter? Sick and tired of Bf 2? So in the end: one of the best games ever made. 
 Although a little bit too blue :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  Urban Assault involves both strategy and first person pilot shooting to create an addictive game 
 where you are the leader of the rebellion. The task has fallen to you to lead your forces to victory. 
 As you progress through the campaign, you will unlock stronger more expensive units. Once you create 
 a unit, you may either stay in your command center or "jump" into any unit directly and control 
 via keyboard/joy stick. This means that your actions truly can turn the tide of any battle. 
  Having such a huge impact of player participation truly draws the user into the game. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who enjoys strategy games or shooters it has a feature that will make you appreciate 
 both even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relsh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  a great game... really one the best first-time strategy games i ever saw.
  i thing someone in Microsoft game should take this game, put on new graphics and sounds, and then 
 see how many people will buy the new game.
  
  even 7 years after it came out to the market i am steal amazed by the uniqu style that i had'nt 
 saw in a game so far.
  
  the gameplay is great, its very realistic, and sometimes you have to plan a half an hour strategy 
 to win the match, not many games made me think about a strategy (maybe generals zero hour) but 
 this one definitely is, just remarkable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ELECTRIC_shock
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game i have ever played its just so fun game spot really underated this game it 
 is so good evan if its super easy or that may be that ive beat the game like a million times but 
 it is just so fun so i really think you should buy this game evan though i dont think they sell 
 it any more for pc but they sell it for Xbox so run out there and buy it because like what game 
 has first person mode and strategy mode put together i completely
  agree with the other review i think he evan rated his graphics a bit too low so dont think they 
 suck because this game is in 3D so it has super good graphics i just love this game its so GREAT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickydrummer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2005 2:53 am PT
Review:  Urban Assault has to be one of the most underrated games I have ever played. Here's a rundown of 
 the multiplayer mode. You pick which faction you want to be and you start the game. The game is 
 split up into evenly spaced squares (like a checkerboard) which is viewable by the map. You have 
 a certain amount of those squares, your opponent has a certain amount of those squares, and some 
 of them are left neutral. By attacking these squares with your vehicle you take them over. The 
 use of that square is, it helps you see where enemies are, if your units are in that square they 
 regenerate health, and it makes your mothership gains energy faster.
  So you say, wow, the typical strategy game, who cares, but that's where your wrong. When the game 
 starts out, you are in your mothership. You have 2500 units of energy in 3 categories, Stamina, 
 Vehicle Creation, and Teleporting. First thing you do is teleport your mothership over a energy 
 pad which increases your energy regeneration. Then, you click on your "Build Vehicle" option and 
 you create a tank. Your still thinking "typical strategy game" aren't you? But this is where the 
 game gets awesome. You have two choices now, you can open up your map and tell the unit where to 
 go, or, you can double click on it and go first person into the vehicle! Now that's what you call 
 an awesome strategy game.
  During the battle you have to keep your motherships energy up, constantly take over squares of 
 land, and keep the enemy at bay. There are also special squares in the game where you can attack 
 and gain an extra vehicle. Extra vehicles are a very important factor in this game. Some of the 
 vehicles will increase the damage another vehicle you already have does, such as double missiles, 
 or you can obtain an entirely new vehicle such as a fighter jet to speed around the level quickly. 
 The overall objective is to entirely eliminate the opponent force and destroy there mothership.
 
  Single player is basically the same as multiplayer except in singe players there might be missions 
 like, "Destroy the attacking force" or "Defend your command center from the attack." Otherwise, 
 its the same command and conquer type game with the awesome first person mode.
  I would highly suggest this game if you could get it at a decent price. The graphics aren't up 
 to par, but the 1st Person/Strategy makes up for it. Like I said, this is one of the most underrated 
 games out there.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
