-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Uru: Ages Beyond Myst
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/uruonlineagesbeyondmyst/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 558 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Cyan Worlds
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Nov 11, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Uru is a very good game with impressive production values, but if it had actually shipped complete 
 with the promised multiplayer, it perhaps could have been much more. 

  Ten years ago, graphical adventure games were turned on their ear by Myst. Designers Robyn and 
 Rand Miller produced a distinctive game in which you explored a colorful, fascinating world from 
 a first-person perspective. For many, many people, Myst's intuitive, transparent interface and 
 the highly realistic-looking yet fantastical environments were instantly captivating. Millions 
 of sold copies and countless knockoff games later, Myst remains one of the most popular computer 
 games of all time. Aside from being the first to popularize a first-person perspective in adventure 
 games, Myst was also one of the first games to drive players to get CD-ROM drives. The latest game 
 in the series, Uru: Ages Beyond Myst (formerly known as Myst Online) , had originally been intended 
 to add an all-new innovation to the genre: Uru Live, an online multiplayer version of the game. 
 You were supposed to have been able to pick up Uru and play it over the Internet, exploring the 
 ruins of the ancient D'ni civilization with thousands of other players. This online system was 
 to include regular content updates featuring additional adventures and puzzles to be solved cooperatively 
 with other players, as well as social elements, like the ability to create a virtual neighborhood 
 with your friends.  

          You can create a character with a customized appearance, but this currently serves no purpose 
 in Uru.     

  However, this functionality wasn't available at the game's release and is still not widely available. 
 It's being "tested" with small groups of players who are gradually being "invited" to play online 
 on a trial basis -- a puzzling development, especially since the game had previously featured a prerelease 
 beta test, during which you could reasonably have expected developer Cyan Worlds and publisher 
 Ubisoft to conduct and conclude such testing. The full-fledged online version will launch at an 
 unspecified future date, so at and around the time of the game's release, your $50 gets you a single-player 
 adventure game of about 10 to 15 hours in length and the ability to sign up for an invitation to 
 play online someday (and, when that happens, pay monthly subscription fees to do so) .  

  Fortunately, the single-player version of Uru is a very good game in its own right, despite being 
 rather short. The fully 3D game lets you play as an explorer drawn to an excavation site at which 
 the ruins of the lost D'ni civilization have been discovered. Using various tomes, you travel across 
 four different realms, or "ages," to collect seven different parts of a magical symbol that must 
 be compiled in order to complete your adventure in each age. To this end, Uru takes an unusual 
 approach with its control scheme and presentation.  

  Uru is the first game in the series that lets you actually see your character from a third-person 
 view -- a character you generate at the start of the game by choosing your appearance and gender. 
 This doesn't have much relevance in the single-player game, though having a unique-looking character 
 may prove more significant in the multiplayer portion. Uru also has absolutely no inventory system -- your 
 character does not carry any items and therefore won't encounter any inventory-based puzzles (though 
 there is one puzzle late in the game that requires you to carefully transport a swarm of glittering 
 fireflies that "stick" to your character's body) . The game also has hardly any interface elements. 
 You carry the mystical Relto tome to return to your own personal hub area between the different 
 ages, and you can pull up some game menu options, but these appear at the bottom of the screen 
 as small icons and disappear by default so that your view of your surroundings is completely uncluttered. 

          Some of Uru's puzzles are a bit more annoying than others.     

  As mentioned, your basic goal in each area is to find the seven parts of a hand-shaped symbol to 
 complete your adventure in each area. These symbols are often hidden behind corners or obscured 
 by environmental objects that must be moved (or moved to) by solving puzzles. Uru's puzzles are 
 generally challenging, and it even has a few jumping puzzles, though you can't die -- if you fall 
 into a pit, for instance, you'll simply get whisked back to your hub area. To the game's credit, 
 the puzzles at least start off simple, then become increasingly difficult. But toward the end, 
 several of the game's logic-based puzzles require careful analysis and lots of trial and error -- in 
 some cases, to the point of being very, very annoying. This is especially true of the few physics-based 
 puzzles that Uru has to offer -- since you don't have an inventory in which to carry things, you're 
 sometimes required to nudge nearby items (such as rocks, bones, and chairs) into certain positions. 
 The game uses a control scheme reminiscent of a first-person shooter (you move by walking forward, 
 walking backward, turning, and sidestepping) , but it's too imprecise to handle nudging objects 
 effectively. While solving these puzzles, you'll spend an undue amount of time coaxing objects 
 into place while fervently wishing the control scheme weren't so clumsy or that you could just 
 reach down, pick up that rock, and put it on the pressure plate yourself.  

  These puzzles may seem especially challenging to new players who are unfamiliar with the typically 
 empty, mostly silent world of Myst games. Since you're exploring the ruins of an ancient culture, 
 you're completely alone for most of your adventures. That means there are no helpful characters 
 to provide tips, and the game has no in-game hint system either, so you'll usually walk into a 
 room filled with strange symbols and be expected to figure out what to do next. You'll also find 
 out about the game's story only through scattered journals and other writings you recover in different 
 areas, though much of it deals with long-forgotten characters of the D'ni race -- characters whose 
 intricate and storied lives will probably seem completely meaningless to you if you're not already 
 familiar with the series.  

  Beginners and veterans alike will appreciate Uru's exceptionally high production values. Using 
 a careful eye, you can spot minor inconsistencies in Uru's visual presentation -- the lack of ground 
 shadows on your character, how tides of water in certain places clash without affecting each other, 
 how a few textures (like the lava in a late-game area) , don't look all that great, and how vegetation 
 doesn't sway or react to the weather. If you look hard enough, you can even find a texture seam 
 or two, and looking closely at several objects in the game reveals that they're composed of surprisingly 
 few polygons. None of that significantly detracts from Uru's graphics, which are otherwise simply 
 spectacular. Uru is all about its colorful and imaginative environments, which are uncluttered 
 by any interface elements and adorned with incredibly clean textures and extremely well-done lighting 
 effects that help bring these fantastic areas to life. Most of the game's areas are huge, though 
 some are deceptively big -- you'll encounter sprawling mountain valleys and huge lakes filled with 
 mechanized equipment, but you won't be able to actually explore some of these, since you'll instead 
 be restricted to a few narrow paths. Still, while Uru's general gameplay structure requires you 
 to complete puzzles to progress, you probably won't be in that much of a hurry, especially when 
 you first come up over a hill or down through a yawning cavern mouth to see yet another of the 
 game's magnificent vistas.  

          But nothing is annoying about Uru's beautiful environments.     

  Uru also sounds excellent. 
 Though the game's ages are devoid of human life, and most of them aren't set to music, they are 
 accompanied by completely appropriate, highly believable 3D sound. Winds blow across the flat desert 
 at the beginning of the game, then take on a realistic howl as you descend into a rock formation. 
 In a later area, the muted sounds of ambient wildlife perfectly complement the drifting leaves 
 and soft light in a gigantic forest. Solving puzzles causes huge, rusted machines to grind convincingly 
 into action, and waterfalls roar as you pass them, only to fade to a murmur as you leave them behind. 
 As a result, Uru's beautiful environments aren't just showpieces -- several of them practically seem 
 like living, breathing places that you explore firsthand. Uru is also accompanied by a music track 
 from pop musician Peter Gabriel, which plays during the ending credits, though this doesn't really 
 add much to the game. Then again, Uru sounds superb without any additional help.  

  Depending on your familiarity with adventure games, Uru may take you as long as 10 to 15 hours 
 to complete, though highly experienced adventure game fans will likely be able to finish the single-player 
 game in even less than 10. Once you're through with the single-player game, you're through -- the 
 puzzles hold no replay value once you've figured them out, and your only incentive to replay the 
 game is soaking in the sights and sounds again. In the meantime, you can join the others who bought 
 the game in waiting for Uru Live to launch. It's too bad that the game shipped in an incomplete 
 state, but at least the game you get in the box is worthwhile. Ultimately, Uru is a very good adventure 
 game with impressive production values, but if it had actually shipped complete with the promised 
 multiplayer, it perhaps could have been much more.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: roundhay
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  What kind of sadistic computer games developer would envisage making the poor player of his game 
 spend literally hours pushing a chair-like object up a narrow rock-hugging path? One who writes 
 the code for a game like Uru, that's who. The huge effort required to make relatively little progress 
 in this adventure game is likely to turn a lot of gamers off pretty quickly.
  
  Yes, I have to admit I eventually had to resort to a walkthrough for Uru to D'ni in order to complete 
 the game, but I took some comfort in knowing that the author of said walkthrough indicated that 
 only a handful of people actually managed to crack the codes to the most difficult puzzles - again, 
 not exactly fun if you need the mental prowess of an Enigma code breaker to progress in the game.
 
  
  There isn't actually that much of a story told in Uru (or the To D'ni expansion.) It is true that 
 there is a huge amount to read in the many books scattered around the virtual worlds of Uru, but 
 a lot of this has relatively little to do with solving the puzzles to help you progress through 
 the game. I mean, I read the masses of information about the various kings, guilds and such matters 
 as the protocols of D'ni marriage ceremonies and so on in the expectation that at some point I 
 would need this information to progress further in the game, but for the most part this was not 
 the case.
  
  The overall effect of all this peripheral written material, the fairly basic story Yeeshah/the 
 game has to tell about the D'ni, and the annoying in-game physics and/or impossibly difficult puzzles 
 is to present a game that, whilst absolutely brilliant in concept and graphical representation, 
 falls way short of delivering a satisfying adventure gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: messtimeteacher
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  With Uru: Ages Beyond Myst I found the game play quite different and something I had to get used 
 to. The interface with the mouse buttons was not the point-and-click interface with the Myst games 
 or any other games I'd played.
  
  Getting used to the interface meant to me, trying over and over again. Until I got annoyed, quit 
 the game and retried some other time. And so I retried until I got used to the interface, which 
 feels weird even now. Like if it does not respond properly, as if it don't feel natural .
  
  The graphics in Uru: ABM are great. But I regret there has not been any big movie nor applause 
 for solving a puzzle. Because of that the game play did feel very lonesome to me. (p. e. in comparison 
 with Myst 3 and 4) . The only applause you'd get is the one you give yourself.
  
  The puzzles are indeed a bit Myst like. The sound effects are so so. The free expansion To D'Ni 
 is the same. The fact you can alter your avatar to look like yourself (or the one you love/hate) 
 isn't much of a pro for the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScionofEntropy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  When Uru was released, it was met with criticism from both reviewers and gamers. Despite the lack 
 of its promised online play, Uru is an excellent adventure and doesn't get enough of the credit 
 it deserves as an adventure.
  
  In Uru, you play as yourself, in the real world. The civilizations of the D'ni have been discovered 
 and you decide to investigate this new world for yourself. As your quest unfolds, you'll journey 
 across various ages, from deserts to stone fortresses. The ages of Uru may not sound interesting, 
 but once you see them, you may find them to be rather impressive.
  
  Uru strays from the typical Myst game style in the way that it's displayed in realtime 3D. The 
 graphics of Uru, for the most part, just look wonderful. Details in textures, as with every Myst 
 game to date, are incredible, appearing real even up close. The only problems with the graphics 
 are minor seams in the renderings and low polygon counts on some objects in the environments. Really, 
 though, this doesn't take away from the overall appearance of the ages of Uru.
  
  The sounds of Uru are flawless; voices, sound effects, music, you name it. The voice-acting of 
 Uru is actually quite impressive, from the laid-back, dull tone of the character Zandi to the recorded 
 introductory speech of the head of the DRC (D'ni Restoration Committee) . The sound effects, though, 
 are the best part of Uru's aural mastery; everything sounds exactly as you'd expect it to, from 
 the grinding of machinery to bones and rocks tumbling about on the ground. The sounds even fade 
 in and out as you grow nearer or further from the sources. The music of Uru, as usual, fits everything 
 perfectly, from the desert around the Cleft to the Kadish Gallery's hauntingly beautiful score.
 
  
  Despite its differences from its predecessors, Uru remains a great adeventure title, and I'd recommend 
 it for any fans of adventure games or fans of the Myst series itself. Myst is a great game and 
 shouldn't be ignored because of poor reviews or naysayers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiilk21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This truly is one of my favorites. the 1st person character movement and character customization 
 are very nice elements in the game. If you have never played a Myst game before may discover that 
 it takes awhile to learn the basics from scratch, but in the end, it is a rewarding experience. 
 In the To D'ni expansion pack, a bunch of new clothes are unlocked (to be found in different ages) 
 and you are actually able to enter the dead city of D'ni, where you can see the attempts that the 
 DRC made to restore it. Also in the expansion pack, new side-missions and side-ages are unlocked. 
 Also, once you hit end-game , if you have enough of an imagination, you still discover random cool 
 things and (even if alone) mess around and have some fun. (Like me)
  
  The graphics go from good to great, depending on your graphic card's ability to perform. With a 
 great graphics card, the graphics have great potential. With Myst's trademark beatiful landscapes 
 and challenging puzzles Uru: Ages Beyond Myst keeps the classic Myst theme even with all of the 
 new features. If you have played the any part of the Myst series before will know how challenging 
 this should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoNavy
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Uru: Ages Beyond Myst was a very good game and very challenging. I found all of the unique ages 
 very beautiful and although gloomy, very unique. The underlying tale unfolding of the Bahro and 
 the Least was very intriguing and kept me plowing on. The music was also very mixed in it's style 
 and I especially liked the Gallery Theme and its ethereal beauty. I spent a lot of time playing 
 and I admit following dead ends. This game was addicting to say the least. I enjoyed having different 
 perspectives available with my avatar and I also liked the fact that I could build my realm with 
 the things I had earned. There were so many linking books that I did get confused often, but that 
 was a challenge. I learned that I needed to take really good notes and since I am organized, it 
 helped quite a bit. Yeesha looked a bit stiff, but overall the graphics were gorgeous. One thing 
 that I regretted was that the ending went very quickly and if you don't watch carefully, you miss 
 it and it can not be replayed, no matter what I tried. I recommend this game highly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Every gamer has heard of the Myst series at one time or another. Every gamer also knows about Massive 
 Multiplayer Online RPGs. Uru: Ages Beyond Myst was a noble attempt by Cyan to combine Myst's exploration 
 and puzzle solving with the online community based gameplay of a large scale online game. It failed, 
 though, and we were left with a shallow and disappointing single player game.
  
  Uru begins with you creating your avatar, and then you're dropped in the middle of the New Mexico 
 desert near "the Cleft" where you'll meet a strange man who gives you some cryptic details about 
 your grand quest. Finding and touching cloths. And no, the story does not get more interesting. 
 Uru wasn't designed to be a single player experience, so Uru's offline mode is simply a bunch of 
 worlds loosely connected by a thin string that could be called a "plot". Uru without a doubt is 
 the weakest Myst game in terms of story.
  
  The gameplay in Uru for the most part remains true to the series. You explore large (though quite 
 dull) ages, and solve the usual puzzles. Unlike most games in the series, though; Uru isn't simply 
 point and click. Like realMyst and the most recent Myst V: End of Ages; Uru lets you go anywhere 
 you want in full real time 3D. Uru also allows you to jump which is annoyingly necessary for certain 
 puzzles.
  
  The graphics are great. Most of the time the textures and area design looks convincing and realistic. 
 There are moments where one of those two things don't quite live up to the rest of the game, but 
 fortunately they are few and far between.
  
  The audio is satisfactory. The enviromental audio is as usual excellent (though quite loud at times) ; 
 as are the generic sound effects. Uru also has footstep sounds which were for one reason or another 
 missing in Myst V. The music in Uru is okay; it's not the worst of the series, but it's definately 
 not the best.
  
  It's hard to recommend Uru unless you're a die hard Myst fan. Sure, there is Until Uru (a substandard 
 placeholder for Uru Live) and always the possibility that Uru Live will return, but as of right 
 now all there truly is, is a mediocre single player game that only has graphics to support it. 
 If you're looking to get into the Myst series try one of the actual Myst games and give Uru a pass. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yossimitsu
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  I like Myst. I think it is one of the milestones of the puzzle genre in the history of computer 
 gaming. The sheer wonder and awe that these games make you feel is wonderful. The music and graphics 
 in the games are unique and truly inspiring.
  That said, Uru: Ages Beyond Myst is a mediocre game. The graphics and sound are all there and the 
 puzzle range from hard to annoying (like most of Myst games) , but the playability is the downfall 
 of the game.
  Making the game 3D is a nice thinking and could have led to yet another milestone in gaming, but 
 the way it was done is poor and most of the players agree with me on this so I will not elaborate.
 
  Following the story is not easy as you have to read too many texts, that can be frustrating and 
 boring at times. The game is mostly static and the hard puzzle can wear you down after a while.
 
  Light in the game is problematic (as I found it) and I had difficult time adjusting the brightness 
 of the game to my needs, although it could be my screen that is causing the problem I dont think 
 it should have been so problematic.
  I like the game, but I got frustrated and never finished it, which says it all Im afraid.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drivex3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  If you know anything about the myst series, this is a little different than usual in the sense 
 that it was meant to become a multi-player game.
  That never got off the ground and failed horribly. Non the less, this is a true to the Myst saga 
 in its beauty and immagination.
  
  I enjoyed it once and recently began to do it again with my daughter who loves it...
  
  If 
 you are in the market for an adventure game that is challenging, this is it. and if you have enjoyed 
 the other Myst games, this is just as good.
  
  Great imagination and game play. Hours of fun, and if you throw away your notes, in six months 
 see how much you can remember and do it again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plays_4_Pants
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  Uru's 3rd person is horrible. Some of the worst platforming ever. This makes puzzles (that are 
 mediocre and too trial and error) very unenjoyable.
  Sadly, I love adventure games. But this is junk. There's no story, bad puzzles, no motivation.
 
  
  Myst was innovative...10 years ago. Sadly, they have gone no where since the 1st one. At times, 
 It seems they're going in reverse. So much potential, yet not one drop of potential has been materialized 
 in many many years. May i refuse to think that games like this don't sell because they're "different" 
 but because they suck.
  The visuals will keep you going, the game will keep you away. I wish i kept away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Basically, you'll begin the game first looking at the explorer creation interface, which is fairly 
 standard as most RPGs go, but, of course, is something unheard of in the Myst series. Equally unheard 
 of, as character creation goes, is the sheer amount of options offered by this system, frankly, it's 
 one of the best I've seen in a PC game. and it's really a pity something like that hadn't been 
 considered for a MMORPG previously.
  (Speaking of that, URU is in fact a MMORPG but sadly, I was unable to glimpse that particular aspect 
 of the game yet, however, if it's anything like the single player portion I've no doubt you'll enjoy 
 it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zood123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Well, I think that Uru is an excellent game with great graphics, good gameplay, and pretty good 
 sound. I have always liked the myst games because of their immersive environments and mind boggling 
 puzzles (i may have used a walkthrough for some of them ^_^) I must say though, the gameplay was 
 kind of different, but I still liked it. Its too bad I got the game after uru live shut down. It 
 looked good. I got the expansion packs for the game, and they were pretty good too. I especially 
 liked exploring the city of D'ni and trying to find all of the funny pages that make the island 
 prettier (ok that was retarded) . Some people say that uru is absolutely abysmal, but people have 
 their opinions, and thats ok, its just I dont see wats so bad about it. All in all, uru ages beyond 
 myst is a great game. Good job Cyan! ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhame
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 7, 2004 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I'd swear, each and every Myst game released makes me wonder if these guys have ever played another 
 PC game in their lives. Now when the first Myst game released, that could be said as a compliment. 
 But times have changed and the myriads of non-exploratory, non-adventure genres have improved dramatically. 
 You can't really say the same for the adventure genre, unfortunately. Furthermore the newer the 
 Myst game, the more out-of-touch they seem to be with the average gamer - as well as with the concepts 
 and premises that made the original such a success.
  
  It's difficult to summarize the difficulty of the game. In one hand it's easy as pie, on the other, 
 there are some increduously-frustrating observations that you not only need to discern on your 
 own but implement your observation appropriately. This was not so in the original Myst - had you 
 observed what you *should* observe, the puzzle fell into place. Unfortunately, understanding what 
 to do and achieving what you know you need to do are completely seperate and I for one find this 
 extremely tedious and debilitating. Riven's giant gold dome puzzle seems to be the first of this 
 trend. 
  
  Anyhow, playing the game to see the nifty 3D artwork is satisfying but to make a game that observing 
 the artwork is its main draw is rather limited in its scope. The game is nolonger as "puzzle-ish" 
 as its predecessors; instead forcing you to (successfully) explore many maps... after a while you'll 
 enjoy reading a mundane review like this one more than playing the game itself. You will wonder 
 many times "... and what am I accomplishing in this game???..."
  
  It will be good when the powers that be see these Myst games for what they are (oh the atrocious 
 3D QT of Myst III....) , instead of looking at them riding on the coatails of *ONE* successful game. 
 I hope Rand and Robyn can return themselves into a more 'purist' state, team up with a game development 
 team *that can do their concepts some justice* and bury these putrid games 6' under. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 23, 2004 10:42 am PT
Review:  Having played the other games in the series, Uru leaves the gamer wondering WHY? Uru is a 3D adventure 
 game that takes the gamer to different worlds called Ages through portals that are found in books. 
 Writers create these worlds and through their writing the world comes alive. The backbone concept 
 of the game is pretty solid and leaves a lot of room for developers creativity.
  
  You first start your journey in a desert and from there you would progress to other Ages as the 
 history of the Ancient city of Dni is revealed. The story is quite interesting and keeps the gamer 
 wanting more as he/she progress through the game. There is a lot of reading to be done in the game 
 if you want the story to come alive and this could be tedious and downright boring for some gamers. 
 It wouldve been nice if the books were also audible like in Gabriel Knight: The Beast Within, 
 because there is just too much to read and the PC monitor isnt as easy on the eyes as book.
  
  Each Age is nicely made and design, the level designers did a great job keeping the gamer in 
 awe as he/she progress throughout the game. Each Age is different from each other, adding more 
 variety to the game. The atmosphere and the overall lighting further bring the game to life. The 
 levels are filled with small details that make the game feel very polished and help make the story 
 behind the Ages believable. Large variety of textures, some high resolutions others are low. The 
 overall creativity is very artistic and pleasing to the eye. Without saying anymore, I was impressed 
 with the graphical presentation found in this game.
  
  The sound further added to the well-designed levels, from ambient sound to the sound of loud machinery. 
 While there were music in every age, its was played at acceptable volume so that it doesnt detract 
 from the environments but adds to it. 
  
  Ok thats the good parts here is the real deal. I have played this game knowing that the online 
 option was already cancelled. Regardless of this news, the game still had other issues, which hinders 
 the game in some significant ways.
  
  The developers have chosen the third person perspective for this game. While it deviates from the 
 other Myst games, its main problem is not the actual perspective but the very poor implementation 
 of it. The game is a chore to play from the third person perspective and what makes this worse 
 is that there are few puzzles that are dependent on this perspective. The positioning of the camera 
 and the controlling of your avatar is nothing less than laborious and at times frustrating. The 
 other option to play from a first person perspective, which I have used to play almost throughout 
 the entire game, because its significantly easier. Even though the option is given to the gamer, 
 the perspective is still burdened with the unseen animations from the third person perspective 
 causing your movement to lag. This becomes annoying because it makes interfacing with levers and 
 buttons a pain since the game requires correct positioning of the character in order to interact 
 with items. In some cases, you cannot directly interact with items unless you sit down. 
  
  Because of the third person perspective, the game is burden with character animation, which brings 
 the games pace to a crawl. Probably the most hated aspect in the game is the ascending and descending 
 of ladders, which is mandatory most of the times. Even though the situation visually allows you 
 to jump from a particular location instead of using the ladder, the game prohibits you with invisible 
 walls. The game has a lot of invisible walls and when I say a lot, I mean a lot. There are many 
 instances where it looks and physically is possible to go to a particular location but the game 
 stops you with an invisible wall. With that said, I sometimes wonder why they even bothered making 
 the game 3D.
  
  Most of the puzzles are logical and are shown to you in some form or the other except for two which 
 were just very far from logical and require the use of interacting with objects using the games 
 physics in the most awkward manner. The reason for this is due to the games non-existent inventory 
 system, which worked for most of the puzzles, but some puzzles wouldve been more practical with 
 an inventory system.
  
  Overall the game is fair. Because of the poor control system which lead to the poor interaction 
 with games environment places the game in middle of I hate it to Its alright. This wouldnt 
 have been the case if the developers had stuck to the things that have worked in their past games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpetch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2004 10:44 am PT
Review:  I wholeheartedly agree with some posts I have seen that mention that the original intent of the 
 Myst series was a first-person point-of-view, self-immersion experience, where you had to solve 
 tricky, mind-bending puzzles in order to extricate yourself, free Atrus, whatever, and Uru has 
 well and thoroughly departed from that. Not good. First, the tricky "jump from the very edge of 
 this precipice to reach that hard to see ledge where your goal awaits" kind of thing is not what 
 I am looking for. Jumping "puzzles" are no fun. Also, I tried to play as much of the game as possible 
 from the first-person POV, but the game was obviously designed with the third-person in mind. There 
 are some things you simply can't see/discover from 1st person, which is also no good. I want to 
 IMMERSE myself in the game, not watch myself in a movie of the game! OK, that rant being said, 
 the game was still enjoyable in a lot of ways. The puzzles that were there (Kadish comes to mind) 
 were very tough, and the graphics and sound were amazing overall, and simply astounding in some 
 cases. I actually liked the storyline being more grounded in a realistic, earth-like environment, 
 but it only enhances my disappointment that I couldn't feel more immersed in the game. Definitely 
 not what I would call a "worthy addition to the Myst saga," but an enjoyable way to kill some time 
 if you like puzzle/adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robotiscs2010
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 27, 2003 1:37 pm PT
Review:  In this fourth Myst sequel URU-ages beyond Myst the developers go back to the roots and in the 
 same time progress. The going back to the roots part consist that the different ages you must go 
 to youll encounter types of puzzles that are bases on principles of the previous episodes: the 
 dynamic logic of Myst, The twisted logic of Riven and the plain simple logic of Exile. And the 
 lovers of this type of games dont want this to be otherwise. On the other hand, this is the progressive 
 side of the game they introduced a bit of Arcade-gaming and a lot of enigma-game-players simply 
 hate this. Yet to my own opinion the level of Arcade is very limited but merely rend far more difficult 
 by the amount of active memory the game requires: high resolution 3D environment, an avatar you 
 built yourself to your own image or imagination. It practically eats the computers RAM. Mostly 
 to take jumps over deadly deep ravines you have to run. Imaging at which speed the CU has to rebuild 
 the image. So computers with the standard 512K RAM will block sometimes and your avatar will have 
 to send him back to his home island to prevent being killed. Thats about the only negative point 
 to the game. Of course its not the type of game that instant action- gamers or shoot-at -everything-that-moves-gamers 
 will like.
  And I should not forget to mention that the environment soundtrack makes those dreamy worlds almost 
 realistic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theflashback
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 2, 2003 2:19 pm PT
Review:  URU  The Californian sequel to Myst.
  
  I am a big fan of adventure games. I do not play anything but adventure games. The original Myst 
 ruled. The Riven was a little bit off but still amazing. When I played Myst3 (by that time the 
 Myst brand was purchased by Ubisoft) I got frustrated because a lot of puzzles in certain worlds 
 did not make sense. I still liked Myst3 because it followed the original Myst that was
  very successful because of its unique idea and the perfect execution: the puzzles were logical, 
 the graphics was perfect, the sound effects were stunning. When I first learned the Myst4 will 
 be online I said to myself: The game is in trouble. I understand everybody wants to make profit 
 especially of the good brand but please give me a break. I am supposed to solve puzzles via the 
 Internet with other folks? All right, lets get over that. It has got to be a standalone version 
 that I can play by myself. And I got that. I bought it in the local Frys for $30. The ages beyond 
 Myst. Played all the way till the end in 3 days.
  It was the worst Myst sequel. Ubisoft killed it. Why?
  
  1. I do not care how my avatar looks 
 like. I do not want or need to have a closet where I can change the pans or the t-short. 
  
  2. The main character does not jump, or die, it does not face the skulls or skeletons all over 
 the worlds.
  
  3. The Myst worlds do not have silly post cards with the zip codes from San Diego. They do not 
 also have the notebooks bought in the local OfficeMax with stories about kings that lived 350 years 
 ago.
  
  4. The Myst worlds look unreal. When you play the original Myst you get a feeling this is not happening 
 in the real world. This is somewhere else. Not on Earth.
  
  Myst4 starts in Arizona. Eder Kemo world looks exactly like Arizona as well, with no geysers. Eder 
 Gira world looks like California Carmel or Monterey. Who went to Carmel once knows 
  what I mean. Kadish Tolesa world  yahoo! Californian Red Woods.
  National park. 
  
  A few 
 things in Myst4 that drove me complete nuts are
  
  1. It is almost impossible to play without seeing yourself. The objects are invisible, you cannot 
 reach a lot of things, you should be really close to touch something, when you hit a button or 
 press something you do not see the result. When you switch to the mode when see yourself from a 
 distance, the camera changes the angle too often giving you a headache. Still impossible to activate 
 objects without coming to them really close.
  
  2. I understand that it is quite complicated to come up with really good puzzles. But it does not 
 mean Ubisoft needs to replace puzzles with challenging jumps. You need to jump all the time. You 
 must jump. You cannot walk through without jumping. If I wanted to train myself for the next Olympics 
 in jumping I would have bought the Prince of Persia or Microsoft Golf or whatever. I bought Myst4 
 because of the puzzles. Because of the worlds. Because the Myst worlds look fancy.
  
  3. The plot was really weak. The game play was pathetic in some worlds. In the Gahreesen worlds 
 I could not get downstairs. The avatar just does not go there. Or it goes downstairs and if in 
 the middle of the movement you release the arrow key and press it again the avatar immediately 
 starts going up. In the Teledahn world, in the prison cell I had skulls and stones hanging in the 
 air. When you run and jump it is possible to hit them with the head  this will make them go on 
 the ground
  
  4. On my Sony VAIO box with 1 Gig of memory and 64 Megs of video RAM on 2.8 P4 CPU the games used 
 to freeze for 15 seconds all the time. You get a feeling it is dead, but if you wait longer it 
 awakes I downloaded the latest patches  did not help.
  
  In overall, I must give a credit to all the designers who did an amazing job by painting the worlds. 
 The views are stunning. The sound was excellent also. Very professional. I still feel very sad 
 because the plot and the entire game play did not make it. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberFreak81
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2003 10:59 am PT
Review:  When I first played the Myst games, I was hooked. The music, story, and everything about them were 
 awesome. And RealMyst made it even better. The same goes for Riven and Myst 3; which are two other 
 great games. If your willing to get URU: Ages beyond Myst, I encourage you to buy the earlier games, 
 as well as the novels. Which are great novels. The books even will make your imagination go wild.
 
  
  URU: Ages Beyond Myst has awesome cinematic graphics, and superb ambient music. The realism will 
 suck you into the game. Myst games have such mysterious surroundings, you never know what to expect. 
 This makes the games spine tingling sometimes, especially when the music is playing. Sure, most 
 creatures are harmless in the Myst games, but you never know. Especially, since we've barely ventured 
 into the depths of URU: Ages Beyond Myst. Don't expect to be carrying any weapons around and killing 
 things. This is a puzzle game. Don't let that put you down; it's the best puzzle around.
  
  I also have something to say about the Multiplayer. I'm glad it wasn't included. I want to figure 
 out things in a game by myself. I want to be surprised by the new things I find. If people are 
 constantly asking how do you do this and that, it's just annoying. It will ruin the mood of the 
 games mystery. I don't like when people are constantly chatting with vulgar language or things 
 that don't have to do with the game. Please leave MMORPG gameplay to games like Anarchy Online. 
 I want to get sucked into the world's mystery.
  
  This game gets a 10 out of 10, from me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanLogin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 15, 2003 1:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard news that cyan's next game would be 3d I wasn't sure they could pull it off. 
 I am happy to say that they did in almost every way. Anyway lets get the negative stuff out of 
 the way. The controls take some getting used to. This comes into play the most when they have you 
 jumping over things or across pits. It may turn off some of the classic myst fans because it is 
 a little harder to get around the world. Another small gripe I had was that your avatar has to 
 be very close to some objects for you to be able to activate them. Again controls come into play. 
 One thing I had always wanted to have is a way to take screenshots in-game like with a book or 
 something so that when I found a hint or a clue I could take a snapshot of it. Kinda a scrapbook 
 of sorts. Anyway on to good stuff, graphics are very good, sound is very good. very creative environments, 
 and lots of em. All in all a great step forward for Cyan. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 who is into games like Myst or Riven. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil4000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2003 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The game has cinematic graphics depending on if you are using a good quality graphics card. The 
 game also has great sound effects and environment effects, which you really need a surround sound 
 sound card and a good speaker system to hear. If you do have those hardware requirements, the game 
 is simply amazing. No game has ever made me personally feel creeped out from music and ambient 
 sounds in a harmless environment as the myst series has, specifically Uru. Uru brings myst to a 
 closer level of immersion because it sucks you in from the real world with references in the story 
 that you are a human who has discovered this expedition in New Mexico, also parts of the story 
 make reference to real life events such as Sept 11 in journals, football games ect, which is pretty 
 cool. The controls are probably the biggest problem with this game, its kinda awkward to use the 
 point and move/point and click ststem theyve developed and at times you may miss items in the 3rd 
 person view and when you choose the 1st person view you may miss items just as well. Also the graphical 
 system looks amazing overall, up close some textures dont seem that great but in 3rd person view 
 they look cinematic level. The only thing that holds myst back from having top notch graphics is 
 the character models, which arent as well done as models in games such as max payne. You can customize 
 characters, I thought mine looked just like me with the goatee, then i realised that pretty much 
 every other combination that other people make looks like me too! so i just got lucky that the 
 base model looks similar to myself. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
