-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Uru: The Path of the Shell
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/uruthepathoftheshell/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 29, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.8, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 113 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Cyan Worlds
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jul 7, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
By and large, The Path of the Shell offers a satisfying experience for anyone who enjoyed Uru: Ages 
 Beyond Myst. 

  Like the final episodes of a cult-favorite TV show, Uru: The Path of the Shell may not win over 
 many new followers, but it will surely be appreciated by fans of the original, first-run material. 
 The expansion pack adds two new worlds (known as "ages" in the Myst universe) to last year's Uru: 
 Ages Beyond Myst -- which did not feature its promised online components but still ended up being 
 a solid and challenging adventure game that looked great and sounded fantastic. The Path of the 
 Shell's new content fits in quite well with Uru, which shouldn't be surprising, considering that 
 much of it was intended to be released in the form of free expansions for the online game.  

          Like in Uru, you'll use mystical tomes to travel between colorful and ancient worlds. 
     

  Uru: Ages Beyond Myst took the surprising approach of completely changing the way Myst looked and 
 played by trading away the series' traditional first-person view and 2D full-motion video sequences 
 in favor of a fully 3D world in which your character was required to run and jump about to solve 
 certain puzzles. Like in Uru, you'll explore the world of the D'ni by linking from the Relto Age, 
 a hub area that links to the expansion's new ages of Ahnonay and Er'cana. The Path of the Shell 
 also uses the same minimalist interface, so, like with Uru, you don't have an inventory to carry 
 items in. However, you do have a journal, which you'll need to help you with some of the game's 
 new puzzles, some of which require a bit more backtracking and some of which are slightly more 
 tedious than those of the original game. To compensate, The Path of the Shell also adds shell pages, 
 which act as waypoints that you can jump to and from as you travel through the ages (rather than 
 always returning to the very beginning of an age) .  

  The Path of the Shell adds a new set of tomes to your Relto home area, which includes lore books 
 that contain valuable hints on how best to complete your quests. These books are referred to in 
 scattered clue notes -- which point to pages and passages -- that are pasted along the walls and caverns 
 of the new ages for you to refer to, though you can always use your journal to add your own personal 
 notes. These clues provide very slight help in how to approach the game's logic puzzles, which 
 are otherwise just as cryptic as those of Uru. Since you play as an explorer who is visiting the 
 excavated ruins of a long-dead civilization, the only context or clues you get for the game's obscure 
 and abstract puzzles are the clue notes and the occasional letter or note you'll find lying about. 
 Unfortunately, several more of the expansion's puzzles require you to run and jump past certain 
 obstacles or call for you to manipulate environmental objects by nudging them. And just like with 
 Uru, you'll wish your character  did  have an inventory or that you  could  at least click on objects 
 to manipulate them manually rather than by awkwardly backing up and turning around. As a result, 
 some puzzles end up being as annoying as they are challenging.  

  The two new ages, Ahnonay (a waterlogged world) and Er'cana (a desert world full of huge machinery) , 
 seem to fit in well with the original game's look and feel. As in Uru, the different environments 
 suggest the abandoned ruins of a civilization that was built on huge industrial machinery and new-age 
 masonry. Similarly to Uru, if you look closely enough, you'll find a few spots in which relatively 
 low-resolution textures were stretched across landscape objects like rocks and pipes and trees. 
 However, by and large the expansion pack's environments are still as gorgeous -- and as lonesome -- as 
 those in Uru. Likewise, most of the game's environments contain crisp textures and architecture 
 that, while highly unusual, is wholly believable. The same can be said of the game's lush outdoor 
 environments, which can be explored to a slightly greater extent through the expansion pack's addition 
 of swimming -- although, in practice, this new feature adds very little to the game. Despite the 
 beauty of the game's environments, they are also deceptively limited. That is, like in Uru, you'll 
 travel on paths that are cut through huge outdoor and indoor expanses that you can't actually reach 
 or explore, since these paths are usually bounded by invisible walls.  

          You can't explore most of Uru's deceptively large-looking environments... but you can enjoy 
 how they look, regardless.     

  The Path of the Shell, like its predecessor, also sounds great, though the sound in many of the 
 environments is a bit more sparse than it was in the original game. There is still very little 
 music and virtually no voice-over, since the majority of your journeys take you through completely 
 deserted environments. However, the sound effects are still great for what they are, and they make 
 the world's rushing waterfalls, roaring machinery, and creaking gates seem wholly believable. Uru's 
 excellent sound effects helped make its worlds extremely immersive. Given the great variety of 
 all of its different environments, the game offered a surprisingly rich audio score. The Path of 
 the Shell's sound effects are comparably consistent, though its new ages don't offer quite as much 
 variety in terms of completely different environments that feature completely different audio characteristics. 
 Nevertheless, the expansion pack still sounds great.  

  While the bulk of the expansion comprises the two new ages, these areas' puzzles are as challenging 
 as those in the original game, and in some cases, they require a bit more backtracking. All told, 
 the expansion offers about seven hours of solid gameplay -- give or take an hour -- though it suffers 
 from the same problem as Uru: There's no replay value for your $20 once you've completed the game, 
 aside from revisiting your favorite ages and soaking up the scenery again. That said, The Path 
 of the Shell draws Uru's story to a satisfying close, and, by and large, it offers a satisfying 
 experience for anyone who enjoyed the original game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 5, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  After Uru Live failed Cyan announced that it would release expansions containing all of the Uru 
 Live content that wasn't used for obvious reasons. The first one "To D'ni" was free (and is included 
 with this expansion) , and the second one The Path of the Shell was a retail release. The problem 
 with the Path of the Shell is it is even less interesting than Uru.
  
  TPotS is set whenever you decide to do it. For most players it is after the original Uru game, 
 and To D'ni (which is mostly just exploring the underground city of D'ni, anyway) . In TpotS you're 
 not really given a clear objective like you were in Uru. Ultimately you need to learn how to navigate 
 the "Path of the Shell", so you visit two fairly large ages where you'll find scattered notes and 
 puzzles that will help you in this regard.
  
  The puzzles in TpotS are rather tedious. Two of them force you to sit there and twiddle your thumbs 
 for fifteen minutes. Sure, good things come to those who wait, but people play games for entertainment. 
 And there is nothing entertaining about standing in one spot for fifteen minutes.
  
  The graphics and audio are for the most part the same as they were in Uru. There is some new music 
 for the To D'ni and TpotS areas, but it sounds so similar to what was in Uru that you won't really 
 notice much of a difference.
  
  The Path of the Shell is poor as far as expansions are concerned. It adds several new Relto pages, 
 and some new clothes items, but the most important content is the story it adds which is practically 
 non-existent. I can't recommend TPotS to anyone, honestly, and if you didn't like the original 
 Uru than this won't change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalle50
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 10, 2004 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I was very disappointed with this xp2 pack. It felt that ubi was rushing to get the game over with 
 so they can move on to bigger and better things. There was way to much waiting in the game for 
 things to happen. Gameplay was very confusing and to much linking back and forth. Graphics were 
 very good as usual but audio was only marginal. There were only 2 real different worlds to explore, 
 and both really had nothing to do with the underworld realm of D'ni. It would have been better 
 to contine with the expansion of D'ni in the caverns, this game had very little to do with the 
 caverns. In the original game we entered the cleft, went to the caverns, explored 5 different interesting 
 places and ended with a good feeling of acomplishment. In xp1 (path to d'ni) we explored some of 
 the neat places in the caverns and ended with an easter egg game. Took lots of time and involved 
 the original game, lots of entertainment and fun. This did not require much knowledge of any previous 
 game thus it did not feel like it had anything to do with the original uru. Thats why I'm not giving 
 it a great rating... As a stand alone game its probably worth the money ----- Its time for a new 
 game -----Bring on Myst 4 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
