-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/vtmb/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great graphics present gritty Los Angeles.
 Interesting and atmospheric quests.
 Open-ended character development.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Clumsy combat system favors melee over firearms.
 Some graphical glitches.
 A few stability issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.1, 70 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 6,919 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Troika Games
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 16, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite the clunky combat and other shortcomings, there's a rich world to explore in Bloodlines, 
 an RPG that allows you to indulge your inner vampire. 

  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines comes during a surprisingly dry year for PC role-playing games, 
 which only amplifies the attention on the game. There's also a lot of focus on Bloodlines due to 
 the fact that it's based on White Wolf's popular pen-and-paper role-playing game, and partly since 
 it uses Valve's Source engine, the same engine behind Half-Life 2. And, for the most part, Bloodlines 
 is an atmospheric role-playing game with a rich setting -- though it's one beset with a clumsy combat 
 system and some noticeable bugs. That's unfortunate, since the game clearly could have been better 
 had its rough edges been ironed out.  

          In Bloodlines you can become a vampire in the Los Angeles underworld.     

  You start 
 Bloodlines by creating a vampire, which you'll do by conforming to the seven major vampire types 
 found in the pen-and-paper game. The idea is that you can create a vampire suited to your style 
 of play. The options range from sophisticated vampires that can talk their way past most situations, 
 to burly vampires who like to intimidate people and pick fights, to demonic vampires who prefer 
 to skulk in the shadows. And while you can select a gender for your vampire (which affects the 
 kinds of characters you can seduce) , you won't actually be able to customize your vampire's appearance, 
 aside from the kind of clothes he or she wears.  

  Bloodlines takes place in modern-day Los Angeles, in four major sections of the city. You'll start 
 the game in Santa Monica, carrying out all sorts of low-level missions for your vampire lord. But 
 before too long, you'll be drawn into the game's overarching story, which deals with the vampiric 
 end times. The story itself is filled with all sorts of intrigue, and you'll be caught between 
 the major vampire factions as they battle for supremacy. Part of the fun is figuring out which 
 of the factions you want to ultimately align yourself with. The game also has a cool twist of four 
 different endings, so you can decide how the story will eventually conclude. This makes for added 
 incentive to go back and replay the game to check out different story paths. In turn, this gives 
 the game quite a bit of replay value, as it will probably you take at least 20 to 30 hours to get 
 through Bloodlines the first time.  

  The game itself is populated by all sorts of interesting characters who come to life thanks to 
 the Source engine's amazing facial expression technology (though the characters in Bloodlines don't 
 look as good as the characters in Half-Life 2) . The dialogue itself is sharply written -- there are 
 many memorable lines and phrases uttered by the characters. Keep in mind that Bloodlines is a mature-rated 
 game and it contains profanity and sexual themes, although it never feels too gratuitous.  

  The quests in Bloodlines range in quality, though for the most part there are some excellent 
 missions in the game. On the low end, there are some standard fetch-style quests that populate 
 most role-playing games -- the kind where you simply have to find and retrieve an object for someone. 
 But on the high end, there are very interesting missions, such as an investigation of a haunted 
 mansion. The haunted mansion level is eerily atmospheric, filled with all sorts of scripted events 
 that will keep you on your toes, as well as a fair bit of puzzle-solving. Along with the main storyline, 
 there are many little side quests that you can pursue for amusement. These side quests also allow 
 you a chance to gain more experience, though you don't "level up" like you do in traditional role-playing 
 games. Vampire uses a simple point system where you allocate experience points in various stats 
 and abilities. You can create a very balanced character or you can specialize in certain abilities, 
 so you'll probably want to go through the game a few times to experiment with different skills 
 and approaches.  

          You'll interact with all sorts of interesting and memorable characters.     

  Perhaps 
 the best quests in the game are the ones that require you to use stealth, as the combat missions 
 are fairly simple to carry out. There's a strong undercurrent of Deus Ex and Splinter Cell in the 
 stealth missions, as you can sneak past guards and security cameras, pick locks, and try to hack 
 into computers along the way. Some vampire types specialize in stealth, but it's not too hard for 
 other vampire types to skulk quietly in the dark. One issue is that, since Vampire takes place 
 at night, most of the game is dismally dark, making it difficult to see anything. Unfortunately, 
 you're not allowed to have a flashlight, so that means on some levels you might just have to bump 
 up the gamma levels in the video settings just so you can see where you're going. Or what's lurking 
 up ahead.     

  Where Bloodlines stumbles is in its combat system, which simply feels clumsy and unsatisfactory. 
 The combat mechanics are a blend of twitch-based action and role-playing stats, and it's an awkward 
 compromise. You can battle it out from a first-person perspective using firearms, or you can switch 
 to a third-person viewpoint to use melee weapons, such as knives and swords. However, while Bloodlines 
 is built on a first-person shooter engine, the gunplay is nowhere near as smooth and natural as 
 it should be. Your firearm abilities depend heavily on your characters stats; it's not as simple 
 as placing the cursor over a target. Unless you invest heavily in improving your firearm skills, 
 your aim will veer wildly. Meanwhile, melee weapons are simply overpowering, and combat is skewed 
 heavily toward knife and swordplay. To give you some perspective, we attempted a certain boss battle 
 with a character specializing in firearms and lost repeatedly, but we beat it on the first time 
 that we used a knife instead of a gun.  

          The combat system treats guns as a disadvantage in fights. It's easier to simply use a 
 sword or knife.     

  The problem is that firearms in Bloodlines are severely underpowered and they only allow you to 
 attack one opponent at a time. By using a melee weapon you can attack multiple enemies at once. 
 More importantly, you can even knock them down, which buys you precious time to concentrate on 
 a single foe. The only time firearms seem more useful than melee weapons is when you want to attack 
 larger monsters from a distance. Otherwise, you're going to find yourself at a disadvantage most 
 of the time when using a gun. At any rate, the enemy artificial intelligence isn't too bright, 
 as most opponents will simply rush you or fire their weapons at a distance. In one battle, we just 
 huddled behind a counter and healed while the enemy gunmen stood nearby waiting for our vampire 
 to pop up again.  

  Your vampire can also draw on your special powers, all of which are fueled by blood. In combat, 
 vampires can temporarily boost their strength and abilities, making them even more lethal. Certain 
 vampires can even summon spirit allies to attack their foes. Out of combat, you can use your powers 
 and experiment with different approaches to quests. You can try to brainwash someone into giving 
 you what you want, or you can use a cloaking ability to hide so you're not detected. These blood 
 powers are essentially the vampire equivalent of magic. It's also not much of a problem "refueling" 
 your vampire, as you can usually grab an opponent or passerby and drain them of blood.  

  Bloodlines is a mostly great-looking game, though it's not on the same level of visual quality 
 as that certain other game featuring the same graphics engine. Even though Vampire's graphics do 
 have some rough spots, like flickering textures and clumsily edited cutscenes, they're still impressive 
 for a role-playing game. The virtual Los Angeles in Bloodlines is a very gritty, rundown place, 
 though it feels rather empty. Some pedestrians loiter around on the sidewalks, but there are no 
 cars on the roads. To some, a Los Angeles without cars may seem far less likely than vampires actually 
 existing. Nevertheless, Vampire's visuals help give the game a lot of gothic atmosphere. Meanwhile, 
 the sound effects for the most part are functional, with the voice acting and music standing out. 
 The game's soundtrack is composed of licensed tracks from a variety of rock bands, and they fit 
 in well with the game's setting, particularly the many clubs and bars that you'll peruse.  

  Of further note, even though Bloodlines runs smoothly most of the time, it does suffer from some 
 stability problems and it will crash to the desktop on occasion. Also, the loading times feel a 
 bit long, though they're better on high-end systems.  

          Los Angeles is gritty and colorful, though strangely devoid of cars.     

  In many 
 ways, Bloodlines feels very much influenced by the classic role-playing game Fallout, which is 
 to be expected since developer Troika was founded by members of the Fallout team. Bloodlines presents 
 a very interesting world to explore and memorable characters to interact with, and the open-ended 
 nature of many of the quests allows you to tackle the game in multiple ways. So if you can look 
 past the clunky combat and other shortcomings, you'll find that there's a rich world to explore 
 in Bloodlines, a role-playing game that ultimately allows you to indulge your inner vampire.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (272 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2009 4:52 am PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines (VMB) is the sequel of Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption, 
 which brings us to the World of Darkness, where the famous blood sucker race lives in disguise 
 at the heart of the human society. The origin of VMB has 7 vampire races with 2 genders which players 
 can choose by themselves (or let the game choose by answering a set of questions) . The adventure 
 will start at Santa Monica, through various areas of Los Angeles such as Downtown, Hollywood and 
 Chinatown. Throughout this lengthy journey it is as important to distinguish between friends and 
 foes as to improve your skills by the means of completing quests.
  
  It is clear that with VMB Troika intended a breakthrough in Action RPG genre, though it seems to 
 be an ambitious goal over their ability. In hindsight, Redemption was overall acceptable except 
 for its hollow combat system. To overcome this problem, and with Source engine at their disposal, 
 the developers made a bold decision of designing both first and third person angle for in game 
 combat. Unfortunately, both of them did not live up to expectation, especially the first person 
 mode. Despite being built on the engine of Half-life 2, shooting in VMB is painfully annoying due 
 to the inconvenient movement in first person angle and unexplainable lack of precision. In other 
 words, even if you spend a lot of skill points on firearm skill and time on aiming, the accuracy 
 of your shots is still very low for some unknown reason. This is why after a few hours playing, 
 most players would switch totally to melee combat in third person view because not only is it faster 
 but also allows hitting multiple enemies at once. But even in this mode, your blows still sometimes 
 graze through enemies without dealing any damage; therefore, a huge amount of clicking is required! 
 Furthermore, stealth action is no better. Most of this part happens at night but you may soon get 
 frustrated with crawling and creeping because it is much more time consuming than standing up and 
 slashing through enemies. Only lock picking and computer hacking pose some challenge at first but 
 these skills improve very fast and make them somewhat meaningless later.
  
  Apart from the chronic weakness in combat, physical interaction with environment is also not satisfactory. 
 This stems from the fact that most objects in game can not be interacted, but are merely decorative. 
 There are only a few obstacles that players can remove by pulling. Moreover, basic physical effects 
 like breaking or deforming objects do not appear in this version at all. Rag-doll technique suffers 
 the same ill fate: rough, unimpressed and seemingly out of date. The only interesting idea is the 
 way VMB allows you to suck the blood out of human victims to recharge your energy (used to perform 
 disciplines) but at the same time restricts you from doing so in public. Each time you violate 
 this "Masquerade rule", you lose one masquerade point and the game is over while the number of 
 point reaches zero.
  
  As already said, action of VMB is really faulty. Similarly, RPG factors are no where close to perfection. 
 First of all, the best illustration of this is the way you find quests in game. Basically, you 
 just need to run around and find NPCs who can talk (most of them are just decorative dummies) . 
 Although this is a deliberate simplification, it does lower players' interest in discovery the 
 surrounding. Moreover, most dialogues are simplistic and boring; hence, you will be most likely 
 to skip them. As for character development, VMB does not use leveling but instead awards your characters 
 skill points upon completing quests or discovering something special. These points can be assigned 
 to various attributes, skills and disciplines (similar to spells or special abilities) . However, 
 the final indicator of your character's efficiency is called feat, which is actually the addition 
 of an attribute and a skill. For example, lock picking feat is decided by dexterity attribute and 
 security skill, and so forth. Requirement for using an item thereby is based on a specific skill 
 or attribute, but the effectiveness depends on the corresponding feat. This simple yet unique mechanism 
 allows players to focus more on action side of the game rather than ponder over how to build up 
 a character. On the other hand, it also reduces the diversity of different vampire races available. 
 Last but not least, item collection is very limited in VMB, especially garments. Needless to say, 
 it is another minus point of the game.
  
  Despite its problematic game player, VMB graphics is acceptable when it successfully uses a lot 
 of red color (in load screen, control area and many scenes in game) . LA sizable buildings are drawn 
 in detail, making the impression of an immense surrounding for you to explore. Water surface effect 
 can be compared to that of half life 2. However, character models are not so good. They are soulless 
 blocks with a few distinction in clothes or hair, just enough for you to differentiate one from 
 another. Another drawback is the long loading time even when it runs on hardware configuration 
 higher than the requirements. Besides, audio part is another disappointment. The game uses a lot 
 noisy rock music which may be suitable for metropolitan environment but contributes nothing the 
 mysterious atmosphere it tries to build up. If someone used to play Redemption, he will certainly 
 miss its melodious and subtle piano music, which no longer appears in this version.
  
  It might be a pity to see so many flaws in VMB, but not at all a surprise if one knows other products 
 by Troika studio such as Arcanum and The Temple of Elemental Evil. They are all potential raw pearls 
 but lack the skillful goldsmith to polish them into precious jewels.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazzyyDanyy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 3:37 am PT
Review:  Good:
  
  Storyline: Without spoiling anything, the story involves the Vampire Apocolypse and how several 
 different factions start to respond to it (they all react differently) .
  
  Fleshed Out Characters: Just about every single named NPC in Vampire Bloodlines is fleshed out 
 and has some backstory and unique personality. And just when you think that you know them, some 
 huge twist with that character is revealed. Again, I cant give any examples without spoilers, but 
 take my word for it when I say that every single character has a very unique personality that makes 
 them very memorable in their own right.
  
  Unique Factions: Every single faction in Bloodlines has very different goals from one another and 
 are very distinct. There are the anarchist types, the business type ones trying to impose a large 
 government, the asian vampires that are trying to carve out their own sphere of influence. Basically, 
 they are all very fun to interact with.
  
  Quests: There are usually a ton of different ways to approach quests. And every quest usually has 
 some sort of twist to it, or some different outcome from what you would normally guess. For example, 
 in one mission you are required to break into a museum and destroy a painting. You can pick a lock 
 and break in, you can barge down the door, you can convince a guard to let you inside ect.. After 
 you get in and destroy the painting, you find out that you were being used to destroy and discredit 
 a business venture of another one of your employers/quest givers. That leads to a fued between 
 the museum quest giver and the one you attacked, and with this you end up having to choose sides 
 (and without spoilers, I will just say that it ends with a very satisfying and awesome conclusion) .
 
  
  Set Pieces: Aside from a few nasty ones that the main quest line sends you on, the set pieces (known 
 as dungeons in every other RPG) , are usually pretty awesome. The one that leaves the biggest impact 
 is one where you are in a haunted hotel, trying to exercise a ghost. While there, you start uncovering 
 the mystery of why the ghost was haunting the hotel, and you start seeing visions of the ghost 
 everywhere. In every room, the ghost attacks you through some sort of impressive supernatural means 
 (like when you enter a kitchen, pans and knives go flying in every direction) . But what really 
 sets it apart, is the plot twist that you start to discover as you find out more about the hotel 
 and the ghost in it (again, I wont spoil it) .
  
  Combat: While pretty simplistic, it can also be rather satisfying. Seeing enemies limbs go flying 
 seems to never lose its charm.
  
  Classes: There are several different classes that are incredibly different from one another. They 
 range from mainly human and barely vampire, to grotesque monster that can only get around by having 
 to crawl through sewers. Through that, each class makes humans have a different approach to the 
 character depending on how much a true vampire they are. Also, there is a class where you play 
 a mentally insane vampire with split personalities, who will occasionally have conversations with 
 inanimate objects (stop sign, traffic light, the news anchor on your TV) .
  
  Voice Acting: There isn't a bad one in the game. They all play their characters really well and 
 really help make the game come to life.
  
  Bad:
  
  Bugs: You know how Mass Effect had a lot of bugs? You know how Age of Conan had even more bugs? 
 You know how Fallout 3 has even more bugs than those last 2? Well this has more bugs than all of 
 those games combined. In fact, Vampire Bloodlines is probably the most buggy game ever created. 
 Though you can download unofficial patches to solve that problem.
  
  Graphics: While they are serviceable and work well with the Source engine, they aren't optimized 
 very well and as such, it can be problematic on some computers where it should run fine on high 
 settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: figsnake12
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 3:28 am PT
Review:  VTM Bloodlines, despite its flaws, is respected as an epic piece in the history of gaming. Three 
 years ago, I played this game on my Cousins PC. This is the game that made me realize how superior 
 the PC is as a gaming platform, and started me on the track that led to my building PCs, hand in 
 hand with PC gaming. 
  
  Anyway, let's move onto the actual game. Bloodlines was released in 2004, famed at the time for 
 being the first game since Half-Life2 to use the Source physics engine. The game doesn't shy away 
 from physical violence and gore, but the most shocking aspect is the brutal depth to which the 
 characters have been programmed. Some parts of the game have real nerve, I'm frankly amazed that 
 this game wasn't banned in multiple countries, it twists morals, personalities and politics to 
 a level Manhunt never did, but it never contains needless violence. 
  
  Onto the actual story. Where do I begin? You are a vampire of your chosen clan, and each of the 
 seven clans offer a completely new take on the game. Coupled with a branching story and multiple 
 approaches you can take (like stealth, combat, hacking and security, persuasion and seduction etc) , 
 this makes replayability near infinite. After you are illegally "embraced" (turned into a vampire) 
 the leader of the government-like Camarilla is all set to execute you, but saves your life to appease 
 a rivaling political group. He sets you to work and, for a while, you work for him obediently. 
 Later on in the game the world opens up, and you are allowed to form your own allegiances with 
 one of three political groups, or go it alone. 
  
  Sound good? Well it gets better. You don't get the plain old Democrat/ Republican or Conservative/ 
 Labor choice. Vampire politics are twisted and brutal, and far, far from boring. Combine this with 
 the frankly fantastic realism of the characters and the bleak-everdark world and the result is 
 more immersive than most illegal substances (and cheaper too) , although an 8-hour binge on Bloodlines 
 will probably do you more damage than a drug habit. 
  
  Then there is the gameplay. You are left in a relatively small but massively diverse map (there 
 are 4) and left to investigate. That's it. No mollycoddling, no hours upon hours of tutorials, 
 you are pointed vaguely in the right direction and left to hack, lock pick, shoot and persuade 
 your way to your goal. It requires a great deal of thought and intuition, unlike many games today. 
 You are also made to fell deeply compassionate for the characters through the sheer depth to which 
 they are written. For example, there is this Australian "thin blood" (a 13th generation vampire 
 or later) on the Santa Monica beach, desperately seeking his Sire (the girl who bit him) . He's 
 lost (emotionally) , confused about what he is and filled with regret for the things he said to 
 Lilly (his sire) after she told him what he had turned him into. I felt genuinely sorry for the 
 guy, which is weird, because I couldn't care less about endangered species, or Chinese kids in 
 sweatshops (hey, at least I'm not lying  you don't care either) . 
  
  So this game is flawless? No, and anyone who has played it is probably having a silent chuckle 
 right now. Every review of this game ever written has at best commented on this, and at worst spent 
 thousands of words attacking it. 
  
  The game is glitchy. So what? If it freezes every now and again, or there are a few gameplay errors, 
 that isn't such a big problem, right? Wrong. The game's physics engine refuses to open doors, is 
 extremely iffy about accepting what is or is not a hit and items are commonly found rolling down 
 invisible hills, or bouncing off invisible walls. At times this becomes an extreme annoyance. A 
 friend of mine lost 20 hours of progress and I've personally been stuck in dozens of situations 
 that can only be solved with the reload key. 
  
  It would seem that the source physics engine was badly shoehorned into the game, to draw attention 
 to the game after the epic Half-Life2 used the engine first. It isn't the engine, source has been 
 used in dozens of games, it just feels like VTM Bloodlines didn't need such a powerful physics 
 engine. Combat is a real pain. Gameplay based on brutal violence was never Bloodlines intent; it 
 takes a very open approach, where you can use words, computers, hacking etc instead of violence. 
 That said, the aiming mechanism seems to have very tight parameters for what counts as a hit, and 
 guns do pathetically little damage. You are encouraged to use melee weapons, which would be OK, 
 if the melee combat didn't play like it was made by an accountant. All this can make Bloodlines 
 a headache at times, but there is relatively little combat, so it isn't completely damning. 
  
  So how do I sum up VTM Bloodlines? Well, for all its flaws, it's still a very good game. So 
 the combat sucks, look at the "perfect" Elder Scrolls series, the combat there is landmark terrible 
  but nobody ever complains about it, so maybe my standards are too high. The bugs in the game 
 are crippling, but the game is still playable. The story is fantastic and the gameplay (glitches 
 aside) is intuitive, gripping and gritty. Frankly there isn't anything else quite the same out 
 there. It's a flawed gem, but it's the 80 carat monster of flawed gems. So, should I buy it? YES. 
 But make sure you have an over capable PC to smooth out the worst of the gameplay issues. 
  
  I would recommend: 
  - 2 GHz + dual core CPU. 
  - 1GB + of ram. 
  - 128mb+ graphics processing 
 unit 
  - Windows XP SP2 or later. (NOT Vista) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rivii
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  
  
  the good:
  story line, many quests and ways to go about them, many, many choices that make this game truly 
 unique.
  
  the bad....
  ..... naahh.... ok it could be even longer + multiplayer :]
  
  General:
  there are not many games like this one its worth playing. Good idea of introducing 
 the vampire clans to people who haven't really read any book on Vampires. The more I think about 
 the game I find myself wondering how difficult it could be to be a vampire even when you would 
 posses the strength and all the powers. Would you like to be forever young or rather unattractive 
 but genius with many skills that can help you become more than forever living :] As you go along 
 the game you can meet some famous people like Kevin Mitnick who rules the world from underground 
 - that was such a neat treat. 
  I wonder if anyone will try to make a game like this one in the future?
  
  Best regards to 
 you all
  Rivii
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimes73
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Troika did it again (unfortunately for the last time) . Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is 
 Troika's testament to the gaming world and it's nothing short of spectacular. 
  
  Premise: I suggest playing this game with Wesp's latest unofficial patch (6.0 when I write this 
 review and still in development) which includes the official bug fixings as well. There are two 
 choices: Basic and Plus. The first focuses on fixing bugs without practically altering anything 
 else (for purists) while the latter introduces several tweaks and restored content. 
  
  Since I start with this premise I can as well tell you that my final vote to this game (9.0) refers 
 to a fully patched game according to my recommendations above. The same unpatched game would be 
 rated 6.0. You can then easily conclude that Troika's game needed more than just some extra polish 
 when it hit the shelves. And the sales suffered greatly because of that. Troika's former products 
 (Arcanum and Temple of Elemental Evil) shared a fate so identical that I can't help thinking of 
 an evil curse looming over every project these talented developers have been working at until the 
 company's final demise. 
  
  It's a very sad fate because Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines, even more than the previous 
 efforts, is an impressive game. Troika could succeed at what the competition fails at: they can 
 create vivid characters that leave deep tracks in anyone's mind and offer a tantalizing, believable 
 worldbuilding. In a way, I am reminded of another group of genial developers: Looking Glass. 
 
  
  Vampire - The Masquerade: Bloodlines uses a Beta version of Valve's source engine and the limitations 
 are pretty evident when we note how the AI can be considered rather weak compared to the Source 
 engine that powers Half Life 2. In fact, Troika had acquired the license from Valve but had to 
 rework their game whenever an updated version of Source was made available, up to a point when 
 they had to put a stop and work on a specific build even if Valve'd continue to perfect their revolutionary 
 game engine. 
  
  The so-called "presentation" of the game itself is by far the weakest point of this production: 
 countless bugs (some of them critical) , an unpolished game engine and difficult working conditions 
 contributed, together with weak marketing choices (Troika was bound to hold the release until Half 
 Life 2 was completed) , to an inevitable failure. It's a tragic fate that this little pearl didn't 
 deserve. There was (is) a strong community that never wanted to accept the destiny towards which 
 this game seemed to be drifted to and thanks to a joint effort, people can today enjoy a pretty 
 much bug-less game which I strongly recommend buying second-hand (the final sales didn't reach 
 the 75.000 units) . It's pointless to speak about the game. I can only say that I can hardly imagine 
 it could ever disappoint anyone.
  
  Technically we are before a very well made product which is mostly limited by the early version 
 of the engine. The music quality varies: the best pieces can be heard at disco/pubs while some 
 others are pretty much uninspired/disturbing or straight out of place (ex. in the Tutorial phase) 
 and the voice acting is superb. Unfortunately when visiting loud environments, it becomes almost 
 impossible to hear what the NPCs say (the menu system doesn't allow for different volume controls 
 for music and sound effects) . 
  
  The visuals are also inspired: colorful, remarkable environments are found at any corner, never 
 failing to impress. The NPCs are equally stunning, with strong personalities and realistic, coherent 
 developments.
  
  The dialogues are very good although I didn't like the fact that it's sometimes possible to trigger 
 the same dialogue advancement through different choices (a weak point, in my opinion) , The numerous 
 typos and dialogue-related bugs are accounted for in the unofficial patch.
  
  The difficulty level is also well calibrated. The game is never frustrating and the combat system 
 does a good job. My only complaint is that the selection of the weapons via keyboard in the middle 
 of a fight is not really practical (the game should automatically pause while the player makes 
 a choice) .
  
  Overall, Vampire: The Masquerade: Bloodlines is a great CRPG which should have deserved much more 
 attention from the gamers. I blame the gamers but I can not but also blame Troika for having always 
 released very buggy games... and for not having continued doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game, is freaking awesome. I always thought it would be awesome if someone would make a Vampire 
 RPG. THIS IS IT! Only, they could have added more lol. Don't get me wrong, this game is really 
 good and fun to play. Maybe it's just because I played FallOut 3 before this and Vampire Bloodlines 
 doesnt give you THAT much freedom lol, but the game does give you some freedom. The point is, if 
 you love Vampires and RPG, TRY THIS GAME OUT!
  
  Gameplay- Fun and addicting
  
  Music- Awesome, songs from actual bands. "Cain" from Tiamat, best song on there. 
  
  Sounds 
 - Pretty good.
  
  Story- Good and grows on you.
  
  Like I said, get this game if you love Vampires and RPG's. It is hard to find this game anywhere 
 with a reasonable price. I looked at amazon and for now they are selling it for $89.99 to freaking 
 $149.99, its crazy! But if you look around online, you can download this game like I did for only 
 $19.99 :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luk-mig-ind
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the most amazing game I have ever player, seen or even heard about.
  It has good graphic, a fantastic story, and an amazing gameplay.
  If it was up to me this game 
 should forever be praised, as one of the best games in history if not the best. Vtmb has used the 
 idea of being a vampire wich many games have either not dared or not completed, without making 
 a game that is not worth talking about. Vtmb has, although it is a very powerful storyline that 
 you cannot escape, become a game with a story that binds you to your computer til you have completed 
 it because you want to see what happends next. 
  The gameplay varies with your character as a warrior Brujha, and a Ventrue who uses social combat 
 will see the game in two very different ways, although they will see and do many of the same things 
 there will still be many differents.
  All of this put together has become to the best game, there is acording to me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbedeus
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:11 am PT
Review:  V: TM-B is a joy to play, with an interesting RPG system focused on gaining XP not on combat or 
 kills but on attaining goals (through various means) . 
  
  The combat system is fun, especially through the unarmed or melee paths however the ranged path 
 becomes very powerful through to end-game. The weaponry is varied and in some cases amusing, the 
 numerous disciplines avaialable to the bloodlines offer more depth to comabt and dialogue gameplay. 
 The characters are memorable as are the locations. The differing bloodlines and histories (provided 
 you unlock them through the console via patches - and i STRONGLY advise you download them) ensure 
 re-playability. 
  
  This is an excellent game marred by a rushed release - download the patches, and this is indeed 
 a masterpiece. Strongly recommended, with a rich and drawing atmosphere and setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radman2117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 1:08 am PT
Review:  Hi my name is Radman2117 and this is My Review of Vampire The Masquerade Bloodlines.
  
  Vampire the Masquerade Bloodlines is a story about a character who gets turned into a Vampire after 
 a night on the town, and learns to get through their new life and do things they never fought possible.
 
  There are seven Vampire clans you can choose to play as  
 and Malkavian, also the sex of your character is optional.
  
  This game was extremlely fun and interesting gameplay was excellent. it had glitches which stop 
 it from being a perfect 10, but the
  story line was engrossing and really drew you in as well a great variety of weapons to choose from. Also 
 there are skill points you can earn by doing quests so you can spend them to upgrade your character 
 and make your character a stronger Vampire. e. g. hand to hand expert, gunslinger, on melee expert.
 
  
  Good points are the story characters gameplay and interactivity.
  
  Bad points are the Glitches.
  
  Overall I give this game a 9.5/10 and highly reccomend anyone 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I will make this short but I just reviewed Fallout3 and it made me look back on what makes a truly 
 good RPG. Near the top of my list I remembered Bloodlines.
  
  When it came out it was an unplayable bug ridden mess, but that's fixed now by some very good work 
 by some very loyal fans. Get it from steam and make sure it's fully patched and you'll have no 
 problems.
  
  Of course the graphics aren't top notch anymore but I think they're still passable. But the story, 
 immersion and feeling of darkness... wow... just wow.
  
  This is a dark and uniquely flavored role playing game for the guys who, like me, realize that 
 maybe Fallout3 and Oblivion isn't the be all and end all of Action-RPGs.
  
  If you think along these lines - give it a shot. And if there's anything I more I can say to convince 
 you... well how about this.... you can make a girl your personal vampire slave and keep her in 
 your apartment. Sound good eh? It is... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  If I were to tell you that Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is one of the best roleplaying 
 games I've ever played, that'd be a statement without much weight  Bloodlines is the only true 
 RPG I've ever played, so there's not much I can compare it to within its genre (S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 and Joan of Arc are the closest things to an RPG I had ever tried, and they were action games with 
 RPG elements) . However when I say that Bloodlines is one the best games I've ever played, regardless 
 of genre, the statement becomes much more relevant and highlights just how good of a game Bloodlines 
 is. Why is Bloodlines one of the best games I've ever played? Because it pretty much has everything 
 you could ask from a game. It has a brilliant and engrossing story that goes way beyond a typical 
 vampire tale to focus on subjects like politics, respect of traditionalism, anarchism and rebellion, 
 greed and corruption, and moral consequences to one's actions. It has an amazing cast of characters 
 that go from loony rave girls, to mysterious scholars, to rebel loners, to retired hitmen now working 
 as fortune tellers, and so on. It provides a staggering amount of high quality quests that make 
 even the simplest of tasks memorable and challenging. And it allows you to tackle those quests 
 in several different ways, all of which have a profound impact on how the story evolves and how 
 the world reacts to you. A deeply immersive gameworld, stellar graphics and facial animations, 
 and a killer soundtrack are the icing on the cake. Save for a relatively lackluster combat model 
 (particularly when it comes to the way you handle guns) and some technical issues (that have been 
 fixed with patches) , Bloodlines is virtually flawless. It's also a perfect game for people who 
 are new to the roleplaying genre to get started on such a fascinating genre.
  
  Bloodlines is set in the World of Darkness universe, where vampires live amongst humans but don't 
 necessarily reveal their identity for fear of violating The Masquerade, a code of sorts that dictates 
 the way vampires must behave themselves or else they'll have to respond to the Camarilla, a group 
 lead by a Prince who is hellbent on imposing his own agenda as well as punishing anyone who dares 
 violate the Masquerade. As the game starts, your character, a human up till that point, is "embraced" 
 by another vampire after a wild night of passion. What this means is that you're now a vampire 
 too, but because the embrace you were a part of is a violation of the Masquerade your Sire (the 
 vampire who embraced you) and your character find thmselves in the middle of a trial to determine 
 their fate. Your Sire suffers the death penalty and it looks like you're headed the same way, but 
 thanks to the protests of an anarch vampire (Nines Rodriguez) your life is spared. However you 
 must now prove yourself worthy to the Prince which means that you'll have to carry on with several 
 quests he'll assign you. But as you undertake on said quests you'll meet other vampires that have 
 either formed other sects or refuse to label themselves and are fighting for freedom. From here 
 one you take part on a fascinating adventure that sees you in the middle of a political struggle 
 between all these factions and it'll be your task to figure out who are your true friends and what 
 really motivates all these groups. You'll also make acquaintance with other vampires and humans 
 unrelated to the political struggle, who you'll be able to help or exploit to your benefits. The 
 story is delightful, intriguing, and sucks you in like few stories can. What role you ultimately 
 have is entirely up to you.
  
  The first thing you'll do is obviously create a character and you have to choose between seven 
 different clans, as well as the gender of your character. The clan you choose has a deep impact 
 on the experience you'll have since each clan is better suited for a particular style of gameplay. 
 For instance the Nosferatu are sneaky characters who excel in stealth, while clans like the Gangrel 
 and Brujah are much better suited towards hand to hand combat. Other clans like the Toreador are 
 better at getting out of sticky situations with their smooth talking, while the Malkavian clan 
 is certifiably insane, which means their dialogue options are bizarre to say the least. Each clan 
 also has three distinct disciplines, which are essentially powerups that give you special abilities.
 
  
  You also have to allocate your initial experience points in certain attributes that will affect 
 how high your rating in certain feats is. Attributes are specific characteristics of your character 
 such as strength, stealth, intelligence, firearms, etc., while feats are more generalized abilities 
 that your character has developed. Feat ratings are usually determined by a combination of two 
 attributes; for example the ranged feat, which determines how good you're are with guns, is a combination 
 of the firearms and perception attributes. Your seduction feat on the other hand is determined 
 by your appearance and subterfuge ratings. How you distribute the experience points is a decision 
 you have to make based mostly on your style of play. Experience points are only gained by completing 
 quests, not by killing enemies, so killing sprees aren't necessary at all (though they're great 
 fun anyway) . This system makes Bloodlines a very accessible RPG since it's not hard to understand 
 how to improve your character's traits or what effects such improvements will have.
  
  Since you only gain experience from completing quests, you'll want to do as many side quests as 
 possible. And unlike in other games were side quests are usually filler material, virtually every 
 side quest in Bloodlines is a rich and rewarding experience. Even simple fetch quests are given 
 a twist, be it infiltrating a place undetected, using your abilities to persuade or seduce your 
 way past an obstacle, or finding yourself stuck in a wacky situation. For example there's a certain 
 quest given to you by a fortune teller in Chinatown that simply consists of killing a man who can 
 usually be found drinking in a bar and relieving him of a key to a safe holding a large sum of 
 money. If you kill the man on sight you'll succeed, but if you choose to talk to him, he'll try 
 to persuade to kill the fortune teller instead. Should you decide to go back to the fortune teller 
 he'll offer a bigger cut of the reward and try to convince you that the other guy is a backstabber. 
 You can reach a point where both guys will offer you nearly all of the money they were out to get 
 in the first place and all the while you'll enjoy some hilarious dialogue. You even have the option 
 to persuade both guys to become friends and split the reward. This is just a small example of the 
 amount of variety and freedom you have in most of the quests in the game.
  
  While the most rewarding solutions to the quests are those that avoid combat, there are situations 
 were bloodshed will be inevitable. Here you have the option to use your melee weapons, shoot everyone 
 in sight, or make use of your disciplines. Early on however, gunplay is not a viable option, the 
 reason being that unless you've invested heavily on the attributes that increase your ranged feat, 
 your aim will be totally out of control. Once your ranged feat reaches a high level, guns are much 
 more effective but even then the gunplay isn't as smooth as it should be. While this is slightly 
 disappointing, the melee combat is satisfying enough to make up for it. There's no great science 
 to it, since melee combat consists mostly of smashing the left mouse button until your enemies 
 are down, but the visceral nature of it, plus the alternatives offered by your disciplines, make 
 it a lot of fun.
  
  The game can be played from either a first or third person perspective, with the third person perspective 
 being the preferred one for melee combat and exploration, while the first person perspective is 
 better suited for gunplay. During conversations though you'll switch automatically to a first person 
 perspective, and it's here where you'll notice how great the facial animations are. In fact I'll 
 make a very bold claim here by saying that Bloodlines makes a better use of the Source engine than 
 Half Life 2 when it comes to facial animations. This isn't surprising really when you consider 
 how much dialogue there is in the game, but it's worth the praise nonetheless. Watching Damsel 
 (a fiery redhead that's pissed at the world in general) scream and writhe as you give her bad news 
 is a delight.
  
  Another aspect that doesn't fail to impress are the overall graphics, which still look great regardless 
 of the game's age. While the game doesn't sport a realistic feel like Half Life 2, it's packed 
 with intricate detail in every single area. Better yet is the sheer variety of places you'll visit, 
 like graveyards, museums, aristocratic parties, cargo ships, warehouses, dance clubs, and so on. 
 In every single area the game's great art direction shines through.
  
  The great visuals and meticulous detail make the gameworld a very immersive one, though there are 
 a few small quirks. For instance there are no cars in L. A.; well, there are a lot of parked cars, 
 but you'll never see one on the streets (aside from the taxi that takes you around the districts) . 
 Also, the pedestrian behavior is odd to say the least, since you'll see sights such as attractive 
 women all dressed up wandering around back and forth in dark alleys with no real sense of direction 
 or people answering their cell phones but never actually say a word. You can't talk to most pedestrians 
 either, so their purpose is mostly cosmetic. Granted this is better than having dumb pedestrians 
 repeat lines ad-nauseum, but I still wish the pedestrians did a better job at bringing the city 
 to life.
  
  One are that is absolutely flawless is the game's audio. The voice acting is simply perfect. Every 
 character is masterfully voiced, something that encourages you to explore the dialogue to the fullest. 
 There's also a great radio show as well as a TV news section (that get constantly updated as you 
 progress) that are hilarious and well worth listening. The sound effects are also amazing, especially 
 the creepy noises that play in some of the more obscure sections of the game. And while it's not 
 necessarily extensive, the game's soundtrack is off the charts, with some great songs playing at 
 the different clubs or bars scattered through the city. Each song manages to capture the feel of 
 the location and the game in general perfectly.
  
  If there's one real flaw in Bloodlines is the fact that the game shipped in an unfinished state. 
 Numerous bugs, glitches, and random crashes marred the experience for most people shortly after 
 the game's release. But a subsequent patch fixed most of the game's biggest problems and there 
 are even dozens of unofficial patches developed by the community that fix the remaining issues 
 and tweak some of the content in the game. For the record though, I personally can only endorse 
 the official patch. Speaking strictly from my experience, the 1.2 patch brought the game to a entirely 
 stable and playable state, as I never experienced a major bug of any kind. There were still a few 
 glitches but none of them could not be solved by simply reloading a previous save. On the other 
 hand the unofficial patches caused a strange glitch were my character would get stuck while exiting 
 a room and prevented me from finishing a certain quest, something I couldn't fix no matter what 
 I tried (reloading, restarting, reinstalling, etc.) . From what I could gather online, I was the 
 only one who experienced such issue, so I'm not slamming the unofficial patches or whatsoever, 
 but I do recommend you try playing the game with the 1.2 patch first and only try the unofficial 
 patches if you're still experiencing problems.
  
  But really, technical issues are the last thing I'm gonna let get in the way of experiencing a 
 great game, and Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines isn't just any great game, it's one of the 
 best (as well as one of my absolute favorite) games I've ever played. Deep, open-ended, mature, 
 thrilling, hilarious, and memorable, are all terms I could use to describe the overall experience. 
 A bloody masterpiece indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joos2000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are obviously dated now, but the textures and 3D models look surprisingly good, considering 
 the age of the engine. If there is one thing I would like to add though, is support for wide screen 
 monitors, but I guess it is a bit late for that now.
  Voice acting is best in class, everything is done believable and the script is absolutely amazing.
 
  Music is probably the best soundtrack in a game. For example, you can hear Tiamat, Lacuna Coil 
 and Ministry play a few songs at various night clubs in Los Angeles, where the game is played out.
 
  Gameplay mechanics is what makes this game stand out. There are always more than one way to attack 
 a problem. Skill, Brute Force, Subterfuge... It is up to you and how you build your character, 
 where you want you put your skill points will affect how the game plays out.
  If you want to go up close and personal, put skill points in Sneak, Dexterity and Melee Weapons 
 and do instant kill manoeuvres behind enemies back. Or if you like the run and gun type game play, 
 put heaps of skill points in Fire Arms and Perception and play the game through FPS-style.
  All your choices lead up to a different experience every time you play it, there are several factions 
 for you to join, the Prince, the Camarilla, the Anarchs and the mysterious oriental vampires. Depending 
 on who you side with during the game, you will have a different ending each time.
  Since you also can chose to play several different types of vampire clans, each with its own specific 
 type of powers, the game offers an immense amount of replay ability. I played it through twice 
 and plan to play it through a few more times, just to see exactly what this game really has to 
 offer.
  This is one of the best role playing games ever made, and anyone who likes this genre will love 
 the depth of this game, no matter what you think vampires in general. It is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightsoul_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the "Vampire: The Masquerade" pen and paper gdr so I was really excited by this 
 game when it came out.
  On one hand, I've found this game have annoying bugs (which weren't fixed due to the Troika departure) , 
 irritating combat system and playin it I had the feeling the last part of this game was rushed 
 off: in fact the best moments for me were in the early part.
  On the other hand, this game recreates perfectly the vampire gdr atmosphere: on the background 
 you'll really feel the sophisticated political disputes between the various vampire clans, some 
 npcs personalities are well written and the overall plot is good.
  This game could have been treated much better than this: with these great storyline premises, a 
 better software implementation could have made Bloodlines a truly gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave-o99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  VTM: B has completely sucked me in. It's one of those gameas that is so compelling that you yearn 
 to play it when you aren't.
  Its content is mature and adult, which makes a refreshing change from all the kiddie RPGs that 
 tend to be the norm. The graphics are good enough for the year too.
  I understand what people are saying about the combat being poor. Really all you do is mash your 
 mouse button. But it isn; t that kind of game. If you are an FPS or Beat'em'up fan then you will 
 not like this aspect. Combat is not challenging. But who cares? I'm just enjoying being a vampire, 
 exploring seriously evocative and immersive quests, and meeting great characters who i really have 
 an emotional attachment to.
  If you love dark, adult RPGs then you simply must play it. Just try not to lose yourself in it!
 
  If you loved this, try The Witcher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darKnight92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  this is a rather fine game but as always with Troika games, there are numerous bugs and many of 
 them prevent you from enjoying a smooth and sleek experience right from the beginning.
  
  the shortcomings in this amazing game include a dull AI, lengthy and frequent load times whenever 
 you traverse through the different regions of the game, a really boring combat system and a couple 
 of other flaws.
  
  however, it does the best job of immersing you in the role of a 'fledgling' vampire climbing up 
 the ranks to become a powerful vampire over the course of numerous missions, many of which can 
 be completed without the use of brawns but instead with a silver tongue or some sneaky stealth-ing.
 
  
  this makes playing the hideous Nosferatu, true masters of the shadows, rather enjoyable despite 
 their lack of social skills due to their unsightly blots and boils and distorted facial features.
 
  
  the insane Malkavians are also a plus to this game as they provide the most intriguing dialog options 
 and are also equipped with the stealth-ing abilities of the Nosferatu.
  
  there are also a wide variety of more classical archetypes to choose from such as the brutish Brujahs 
 who are the fighters & the mysterious Tremeres who are the wizards/witches of the vampire world.
 
  
  all in all, if you're willing to wait for more than a couple of minutes to load whenever you enter 
 a different environment (if your computer specs aren't too high) , enjoy employing methods, other 
 than brawns (not that the combat scenarios the game offers are of much praise) , to complete quests 
 and missions, and would be patient enough to listen to conversations that are done by great voice 
 actors, then this game would probably be for you.
  
  a word of caution though, you might wish to rent it first and test it with a couple of patches 
 before deciding whether it really matches your style of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelkadaj
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  You start the game as a new vampire and you have to choose your clan (don't skip Malkavians) . Here 
 comes the fun! You are about to play (god knows how many) missions that stuck you in, and choose 
 with whom you want to stay in the end  it's an open ended. Hmmm you can choose to be with the 
 anarchs, with Nines ;) .
  The best in this game is that you can choose between first and third person shooter. There's variety 
 of weapons, but I wouldn't recommend to play with ranged weapons. Playing with melee weapons would 
 be much easier for you. The enemies are easy to beat, but it is not fun to fight because the game 
 has poor combat system. Anyway you get great story.
  The game looks great, though you might get pissed off while you wait "the loadings", because you'll 
 get the loading screen every time you get in/ exit a building. And just to mention you can't finish 
 the game without patches, because at some points the game crushes.
  With the great sound and nice graphics this is a must play game. Don't think of the bugs, you can 
 still beat the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElCatto
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Well the game went out about 4 years ago, and it is still good. Good things about the game are 
 that the dialogs are great and some funny like when Jack talks. The graphics is great for its age, 
 and you can get addicted to it and play it over and over for a couple of times. Gameplay is easy 
 and the game can be finished in a couple of hours and you have few alternate endings. Easy control 
 interface. The bad things about the game because i didn't give it a 10 its because the game is 
 buggy, there are a lot of unofficial patches released that fix some of them but the worst thing 
 its that the game is not tweaked and that you have to have mid-end computer to play it without 
 interruption, that's not a good thing for low-end machines, still its the best vampire RPG by me 
 and another thing is that creatures in levels spawn too fast like an example zombies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodModeEnabled
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Vampire The Masquerade Bloodlines is an open ended, western flavor role playing game based on White 
 Wolfs popular pen and paper game. The story starts you off as a newly created vampire whos sire 
 gets destroyed, and embroils you in a plot of political intrigues, backstabbings, and betrayls 
 almost immediatley.
  
  You start off the game by creating your character male or female, from one of several clans in 
 the game that effectivley is your "class". What bloodline you choose detrimines what supernatural 
 powers you will have to develop, and whether you are more or less inclined towards a social manipulater, 
 physical brute, or a mixture of both. Each clan has its own long and varied history, and indeed 
 having several different ones available will make you want to play the game multiple times through 
 as there are a myriad number of ways you can tackle any given situation.
  
  Some clans can turn invisible, dominate humans into commiting suicide on the spot, cast powerful 
 blood magics, moce extremly fast or walk into swarms of bullets and shrug it off. And thats just 
 for starters. How each character reacts to you also depends on several other things, like wether 
 you are male or female, how high your seduction, intimidation or persuasion skill is and what faction 
 you belong too.
  
  The game takes place in modern day Los Angeles, with all the grit and dirt represented to an extreme 
 level. There are four different sections of the city to explore starting off in Sant Monica, then 
 moving into Downtown, then Hollywood and finally Chinatown. There a large number of sidequests 
 to complete and most of them are really varied, fun and original to partake in. Finishing all the 
 sidequests and soaking in the game will take you around 40-50 hours to finish your first time through.
 
  
  The game runs on Half Lifes source engine and conveys very realistic facial expressions and emotions 
 just like Half Life did. What this effectivley accomplishes is a deep level of immersion and sense 
 of feeling and true emotion for the characters you interact with. Because the source engine is 
 so flexible and well crafted the graphics still hold up fairly well in todays gaming world, especially 
 the characters.
  
  This presents us to Vampires largest strength: the atmosphere. Everything about the game feels 
 meticulously and loving crafted to create a belivable, albeit supernatural world. This is one of 
 the games where you can feel the developers labor of love gone into it. Everything is about drawing 
 you deeper and deeper into the world where its just an absolute joy to come back to.
  
  Its other great strength is how open ended and flexible it is. There are often several ways to 
 approach and handle any given situation. Although there is a fair share of combat and you will 
 have to fight from time to time there are many instances where you can use stealth, seduction, 
 persuasion, intimidation or supernatural means such as domination to solve the problems and quests 
 presented to you.
  
  The musical score is made up of licensed songs by mostly gothic and heavy metal bands with some 
 original work here and there and does the trick in conveying a twisted and dark atmosphere. The 
 sound effects are likewise top notch with sickening blood and gurgling sounds when you feed on 
 your victims loud and powerful weapon effects, and excellent top of the line voice acting.
  
  The game originally shipped with a lot of bugs that hindered the otherwise great game but years 
 of dedicated fan patches and the like have solved every glitch and the game runs smoothly with 
 no noticable glitches anymore. I downloaded this off of steam which is nice because it auto patches 
 the game for you after it downloads and I had no problems getting it to run.
  
  In summary this is perhaps the greatest role playing game I have ever played, and if you are at 
 all a fan of open ended role playing this one cant come reccomended enough. All the bugs are fixed 
 and whats left behind is an overlooked masterpiece of brilliance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat_Bag
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, we all like vampires. At least once we wished to become one of those mysterious 
 and powerful creatures of the night. Well, we got our first chance with Vampire: The Masquerade 
 - Redemption, an ambitious RPG that could have been great, but turned out to be nothing more than 
 a short, linear and generally disappointing action adventure with terrible AI, clumsy combat and 
 lousy, forgettable story and characters. Although it was based on White Wolf's excellent World 
 of Darkness pencil & paper RPG, it didn't help much. 
  So, Troika decided to make a sequel. 
  
  That, s right, even more ambitious sequel based on 
 Half-Life 2's graphic engine. And finally, they realized they had to put a lot more effort into 
 creating believable, deep and well-balanced world you can get yourself into. At long last, World 
 of Darkness is transferred properly into a computer game. Finally, you can customize your character 
 from the very beginning, join any clan or religious sect you want, and truly enjoy the gloomy, 
 dark atmosphere of World of Darkness. Something that the previous installment of Vampire series 
 desperately lacked from it's very beginning. 
  You start out as a newly created vampire on the streets of Santa Monica during the 90's. Apparently, 
 your sire (a vampire that created you) broke the rules by letting you join their ranks without 
 authorization, so she gets her head chopped off by the ruling caste of local vampires. However, 
 they decide to spare you and let you live, as long as you act like a good boy and don't do anything 
 they might not like. That's only the beginning tough, as you'll soon find yourself emerged into 
 a complex world of intrigues, power struggles and clan rivalry where not all is as good as it seems. 
 You're just one person in a whole big world where everyone is trying to use you for their own purposes, 
 and it's up to you to decide who's to be trusted. Not everyone is completely bad, nor completely 
 good. And not all the clans are totally nice or nasty. You really get the feeling that everyone 
 you meet is a person for himself, not some old RPG "good guy - bad guy" cliche. 
  
  Yes, the story is great, the characters are great, the atmosphere is breath-taking, there are a 
 lot of great quests for you to take, voice acting is superb, the whole world, the entire concept 
 is simply awesome! There are tons of moments in this game you'll remember for years to come. All 
 we ever wanted in an RPG. Especially a vampire-themed RPG. So, what's wrong with it? Why did I 
 rate it 8.0 instead of pure 10?
  Well, first of all, despite your best efforts, sooner or later you have to draw those fangs out 
 and fight. Kill, cripple, butcher, whatever... Sure, a lot of quests and situations in this game 
 can be solved peacefully, using your wits, charm or simply veiled threats. Or even stealth. Pretty 
 cool, eh? But when push comes to shove and silver tongue becomes less important then silver blade, 
 that's where the problems start. The combat is simply HORRIBLE! No matter what, it always comes 
 down to simply bashing mouse 1 button and hoping your enemy dies sooner than you, or you don't 
 get overrun by bad guys. Sure, there are a lot of special abilities you can use, but that doesn't 
 add much tactics to a fight. Sure, you can be a stealthy chap and sneak past your enemies, killing 
 them from behind which works good most of the time, depending how good your stealth skills are. 
 But the combat is always terrible. You don't have much control over anything, just bash mouse 1 
 until it's over. And that's for close combat only. Ranged combat, on the other hand, is even worse. 
 You will have to spend tons of skill points on your firearms skills, and still you won't be able 
 to use pistols and rifles effectively. Against vampires, werewolves and other wraiths, they're 
 simply useless. They're not much better against human foes either. To put it simply, firearms are 
 underpowered, inaccurate and take a lot to master, which is not very rewarding.
  
  But despite lousy combat, game is still pretty great. Why? Because, apart from some boss fights, 
 there simply is not much combat in the game, thank God! Most of it can be avoided, so you'll spend 
 a lot of your time exploring the world and talking to other people, or even solving some puzzles. 
 This is not an action game. This is not even an action RPG. It's pure RPG, with great story, settings 
 and characters, where often brains are better than brawls. A-men to that!
  
  So why 8.0? Why not at least 9.0? Well, because the game uses Half-Life 2 engine. Why is that bad? 
 Well, because the game often runs slow regardless of your hardware. Really, sometimes you're gonna 
 wish you could kill the fool that decided to use Half-Life 2 engine without knowing how to use 
 it properly. OK, the game runs slow only when you're out in the street doing practically nothing 
 except going from one location to another. So it mostly didn't get in the way of solving the quests, 
 or fighting, but it did slow down during some combat scenes, which is really frustrating. Graphics 
 are not really appealing, so I fail to see why the heck it's so slow at the times. Not to mention 
 other bugs with graphics and sounds, even the game menu. I played straight from the box version 
 of the game, so maybe these problems have been solved with tons of official and unofficial patches, 
 I don't know... But Troika has always been famous for horrible, often slow graphics in their games. 
 Such a shame, really. If there wasn't so much bad programming, and if more effort was put into 
 creating a better combat system, this game could have been a classic. 
  
  This way, it's only one of those "could have been" games. 
  
  Buy it, by all means buy it. 
 You won't be sorry, if you like more "classic" RPG games. If you're looking for some cool action, 
 you won't find it here. This game almost lets you live out your vampire alter ego. Almost, but 
 not quite... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwrong
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  First i should say bloodlines is one of my favorite RPGs. The bugs and a few other things keep 
 it from being a 9.0 or higher for me. Even with the official patch the game still has some issues 
 but they are minor and should not keep anyone from trying this great RPG. There is another unofficial 
 patch that is said to fix most problems but i have not used it yet. The One thing that always bothered 
 me was not the minor bugs but the lack of variety in the details. After a while you notice every 
 NPC and everything else is just a clone of other models and you can only talk to a select few of 
 the NPCs and it takes away from the Role playing feel. Even with the lack of Detail Bloodlines 
 is still a must have for the RPG fan and with a little more tweaking and additions it would of 
 been one of the best RPGs ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artiedeadat40
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game thats not without its bugs (and alot of them) . It took me an hour to even 
 get this game running because I have a 64bit os and 4gb of ram. It is well worth it, though. I 
 have not been this hooked on a game in so long. You really feel like every choice you make effects 
 how the game will play out. That is very rare and with all of the sects you will play through the 
 game again. Some crazy stuff really goes down in this game. If the company that made this didnt 
 fall apart and was able to patch this game up to what it should be it would be the greatest game 
 ever. The core of this game is so good you can overlook all of the little bugs in the game. Just 
 be sure to play with an open mind and you will be impresesd.
  Now Im really just killing space here to be honest but if you havent played this game and are at 
 all interested just go and pick it up ypu wont be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanianVampire
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade Bloodlines is a great RPG with a great story nice graphiks and a whole new 
 world to explore.
  This game has something special because it's one of the few games where you get to bee a vampire 
 not a weak hunter or something the game gives you a new perspective.
  As a vampire you have to respect some rules The Masquerade if you brake the masquerade and reveal 
 yourself to humans you will be silenced.
  The vampire world is complex there are different clans all with different characterystiks and abilities. 
 These clans are split into different moovments like the Camarilla wich are the authority they protect 
 the masquerade adn the Sabbat who are exactly the oposite, and there are some other small groups 
 like the Anarks.
  You are thrown in the game like a new illegal 'Embraced' vampire your sire is executed and you 
 are allowd to live only to serve the Camarilla but as the game evolves you will encounter unique 
 characters and situatons you can explore LA in it's deepts you go to Santa Monica, Downtown, Hollywood, 
 Chinatown and other places. 
  you can choose to be a wizard or a fighter you can use your fists or fireweapons or blades and 
 blunt weapons compleeting quests will give you experience and you can use it to evolve and become 
 stronger.
  As a vampire you have a pritty busy afterlife you get a pretty complex main quest and a lot of 
 interesting secondary quests like stealing something killing someone 
  or spying on somenoe.
  It's a very complex game, you can finish it in 5 different ways and the 
 endings are different and...... well surprising try to finish the game in all the possible ways 
 so you won't miss anyhting.
  In conclusion Vampire: Bloodlines The Masquerade is a great RPG with a great story and a lot of 
 possibilities so don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etheesdad
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing adventure games since ZORK, and went into Vampire Bloodlines without many high 
 expectations. What I found was, simply the best rpg i have ever played. This game was plagued initially 
 by being very buggy before the patch release and because of that received pretty poor critical 
 reception when it appeared. The patch fixes most of the bugs, and makes the game playable. There 
 are also two "community" patches, which have been released independently. I played the games with 
 the official patch.
  
  This game is so immersive! You have some great character choices to start off, and can customise 
 your character as you level up. The storyline is brilliant and the locations are really well portrayed. 
 While playing the game, I lost track of time over and over because I was so involved in what I 
 was doing. Each time I was away from the game I couldnt wait to get back to it to see what would 
 eventuate in the storyline. 
  
  "Just play it" is all I can say. This is the most overlooked and least appreciated game Ive ever 
 seen. Dare I say it? - better than Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnb4467
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This is my very recent review (July 2008) of a game that came out in 2004. Bloodlines was a game 
 I had followed enthusiastically during development, eagerly awaited... but then never bought or 
 played. This is due to a few reasons:
  It got mediocre reviews (gameplay)
  It was buggy (BIG downer for any game I look to purchase) ,
  and, at the time, I was pretty sure 
 my system would not allow for a good gaming experience. 
  
  Now it's 4 years later -- the Source game engine & Doom 3 game engine (the buzzwords of the day) 
 have more-or-less come and gone... and I've finally gotten around to playing through this game...
 
  ... and I'm kicking myself for not having done it long ago.
  
  This is not an FPS -- yet you can play it as one. 
  But that isn't what you play this game for:
 
  You play it for the world, and the story that takes place within it. 
  The atmosphere to this game is deeply enthralling; the world is believable, and the characters 
 are well-developed. You really never know quite what to expect in this world. 
  
  Since so many reviews cover the story, I won't go into specfics... I'll just suffice to say that 
 the characters you meet, you will miss when the experience is over. I would definitely agree with 
 many of the reviewers in saying that the first stages of the game are much more developed and polished 
 than the later ones, but this doesn't at all mean that the game isn't worth playing all the way 
 through -- it just would have been nice if the entire game had the same sense of depth and polish. 
 
  
  What held me back from purchasing the game back in 2004 is mostly due to the bad bugs the game 
 originally shipped with, as well as the slow patch releases. Amazingly, even after 4 years, unofficial 
 patches are STILL being released, which address bugs and add in cut-out content. If you buy the 
 game... be sure to download the unofficial patches. 
  
  As far as the visuals, I'm absolutely astounded at how well they hold up. The above-mentioned "unofficial" 
 patches add widecsreen resolution options for both 16:9 and 16:10 monitors, and the results look 
 great. While very powerful game engines push current hardware to [or beyond!] their limits, this 
 game still looks amazing: turn up the resolution, turn on anti-aliasing & filtering... and the game 
 looks - and runs - like a champ. 
  In some ways, the artistry of the game reminded me a little bit of American McGee's Alice, insofar 
 in that it's a very dark world that you'll just want to walk to through slowly and simply enjoy 
 it for its artistry.
  
  I'll address this quickly: many people point to the ranged combat as a major flaw in the game's 
 combat. I really didn't notice this at all. I focused more on melee attacks, but considering the 
 points I invested in ranged combat, things worked just about as I expected... and there were definitely 
 plenty of situations were ranged attacks were the best solution. 
  
  I hinted at intriguing characters earlier, and just want to go a bit more in-depth:
  I've read 
 that the character facial animations are not as robust as the often-compared-to animations in Half 
 Life 2 (since they use the same engine) . This may be true, but the characters still come across 
 with wonderful personalities, and the voice acting pretty much ALWAYS comes across wonderfully, 
 fitting the character they are portraying. The only oddity here is that some characters will say 
 the exact same lines, but be different models (ie: prostitutes on the street) . Overall though, 
 you will love the characters. The only downside is that when your "business" is done with them, 
 you typically don't have many further dialogue options with them later on in the game (if they 
 show up at all) . 
  
  The soundtrack and sound effects to the game are wonderful. They released an official soundtrack 
 to the game back when it was released, and I can see why; there's some licensed tracks by big bands 
 that fit the mood perfectly. The orchestral soundtrack is wonderful as well -- very dark and moody. 
 
  
  The sound effects are very sharp & pleasing, though not including positional audio (5.1) was somewhat 
 of an odd omission, as I think that was pretty much commonplace well before 2004 (at the very least, 
 4 channel) . 
  
  Overall, I have to say, you really owe it to yourself to play this game if you enjoy a good RPG 
 with intriguing characters. I've only played through the game with one class (sect) / sex, but 
 re-playability is supposed to be quite high, with conversational options varying significantly.
 
  
  I'm really sad to know that Troika, the games creators, went out of business soon after releasing 
 the game, especially because I can see what they set out to do & know how relatively close they 
 really got. They fell a tad short in overall, full-length polish, and Activision shot themselves 
 in the foot in sales by publishing/releasing before the game was thoroughly debugged... but with 
 the new patches that address many of the technical issues, the game really does become a wonderfully 
 memorable masterpiece. 
  Perfect? No.
  Worth playing? Definitely! 
  In the end, you'll really just wish the game didn't have to end... and that, in my mind, is the 
 best compliment you can give to any game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiser_daniel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Vampire-Bloodlines gave me a new idea of how a rpg should be made because I frankly had enough 
 of fantasy worlds as backgrounds for this tipe of games. The only thing that is non-realistic about 
 this game is the vampire universe that you are sorounded with, other than that the rest of the 
 caracters are extremly well developed and really give you the impression that they are "real". The 
 atmosphere of the game is perfect for a vampire story, it seems like there might be a monster at 
 every turn
  Anyway I think the time has come when game developers should really consider starting to develop 
 rpg's in which you are just a regular person who uses regular means in extremely difficult but 
 realistic situations. I'm sure there are many ideas on how this might be done so that the experience 
 and level up systems without this involving the monsters, demons, robots, aliens or any other thing 
 that just isn't an never will be there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Owl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Bloodlines is one of the best role-playing games I have ever played, with a very compelling storyline 
 and good combat and character system.
  
  Playing as different character types can dramatically alter how you play the game. The writing 
 is solid and compelling, and the characters are unique and interesting. Quests are fun, creative 
 and appropriately rewarding . All of this makes the game success as a true role-playing game; not 
 just in genre, but you feel like you are literally playing out the role. It sounds obvious, but 
 so many games use the RPG moniker to describe its game mechanics rather than the actual player 
 experience.
  
  The only problems are technical in nature. The game runs slower than it should - mostly when in 
 outdoor areas - takes a long time to load games and new areas, and occasionally crashes. Although 
 modern hardware makes up for some of the slowness, and the fan community has made some very impressive 
 patches to tweak performance, XP distribution, and correct some bugs.
  
  If not for these technical issues I would give this game a 9.5 or 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvanteDs
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game if you want to be a vampire rather than other games which you are the noobie 
 hunter. it is more indepth as you are just trying to be the best vampire or just try to get pass 
 the game. You are some how needed to shape your vampire into your own preference and even if you 
 screw it up, well the game wont be that bad just that you might be stuck in style not to your likings
 
  
  This game really grows on you. Makes you feel like a vampire and stuff. Live the life of vampire 
 rather just hacking and slashing. Come on, there is stages where you can just talk it over using 
 your vampire charisma.
  
  There 7 unique clan for you to play with. Choose the clan that fits your character and you going 
 to have a really good time playing this.
  
  There is more to say about this game.
  
  But i am lazy..
  
  pEace
  
  Sorry for my bad english too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norwegicus
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  The story is good enough and it is fun playing a vampire. Not every day you get to prey on humans.
 
  Also i like the twist where you are not supposed to kill everyone just for fun, but you need to 
 go and hide in the shadows if you are going to feed or do some other vampire stuff.
  
  But the games feature a lot of fighting and that is what bring this game down to its knees.
  
 The fights alone is not the problem, it is how the combat are performed.
  Its clumsy and rather boring with the player getting stuck here and there, gun fights with everyone 
 just standing out in the open shooting until one falls over dead.
  
  Because of this the only playable vampire in my opinion is the nosterafu because you can use your 
 stealth and avoid most of the fights, it is quite fun to do stealth kills as well.
  But if you do a stealth kill right in front of the victims friends, they don't really seem to care 
 if their buddy falls over dead with a slit throat.. Yet another flaw.
  
  Not the greatest RPG, but it was fun for a while.
  If you are going to buy, make sure you don't 
 pay to much. look in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iliasark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The way you interact with all the personalities of the game and the different outcomes make you 
 feel you're just evolving it along the developers while you game. Some fights were really tough 
 especially with the relatively imperfect combat style of the game, but in overall the game gives 
 you such an addiction that you will love to spend lots of hours in front your screen and choose 
 more than one characters to play. The music is very carefully selected for the relative in-game 
 circumstances and keeps you there without getting tired or bored. Pretty nice also the numerous 
 weapons/objects you can use. Maybe for those that do not like so much blood scenes might not be 
 the best of breed, but even for the non-vampire funs it deserves a try... Definitely one of the 
 smartest games played and with the best story. So, cannot wait for its sequel to come up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  A game about vampire society, now that's something you don't see every day. That's probably what 
 Troika Games were thinking when they accepted the job of making this game. In the end, they managed 
 to add a lot of unique elements to a pretty unique setting to start with, but not everything turned 
 out great. So let's take a closer look, and see what Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines (VtMB) 
 got right and what it got wrong.
  
  First off, the world of VtMB is quite complex. The game takes places in modern day Los Angeles 
 and centers on four major factions: the Camarilla, the Anarchs, the Sabbat and the Kuey-jin. LA 
 is the battleground and the grand prize is, of course, a lot of power. So where do you come in? 
 Well, you're just an unlucky bastard who picked the wrong date for a romp in the sack. Your date 
 proves to be a Vampire and he's hungry. But Vampire law forbids such careless acts as they could 
 endanger the masquerade and alert human society of their existence. So the Camarilla shows up, 
 kills your sire, but, oddly enough, spares you. In exchange for this kindness you are to perform 
 a few tasks for Prince LaCroix, leader of the Camarilla. And from this point on it's up to you 
 to decide who you want to side with and how you want to play. The plot is quite an interesting 
 blend of politics and supernatural elements, and it becomes even more compelling thanks to some 
 excellent characters and generally great writing. Truly, VtMB has some of the weirdest (and best) 
 characters you'll ever find in a game, but also razor blade sharp dialog quality.
  
  The main plot is linear though, the only differences come from your alignment with the different 
 factions. But it's the quests that make for interesting role-playing. Most of the quests are well 
 designed and allow for different approaches: you can talk your way through, sneak, hack terminals 
 to gain an advantage or just go in killing everything in sight. It's also worth mentioning that 
 dialogs hold many options, depending on your character type: you can persuade, intimidate, seduce 
 and even manipulate NPCs to do what you desire. This is emphasized even more by the nature of the 
 game's ruleset, which doesn't give out experience points for killing stuff, but only for completing 
 objectives, no matter your approach. And speaking of the ruleset, I got to say that it's quite 
 good. Character creation consists of you choosing a vampire clan (basically a class, like a fighter 
 or a stealth specialist for example) , your background (which can you give you various bonuses and/or 
 penalties) , various attributes (divided into three groups: physical, social and mental) , abilities 
 (divided into talents, skills and knowledges) and disciplines (vampiric powers, like moving fast 
 or regenerating health quicker) . As you can see, it has depth and it's very well structured, certainly 
 worth mentioning as one of the game's strong points. And since quests can be solved in multiple 
 ways, there's a lot of replay value in trying different approaches and character builds.
  
  So far so good, eh? Well, here come the not-so-good parts. My main gripe with VtMB is its rough, 
 unpolished feel. The last quarter of the game is painfully linear and practically combat centered. 
 This is especially painful for first time players who geared their character towards stealth for 
 example. This also leads me to Bloodlines' second major problem: the combat system. Calling it 
 clunky is not quite enough, it's annoying. Firearms are not very useful and melee combat is chaotic 
 and lacking in terms of diversity. The combat system could have been so much better, especially 
 with a little tweaking, but it seems Troika didn't have the time to polish the game.
  
  Moving on to the audio-visual presentation and we bump into a few more problems. The environments 
 look pretty good, with occasional sloppy design here and there, but nothing major. Character animations 
 need some work though, they look unnatural in quite a few instances. The sound also needs some 
 work, it's definitely a mixed bag. Objects make all sorts of wrong sounds, like cardboard boxes 
 sounding unusually heavy. The voice acting is great though. I don't know where Troika found these 
 voice actors but Bloodlines definitely has the best voice acting I've ever heard in a game. And 
 of course, mentioning the music is a must. It's very fitting for this setting, definitely helps 
 the atmosphere.
  
  Lastly, it's important to know that Bloodlines is a pretty buggy game, out of the box. There are 
 plenty of unofficial patches out there though. If you want to avoid any inconveniences then I recommend 
 you go pick up the latest patches, it's really important.
  
  So looking back, I can say that Bloodlines was a fun experience, for the most part. But ultimately, 
 what I found most fascinating about it was its concept, because the execution is iffy. It's well 
 worth a try if you like action games or RPGs, but it could have been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p90reloaded
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  It should be said that this game is plagued with a number of problems, and yet at the same time 
 only one; the reason for that, is that all of the issues of the game are bugs in the program, that 
 are still being addressed even today. So how do the bugs affect the game in its entirety? Picture 
 a a hair drifting onto a marble surface. Thats right, not one scratch.
  
  Vampire - The Masquerade: Bloodlines is the second release of a videogame dealing with the universe 
 of "The Masquerade", in which the vampires, or kindred, coexist with the blissfully ignorant human 
 race, and attempt to survive without exposure at all costs. In the words of an ingame patron of 
 the night, nothing is worse than a terrified society that possesses phosphorus bombs, biological 
 warfare, etc.
  
  If you are unfamiliar with the mythos of "The Masquerade", prepare to forget anything you have 
 understood of vampires. In this game, vampires are more than bloodthirsty monsters. They are beautiful, 
 intelligent, and seductive bloodthirsty monsters. They exist in a society made up of clans of differently 
 gifted vampires, ranging from the Ventrue, the aristocratic kindred known for their gifts of persuasion, 
 to the Nosferatu, the zombie-like bodies of rot and decay that are unparalleled at spying and information-brokering.
 
  
  In Bloodlines, the player is a newly created vampire, and chooses which clan his or her sire is 
 from at the main screen. Customizing your character, while limited regarding clothing, is extremely 
 gratifying regarding character traits, talents, etc. Throughout the game, your vampire will gain 
 experience points that may be spent on increasing your character's aspects in the physical, mental, 
 and vampiric areas. 
  
  Gameplay-wise, the HL2 Source engine is put to amazing use, allowing the powers or "disciplines" 
 of the player's vampire to be of spectacular results, one such power being the ability to cause 
 an enemy to rise above the ground, writhe in agony as his/her body contorts in obscene ways, before 
 exploding in a shower of boiling blood and gore that doubles as shrapnel to those in the splash-range.
 
  
  As for the story, originality would be an understatement. The setting takes place during modern 
 times in Los Angeles, and a sense of darkness and terror has foreshadowed horrifying things to 
 come, felt by both the human and vampire populace. Your creation, will spawn a great many issues, 
 and your decisions will decide the fate of yourself, and possibly all vampire/human-kind. The fact 
 that other supernatural creatures other than vampires exist, simply adds to already diverse aray 
 of things to look forward to.
  
  The aforementioned bugs, at their worst, crash the game while in action, dialogue, etc. Fortunately, 
 the gaming community has been at hard work to correct these issues, and still continue today, with 
 patches up to a 5.4 currently being released. 
  
  
  Overall, the game is amazing, and a must have for any RPG or supernatural enthusiast, and if one 
 is simply interested in story and creativity, look no further; your needs have been met here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fouda1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game is off the hook !!!
  
  Like the review said, a bit of cluncky combat (and sometimes long loading times !) but all of that 
 goes to smoke as you discover the dark underground as a self-built lacky for the prince, running 
 errands, making connections and doing favors and collecting them back
  
  It's Absoloutly addictive as you indulge in who you are, making the choices you would make with 
 a vampire that FITS PERFECTLY with who you are.
  
  Charming characters, good gameplay and a WORLD of possibilites to be discovered as you increase 
 your feats, conversation possibilites increase, prices of stuff changes, Persuasiveness makes people 
 see your way
  
  The music is also entrancing; you sink in the game and the underworld of Los Angeles with the tracks 
 that make your gut tighten and your trigger finger itch.
  
  The best part comes in combat with the 1st Person toggle; very helpful when sniping and also if 
 you wanted to be scared to hell and experience the terror first hand
  
  NOT TO BE MISSED !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marined
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  this game is superb ,lots of things and quests to .interesting characters like jeanette, damsel, pisha, velvet, 
 they suck you in the game. lots of choices to make.
  using the source engine the game runs pretty well on my fx5200.
  though it has long loading times, and 
 the main menu could have been better designed. the graphics are superb.
  one more thing which could have been better was the open endedness. the different parts look crammed 
 up. it's too bad troika closed down, an expansion pack would have been great. i recommend this game 
 to all rpg fans. another thing is that there should have been more things to do, fun things like 
 more bars spooky places, character customization.
  the game should have been a masterpiece with more features and innovations. ai should have been 
 a bit smarter and the effects too ,though they look pretty awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shasarak
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  You get to be a Vampire! What could be more fun?
  
  I ordered this game a couple weeks ago and I haven't been able to stop playing it. I completely 
 stopped playing everything else in order to immerse myself in this excellent story.
  
  Now I'm married with children and a job so I don't have the extra time a regular gamer has but 
 in my limited free time I have played this game exclusively.
  
  I completed this game lastnight. Wow what an ending! Since I finished I decided to read the walkthroughs 
 to see what I missed. What do I see? There are 5 seperate endings! Now I have another reason to 
 play this game again. I was already wanting to play again because of the many different bloodlines 
 you can choose. I finished my first time as Ventrue. (Vampire Leader/Lord Clan) Now I want to try 
 out the Tremere (blood mage vampire clan) and Malkavian cuz they are cRaZy and even the Nosferatu 
 spymasters.
  
  Now comments about other's comments about playability: why all the complaining about melee or ranged? 
 If you max out either catagory you'll rock with what you choose. If you have no skill in the catagory 
 then yes they suck. Personally I maxed out both melee and ranged and had alot of fun blasting/slashing 
 Kine and Kindred. You just have to know how to shoot and not stand still while shooting? Shotgun 
 is great for knocking anyone back 10 feet on their rear! The only weapons that were poor in my 
 opinion were the uzi type weapons. The shotguns, rifle, .44 mag and 50 caliber pistols were excellent. 
 The flamethrower was impressive for taking a large chunk out of the end bosses. Once I got the 
 katana I only used that for melee because it looked so cool and has a quick stealth kill animation.
 
  
  I won't spoil any of the story for those that haven't bought it yet. I would encourage you to get 
 this game though. I haven't been this addicted to an RPG since I played Knights of the Old Republic. 
 I'm bad when it comes to finishing games however Vampire Bloodlines was so intriguing and imersive 
 that I wanted to finish this game. The bloodline you choose will affect the disciplines you can 
 have and also how other people treat you. Your actions have consequences. If you betray people 
 then they will remember and not help or speak with you. You help others and you get helped (also 
 get exp!) Your attitude with people will affect certain paths as well but I'll let you figure that 
 out.
  
  You even get your own Ghoul if you want!!! For some reason that was one of the coolest things to 
 ever happen in an RPG game. Why? I don't know I guess it helped my ego to think I had a devoted 
 helper. Usually you get to watch everyone else have helpers people that love them and you get your 
 own HAH! Just more sweet frosting on the cake of a great game.
  
  Speaking of sweet frosting on the cake, the music for this game was very well done. I found myself 
 just touring areas while listening to the area music. The music during the haunted mansion mission? 
 Wow I almost peed myself a few times during that (don't play it at 1 in the morning in a dark room 
 like I did!) I've never had a game freak me out that bad. Well done Troika. The television and 
 radio voice bits were very funny.
  
  The voice acting was best I've heard in a game. Dang but Jeanette was good ;) Check out http://www. imdb. com/title/tt0438550/ 
 and you'll see that most of the voices in this game are professionals that have huge resumes for 
 other games/tv series.
  
  Alright well obviously I liked the game and could rant more but I think you have the point of this 
 review. Excellent game on all fronts, yes it was a little buggy with some of the movement on the 
 terrain but with all the good parts you can look over the minor issues. You get to be a Vampire! 
 A cool fun vampire in the modern age. What could be better? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rayjohansson
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  I've not encountered any bugs in this game and I've played it through as different vampire races 
 many times. It was also released 4 years ago for those who are comparing it to recently released 
 titles with more modern graphics and gameplay. It's still a solid game.
  
  I really enjoyed it thoroughly and it has high replay value.
  
  I am not sure what systems 
 those who experienced bugs were playing on, but I am confused because I can honestly say I never 
 experienced any. I did play on a decent system. I recommend 2 gigs of ram or higher for this, it 
 will significantly reduce loading times.
  
  I've had zero technical issues with this total and find the "MMO-ish" feel pretty entertaining.
 
  
  Again, it's a 4 year old title -- that's ages in the PC gaming world -- but this one is still worth 
 picking up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fps_Chewey
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The Masquerade Bloodlines is definitely original and fresh. The characters are actually fun to 
 talk to, it's challenging and you won't really find another game like this. The start is pretty 
 confusing. getting bit on the neck by a chick or dude depending on what sex you choose obviously, 
 nearly being killed by some huge dude with a huge sword and talking to a bearded biker vamp that 
 sounds a lot like bender from futurama. He's also got a lot of "tude" so he's a memorable character. 
 Ofcourse you'll remember a lot of the games characterssince they're all insane.... especially that 
 one chick.... man that was crazy. The combat system takes some getting used to but once you get 
 the hang of it the fun begins. your appearance and fighting skills depend on which vampire clan 
 you choose to join. The Gangrel are vicious animal like vampires, who shape shift into brutal warewolf 
 like beasts with great fighting power and wild vampire abilities. But every clan has it's price. 
 If you choose to become a Gangrel your social skills will suffer which makes information gathering 
 nearly impossible. Ofcourse there are alternative clans like the Ventrue. Choosing this clan will 
 make your character more socially accpetable and attractive with charm like abilities which will 
 help you a lot with information gathering or if you just need blood it's usefull for charming humans 
 so you can suck some neck and make it look like your just giving them a hickey, with not so great 
 face smashing skills. The story line sucks you in and makes you want more of this game While the 
 games atmosphere is just right. But, like so many RPG's, the levels and story will get darker as 
 you progress. Really dark. You'll face a limb-swinging maniac butcher a hot chick with schizophrenia 
 and my favourite freaky level the haunted mansion. Blood on the walls, little ghost girls and an 
 axe wielding evil ghost dude. So pretty much this game has everything that you'll want in an RPG 
 with freeeeeeeeeaky levels and characters, awesome weapons and humorous dialogue it's definitely 
 worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Vampires Bloodlines is definatively one of my favourite RPG's of all time. It's setting, it's cast, 
 it's storyline are all fantastic and while the combat is weak in comparison to the rest of the 
 game once your all patched up there is ridiculous levels of enjoyment to be found here.
  
  In Bloodlines you take the role of a fledgeling vampire just after you are created after a bout 
 of bedroom gymnastics with your creator. Unfortunately seeing as the vampire who made you didn't 
 have permission to make another vampire he/she is swiftly executed by the undead authorities and 
 you are indebted to Prince LaCroix, leader of these aforementioned authorities who proceeds to 
 use you to do his dirty work. 
  
  Bloodlines then drops you along with your newfound craving for blood in the seedy undead underbelly 
 of Los Angeles where you are free to roam through a variety of areas killing, maiming and seducing 
 as you see fit. Unfortunately being a vampire isn't nessecerily all it's cracked up to be, while 
 you have superhuman strength and a range of abilities you must drink blood quite frequently and 
 keep a low profile. Expose to a human that your undead then it's not just the police after you 
 but Vampire Hunters too, so you must keep your head down and be sneaky. This is of course easier 
 said than done but there are a variety of skills you can employ (depending on what breed of vampire 
 you selected at the start) to help you. If your an ugly Nosferatu you can slink through the sewers 
 to avoid scaring people with your inhuman appearence, if you a skilled socialite who likes humans 
 you can easily get a girl or guy to bare their neck and get cosy with you in the corner of a bar, 
 making getting blood easy.
  
  Bloodlines quest are interesting and varied, from massacring humans in slow motion bullet time, 
 to battling poltergeists who killed their famalies in abandoned hotels to stopping a vampiric prostitute 
 with a particularly nasty STD theres a lot to do here. The games main issues arise when they put 
 you in combat however, you need to spend many skill points into guns or they are pretty much useless 
 and to be fair the entire first person shooting aspect should be abandoned in favor of melee. Unfortunately 
 even in melee mode you can have trouble fighting, often missing enemies and catapulting yourself 
 into a wall or standing slashing the air. It's unfortunate the games combat is fairly buggy and 
 poor as it has potential but fortunately it's not too bad as to spoil the game, just. As you complete 
 quests and defeat enemies you gain XP and skill points to enhance your vampiric attributes allowing 
 you to be more charming, or dangerous or pick locks.. or one of many other skills.
  
  As I already mentioned Bloodlines story and cast are what truly make it brilliant. The games quests 
 are rich with a varied cast of characters, theres the two vampiric Malkavians (insane vampires) 
 who run a nightclub who have a small secret... , theres the leader of the Chinese vampires whom 
 in my honest opinion is one of the greatest baddies in RPG history then theres the flash eating 
 vampire who lives in the abandoned hospital basement who has a penchant for eating ghost hunters. 
 There are of course many, many more but I want to give away minimal details on them and the games 
 story so you play it yourself.
  
  While the game is pretty old visually it's reasonable for it's era and the sound and voice acting 
 are fantastic, in short if you haven't played Bloodlines and own a PC that can run it, get it, 
 patch it (sadly crucial) , play it.. It's a bloody, violent, sexual cocktail of a game that is really 
 unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cravenlevay
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The game has a excellent concept but falls very short to anyone who has played the Larp type of 
 the game. Really should be a character creation that varies much greater than it does. To follow 
 the original Larp game you must fulfill the demand that their will be from people who love Vampire 
 Masquerade.
  This game could become one of the greatest if someone who knows the game actually had a hand in 
 making it. I really wish they would remake this game and do it more than half ass. 
  To reiterate this game could be one of the best but it is no where near with this poor excuse of 
 a try. If you make this game it must be intricate with open ended play because anything else is 
 not Masquerade and will not be worth a dime. I could only play this game for 10 minutes before 
 I just gave up on the non interesting game. Please somebody rescue this game and make it worthy 
 of the the name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Eh...
  
  V: TM: Bloodlines is a good game. It's pretty demanding though in the hardware department... and 
 even the top end model doesn't make it look extremely impressive. The best thing Bloodline's graphic 
 have going for it are the facial expressions and some of the special power effects. The trouble 
 is that they're pretty inconsequential to the rest of the game. Don't get us wrong, we love the 
 detail in the facial expressions... but some of them are a bit glitchy... and... it's just a small 
 part of the whole game.
  
  Speaking of glitchy. This game is glitchy. Oh how is it glitchy. Some of the patches smooth over 
 the rougher parts and subsequent unoffical patches and mods have tightened it up quite a bit, but 
 it's still no picnic. 
  
  Gameplay is alright. Combat is the worse part, which... isn't a good thing for a game so dependent 
 upon combat. It's not horrible, but tedious and awkward. There's a lot of vampire antagonists... 
 and... yeah... that gets old. It feels like "blade" in that you'll just keep mowing down unimportant 
 nameless fiends just because you have to. Gameplay was advertised to be more varied, at the beginning 
 of the game it is... towards the half way point it just decides action or sneaking is going to 
 be all you can do... and then... exclusively action.
  
  We like the game. It's fun and all. It just could have been better in a bunch of easy ways.
  
 
  Load times are a killer. They made such a fuss over having the HL2 engine and you have to sit through 
 load screens at least 10x as often than HL2.
  
  There's a little diversity. Most missions are pretty limited though. You have a couple ways to 
 do them and a couple end results. You don't get to really ally with anyone until the closing cutscene, 
 so they sort of short change you on that. Bloodline suffers from the same problems the pnp had 
 that at any given time there's only a handful of noteworthy members of any given clan. Mostly just 
 antagonists that rush you... it's a little improvement from Redemption's gameplay in that regard, 
 but not much.
  
  We're not much of a fan of a game that's attempting to draw you in to a serious story that's intended 
 to be scary, but then is chalk full of pretty obvious in jokes and out right humor. It goes from 
 snuff porn to trading sarcasm with some other character... ugh... Kills the mood.
  
  Why did they even bother to include Humanity or Frenzy? They include these two game mechanics that 
 really one can go through an entire game several times over and never have to be concerned about. 
 
  
  This game isn't all that deep. It's a hack and slash. It's fun... but... it's still just a hack 
 and slash. limited customization, lots of useless skills. eh...
  
  Clan Nosferatu 4 UnLife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is in my mind a great achievement in my eyes. Made by the 
 now dead Troika, Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is a solid RPG game which lets the player 
 indulge in the seedy underworld of Los Angeles. The game is very strong in it's presentation. The 
 graphics and sounds of the game to put it in a word are outstanding. The source engine for this 
 time creates top notch graphics. The lighting and textures are excellent and make the city seem 
 like a living breathing environment. The game feels appropriately dirty as you explore every inch 
 of the city from it's sewers to the night clubs and desolate rows in between buildings. The characters 
 in this game also look great, every being that you interact with is amazingly detailed and the 
 amount of attention put into small details is amazing. They also sound great and the top notch 
 voice work and dialogue create for character that will be remembered down the road. The presentation 
 of this game is carefully done and the hard work Troika put into it paid off. They have easily 
 created one of the best worlds I have seen in an RPG.
  Sadly, the games biggest downfall is it's gameplay. Though the RPG elements are simple and good 
 enough for my tastes, the combat is not. The combat is downright clumsy and very annoying at times. 
 Guns are almost impossible to shoot anything with and the melee is not any better. The gunplay 
 and melee is sort of like what one would find in Oblivion. It is from the first person and it's 
 done in real time so there is no turn based fighting. The only problem is despite you aiming at 
 one thing you can still go completely off and hit something else. It is extremely frustrating when 
 you have 3 or 4 people battling you at the same time. Early on in the game it is almost impossible 
 to fight anything as you basically get a knife, pistol, and shotgun to fight with and these do 
 little damage. The combat though very frustrating at first does kind of fizzle out later. You don't 
 notice it later on as you get used to it but this shouldn't be the case. The numerous bugs also 
 don't help the game but these are easily patched over now.
  Overall Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines had a lot of potential. It's great presentation are 
 only downgraded by it's clunky gameplay. For many though with an interest in Vampires or RPGs this 
 is a game well worth checking out and it is quite fun once you get used to it. I do recommend it 
 but beware of the bugs and the annoying combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erictheripper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Vampire Bloodlines is a frustrating game to review because my personal feelings of action RPGs 
 really gets in the way. I really wanted to love this game and immerse myself into its world but 
 the twitch mechanics and the hack and slash in the game really prevented this from happening. I 
 think the idea for having a game set in the Vampire: The Masquerade world was a good idea, but 
 there just isn't enough good role-playing in the game. The influence of the action genre is very 
 strong in this game, and in some ways it is just too strong. I would have liked to have more things 
 to do and see and less situations involving boring and tedious grind.
  The game is not all bad though. The Role-playing elements are a lot of fun. I just wish that there 
 were more of them. The main highlight of the game is the gritty and atmospheric cityscape. In the 
 four separate areas in the city that you can explore, there are a number of interesting buildings 
 to explore and NPCs to interact with. My favorite areas were the Santa Monica and Downtown districts. 
 Some of the interesting side-quests in these areas will have the players sneaking around through 
 a hospital or investigating the disappearance of a bounty hunter. The source engine does a great 
 job in creating a dark and creepy visual for the world, but the way the districts were designed 
 does not add to realism. Instead of having an open city to explore, the game separates the city 
 into chunks which cage in the player. 
  Although the combat is fun and violent, the main story involves far too much of it. On a couple 
 of occasions, the player is thrown into a multi leveled dungeons and the only way to get out is 
 to make your way through all the levels and defeat a boss or find a key etc (*sign) . In fact, the 
 main quest was an obstruction to a series of very interesting and fun side quests.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Vampire The Masquerade : Bloodlines, is a truly atmospheric and memerable RPG. And yet this game 
 remains so very under-rated.
  
  The graphics of VTMB set the atmosphere just right, to give you that sense of dark and gritty times. 
 This is thanks to Valve's Source Engine, which was used in Half-Life 2 and Counter Strike: Source. 
 Also the use of lighting, is one of the games main strengths. In one mission, you must venture 
 into a haunted mansion, and the textures and lighting used in the mansion are so well executed. 
 If you were playing at a first-person perspective, you may be in for a truly atmospheric as well 
 as chilling mission.
  
  However, VTMB also suffers from graphical glitches, which damage the game alot. For instance, I 
 was in the middle of Santa Monica and "The Asylum" dissapeared, however when I went closer it all 
 of a sudden re-appeared. And sometimes I was able to see through walls in my third-person perspective, 
 if I stood at a certain place. 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Sound in the game is well used, and contributes to the atmosphere to the game as much as the graphics 
 do. Sound is a vital part to any game, if you do not have the right music for the mood for you 
 are trying to set, or voices do not sound unique and well directed... your game can turn into a 
 pile of poo.
  
  The voice acting in vampire is fantastic, you may actually feel frightened or intrigued due to 
 the fact that these characters voice, will never dull. The music in vampire is also used very well, 
 to set atmosphere just right. I know I'm resorting to the mansion mission to much, but oh well! 
 The music in the mansion mission, will send a chill up your spine and will make you fire a bullet 
 around every corner.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  The story of vampire is fantastic, as if it were written by an actual vampire! The choices you 
 make will shape how the ending to the game will turn out, I like this way of a story as this way 
 you can gain your own personal ending. And it allows people to debate over which ending, was better 
 or worse. Also this makes you feel like you are running a unique story, and not a story that someone 
 else has done in the exact same way.
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  The combat unfortunatley is a major disadvantage of vampire, it is very clunky and firearms are 
 actually no threat to paranormal enemies. Melee weapons are the strongest weapons you will find, 
 but using them can be quite a pain. As GS said, "All it really comes down to is how quickly you 
 can cllick the mouse button." However, the disciplines you can use during combat can revive combat. 
 For instance, there is a discipline you can use to make an enemy violently sick and start to puke 
 up blood. This made cheered me up immensley and made me want to actually continue bashing in his 
 head with a baseball bat!
  
  Combat: 6/10
  
  Overall Vampire The Masquerade: Bloodlines, is a highly enjoyable experience which you will remember 
 for a years to come. And you may wish to play it through again, for pure enjoyment. However the 
 combat may turn you away, and also the character customization is... well there isn't. But the 
 story and atmosphere of the game will keep you sucked in for hours and hours.
  
  Overall Score: 8.5
  True Score: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, before even starting up this game, you need the unofficial patch. Even with 
 the 1.2 official patch, this game is one of the buggiest around, and is pretty much unplayable. 
 Don't believe the fan boys. Get it patched up to the eyeballs before playing. The latest unofficial 
 patch is either 4.6 or 4.7. Once the bugs are fixed, you'll find a game that, although flawed, 
 is fun enough to keep you wanting more, and has a great story to boot.
  
  Besides the game-stopping bugs right out of the box, my biggest gripe about Bloodlines is the lack 
 of an in-game map. Although this may seem like a minor point, it really is a big issue. You are 
 sometimes given quests with quite vague instructions of where exactly to go - more with side missions 
 than the main storyline, but this problem presents itself numerous times in both. Many times I 
 was left completely oblivious to my next destination, and looking at the quests log, there are 
 no good explanations of what to do next. This is obviously so that the player has to work more 
 things out by his or herself, but it's really just annoying. And a mini-map with objective markers 
 would have made the game a much less frustrating experience. 
  
  You'll meet many interesting characters in your journey through Los Angeles. Ranging from dark 
 and secretive to beautiful and seductive, this game has them all. You never spend enough time with 
 any particular NPC to get very attached, but this isn't the type of game where that really matters.
 
  
  The environments your main quests take place in range from fantastically atmospheric, to repetitive 
 and dull. On one hand, we have areas such as the Haunted Hotel, which is the best level I've played 
 on any game in quite a while. It kept me on my toes the whole time without feeling cheap or forced, 
 and by the end I was rushing for the exit as fast as possible. The "snuff" quests are also very 
 creepy and disturbing; largely to do with the horrific areas you have to get through, but also 
 just the whole concept of said quests. But on the other hand, in some of the more action packed 
 areas, there is some very repetitive level design. This is especially noticeable nearing the final 
 sections of the game.
  
  The areas you explore while not on a quest feel very cramped and fake. It doesn't feel like a city 
 at all, it just feels like a stage. You can't go out very far, everything is so close together 
 and claustrophobic. Outdoor areas are supposed to feel open ended, especially in an RPG, but Bloodlines 
 doesn't pull this off at all. It doesn't help either, that there are no cars to be seen at all, 
 other than the taxi that takes you between areas.
  
  Combat in Bloodlines is very simplistic. Melee is the obvious choice here as all the ranged weapons 
 are underpowered and inaccurate. Raising your experience points for ranged weapons does help, but 
 still not enough that it makes them better than melee. There is no balance here at all, and its 
 a shame because there are some potentially fun guns to use.
  
  The story in Bloodlines is something that stands out above everything else, its very good; Involving 
 modern vampire politics and which side to choose. All the characters have something to tell, and 
 you piece things together slowly as you progress. The pacing is good, and nothing is thrown at 
 you too fast, making it hard not to be interested in how things unfold and meaning its never too 
 difficult to understand.
  
  This game really has the potential to be so much more. If they could have just spent longer ironing 
 out the problems and making everything more open ended, a little more mission variety, better combat 
 and some more features maybe? Maybe a day-night cycle? Being a vampire isn't complete without having 
 to rush indoors when the sun comes up!
  
  This game is worth playing. The story is gripping and interesting, it has all the elements that 
 make RPG's good, and some of the main levels are very memorable. Just try to ignore its flaws, 
 and remember to patch it!
  
  7.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ayame1182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I could just be in love with vampires but I really thoroughly enjoyed this game, there are several 
 endings, each depending on the choices you make. Loved how the game had several different ways 
 that you could play through it as well (ex: you didn't just have to worry about primarily building 
 up your strength.. it all depends on your character) .
  
  I wish there were more character creation options. I sort of wish the scary houses weren't so scary 
 :D and ... I wish the game had more quests in each city/area and was bigger... I just want more 
 I suppose  :D.
  
  Overall it was a great game that I would definitely play through again and maybe a third time if 
 I didn't have to work and what not.
  
  Graphics are pretty good and the story is very interesting. There is an opportunity and one point 
 to even feed your blood to someone who is dying and she will become your ghoul later.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Lucifer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  i already liked the first game ( redemption ) and as soon as this one was out, i knew i'm gonna 
 get sucked right into it.
  despite having some low factors, like crashing, bugs & glitches ( and also an unsatisfying ending, 
 and that you can never max your stats out, without cheating ) , this game delivers big time fun, 
 action and suspense.
  i wish there were some more characters in it that you can select, and more outfits too, but the 
 game has beautiful voice acting, and licensed music and graphics. too bad the people who made it 
 got fired!! but i guess there should be another installment of this series shortly.
  it's always fun to run down a street as a vampire, bite a citizen and the police attacks you, and 
 local people freak out, besides you can change your clan, looks and weapons, you can have a ghoul, 
 do story missions, and choose your destiny, despite that all your actions, will result in a boring 
 ending, and that's the only thing i really hated in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steeal
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Play Vampire: The Masquerade Bloodlines with the True Patch. It is fun and you can be a vampire 
 and eat blood. This game needs patch 1.2 to function at all. Graphics are great, character models 
 are the best in a game invented. Very sad Troika went out of business I want a sequel. If you like 
 this play Arcanum and The Temple of Elemental Evil also by Troika. Best role playing game of the 
 year. It is fun. Lots of different endings. Play through many times. Play a Malkavian they are 
 the best and also have unique dialog. Buy this game you will not be sad. Also this game is cheap 
 so save money for more games. Very funny dialog sometimes, Malkavian's get the best funny dialog 
 it is great. Also the get crazy cool powers and junk. If you play a Nosferatu you have to live 
 in the sewer, yuck. Thank you for reading this review of Vampire: The Masquerade Bloodlines. The 
 end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kayos539
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Ahh vampires. For all the vampire lovers this must be a wet dream. This could probably be the closest 
 thing you can get to actually being a vampire, but even that comes with some major problems. I'll 
 start off with the cons:
  
  1) the combat really is "clunky" as the GS reviewer put it. You are clearly at a disadvantage at 
 the start if you try to use firearms. Actually, you'd be just plain crazy to do so since your firearm 
 skills are CRAP until you build it up to 8 and above. Melee isn't all that spectacular either. 
 It's just your usual hack and slash. Just keep clicking the mouse and hope you hit something. Sometimes 
 I wonder why this was never ported to a console system *cough*PS2*cough*. 
  
  2) The load times are HORRENDOUS!!! I've spent more time actually waiting for the game to load 
 in between areas than playing the game itself. Unless you have a really high-end PC that surpasses 
 this game's recommended requirement settings above and beyond, don't expect a very pleasant gameplay. 
 You will be frequently frustrated with the jerkiness and slow frame rate. Even with adjusted settings 
 and all the graphics details cancelled I still encountered a really unsteady gameplay. 
  
  3) And then there are the random crashes. But to be fair, I've only suffered 3 or 4 crashes throughout 
 the entire game and I only patched the game with the 1.2 version. 
  
  Now it seems like I'm bashing the game -- but I'm not :) These are only the most noticeable weaknesses 
 that are present, and even though they mar the game's potential somewhat, you'll still love the 
 environment and the characters in Bloodlines. The dialogue is very rich and layered and some of 
 the missions are extremely fun, tense, exciting, and also downright scary. Some places will definitely 
 stick in your mind: the Ocean House Hotel, the haunted hospital, the Nosferatu hideout. You also 
 won't forget that infamous mission near the end where you are being chased by a werewolf. You'll 
 definitely be sucked into the Bloodlines universe before you know it. 
  
  Bloodlines is definitely an amazing game that was overlooked, and if you think your PC is up to 
 it, there really is no reason to not try it. It's a cliche, but the pros do outweigh the cons. 
 I even managed to finish the game, jerkiness and all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off well enough and stays at a good pace, but when you start to get really familiar 
 with the game's mechanics and map it becomes a chore to play if your vampire isn't heavily combat 
 based. The combat is just sooooo horrible! And if your vampy isn't setup to deal out decent dmg 
 while defending extrememely well then you're screwed. My vamp is stealth based and yet the main 
 quests put you in situations where you cannot proceed without leeroy jenkinsing. Oh well, this 
 game really is for extreme vampire fans, which I am not so this game can go to hell :)
  
  Graphics- good for their time, all good except for some areas that are darker than they need to 
 be.
  
  Sounds-also quite good except for some accents that can be hard to understand w/o subtitles.
 
  
  Gamplay- lackluster, kills the game for me.
  
  teehee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  It's a shame that this game was released on the same day as Half-Life 2. Competing against one 
 of the most anticipated games of all time just spelled doom for Troika's last project. Well, now 
 that Half-Life 2's monumental and chaotic release has passed, you have a chance to try one hell 
 of an overlooked gem. It's a diamond in the rough alright; it has its rough edges and some aspects 
 of the game haven't aged well, but even after 3 years Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is an 
 RPG you won't soon forget.
  
  Bloodlines kicks off with a character creation screen. Here you select one out of seven clans with 
 their advantages, disadvantages and own exclusive abilities. Once you choose the clan of your liking, 
 you move on to the character stat screen, where you build your character to become the type of 
 vampire you want it to be. There's a lot of take in here, but it isn't overwhelming. Troika's done 
 an excellent job with explaining each attribute, ability, feat and discipline very well, so you'll 
 understand what you're doing in no time. Even though the skill building is very flexible, you can't 
 do much with the actual look of your character. Besides the different clothes you can wear, you 
 can't do anything about your facial features or physical build. A mild shame, but it isn't anything 
 to cry over. After that, an intro movie kicks off.
  
  You're still human, and depending on the gender you choose, you'll be having a good time with your 
 opposite gender in a run-down part of LA. It just so happened that your playmate was a vampire, 
 and he/she decides to turn you into one, too. Unfortunately, such a thing is punishable by death 
 unless permission is given to do so. While your playmate is executed, you're given a chance to 
 live, and to serve under the Camarilla -- the main vampire sect in LA. Now, all of a sudden, you're 
 thrust into vampire society, a society that has many sects that compete against each other, a society 
 that's stock full of interesting and memorable characters, a society that you can't wait to sink 
 your teeth into (pun will always be intended, unless it is said otherwise) . Compared to almost 
 every single CRPG ever made, Bloodlines takes place in a well-realized modern day LA; it's an extremely 
 unique and refreshing setting. The world of Bloodlines is also very well defined. It's based off 
 of White Wolf's World of Darkness universe, which chock full of lore, history and events that makes 
 Bloodline's universe extremely convincing. There's a lot to take in, but Troika explains much of 
 it through character interaction and in-between loading screens very well. By the end of the game, 
 you'll get a good grasp of the hierarchies and different sects, which makes the game really stand 
 out from this crowded market.
  
  To move up the ladder in this universe though, you're going to have to undertake as many quests 
 as possible. The game is almost entirely quest driven, with experience points never being handed 
 out for just killing. Nearly all the quests consist of "kill X for me", "talk to Y", etc. but it's 
 what happens in-between the quests that make them great to fantastic. Each quest is stock full 
 of sharp writing, terrific voice acting, memorable characters and just a touch of freedom to choose 
 how you want things to go down. The level design for nearly all the quests are also surprisingly 
 flexible. Sneaking, talking your way out, going in with all you got, or a combination of the three 
 are always viable solutions. Really, experience points are just a slight motivator. You'll probably 
 be way more interested in the various subplots and the characters. This especially holds true in 
 the last leg of the game because the game starts gravitating towards endless killing without much 
 in the way of different solutions. Some of the last few areas are very unpolished from a gameplay 
 standpoint, but the writing and story don't take the slightest hit. You'll still talk with the 
 characters you've grown to like and some completely new ones, but the gameplay stumbles towards 
 the end.
  
  That's the game's core strength -- character interaction. Bloodlines isn't an RPG with an emphasis 
 on loot or grinding your way to another level. In fact, you don't truly level. Instead, you spend 
 your pool of experience points on upgrading the skills you want to upgrade. You'll never truly 
 become good at everything, but you can specialize in a handful of skills or be a jack-of-all-trades. 
 Anyway, Bloodlines true strength comes from the character interaction. Bloodlines is just chock 
 full of awesome characters that you won't soon forget and writing so distinct and well written 
 that it's hard not to be compelled. They're backed with absurdly great voice acting that's practically 
 flawless. Every single voice actor in this game gives it their all and none of the performances 
 sounds phoned in.
  
  The writing and the voice acting add tremendous amounts of depth to the characters. The  
 Pisha; the surprisingly classy Velvet; hyper-active Knox; slick Beckett; the compelling queer Gary. 
 There are so much more, and if you take the time to listen to what they have to say, you'll be 
 stupefied by the level of talent Troika has in creating people. It's here when you realize that 
 Bloodlines is a very smart and mature game. The script is full of wit and charm, and while there 
 are plenty of swear words, they're placed only when it makes sense.
  
  Troika hasn't forgotten about you, either. You're always given a myriad of responses with different 
 responses to suit your personality. What you say may also change the outcome of a quest, so choose 
 carefully. The story is no slouch either, but compared to what Troika has done with crafting characters, 
 the story will feel like something from the bottom-shelf. Not that it is, it's just that the compelling 
 characters overshadow the main story by miles. Compared to the character interaction, the other 
 components of the gameplay aren't nearly as strong. Combat is pretty mindless, and disciplines 
 (magic) keeps it from being a completely derivate hack-and-slash.
  
  The gunplay is very unwieldy, and while upgrading your firearms skills do help reduce the insane 
 recoil and inaccuracy, you'll be left with a character who can't do much of anything but shoot 
 straight. It's much smarter to go for a melee route, and each hit carries a punctual, satisfying 
 sound accompanied with plenty of blood. The sneaking is way too lenient, and you'll find yourself 
 being practically invisible even though your sneaking skills aren't that high, for better and for 
 worse. This does make sneaking plenty of fun because the challenge is fairly lax, but it sometimes 
 get pretty ridiculous, like when you're crouched in front of a guard in a brightly lit room. Security/hacking 
 on the other hand, is the strongest aspect of gameplay other than the character interaction. Lockpicking 
 is simple enough; hope that your security skill is higher than the lock level. Hacking is super-cool; 
 you interact with the computer, inputting commands by actually typing them out on the keyboard. 
 It's very immersive and remains fun throughout the game.
  
  Now, be aware to do all this while not losing your mind, you're going to need blood. Blood's used 
 to keep your blood meter high (it also acts as your mana) . If that hits rock bottom, the chances 
 of you becoming a bloodthirsty beast becomes very high. When you lose control, you'll rampage with 
 an insane power boost (possibly over 9,000) and will rampage on until you find some blood to suck 
 on. Having a low humanity will increase your chances, too. Killing innocents will take you down 
 the path of the Beast. Losing control to the Beast out in public will make you lose masquerade 
 points, losing all 5 means a hunt will be called out on you. You'll end up dead.
  
  A lot of aspects in Bloodlines hasn't aged well, and the visuals are the first thing that comes 
 into mind. It doesn't have crazy shaders or insane polygon counts of today's games, but gritty, 
 urban LA still looks good today. Bloodlines utilizes the Source engine, and while it doesn't take 
 advantage of the physics all that much, it does take advantage of its ability to create realistic-emoting 
 characters. There are a lot of NPCs in the game, and while they certainly don't look very realistic, 
 they're extremely expressive and the lip-synching is top-notch. And unlike a lot of CRPGs when 
 conversations boil down to talking heads, the NPCs in Bloodlines have a ton of animations during 
 conversations that make them all the more convincing. 
  
  The aural aspect hasn't aged at all. The voice-acting is still absolutely superb and wonderful, 
 the actors obviously gave it their all. The music complements dreary LA very well, and the licensed 
 music used in nightclubs are a nice touch. There are times when things can get too quiet because 
 of the lack of ambient sounds, but overall, Bloodlines strongest trait is its sound.
  
  Prepare for a long journey. If you do all the sidequests, Bloodlines will take around 25-30 hours 
 to complete. Skipping the voice acting can reduce the playtime drastically, but doing that means 
 you're essentially ignoring one of the strongest aspects of Bloodlines. The different clans do 
 offer cool disciplines, and the Malkavians have their own dialogue responses, so a second playthrough 
 might be in order.
  
  Focusing more on the interaction aspects of the genre, Troika has produced one hell of a memorable 
 game. It's a crying shame that Troika doesn't exist anymore, but their last game proved to be one 
 that'll leave a lasting impression on anyone who enjoys the RPG genre. An interesting story, memorable 
 characters, outstanding work from the writers and the voice cast, Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines 
 is a game you won't soon forget. In a day when MMO RPGs clog up the market, fire up this single-player 
 experience and enjoy a much more personal journey that'll make more of a lasting impression. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  This is an absolutely brilliant game that you could play again and again. It contains several different 
 characters and each character has its own path, although they are mainly all the same with slight 
 differences - but if you are bored or haven't played this game in a while, you can without a doubt 
 play it again with a different character and love it once again. 
  
  I would want to give it 10, but I believe only extremely rare games deserve 10 and so if this game 
 stands the test of time and there aren't too many other games that reach its level, I am sure it 
 will go into my "Legendary Games" box.
  
  So, for now, I give it 9.5 meaning that you should absolutely not miss out on this game, even if 
 you don't like playing role playing / adventure games. I didn't think I liked them, I only used 
 to stick to shooters but this game made me a believer without a trace, of doubt it my mind....
 
  
  Have fun playing and take your time to enojy all aspects of it - after all you won't find too many 
 games that give you this kind of interesting and I must add, successful storyline.
  
  WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR??? PLAY IT!!!
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute 
 Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play 
 and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  (reincarnation) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperman92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I just wonder if it is possible to play this game on Windows Vista?
  Since it is worth playing, totaly worth playing for anybody, i think this game was pretty fun when 
 i played on my old computer, i just wonder if it is the same thing on Vista.
  It would have been really cool. And would make me relax since i don't have to set up my old computer 
 again ..
  I hope anybody can help me. And seriosly, why the fuck do we have to write over 100 words? And 
 is there no place we can see that we have written above 100 words? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik_x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games i played in my life i love vampire games and this is it makes you feel, think, and 
 act like a Kindred (vamp) every day i look at this page to see if there is any new vampire the masquerade 
 3 dying to see a coming soon cuz i luved it point thats it gonna miss GARY THE NOSFERATU MY FAV 
 CHAR, i just enjoy sneaking at the enemy dong stealth attaxk and hey what about the TREMERE they 
 blood magic so oblivion control the humans blood, and of course the Gangrel as if they are half 
 vampire and half werewolf this game i will never get bored of it and will always play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arandie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Say what you will about Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines, but no one can claim that this is 
 anything other then an extremely well made, mature game for those who wish to escape into White 
 Wolf's wonderful World of Darkness. Sure, the engine, a beta version of Valve's Source, is buggy, 
 but the gameplay more then makes up for the occasional glitch  and the newly released 5.04AT fan 
 patch fixes many of the aforementioned stability issues. However, buyers should definitely not 
 purchase this game for those who are not, at the minimum, sixteen years of age, for it full of 
 material that is only suitable for adults or, depending on their maturity level, older-teens. The 
 game itself is extremely dark and bloody, although a stealth-based vampire can avoid most of the 
 battles, and the player will have to either feed on rats and/or human beings to survive in the 
 nocturnal world of the nosferatu. Full nudity never appears in the game, although the player can 
 visit a strip joint, but the player can have sex off-screen and hire, or seduce, either prostitutes 
 or, so-called, "blood-dolls," who are present in the many nightclubs within the game, for their 
 blood  the victims seem to have sexual reactions to feeding based on their dialog options after 
 the act-. The player can also enslave a young college girl, albeit unwittingly and unintentionally, 
 through the act of saving her life, by feeding her some of your accursed "blood," but can release 
 her at anytime and there are no "extreme" dialog options related to her condition  for example, 
 you cannot order her to strip for you and perform sexual acts. Overall, this is an excellent game 
 -in fact, it is one of my favorite titles within my extensive PC game collection- but not one that 
 younger children or younger teens should play, or even watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Well I am an addict of masquerade's pen & paper game and most of the P&P rpg games... The game 
 is unbelievable just makes you feel like a vampire... You will be despised playing with nosferatu 
 or feel overpowered playing with tremere...
  
  The combat system is a little awkward I need to admit that but the rpg elements cancel out that 
 disadvantage... Keep in mind that this game is not a FPS game so you dont just shoot your way through 
 enemies or such, most of the cases you can just talk your way out of many things but with the right 
 progression of skills hehe...
  
  The game favors melee over gun because it is the nature of the game, guns would damage as bashing 
 and vampires can resist it easily so it is not the fault of the combat engine but because the rules 
 of the P&P game is exactly reflected in the game but if you get the right guns you can have real 
 fun shooting around...
  
  The most beautiful part of the game is it really reflects the modern times of the masquerade perfectly, 
 the dark and sinister alleys the gothic punk atmosphere, all the NPC are ready to screw you in 
 any way possible, you just feel the evil and darkness looming over the city and it really reflects 
 on the way you play, I remember myself hissing or showing teeth to the monitor while playing :) 
 
  
  But the best part comes with the concept humanity... Humanity is the score that shows how much 
 you cling with your sane humane side... But if you start killing innocents or drain them to death 
 your score will drop and when it reaches zero you lose the game... Keeping your humanity at a decent 
 level will help you get through the game but if you drop it to like 5 or 4 you will get interesting 
 speaking lines just give it a try you will love it :)
  
  I also want to emphasise that the creators of the game is troika who were the core team of black 
 isle and the old school veteran RPG gamers will know about black isle and its creations (Baldur's 
 Gate eheheheheh) .
  
  The bottom line is if you like a great rpg give it a try you will just love it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerStelios
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The continue of the first Vampire the masquerade more nice ofc 
  from his predessesor :D
  
  Many classes to choose, a wide and nice story with many 
  setbacks and many lovely deadly 
 blood spells and also 
  weapons to choose :D
  
  I personally like the Tremere and Malkavian clan, cause the developers
  make their powers exactly 
 as the real Vampire ! Pretty cool :D
  
  Guys dont miss this game ! 
  
  Ofc before you play it, patch it cause it has a bug when you go to save
  the professor by boat 
 ... So the patch fix this :D
  
  And if you are mod maniac like me download the Clans Mod 
  patch, if you for example want to 
 play as an assamite ... hehehe
  
  Joker out :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcohenx
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I just finished my first play through Vampire: The Masquerade-Bloodlines. The game is a single-player 
 RPG based on the White Wolf dice-and-paper role playing game of the same name. Players take the 
 role of a fledgling Vampire living in L. A. trying to survive on the streets and come to understand 
 his place as a new acolyte of the underworld. While there is plenty of content and character creation 
 and maintenance is very easy, substandard graphics, awkward level design, and poorly thought out 
 missions suck the life out of this adventure.
  
  To begin, let me acknowledge that the game designers set very high standards for themselves. By 
 licensing a game from White Wolf that already exists, they are obligating themselves to stay as 
 faithful as possible to the official rules and general spirit of the dice-and-paper version. The 
 difficulty is that the original is a multi-player RPG but this PC version is single-player only. 
 In my opinion, what makes for a great multi-layer RPG experience is when characters with different 
 traits and abilities work together to surmount obstacles. By making this single-player only, there 
 are few opportunities for players to interact with other game characters cooperatively. Other than 
 a couple of missions where the player engages in combat alongside a partner, there are no opportunities 
 for non-player characters to contribute to solving the missions beyond verbal exchanges of information. 
 In addition, because all combat in the original game is melee/turn based, action can be awkward, 
 where players sometimes exchange attacks sequentially rather than in true real time (he hits me, 
 I shoot him, he hits me, I shoot him, etc.) . As a results, remaining true to the spirit of the 
 dice-and-paper version leaves the real-time video game experience anemic.
  
  On a positive note, character creation and upgrade in this game is the easiest and most straightforward 
 I've seen in a long time. Players with no experience with the dice-and-paper version will have 
 no problem comprehending the more than 20 different character traits. The creators made a very 
 easy to understand character sheet that is true to the original, with plenty of help messages to 
 guide the player not only in the definition of each trait but also show how acquiring and upgrading 
 specific attributes and abilities will affect the characters skills in the game. One surprise in 
 the beginning of the game was that players have the option to take a short personality test that 
 will select an appropriate vampire clan based on the responses. Also, there is an option to allow 
 the game to distribute earned experience points automatically and this feature can be toggled at 
 any time. Of course, the entire character creation and upgrade process can proceed manually if 
 the player so desires and the accompanying .pdf manual is very easy to understand. The only drawback 
 to character creation is that player avatar options are limited only to selection of the sex of 
 the character, every other aspect of character appearance is pre-selected. 
  
  Unfortunately, while character creation and upgrade is easy, interaction with the environment is 
 mostly dead on arrival. The graphics are definitely 1990's quality, which may be of benefit to 
 players that do not have state of the art PC components. I played using a 2.6 GHz P-IV CPU, ATI 
 Radeon9800Pro GPU, and 1.5 GB RAM using 1024x768 resolution the average frame rate was about 50 
 fps. Faces are rendered well when in 1:1 conversations with non-player characters but arm, hand, 
 and leg motion is very stilted and low resolution. Dialog synchronization is definitely off the 
 mark. Surfaces tend to be very plain but top layers (e. g. blood on a wall) are sometimes erratic 
 and flickering, lighting is not very dynamic and walking past mirrors or other reflective surfaces 
 do not show your character in reflection. Some simple things that I've taken for granted in contemporary 
 games like Deus Ex, Chronicles of Riddick or Half-Life 2 is the ability to interact with almost 
 any object in the environment. Faucets, light switches, even many windows appear mostly as a static 
 part of the background rather than an actual object. When characters are killed or incapacitated 
 they tend to disappear almost immediately rather than pile up for a guard or other NPC to encounter. 
 On a side note, one thing I found very strange was that the creators chose to make open sardine 
 cans one of the most common interactive objects. Having been born and raised in L. A. I've never 
 seen so many empty cans of fish lying about, not to mention the fact that rain is unusually common 
 in the area of Santa Monica while virtually absent from every other part of the city. Two particular 
 peeves of mine were (1) a building that was 5 levels on the outside but clearly 6 levels on the 
 inside and (2) cars drive on the wrong side of the freeway (this is not the only example that makes 
 me wonder if the developers have ever really been to L. A.) . Overall, the unpolished environments 
 make immersion into the game difficult and kill and emotional sense of the macabre.
  
  As mentioned earlier, most interaction with non-player characters is in the form of 1:1 conversations 
 exchanging information. These conversations can sometimes be lengthy. Unfortunately, there is no 
 way to fast-forward through the conversation if it's been encountered before and there is not always 
 an option to end the conversation early. I found this to be the most frustrating part of the game, 
 especially because almost every level boss feels the need to wax poetic longer than the time it 
 takes for me to kill them. More than once I found myself saying, "Geez, I thought he'd never shut 
 up!" Who would have thought the undead had so much to say?
  
  Lastly, this is supposedly a role-playing game and there are plenty of primary and side mission 
 objectives to keep players busy (expect game times to last 20-30 hours) ; however, I found that 
 staying in character was not easy to do with the choices of side missions available. To illustrate, 
 during my first play through the game, I opted to take the personality test where I am asked questions 
 leading toward whether I want to play more as an intimidator/aggressor versus whether I am more 
 passive, secretive or likely to negotiate solutions. At the end of the quiz, the game selected 
 Gangrel clan for me, for vampires that like to explore their animal side. Despite many NPC conversations 
 where I would prefer to play the tough guy and tell the other guy to take a hike, I basically had 
 to act as everyone's doormat if I wanted to get the most experience points. This will become especially 
 apparent later in the game where the missions.
  
  Taken together, my overall experience with the game was not very favorable. Even at the low, low 
 cost of $9.95 USD as downloadable version from STEAM, there are plenty of other great RPGs out 
 there that are better and offer a much more immersive experience. In the end, perhapsonly hardcore 
 fans of the paper-and-dice version would be interested but I'm not even sure of that. Normally, 
 I would recommend playing the demo version before purchase but none is available. That said, consumers 
 would be advised keep this game from the light of day. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: giantraddish
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I'd recommend it. Especially at bargain bin prices.
  
  It ain't perfect. People are right when they say it's buggy, save often, you will crash to desktop. 
 Although it is running on the Half-Life 2 engine, it really doesn't take full advantage of it. 
 The game world is pretty small and confined, this is no Elder Scrolls. Its doesn't excel as a shooter, 
 the firearms are kind of weak and the controls in this area are clumsy.
  
  With the weaknesses out of the way... This game has a good storyline. It's fun as heck to play 
 a vampire, the powers you get as you gain XP are a hoot. The characters and voice acting are some 
 of the best to ever to appear in a video game. Vampires (as you may expect) are a little mentally 
 unstable, and the game pulls this off without being slapstick or overbearing and giving each NPC 
 a distinct recognizable personality. The games also pulls off action, drama, horror and comedy 
 at various times. The classes (clans) have a lot of variation in them, you will have significantly 
 different experiences replaying the game as a Nosferatu, Tremer, and Malkavian.
  
  Give it a try. If your one of the people who can't stand its flaws you're only out bargain bin 
 money. If, like me and a lot of others, you can shrug off the sloppy bits and enjoy the gaming 
 goodness, its a great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlochLin
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Having been a Vampire The Masquerade role player for a few years I was really keen to see if this 
 game would be true to the spirit of the White Wolf system and I was not disappointed!
  
  The points system is stright from the book, the clans are brilliantly depicted and story told and 
 the world is as dark and gritty as one would expect!
  
  Sure there are games out now with smoother graphics and cleaner modelling but the story is amazing 
 and who can fault being a blood charged Kindred, fighting evil from without and within... or even 
 just wallowing in it!
  
  Thats the joy of this game, good and evil are more like your opinion at any given time, rather 
 than cold preset rules.
  
  What was lacking in my mind was a easier transport system... being told go here with no idea where 
 to go or how to get there other then by running round and round was annoying sometimes but not 
 enough to detract from the game.
  
  The one thing I wish they could tone down would be the bad language, as someone who doesn't swear 
 or blaspheme I find that agitating.
  
  In the end you're a kick ass Vampire with a world to grasp by the throat... so enjoy, but remember 
 don't stop the heart! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valar20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  This game has a great concept, I mean, who doesn't want to be a vampire right? But it has some 
 major drawbacks. I haven't finished the game yet, but after about 1 hours of playing here is my 
 review:
  
  The good things about this game are the following:
  
  The graphics aren't bad, it's not exactly next gen but not bad. The surrounds and layouts are pretty 
 good, I can't really complain. Voice acting is fairly good, nothing that really annoys you and 
 the music is not distracting.
  I like the idea of the game, basically you are a new vampire who gets caught up in the politics 
 of the vampire society and you do a lot of running around for the guy in charge trying to figure 
 out who you can trust. The game is realistic in the sense that you can't just feed on anyone, it 
 has to be in secret or you'll have trouble. The leveling up is done well, you can pick for yourself 
 what attributes to increase or let the computer do it for you, I recommend you do it yourself. 
 The game also has great replay value since you can play as one of seven different clans and depending 
 on what you are, people treat you differently and you will have different capabilities. Now for 
 the bad:
  
  There is a lot of loading in this game, and even if your computer is fairly new you will be sitting 
 for quite a while just waiting for stuff to load. There are many frustrating times when all you 
 do is walk through a door and you wait for th screen to load for at least three or four minutes. 
 Also, the game cashes when your screen saver turns on so disable it. In fact, the game crashes 
 more often than any game I've played and three times now my computer has just turned off and on 
 again due to this game. The major drawback in the gameplay comes when you have to fight. The controls 
 during most of the game are fairly clunky and the frame rate is slow, this is most evident during 
 battle and you find that even though you can't move bad guys around you can, you end up just flailing 
 around hoping for the best a lot of the time because controlling your character is just cumbersome. 
 The other problem I encountered was the lighting. I know that you are a vampire and everything 
 takes place at night, but the lighting in a lot of the game makes it difficult to even see what 
 you are supposed to be doing, you would think that being a vampire would give you better night 
 vision. And finally, although you can play as either male or female most of the characters that 
 you seduce are female, I mean, they could have thrown some hot guys in for all us girls playing.
 
  
  I know It seems like there are too many bad things about the game, but I still liked it, it's a 
 fun game and although it gets a little annoying at times the actual game is worth giving a shot 
 if you like vampires and RPG's. I did enjoy it and I will play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyoske_Shingure
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  From biting anyone with a pulse, to shooting down wave after wave of half-lings, all the way to 
 controlling someone's mind to make them believe that they're the bad guy and killing themselves, 
 Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines has something for everyone and should defininetly be played 
 by anyone who claims ot be a gamer.
  
  The many different choices you get, amount of missions/sidemissions and a very expansive world 
 with almost limitless possibilities make this game superb. Giving you the choice of were to put 
 points into abilities and attributes, your character is fully unique and can be suited for your 
 kind of gameplay.
  
  Somewhat short, but one of the most addicting games to ever be concieved, this game deserves to 
 be played by anyone with a PC multiple times until they finally, if ever, get sick of it, then 
 play it another time through for old time's sake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twisted_Netheri
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Great game allround. Quite a lot of freedom, but its also quite restricted with sum of the characters 
 such as the nosferato. The only concern with this game wud probably be the camera angles during 
 battle, gets a lil confusing from time 2 time. Then there are also a few things here and there 
 that cud've been better. A few more spells and more stat items wud make the game so much better. 
 The story line is quite intrigueing, ancient vamp, struggle for power and ur smack in the middle 
 of it all, such fun;) Most of the in game characters are well rounded, and many of them are hilarious. 
 Especially if you are playing as one of the malkavian. I would recommend this game to any vamp 
 lover or those action junkies:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tripwolf
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely robbed by most reviewers when it was first launched. I'm not the type 
 of person to complain about reviews of games because I understand how people can be easily biased 
 by certain things but in this case I was baffled. From the revolutionary combat and semi-open-world 
 environments to the deliciously wicked storylines.. there's so much to love here I can't imagine 
 anyone disliking this game. Sure, there's some minor balance issues (that have been worked out 
 over the years through player-made patches) and the game can glitch up every now and then but for 
 the most part we're talking about a solid gaming experience. The combat makes a wonderful use of 
 RPG elements and introduces them to a FPS which other games like STALKER have tried to mimic and 
 failed miserably. This game is mind boggling in its designs and truly pulls you in and makes you 
 feel like you're in its world. Take my advise and pick up this game.. you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tberten
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Excellent little RPG - I wish they were all this much fun! Some of the monsters that are created 
 by the NPC's are a little unbelievable, but they die easy enough. This game has a good balance 
 between action, puzzlements, RPG and shooter modes. All in all a very good game, and I hope that 
 some SW house picks up on the theme and expands it into an even stronger and longer fun ride.
 
  
  This game is ripe to blossom into an Adults Only version for those that can stand the details. 
 As a matter of fact I think the game would be even more interesting if an adult version was available 
 to those over 18. All the suggestions are there, and the venue is right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghimly
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Despite the numerous bugs, Vampire Bloodlines is one of the best RPG you can ever pay. That is 
 if you like Vampires and if you like First Person camera. After reading the reviews from other 
 people I strongly feel like I should share my thoughts.
  
  All the talk about bugs and glitches didn't really affect me in playing this game. The graphics, 
 even though from 2004, are still excellent and the atmosphere of the game is really scary from 
 time to time.
  
  You start the game , by creating your character. The selection of 'races' is limited. You can choose 
 Brujah, Gangrel, Nosferatu, Malkavian, Toreador, Tremere and Ventrue as starting race. This is 
 really enough since the possibilities of customizing your character are near infinite. By distributing 
 your XP points carefully, you can create a near omnipotent Vampire.
  
  The games story is really excellent and if you follow it carefully, it takes you way beyond the 
 game. The fictions realm of Vampire the Masquerade is very well integrated and you really get the 
 feeling that Vampires are real. All the NPC are quite intriguing and it feels like they have a 
 long story to tell you once you get to know them a little better.
  
  The controls are good, like in any FPS, but the use of your special abilities is a little tricky. 
 You can select them using your mouse wheel (which makes them nearly impossible to use in combat 
 situation) or you can key them to your keyboard. The keyboard alternative is by default the best 
 choice since you can access everything a little quicker.
  
  If you ever feel like current RPG's lack story and background, you should give Vampire the Masquerade: 
 Bloodlines a try. After passing the first few hours, the story gets so intriguing that you can't 
 get away from the game anymore.
  
  This is quite frankly, one of the best, if not THE best RPG I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyGeo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Playing Bloodlines turns out to be a very good experience. Once you complete the whole storyline 
 and the side missions it just leaves you wanting more. The Story is very entertaining and keeps 
 you into it throughout the whole game. The roleplaying experience makes the game that much more 
 enjoyable considering you have a multitude of races to create your character all having their own 
 bonuses. Plus there are many different traits that can be enhanced. Although the combat system 
 isn't exactly the greatest it still fulfills the urge for combat. Asfaras how it works, you can 
 use a variety of spell like attacks, close range weapons, or the few guns it does provide you. 
 However the gun's are not exactly as effective as any of the other attacks but they can be enjoyable 
 in certain parts of the game. The game is somewhat open-ended having around 4-5 different ways 
 it can end which is depicted by the actions you take throughout the course of the game. If you 
 are looking for an interesting and enjoyable RPG, then I highly recommend Vampire The Masquerade: 
 Bloodlines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniac060
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Full of blood, gore, and a bunch of vampiric neck biting goodness. Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines 
 is by far the bloodiest game I have ever played, as well as its extensive use of swearing, drug 
 references and uses, and the occasional prostitute that you see on the street. Very good reasons 
 for the mature rating. When you finish installing the game and select New Game from the main menu, 
 the game takes you to a character creation screen. Creating your character is pretty basic. There 
 are two ways to set up your character. You can either answer a few questions to get a character 
 faster and get into the game. If you prefer some specifics then you should go with creating your 
 character the other way, by choosing between a male or female, by choosing 1 out of 7 different 
 vampire clans, and then by setting some stat points.
  
  The game is very well put together and has a unique design to it. You can either use your hands 
 for combat, or you can take out a cop and steal his club to beat on people with, or even take his 
 gun and start busting caps in all the bums sitting on the streets of LA. Youll find melee a lot 
 easy to kill things with. The combat was made pretty well and the use of vampire Disciplines, special 
 attacks or buffs for each clan, make it somewhat different depending on your character. Boss fights 
 are quite difficult but with the enemy health bar, which is only active during a boss fight, you 
 can tell when your baddy is about to stop biting necks and start biting the dirt. This is an RPG 
 so every time there is a cut scene with dialogue you can select what you want to say to the person 
 your talking to. Each choice of dialogue has a different outcome and you can lose Humanity points 
 and Masquerade points. Once you lose all of your Masquerade points the game is over. Probably one 
 of the best features of the game is the Auto-Save feature, which is very good to have in this game 
 because once you get into it you forget to save the game until you decide to take a break. Aside 
 from the well put in combat and RP elements, the game has way too many loading screens and quite 
 a few glitched areas in the games environment. Also, the game is always set during the night, so 
 a lot of areas are hard to find and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperMelbourne
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - This game has so much it would take me a long time to point everything out. Lets just 
 say you can seduce, intimidate, persuade, dominate or use dementure on people in conversations. 
 The storyline in this game is enourmous with NPC characters giving endless new dialouge depending 
 on which path you choose when talking to people. Most fun i found was using a special chat option 
 available to the malkavian vampire race, dementian which causes your target to believe anything 
 you tell them. An example would be you tell a female friend at one point you are her childhood 
 dead turtle come back to life..... :)
  
  You can play this as a hack and slash, first person shooter, ninja, sneaker, spell-caster and anything 
 in between.
  
  Many side quests in this game, choosing to do them or not does not effect the main story and you 
 can choose the express route through the game if you so choose. The quests you do receive are well 
 thought out, very unique, well designed and quite challenging your first time through.
  
  Weapons are assorted and many. Fire-axes, assault rifles, flamethrowers, machine guns, .50 calibre 
 hand guns, sniper rifles with zoom (my favourite) , katanas, sledgehammers and the list goes on.
 
  
  You'll face many enemies, all unique, all fun and each with a story to tell. Spells are numerous, 
 i have only played 2 vampires through to the end. There are 7 or 8 different vampire varieties 
 each with differing abilities. Spells can completely kill in one shot, turn enemies against each 
 other, make them go insane with laughter, turn you into the worlds fastest land animal and the 
 list goes on and on.
  
  I am but only touching on the games surface, the graphics, sound, price, everything about this 
 game is first rate. No complaints at all. One of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ananasz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  Ahuh, well, I'm really fond of vampires, so it was logical I begged for this game.
  
  What I dislike of this serie (Vampire the Masquerade series) is that the covers are impressive, 
 with the cool, smexkseyh looking vampires, but that in the end the characters are too fooking ugly 
 for words (I'm looking at you Redemption!) , male as female.
  
  And I don't know if it's just my computer being retarded, or are the movieclips:
  -slow
  -glitchy
 
  -choppy (just like the sound) .
  -multiple parts of 10 seconds where the characters on screen are just standing without any words 
 being said.
  (Also, when at the introduction clip, why is your character, no matter of which proud clan you 
 are, is walking like a retarded old gangster after Prince when they walk towards the exit?)
  
  Even though I totally bashed it into the floor now, it's a pretty good game, with an awfully 
 good scenery and fitting music, just like Redemption. The attacks and weapons are pretty cool. 
 I hate the clothes, though, butt ugly just like the vampires.
  
  It's an awfully good game, and even though all of these points, it's absolutely a must buy. It's 
 always better than Blood Omen, here you actually put your fangs in those suckers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron_priest
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Vanmpire The Masquerade : Bloodlines is a very interesting game with vampires in most of it. It's 
 a strange RPG because is not such as normal ones (like having swords and magic stuff) it's in our 
 days with weapons , computer skills and so on. So it looks more like a combination of RPG and Action 
 Adventure. The graphic is good and the sounds so. The storyline is very well done it ties every 
 mission. Characters are pretty good done and creatures are kind of exagerated (just thinkin' that 
 in our days you don't see all sort of radioactived creatures in the sewers) but after all use your 
 imagination. The main character is interesting chosed by computer and it is based on series of 
 questions and gives you abillities all by itself. I enjoyed a lot this game and you should do it 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenC4T
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  For some time I had wanted to play this game. More so because it dealt with one of my favorite 
 mythologies: vampires. Having never played any RPG style game, I was somewhat skeptical about its 
 game play. But now after finishing the game for the first time I have to say that I enjoyed it 
 vastly. Of course the game is far from perfect. Even with the patches, the game had some glitches. 
 Which seems that you will need the aid of the -console in order to help you beat the game. For 
 example, a scene that comes to mind is during Ming Xiaos Golden Temple. I had gotten the action 
 available to open a double door that had a piece of wood in which I had to push off. You might 
 guess that the game was not responsive and so I did what I usually hate to do, which was use the 
 noclip from the console in order to proceed with the game. Other than those imperfections, the 
 story is superb. It was fun meeting all these different characters and having the choice in which 
 way to answer them. And the twists were surprising to say the least. The story doesnt leave you 
 hanging in the end, everything you start learning from the beginning comes all together in the 
 end, giving you a closure to the story. Yet wondering what might happen to your character afterwards, 
 like a good novel. I also liked the fact that you get to choose whose side you want to go with, 
 which will give you an ending depending on your choice. I think that with the $19.95 price tag, 
 everyone should give this game a try. Now that I have finished it with the Ventrue clan, I cant 
 wait to try it with the other clans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evantowa
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is far from perfect. Its very buggy and it feels rushed, but make no mistake 
 its damn fun. The thing that makes this game so lovable is the dialouge. This is one of the few 
 cases that i could select a sentence to say that I would actually realistically say. The writting 
 is just excelent and at some times hilarious. Its a well sized RPG with quests that are always 
 original and dont at all feel recycled like something in Grand Theft Auto. Character creation isnt 
 the most innovative and you really cant customize your characters apearance except for a select 
 few clothes options you may collect throughout the game. The fighting is mediocre and almost seems 
 to prefer melee weapons as more powerful than firearms interestingly. Although if you choose to 
 go the path of a gunfighter theres surprisingly a large array of guns to choose from. This game 
 is a new experience and something you'll remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwitchPunk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Vampire the Masquerade: Bloodlines was the second title based on White Wolfs Masquerade table 
 top game to be published by Activision. While the earlier game is a moderately engrossing hack 
 and slash, Bloodlines in my opinion, achieves that ever coveted jewel of the industry, immersion. 
 This difference is born out of the core design focus of making the player feel like their character 
 is a big bad creature of the night rather than its largely plot driven predecessor.
  
  As the onus of the central design concept is on the players experience, Bloodlines was built to 
 exude a compelling atmosphere. Sound, scripting and level design all converge to make the player 
 feel as though the dark and decayed world of Bloodlines is worth inhabiting. The skill with which 
 the title mobilizes these elements is best exemplified in the games famous haunted house level. 
 While the player will fight scores of monstrous NPCs over the course of the game, the Ocean House 
 map features no enemies. In this truly frightening sequence the player has only the levels masterful 
 tone, pacing and their own imaginations as adversaries. Because the writing is designed specifically 
 to populate and complicate the game world, the player is treated to NPCs with real depth of response. 
 NPCs hint at having an intricate past and future, entirely independent of the events of the game. 
 One gets the impression that their relationship with the character has evolved based upon the branching 
 dialogue options, even though the plot itself is relatively fixed. This dynamic is underscored 
 by the fresh and nuanced voice acting encouraging the player to have meaningful emotional reactions 
 to the games characters.
  
  However, if Bloodlines is a masterpiece and I believe it qualifies, it is most certainly a flawed 
 one. It suffers from the telltale signs of rushed production, like game breaking bugs, choppy animation 
 and painfully inconsistent quality. As I understand it the games now defunct developer, Troika, 
 had a great deal of trouble meeting its milestones and it seems as though Bloodlines underscores 
 the value comprehensive testing. The game was eventually buried in 2004 holiday season and is now 
 something of a cult classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 10, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  I first heard of White Wolfs pen-and-paper Vampire: The Masquerade games just over ten years ago, 
 when a theatre buddy of mine invited me to a live-action enactment of the undead lifestyle down 
 in Savannah, Georgia. Although I was very familiar with role-playing games, I wasnt at all certain 
 about the mechanics of the Storyteller System or LARPing in general. At best, I envisioned a bunch 
 of us preening about the moss-lined streets of the city in a precious piece of audience-free improv, 
 ideally with some sort of common goal (a scavenger hunt or murder mystery, perhaps) to drive the 
 action beyond posing around as posh bloodsuckers. True to my lurking nature, my first clan selection 
 was naturally for the furtive and erudite Nosferatu, but would playing the part require me to actually 
 don some sort of ridiculous disfiguring mask and lope around in the shadows? I selected a nice, 
 pugilistic Brujah instead and loaded up with about two dozen others  a very respectable turnout, 
 really, considering that none of us knew just how the game was played even as we filed into the 
 old Netherworld nightclub. Our hosts eleventh-hour attempts to tutor us in the ways of the Kindred 
 were quickly undone by tequila and the lure of all the delicious, underdressed kine in the vicinity. 
 I stumbled home the next morning, undeterred by the deadly rays of the sun, and went about my business 
 among the living.
  
  Thankfully, Troikas last gasp was to transfer the politics and passion of Caines undying descendants 
 to a fairly standard but wildly endearing RPG. First off, the game is incredibly detailed, powered 
 as it is with Valves Source engine. The static close-ups and multiple-choice topics for conversation 
 that characterize so many adventure titles are a severely threadbare convention, but the degree 
 of expressiveness in every mortal and monsters face in Bloodlines eliminated most of the all-out 
 boredom I encounter during the endless just sit there while I prattle sequences in similar titles. 
 Few exchanges were tough to navigate (like Dalton says, just be nice until its time to not be 
 nice) and fewer still required a characters special powers  persuasion, seduction, intimidation, 
 or dementation  to achieve a result that any other clan type could attain by following the regular 
 dialogue thread. Still, I enjoyed most of the face-to-face sequences in Bloodlines far more than 
 I usually do in games like Deus Ex or even Oblivion. Many props are in order for some genuinely 
 fine acting from such regulars of the disembodied artist circuit as Phil LaMarr, Neil Ross, Grant 
 Albrecht, Nika Futterman, and even Bender himself. I can only assume that the bill for so many 
 established voice actors helped to turn out Troikas pockets that much faster, but Bloodlines wouldnt 
 be the same without even half of the effort the company put into making the games many chat sessions 
 more than a means of just obtaining the next quest.
  
  Unfortunately, Bloodlines is also one of the most flawed games Ive played in many years. Although 
 NPCs and major players alike are designed beautifully  from a trio of astonishingly bodacious 
 nightclub owners (actually a quartet, since one of the vixens is very, very close to her twin sister, 
 in a manner of speaking) to wild-eyed doomsday preachers who lead a congregation of icky zombies 
  I noticed many ugly quirks, twitches, and downright odd glitches in their regular behavior. As 
 shipped, many parts of the game didnt work at all, and some elements remained broken even after 
 the Troika gang considerately whipped up a post-layoff patch. Luckily, a number of homegrown fixpacks 
 followed over the years, tweaking small oversights and imperfections to give the game the polish 
 it deserves. Even so, gunplay remains Bloodlines weakest point: accuracy is a major issue up until 
 the player builds his Ranged stat to near-perfection, and some weapons  like the crossbow  were 
 too useless to justify a spot in my arsenal. However, I completely understand the hierarchy of 
 tactics for a Masquerader: talk it out first, make a quick, clean kill second, and raise an unholy 
 tumult as the very last resort. To that end, I earned most of my stripes with every character by 
 crawling around like a spider, using some powers for a hands-free snuffing and others to distract 
 aggressors until I could clamp down on them for some old-fashioned exsanguination. Im not even 
 a fan of sneakers, but slithering around in the dark to wallop a hapless enemy across the base 
 of his skull with a bush hook never grew old.
  
  Vampire: Bloodlines was an interesting find. Buying it was a foregone conclusion once I heard about 
 its Source pedigree, but I didnt expect to enjoy such a high amount of stealth and colloquy in 
 a game without an occasional break for some satisfying explosions. I gradually played all through 
 all seven clans over the past two years and -- although most of the games events are identical 
 despite each characters different stats, skills, and attributes  developed a strong liking for 
 almost every avatar and their unique strengths and weaknesses each time. My favorites were the 
 Nosferatu -- whose serious case of fugliness made nearly every approach to public spaces and direct 
 confrontation fairly different from all of the other characters  and the Malkavian, whose dialogue 
 selections and schizoid imaginings were absurdly funny. The title warranted seven entire playthroughs 
 from me despite my limited downtime and Bloodlines own bugs and shortcomings: Id call that a 
 recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  So the game starts in Los Angeles where you are recently turned into a fledgling vampire and your 
 story begins by experiencing the city from a different perspective through the eyes of one of Caine's 
 children that seem to be everywhere, unnoticed by humans.
  
  Despite being a few years old, the graphics are still good looking with today's standards using 
 the Half Life 2 Source engine. However unlike HL2 and its impressive object interaction, it's pretty 
 limited in this game to for example some barrels and trash items on the ground. Character models 
 are great overall, but there is little variety in character models as there is only a male and 
 female version of each vampire clan with the exception of some of the story characters in the game 
 and also the animations such as running and even melee fighting are pretty awkward at times.
  
  The voice acting from the NPC characters are well done and the variety of music from ambient 
 gameplay to club music is excellent to listen to as well. The sound effects are decent overall 
 however bland that most of them are.
  
  The gameplay is good for the most part, if yet buggy even with the latest official/unofficial patches 
 and combat isn't really done that entirely well as melee fighting is pretty boring and the FPS 
 portion is sub par compared to other shooters. The versatility in how you complete an objective 
 is a huge plus for this game as you can go Rambo, stealth, or even talking your way out of a situation 
 depending on which vampire clan you choose and what skills you specialize in. The main story as 
 well as the side stories is the best part of the game, it does a good job of bringing you into 
 the vampire world.
  
  Overall, the game is actually a good length ranging from 15-25 hours depending if do the side quests. 
 So if you're looking for a vampire game with RPG elements and a great story then this is the game 
 for you. Other people who just want an action game with good combat mechanics might want to skip 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  It's been two years since I first played this game and I have to admit that it still rocks. Troika 
 Games made only three games before it's death and V: tM - Bloodlines is their last achievement.
 
  
  The game is licensed by White Wolf and is set in the Vampire: The Masquerade universe. Unlike the 
 great V: tM - Redemption Troika's game focuses only on modern times and actually is a prequel to 
 White Wolf's Time of Judgment. You play as a newly embraced vampire in L. A. where the sect war 
 hangs by a thread and the end of the world seems to draw near.
  
  But first I have to say about what brings the game's experience down. Bloodlines is the first game 
 (alongside HL2) to be powered by Source engine and that's good news. Bad news are that it's badly 
 optimized and the game itself is very buggy. There was one official patch released for the game 
 but it didn't fix all the issues and unfortunately at the time of it's release Troika was practically 
 a history. So in comparison to Half-life 2 game still suffers major performance issues. But nevermind 
 that, let's look at the bright sides of the game.
  
  Graphics is really great, especially character models which are very detailed, all of them have 
 their own facial animations and lip synch. Discipline effects are usually very nice and so are 
 most of the environments. The game uses the same physics technology as HL2 but it has not much 
 influence on gameplay. As for the sound and music it simply rocks. All the dialogue lines are spoken 
 by pretty good actors and sound very very good. The game's soundtrack is excellent and besides 
 highly atmospheric original music it contains several great tracks by such popular bands as Tiamat, 
 Lacuna Coil or Ministry. It's mostly gothic metal with some electronic stuff.
  
  I could say a few words about combat system but I'll say only that it's fine and this game is not 
 about combat.
  
  Okay, so now the thing that is perhaps the most important in every RPG, the storyline. If you're 
 a fan of vampire-themed stuff this is a game that you were waiting for. The storyline in Redemption 
 was amazing, here it's maybe even better. It's non-linear (five possible endings) , it's smart, 
 it's interesting, it's intriguing, sometimes thrilling. There are some unexpected turning points 
 and the plot is generally awesome. The game is loaded with cultural references, often very humorous 
 just like in both earlier Troika projects. There is even one quest clearly inspired by Stephen 
 King's The Shining which is by the way one hell of a scary sequence, the most frightening in the 
 game.
  
  Concluding Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is a dark, very atmospheric, fantastic game with 
 a mesmerizing characters and a top-notch story which will keep you in front of computer for long 
 hours.
  
  So Play Obey! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tptur91
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Vtmp is for anyone who is into role-playing games or action games. It has totally amazing plot 
 and very good characters. The stages have totally amazing architecture and character modelling 
 is superb. The only thing that I really miss in it is The lack of choices in The main story, but 
 it still is pretty good even without it. So if your looking for a game that haves nearly everything 
 this is The game you want and it haves a seasonable prize, so if your worrying about The money, 
 don't. It is probably the best game that Troika have made ever and even The best vampire game that 
 there is and I mean come on thats pretty much, so all along great game!
  
  P. S. You don't want to miss this game on anything!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScruffyPup
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I could review this game two different ways: before I installed the patches and after. I liked 
 this game, so I'll go with the latter. It does a great job of creating an immersive world, memorable 
 characters, and a sense of mystery and intrigue. They did a great job of selling the world and 
 creating a compelling storyline, albeit it felt a bit unresolved at the end. A true role-playing 
 game. I made it through the game up until the final quests before running into a fatal bug. I couldn't 
 open a door to continue through the level. But installing the user-made patches fixed that and 
 I was on my merry way. I'm currently playing through it again as a different class. It's fun seeing 
 how the experiences are different. It is odd that the female vampires can seduce anyone, but the 
 male vampires can only seduce females... go figure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 30, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  When I bought the game, I thought it would like it based on the fact I liked the first game. I 
 was happy with the product overall. The story was pretty interesting with the multiple endings 
 and all. It never gets old to drain blood to replenish your own. The experience format made choosing 
 what areas to specialize in a challenge and was the most unique I have ever seen. The graphics 
 and characters were good and memorable. The quests were interesting, although most were of the 
 fed-x variety. The long loading times were annoying at times and the clipping problems made fighting 
 difficult at times, but not enough that enemies could not be taken care of. I hope there are additional 
 games of this sort since there are few vampire games to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksaw66699942
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 28, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Nice game Good story. But only for hardcore vampire loves I am sure... I love vampires and the 
 Annie Rice stuff so do my friends so You will like it if you like that kind of stuff. This review 
 is not really meant to be helpful. I paid like 30 something bucks for it and it was a **** to get 
 after it being two years 
 
  Nice game Good story. But only for hardcore vampire loves I am sure... I love vampires and the 
 Annie Rice stuff so do my friends so You will like it if you like that kind of stuff. This review 
 is not really meant to be helpful. I paid like 30 something bucks for it and it was a **** to get 
 after it being two years  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristel13
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  First let me get this out of the way! The game has a few nasty bugs if you try to play without 
 patches. One of the worst ones that I encountered was things like rain and the ocean making my 
 rendering go all wonky. It would even stay broken if you saved and reloaded. Another nasty bug 
 was it seemed to have a bit of a memory leak where if you play it for too long (like more than 
 5 hours in a sitting) it tends to lag up really bad. This was easily fixed by quitting and reopening 
 the game. I only used the 'official' patches to fix my game since I had a bad experience with 'unofficial' 
 patches from other games. And it seemed to work! :) The game itself was a lot of fun. I really 
 appreciated the different options for answers so you could reply to NPC's in a manner that suits 
 your character best. I also loved the combat system and how you can personalize it to your tastes. 
 You have melee weapons, guns, and magic at your disposal all of which have their various strengths 
 and weaknesses depending on whether you like to run in guns blazing, or sneak up behind them and 
 disembowel them with your katana which was my favorite! :) The graphics were pretty good, but could 
 have been better in my opinion. They were a bit buggy and would often lock up my game sans patches. 
 Not to mention sometimes your vamp's neck will appear to be almost a foot long! Or at least it 
 did with my Toreador femme. It was kinda creepy really, because a lot of the NPC's didn't look 
 that way haha. The sound was pretty good. There is a part of the game where you explore a haunted 
 house, and it was sooooo scary! You could hear things happening in every direction! :) It would 
 get a little choppy in certain areas of the game, and sometimes it would sound like the NPC's were 
 voiced over twice which made it sound a little echoey.
  
  I think the value of this game is ok. If I knew then what I know now about the game, I would have 
 left it alone unless it was about 10 dollars cheaper. But that's just me har har. All in all, I 
 loved the game. I used to masquerade with my friends until they changed all the rules around and 
 got rid of a few of my favorite families. I didn't appreciate the 'Camarilla are power hungry evil' 
 tilt. When I played downtown at the clocktower, the Camarilla were nice respectable folks who really 
 did care about peace and order. If I could change anything about the game, it would be the character 
 creation. Not everyone wants to fit inside a cookie cutter. Even if they changed it so that you 
 can pick the colors of hair or skin, it would have been better. Right now you are limited to 'Pick 
 your family' and 'pick your gender' and that's not good enough for a gamer like me. Naturally you 
 get to assign your skill points as you wish, but I just wanted more character customization. I 
 would also change it by making the loading screens shorter. I've played far more advanced games 
 that took half the time to switch zones. Sometimes I would read a book lol. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  Vampire : The Masquerade-Bloodlines is a fanatastic action / rpg game by Troika games published 
 by Activision . The game is open ended with rich detailed environments. The graphics / visuals 
 in the game is quite impressive .The game engine is done by source ( Half Life 2) .Soundquality 
 , soundtracks , techno tracks in the game rocks .AI is Okay. The game is very sophicticated at times 
 and very replayable. you many want to play the game again as a different clan this time because 
 all the clans have different disciplines.
  You have to start the game by selecting a character from various vampire clans. You get to see all 
 the clans various vampiric powers (disciplines) during selection of your character and it helps 
 you to choose wisely. As you progress in the game you get experience points with which you can increase 
 your characters various abilities. You have to follow certain rules in the game or its game over 
 so its best to follow the rules given to you during training session. You get a cool inventory 
 and log system too .You get to buy and sell things through your inventory and your log keeps you 
 uptodate with your missions .You get your own P. C too in the game for your emails and side missions 
 uptodate . Plus you even get your posh quarters to live in the game .
  The game is set in modern day L. A where vampires rules the city .There is conflict in the air amongst 
 most of the vampire clans for dominating L. A. Now your character has been turned to a vampire from 
 a human for unkown reason. You have to find out the true motives of the vampire power players in 
 the game. You have to find out who is your real freind and who is your worst enemy. In the process 
 you have to do all the main missions accordingly. As you progress in the game cool places are unlocked 
 like Santa Monica , Downtown , Hollywood , Chinatown etc . In these places you get scores of fantastic 
 side missions from various peoples .The side missions are at par with main missions and you enjoy 
 them highly .You can follow the games walkthroughs incase you miss some cool side missions . You 
 have to interact with various people in the game and to earn side missions you have to be polite 
 in conversation with them. You even get to seduce people to your advantage .You get to sneak / lockpick 
 / brainwash people through your disciplines , Hack P. C's ,investigate crime scenes as a detective 
 , steal for your side / main missions too .Some side missions are high - tech where you require 
 to hack P. C's. The more cash you earn more equipments you get to purchase through arms dealers .You 
 get to woo special womens and dance at disco pubs too which is a added attraction. The games got 
 different ending , but in order to have the best ending you have to make wise choice.
  The games Action is mindblowing. You get various kinds of weapons ranging from heavy to melee weapons 
 . Plus your vampire powers (disciplines) helps you a lot during action .You get to buy all kinds 
 of weapons from arms dealers .You can change your clothes too. If you want slow mo action to gain 
 advantage over your enemys you should use celerity discipline. You can play the game in first person 
 mode to third person mode easily. And the techno tracks added during your action keeps you in the 
 mood .
  The game can be scary and horrific too at some levels .The game has some adult content and strong 
 language usage. Be prepared for that. Some missions are quite chilling .You get varietys of opponents 
 in the game and some bosses can be quite difficult to beat unless you have patience and know the 
 proper usage of weapons and disciplines to use on them in order to beat them. The most 'IMPORTANT' 
 thing i would like to suggest is to use Officcial V 1.2 patch and Unofficial V 3.5 patch before 
 starting this game. The patches clears any bugs which you might face in the game and the patches 
 ensures a refined gameplay .The patches works wonders for the game and you will enjoy the game 
 more with the patches added. Plus you get some extra contents with the patches sp the unofficcial 
 V 3.5 patch .Also look into the tweak guides for the game for best perfomance from the games officcial 
 forums or general walkthroughs ( tweaks included in some of them ) .The game is old but it requires 
 a decent P. C to enjoy it with all the bells and whistles .
  I recommend this game very highly to everyone .I hope my review suggessted well . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllHailTheSith
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for almost 2 years, and I still consider this the greatest game ever 
 made. Vampire The Masquerade - Bloodlines is the most in depth, creative, fun, story driven game 
 on the market in my opinion. It is also a rare adult themed game, something that is lacking in 
 todays market of story games .
  
  Vampire The Masquerade - Bloodlines is based on White Wolf's World of Darkness , which tells a 
 new version of how vampires exist in a world of cell phone cameras and politics. The main story 
 places you into this new way of life. Finishing tasks to help vampire kind, and yourself, while 
 remaining undetected by mortals.
  
  This game fills many categories. It is a Role Playing Game , equal if not better than Knights of 
 the Old Republic, first and foremost. But you can play it several different ways. You can play 
 like Rambo with the biggest baddest guns running blindly into danger. You can sneak through shadows 
 and kill undetected like Splinter Cell. You can grab a sword and ninja your way through. Or you 
 can use my favorite, your mind. Manipulate others to do what you need or seduce them. There is 
 no right way to play this helps keep the re-playability extremely high.
  
  As I said this is an Adult game. Sex, Violence, Language, Adult themes, Sexual context, Drugs. 
 Not to mention the Mods that you can find on the internet. This game is very Mod friendly.
  
  It does have a few bugs right out of the box, but now there are enough patches to play without 
 noticing any of them. You can download the Official Patch 1.2 here, as well as unofficial patches 
 . I WARN YOU THOUGH!!! The unofficial patches work although they change A LOT and should be considered 
 MODS. My advise is to download the TRUE VTMB Patch which fixes problems but does not change anything. 
 You can download it at one of my favorite websites
  
  www. tessmage. com
  
  This is truly the greatest game ever made. And whether you love Vampires, RPG's, Story games, or 
 are just looking for some mindless fun, this game will keep you coming back just as it did to me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  As the title implies Vampire: Bloodlines is about the Vampiric Society. We don't see this in many 
 games as deep as VB does. You will be immersed in the vampire's lives and you will become one of 
 them. This is the main part that makes this game unique.
  
  As a vampire you will be able to develop your character in an RPG-esque way. You will gain experience 
 for each quest you complete and task that you finish. There is a wide range of skills to choose 
 from such as Hacking, Lock Picking, Melee, and Fire Arms. The skills you develop will choose how 
 you play the game. If you have a high lock pick and are blocked by a locked door you will just 
 lock pick it but say if there is a computer near by you will hack it and open the locked door.
 
  
  The whole settings and feel of VB is different from any game I have ever played. It is very grimmy 
 and you actaully feel what it is like to be a vampire. The story is great with obvious writing 
 elements that are also exemplary. The writing talent is shown most commonly in the quests that 
 you get. Every quest that you acquire will be different from the last and they are always fun and 
 have their own twists.
  
  The main downfall for VB is the combat system. The whole system is just button mashing or in this 
 case clicking. If you have use a fire arm it isn't any better with a poor aiming system that lacks 
 quality. The glitches and bugs can be pretty bad also. I encountered a few control and camera bugs 
 that made my gameplay less enjoyable.
  
  Vampire: Bloodlines overall is a different and fun game. With its RPG elements, Character development, 
 and well written story it is surely a game to remember. I only wish Troika could have put more 
 polish on it to clean out the bugs and glitches.
  
  Pros+ Solid RPG play, Character Developments, Great Story, Vampire Setting
  
  Cons- Combat 
 System, Glitches and Bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subaktiv
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic game. After playing Morrowind for a long time you can probably catch yourself asking 
 What for Christ sake I will play next!? . Well, this jewel can be your answer. Despite all the 
 bugs around (lots of them fixed in the latest unofficial patch) , this game is very rare in the 
 world of RPG's.
  
  The cons IMHO are, fighting: a bit unusual, but you'll get use to it after awhile; voice conversations: 
 one guy is doing most of it.
  
  The pros: everything else!
  Addictive, fantastic storyline, dark and beautiful characters with unique attitudes. Masterpiece. 
 I found my second favorite game, ever.
  
  Troika, you ARE a real genius artists! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brassard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  I had my eye on this game awhile back, but never got around to purchasing it. Upon seeing it in 
 the bargain rack at my local store, I figured at $20, it was worth the risk. Boy was I surprised. 
 Although not as good as KOTOR, I'd argue that the best short winded description of this game would 
 be KOTOR with vampires instead of Jedi. 
  
  Great graphics for the time, a great soundtrack, and good enough voice acting kept me up on a Friday 
 and Saturday night way past what is normal for me and video games. Being a casual gamer at best, 
 finding a game that hooked me badly enough to stay up til 4AM was a pleasant surprise to all but 
 my girlfriend. Oops.
  
  Anyways, especially considering its low cost these days, I'd highly recommend Vampire: Bloodlines 
 to anyone that thoroughly enjoys RPG's the style of KOTOR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Man the women in this game are HOT! Dressed in their little panties and all in sexy clothes + nice 
 slutty makeup and just a perfect world i wish i lived in :D lol.
  
  I recently played this game and just completed and i thought the graphics arnt the best the source 
 engine can do however they were working with a beta version at the time of making. They do look 
 sharp however and the artwork is really great, it's a sexy game and the storyline + the women really 
 draw you in.
  
  What kept me playing though was this girl in her school uniform styled outfit and blonde hair, 
 i wanted to see more of her. Sadly however i didn't see as much as i liked and as its a game there 
 isn't the freedom of real life lol. For some reason the game reminded me of Max Payne in a way, 
 not the actual gameplay but the settings and the jokes + the general things put around the map 
 that you can play with.
  
  The only thing that lets this game down really is the combat system like everyone says, i wasn't 
 a fan of having to switch from first person view to third for combat and the general feel of combat 
 was bad such as controls. There seems to be a inbalance of weapons too i found that a gun too like 
 10 shots to kill a human where as a punch or two would kill them :\ There also seems to be ALOT 
 of bugs in the game.
  
  The sounds are all there and really good and i picked the game up for &pound;5 so the value + replability 
 is all there. No multiplayer but tbh you wouldn't expect one. The game will last quite awhile, 
 i played for about 20 hours and for the price thats great!
  
  End of the day it's a great game with some downfalls. I really wish'd they improved the combat 
 system and oh i forgot the AI is TERRIBLE. However the rest of the game is GREAT and most importantly 
 i had fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunnyHath
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Bloodlines does what Redemption didnt, become a truly immersive Role Playing environment. Immerse 
 your self a truly involving story about Kindred and Kine society, and the things that go bump in 
 the night.
  
  You play a newly embraced (sired by a vampire, ie: bitten) fledgling vampire in modern day California. 
 Embraced by an unknown woman, seemingly without reason, youre thrust into a dark new underworld. 
 You begin your un-life in urban Santa Monica where the Camarilla, an organization of influential 
 and powerful Kindred formed to uphold and protect the Masquerade plan to exterminate you. A mysterious 
 third party steps in and saves you at the last moment, fighting for your life. You are then dumped 
 into your new existence without having the faintest clue about vampires or their society and rules, 
 or where you came from. The biggest question haunting you is Why? Why was this done to me? Soon 
 after your release from certain death you leave the auditorium, stepping out into the alley where 
 a rough around the edges Kindred takes it upon himself to introduce you to the basics of playing 
 the game in a sort of tutorial. He also clues you in on some background information on what vampires 
 truly are and do, and their various factions and clans. Even if you havent played a vampire game 
 or indeed, any of White Wolfs RPGs, you will find this game easy to pick up and understand if 
 you are willing to listen to the very believable voice acting by almost every NPC. The game does 
 an excellent job of explaining in memorable terms the history of Vampirism, about the generations 
 that started with Cain, the first vampire and how they split off from the third generation (Cain 
 being the first) into 13 clans, each having their own strengths, weaknesses, and idiosyncrasies.
 
  
  You begin by choosing a name, gender, clan, and distributing your blood points (experience points) 
 into your character sheet. Your sheet is almost a carbon copy of the real pen and paper sheet; 
 however it is much more user friendly, eradicating the need for erasers and white out. They have 
 also streamlined a few annoyances that affected the pen and paper versions, where you had to look 
 up certain feats to see which attributes affect them. Now when you hover your mouse over any particular 
 stat or feat, it will highlight which feat it affects or which stat (s) the feat requires, respectively. 
 This makes it much easier to determine where you need to put your points to improve in areas you 
 are lacking. For example if you cant pick the lock on a certain door, hover your mouse over the 
 lock picking feat, and it will highlight the dexterity attribute as one way to improve your lock 
 picking, logical right? Alternatively you can just let the game distribute your points automatically, 
 which I chose not to do, because I like to have control over my character, this is why we play 
 RPGs after all.
  
  Bloodlines has done something almost all PC RPGs havent, put the role playing back in. From the 
 outset, every choice you make, every interaction with another person, makes a difference in what 
 happens. For example a Malkavian, known for being stark raving mad, would not interact well with 
 society, where a Toreador, known for being elegant, sophisticated and beautiful would slip through 
 Kine (human) society effortlessly. Every clan has its differences and strengths, however the only 
 truly different Kindred clan, would be the Nosferatu. Playing as a Nosferatu your appearance 
 is truly horrible, even to most other Kindred, forcing you to stay in the shadows, and travel via 
 the sewers. Troika has integrated the sewers as a viable and necessary way to play for a Nosferatu; 
 however I would imagine it would be more difficult, and therefore I dont recommend Nosferatu to 
 a first time player. Bloodlines delves into the interactions between the three main Kindred factions, 
 and you get caught up right in the middle of it all. The Camarilla, ever watchful of the Masquerade, 
 and the Sabbat, reveling in their own vampirism, arent afraid of telling people what they are, 
 they demand respect for it instead. This naturally causes a problem for the Camarilla and thus 
 the Masquerade. The third faction would be the Anarchs. The Anarchs dont respect the Camarilla, 
 but they do respect the Masquerade. They do so because they are smart enough to realize it is keeping 
 them safe, unlike the Sabbat who dont care if they suffer Final Death (the death of a Kindred) . 
 Each city is ruled by a Prince who is a powerful enough vampire to hold sway over a city. The Princes 
 job is to uphold the Masquerade and make sure the Kine go about their happy lives, much like Men 
 in Black, only without the aliens. The intricacy of the social and political interactions going 
 on in this game, and indeed in Vampire the Masquerade as a whole are legion, and far too numerous 
 to go into the detail I would like. However, I will note that the added complexity denotes realism, 
 and it truly is an immersive world where you can forget your own life for a few hours. Graphically, 
 Bloodlines is great, it is also the first game to use Valves SOURCE engine, best known for Half-Life 
 2 and Counter-Strike SOURCE. While the engine wasnt nearly used to its potential, or even in some 
 ways good, the graphics are still great, most notably the facial features of NPCs talking to you. 
 The source engine has amazing facial effects, so good you can almost forget its a game, which 
 is helped by the great voice acting. The environments are very detailed and believable, however 
 some areas are amazing and some are a bit lacking. The game at first feels a little claustrophobic 
 due to limitations on the area you can explore, however the areas are so packed with details and 
 things to do and mysteries to uncover, you hardly notice. As well, you quickly open up new areas, 
 and even new cities, each with their own distinct flavor areas and people. The sound in Bloodlines 
 is quite good, and lends to the overall immersion as sound should. The apartment you begin in is 
 above the local Santa Monica pawn shop, with your radio playing as Deb of the Night the radio 
 host talks in her sultry voice to her callers, radio commercials play, and best of all the callers 
 and commercials have relevance to the game. Actual people in the game call in, things change as 
 you advance in the game, the television news channel also highlights the events that are going 
 on in the city, that you have a direct connection too. These are both affected by your actions. 
 You will also see the occasional newspaper also headlining the latest goings on. The game play 
 is my only real complaint. I found the initial tutorial lacking in combat practice, also your disciplines 
 (think of them as spells, and your blood as mana or magic power.) arent very accessible during 
 combat, you have to reconfigure hotkeys or get used to scrolling with your mouse wheel and hitting 
 space to activate them every few seconds. The controls are a bit sloppy and the frame rate can 
 drop dramatically with a lot going on at once. Even on a fast system you are forced not to confront 
 too many adversaries at a time, three is a challenge and five will bog you down. The combat itself 
 is flawed, for example it can take two or three shots from a 12 gauge shotgun at close range to 
 kill a human in a tee-shirt. And on the subject of guns, if you havent spent points in marksmanship 
 your crosshair takes precious seconds to tighten into an accurate shot. I say accurate because 
 with a 6 shot revolver, you would be lucky to get 3 into an enemy at 15 yards, and it generally 
 takes 4 or 5 to kill one, so forget shooting multiple enemies standing close together. Other Kindred 
 are a whole different ballgame, guns are almost useless, bladed weapons are far more effective. 
 Most of the game I used my knife and a couple disciplines to help out. The jumping is also not 
 perfect, and sometimes collision detection is bad. But after all this is an RPG, not a first person 
 shooter, and I have absolutely no complaints in that respect.
  
  In conclusion, Bloodlines takes PC RPG playing to a new level, and I hope other games follow suit, 
 especially White Wolfs other game, Werewolf the Apocalypse. The role playing elements make this 
 game a favorite of mine in the short time Ive played it. Im possibly half way through and already 
 Ive put many hours into it and Im not even close to bored, which is more than I can say for most 
 games. Redemption gave us a taste, Bloodlines lets us gorge ourselves. If you like Vampire the 
 Masquerade, if you enjoy RPGs, go buy this game, once you get past the small complaints, you will 
 love it. Note: this game does depict strong graphic violence, some disturbing themes, strong language, 
 and strong sexual themes, it is not a game for young kids, be aware of this before you play it 
 or buy it for your child. That being said, enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  Great RPG games are very rare.. and those great ones sometimes keep making you come back for more.. 
 that is what Bloodlines does.. It keeps you coming back.. either to A) try a new character or B) 
 try an alternate ending or even C) do a sidequest you didn't do before.
  
  The replayability in this game is just excellent.. havens differ in what you do and depending on 
 your class. The spells are varied and are pretty much useful at max. The storyline is where the 
 meat is at.. it is truly excellent.. from the NPCs to the cutscenes.. the game is remarkably well 
 told!
  
  Evidence of its longevity is with the recent releases of even more unofficial patches.. surely 
 someone wouldn't go through the trouble of doing this if they didn't enjoy the game!
  
  The soundtrack is just excellent giving the game atmosphere and fits right in.
  
  Graphics: 
 remarkable.. it even holds up well to today's standards!
  
  My personal review is a perfect 10.. since I still play this wonder of a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rintaran
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Based in the World of Darkness setting, Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines, offers you numerous 
 vampire subtypes to experience a cohesive developmental plot. Much like the Pen &amp; Paper role-playing 
 game, run by a storyteller , this computerized version pays tribute to the wonders of a good immersible 
 plot, where your actions determine where on the spectrum you end up falling (though you're never 
 given the option to side with the Sabbat) .
  
  Depending on your vampire type (and sex) , you could be playing any number of different games, so 
 I highly recommend running through this several times. The base plot is the same, but the challenges 
 and abilities that the different vampire types face, as well as some of the unique quests they 
 may encounter, can greatly expand your gaming experience. You could be anything from the insane 
 Malkavian, talking to the television and integrating yourself with the Malkavian mass mind, to 
 the gruesome Nosferatu, forcing you to sneak your way through most of the quests. Other vampire 
 subraces involve their own challenges and benefits, and I highly recommend trying all of the subraces 
 provided. My one regret is that only a small portion of the vampire clans are represented in this 
 game, as I would have loved to see what they could have done with the other clans.
  
  The major drawback of this game comes with its programming. You will experience lengthy and sometimes 
 buggy load times, saving errors, and graphics mishaps. The sound, though fantastic when it is playing, 
 tends to cut out occasionally and can cause some havoc with your speakers (not to mention your 
 ears) . Additionally, due to the poor programming involved, it does not matter how powerful your 
 computer may be, the actual game play and visuals will not improve.
  
  There are a few things, though not buggy, that make the game even more unrealistic than running 
 around as a vampire dealing with werewolves, vampires, ghosts, vampire hunters, and other deadly 
 creatures. For one thing, the streets of a normally insanely busy city, are always empty. For another, 
 it's never daytime. Ever. Although good because you're a vamp, the lack of a daytime is very unrealistic 
 and poses something of a drawback to the immersive qualities of the game.
  
  As an occasional gamer, I have to say this is one of the few games that I not only wanted to stick 
 with over a long period of time, but after I beat it the first time, I went back and beat it several 
 more times (as the other vampire races) . There aren't many games that have every inspired me to 
 continue to play for such a lengthy period of time. If you are an occasional gamer though, I would 
 recommend having a scratch pad handy so you can remember what it is you were doing when you last 
 played, otherwise you might find yourself trying the same thing a few times and wondering why it's 
 not working (when you're already actually past that point) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcsasso
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Well documented bugs aside, this game is simply amazing. I'm usually extremely critical of most 
 games, but this time I actually felt like one of the Lost Boys . Playing the hotel mission at night 
 with all the lights off was a superbly unnerving experience. I found myself saying out loud I'm 
 a bad-ass vampire, what do I have to fear? Yet I did fear, and that's a great gaming achievement. 
 Even the soundtrack is excellent. You must play it to fully appreciate how good a game it really 
 is. Everyone I recommended to is also awestruck. Patch it up and check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamijitsu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  I had originally picked this game up the day it came out since it was the first game to be released 
 using the Source Engine. I didn't know quite what to expect, but the least I could say is that 
 I was pleasantly surprised! This game, albeit short and small by RPG standards, is an extremely 
 fun experience.
  
  Game Play:
  
  The game allows you to play as a newly sired vampire in L. A.. There are multiple races of vampire 
 that the user can choose from each with their own unique style, abilities and backgrounds. The 
 interaction between characters is a sort of Elder Scrollsesque sort of deal, so if you're familiar 
 with that line of games then you'll feel at home here. The game gives you a set of quests that 
 move you through the story, some of which are optional. It does a good job of story progression. 
 The combat system is a bit clunky at times, but it's not too bad. The maps, however, are small 
 and have very little to interact with. Overall the game play is solid, but could have used a bit 
 more polish.
  
  8/10
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are a bit dated (as of March 2007) , but still pretty good over all. There are a few 
 graphical and animated glitches, but nothing that should really hinder game play at all. Over all 
 the graphics are pretty solid, but nothing amazing.
  
  7/10
  
  Sound:
  
  The voice acting is done extremely well. Each character you can talk to has their own set of dialog 
 and responses dependent on what you say to them. You even get special responses dependent on you 
 clan (i. e. Malkavian or Nosferatu) . I especially love the TV and Radio shows, along with the commercials, 
 which are good comedic relief. Overall, the voice acting makes the game a more enjoyable experience.
 
  
  9/10
  
  Value:
  
  This game offers an extremely immersive and entertaining experience. The stories behind each of 
 the vampire clans and the characters, themselves, in the game are extremely interesting. You'll 
 find yourself wanting to play through this game multiple times with other races because each is 
 unique in itself. The combat can be a bit clumsy at times and there are quite a few bugs and glitches, 
 but it doesn't ruin the gaming experience. The game currently runs for $25-$30 (March 2007) brand 
 new and for that price you're definitely getting what you paid for.
  
  9/10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  
  I personally love the game and I love the world it presents. It's an instant 
 classic in my book. It's a shame that the Troika division got broken up, so sadly we probably won't 
 be seeing a better funded and made sequel. To me this game will always be something I can go back 
 to after a couple years of not play and enjoy it as much as the first time I played it.
  
  10/10
  
  Overall:
  
  If you are a fan of RPGs or just vampires in general this game is 
 a must! The story line and the story behind the world are just fantastic, which is a must for any 
 RPG buff. The character interaction and voice acting certainly help immerse the user into the world. 
 For such a low price this game is well with the money.
  
  8.6/10 Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuaMn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I dont know you like RPGs or not but you have to play this game once, and then it will become your 
 favorite... This game will make you live the story, and make you think what to do next. You won't 
 be able to resist it. Because it is just like real life. You will finish it and play and play again... 
 Graphics are just great, sounds are incredibly tasty, and gameplay sometimes tricky but mostly 
 enjoyable... There is plenty of ways to do a quest, including not to do it. You may become strong 
 or fast or intelligent. It is all depends on you. But this is not an ordinary RPG, you will play 
 a FPS at the same time. There are lots of firearms. You can use them if you want, but there is 
 always other ways to achieve the goal... In short, that's the game you need. It has action, horror, 
 fun, and many others... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  After chopping orcs and elves for who knows how long, Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines was 
 a breath of fresh air. More like a gust in fact. The setting is unique and gripping, and a perfect 
 fit for an RPG. Even though it has its shortcomings, the good outweigh the bad by so much, that 
 everyone should give this game a try, no matter what their preferences. The gameplay in Bloodlines 
 is truly awe inspiring. Once you get past the relatively simple melee system and clunky shooting 
 (this is an RPG after all) , you are rewarded with some of the best questlines this side of Oblivion, 
 one of the most gripping and satisfying storylines and the most intriguing setting you could wish 
 for. Playing as a vampire in modern day LA, with different factions vying for power and you caught 
 in the middle is a thrill ride like none other. The guys at Troika have really dipped into their 
 bag of magic tricks, coming up with unique quest after unique quest (one of my favorites was trying 
 to find a prostitute for a zombie hunter named Romero) . Not once does an NPC tell you to go to 
 Point A and kill B amount of boars and return to Point A. In between quests you get to explore 
 various districts of LA and interact with fascinating people. Combat consists of melee and ranged, 
 with various powers, called Disciplines, thrown into to provide support. Although melee simply 
 consists of equipping a weapon and bashing away, there's a certain amount of pleasure to be had 
 watching the rag doll death animations after a successful chomp with an axe. And even though ranged 
 combat feels clunky and unresponsive when compared to shooters, it is still performed adequately 
 well. And there's really no need to shoot at all if you don't feel like it. Graphically Bloodlines 
 is no looker, when compared to a certain other Source-powered game. It also has a number of bugs 
 and glitches, but it's reasonably easy to find user-made patches on the internet. The game certainly 
 feels a tad unpolished at spots, with a fair number of misspellings and other minor grievances, 
 but it hardly detracts from the unbelievable gameplay. Nevertheless, this is a fine looking game 
 that paints a believable enough setting for you to immerse yourself. Character models, and especially 
 faces, get a special shout out. The sound in Bloodlines is on the whole, excellent. Voice overs 
 are done by professionals, with varied and believable dialogue. Likewise, ambient sounds are done 
 well and add to the atmosphere. Whether it's the moan of a zombie in a deserted graveyard, the 
 ghoulish cry of a dead child haunting a hotel or just the beating bass of the rave party in a church, 
 nothing feels out of place or cheap. A chapter all it's own is the music. While it doesn't really 
 linger with you after you quit playing, the haunting, eerie soundtrack is a perfect match for the 
 game, and adds layers to the atmosphere and experience. Simply put, this is one of the most engaging 
 and satisfying RPG experiences of the 21st century, and to not give it a try would be the biggest 
 mistake of your gaming life. The singleplayer experience is rich and long enough to keep you engrossed 
 and drawn in for months, making Bloodlines easily worth it's price of admission. Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogatasha
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  I'm ama talking about the game masquerade. But not the digital one... I am talking about it pre-accsesor, 
 i'm am reading it now. I'm like a little kid on every page, it's o consuming. So i wish to share 
 the whole comics and everything. I want to revive the VAMPIRE genre. so if you are interested in 
 finding the blue-prints for the game give me a buzz bogatasha@abv. bg
  ..... Lets revie the genre as well..... if there is interest there will be someone to satisfy the 
 need. I want to excuse for my poor English, but i'm from Bulgaria and the schools here aren't that 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiftfallout
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I was thinking of getting real in depth about the game, but decided against it. I figure i will 
 get straight to the point.
  
  This game is absolutely amazing. The world in which they create and the characters you not only 
 play but interact with are so immersive, you will forget you are playing the game. The bugs were 
 not so apparent for me except for a constant crash in one spot, of which i found a fix for. Other 
 that this, the game has immense replay value and often you will find yourself just wandering the 
 night streets of santa monica for no apparent reason. My personal favorite was to go to the nudey 
 bar and loung around or dance at the clubs. Kind of sad but i found it strangely fun to listen 
 to the music and watch my character.
  
  This game and its franchise definately need to continue the legacy. What they do in this game should 
 not be forgotten as its rare to find such an immersive fun game of this caliber... ever. If you 
 havent played it, do so before the graphics become obsolete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronblom71
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  All the bugs, crappy frame-rate and an infamous fight-system can not cloud the fact that this is 
 an excellent RPG. Great atmosphere, well-written dialogue and lots of action. 7 different clans 
 (that means 7 different types of vampires) , means that you can play the game through a couple of 
 times and get a somewhat different experience. The conversation system and the approach to the 
 quests makes it a great hybrid of a adventure/RPG type of game.
  
  Too bad that Troika had to close down business as they did, but that seems too happen to a lot 
 of RPG developers it seems. Enthusiast are still patching this game though and it is needed. Especially 
 in towns the frame rate gets very bad, even on a very good PC. I have just started another char 
 and gonna see if the last patch has done any good for the game. A game worthy of cult-status I 
 say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellipad
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed Bioware's SW: Knights of the Old Republic, then start there as a reference point 
 for VTM: Bloodlines. Think of Bloodlines gameplay as a combination of that game, Neverwinter Nights 
 (or any leveling role player) and an Elder Scrolls game, like Morrowind. This makes it sound fantastic, 
 and it is a good game, but don't let its influences cause you to jump out and buy it immediately. 
 The game is based on a role playing game system that I have not played but all of the elements 
 of any RPG are here. One downfall is the slim pickings at character appearance, two per class, 
 one male and one female. They are good looking characters and you'll likely find one that you like 
 but their appearance may not match the play type you want. Fortunately the different classes are 
 strong and are one of the plus sides to playing and re-playing the game.
  Depending on what class you pick, other vampires will react to you differently, making the conversation 
 threads and play style change per your choice here. You can also customize your style within your 
 class and as you level, although the leveling process can seem slow at times. For instance if you 
 choose to be one type you will be scorned and will have to play the game from the sewers, mostly. 
 If you are one of the upper class vampires you will be able to charm people and will likely be 
 able to walk through many front doors. If you are the crazy vampire, all of your dialogue will 
 be confusing and you will hear voices from the audio.
  One of the best parts about the game is how well the world of Los Angeles Vampire world is set 
 up. You'll likely get into the story and the mysterious intrigue of The Masquerade more than you 
 expect, especially as an outsider to the game, like myself.
  The physics engine was the same one that they used for Half-Life 2, so you can interact with a 
 lot of things. Unfortunately collision detection is not perfect and the weight of everything, including 
 your own character just feel off. If you have a problem with floaty jumps and cinder blocks that 
 weigh the same as pop cans, then you will have issue with this game. Also if you do not like games 
 with dialogue, you will not like this game. Many choices and changes are made within dialogue.
 
  Fortunately the dialogue is one of the strong points. The story is good and the characters are 
 well imagined. It will get tedious to go back and have the same conversation you had half an hour 
 ago if you die, but you can save at any point, so this isn't often a problem.
  There are multiple ways to handle any situation, which draws you back and sometimes makes you want 
 to reload and try again. This makes the gameplay fun and will influence where you put your attribute 
 points and may even cause you to start again with a character that more suits you play style.
 
  Guns are useless and missions that involve them are frustrating at best. The physics are too loose 
 and the graphics are not cutting edge anymore. The gameplay style and story depth overcome these 
 issues, however. Just make sure to download all of the official patches. A recommended RPG experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panush
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Now, straight to business :)
  If you&acute; re into vampirism, goth stuff and such, this is the perfect game for you. Vampire 
 The Masquerade Bloodlines is a great fu*king game, even though it has a few flaws and a few glitches. 
 I agree, the melee fighting can be kinda lame sometimes, but as you play your part through the 
 game, and do it properly, youll get used to it, and at some moments you'll barely even notice it. 
 However, the ranged weapons part are great, and what's ever better, is the skills part. You'll 
 start with a few lame skills, such ass Night Ravens, which allows you to send a bunch of ravens 
 on your enemy to distract them, and many others. As you work your way through the game, you'll 
 gain level, and you gain experience points, that you give out to the many skills and attributes 
 you've got. You'll start in the city of Santa Monica, a small city in the US, but as you play the 
 game, you'll have the ability to travel to many other locations in search for mini-missions and 
 huge quests which sometimes can take hours to complete. Why not go kill a hooker? Why not break 
 an entry? The choice is yours. Vampire The Masquerade Bloodlines is an excellent game, and whats 
 even better, is that its freeform in certain ways. And what i mean by certain ways is that its 
 not 100% freeform, i mean you cannot break an entry on any house you see, that kind of way. But 
 that doesent stop you from starting a killingspree down the street, or go rob a store, of maybe 
 buy a couple of weapons. The graphics in this game are awesome, at least for being released in 
 2004, i think its using the same engine as Hl2. The environment is awesome, representing a near 
 real world, and im not joking around. At least for a game that was released in 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampericX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  First off even if you never played the first Redemption you will and can still play Bloodlines 
 . The story and gameplay are extremely addictive and great to look at. Several different way's 
 and plot's to choose from while playing and before you start. Can easily replay over and over again 
 and never tire. One of those game's you will play non stop for a week or two and then come back 
 to a year or two later and still want to and love to play. Worth every buck you might spend on 
 to play and or get your hands on. Was an instant classic the first day i played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrymonster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Many years ago WhiteWolf created arguably the best pen and paper system and along with it they 
 created a rich backstory and history to build an imaginary world comparable to an Anne Rice novel. 
 To this day the WhiteWolf universe has not spawned my games but what it has produced has always 
 had a plot and atmosphere for those of us who enjoy the dark mystery. Bloodlines is an excellent 
 example of what the world of Vampires has to offer as far as setting and gameplay. I will admit 
 straight off that this game requires the latest patches to play because it was shipped flawed but 
 once that little hurdle is surpassed there's a whole world of depth and enjoyment ahead.
  
  gameplay: i found that as far as any first person / overhead game goes this one has an excellent 
 engine. using guns makes this into a first person shooter, using fists or weapons makes it a slasher, 
 using stealth and a sniper rifle gives it a spy feel and magic adds that last element of an RPG. 
 which ever way you chose to play you will need to learn to combine not only your raw physical ability 
 as a gamer with an ability to successfully use your vampiric powers. and don't forget, you'll always 
 need to drink blood. :)
  
  atmosphere: there's no way around it, this game is very immersive. for the first time in my long 
 gaming career did i actually feel fear while playing certain levels. i was disturbed, i was intrigued, 
 i was enamored. the npc's are very engaging each with their own back story and plot that is associated 
 with the game. you get a good sense of how small communities of vampires may interact, dealing 
 with each other over hundreds of years or just going crazy. also the fact that you're always playing 
 at night never lets you forget that to enter the world of darkness is to leave behind the sun forever.
 
  
  plot: exceptionally crafted the plot involves you in the everyday lives of kindred. ofcourse their 
 lives are not as mundane as ours, their problems are never simple and never straightforward. one 
 simple thing always leads to a deeper mystery that inevitably puts you in a position to chose which 
 lunatic's side you prefer to be on. while the story is fairly linear your actions will dictate 
 the ending and some of your interactions with the npc's. the purpose of the story is for your character (not 
 just the pixels that you play but the deeper inner meaning behind the choices that you make) to 
 chose their eternal destiny, to make a binding moral choice. how will you play and what will your 
 fate be? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The game could be really great if not for its bug infestation. The animation while u having conversation 
 really great, u get the feeling that u actually having conversation with real people, Oblivion 
 then copy this (i think) except that oblivion got less word for u to choose from. Great storyline 
 and pack with many stories. The reason for u to keep playing is the story. The bad things about 
 this game, the bug, its the biggest problem, unless u patch the game u wont feel the real exciting 
 about this game. The combat with melee weapons seems good but some range weapons really suck. Hard 
 to control, whenever u shoot the gun will start to make extreme recoil. Only the flame thrower, 
 shotgun and pistols are good.
  
  This game really great, patch the game and u can start to play the game. Overall, this game is 
 a must have for Vampire The Masquerade fans and those who like great storyline and can forgive 
 its buggyness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHyde
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  After Redemption I'd sort of lost hope that any company could turn the tabletop roleplaying game 
 into a video game. Thankfully, Activision and Troika came through, albeit with a few problems along 
 the way.
  
  First off, I'd like to get the gameplay flaws out of the way. The flaw from the previous game that 
 wasn't corrected was combat. You still favor melee combat as opposed to using guns at any real 
 point in the game. In fact, it's easier to fight enemies with your bare fists instead of using 
 a sharp object. However, there have been so many improvements from the previous game. First, it's 
 no longer about some random knight from the dark ages. You take the center stage for the story. 
 While, there's no real customization in overall appearance in the game aside from outfits, you 
 can choose the sex of your vampire which is actually important to some degree. Instead of just 
 being a Brujah, you now have the option to select any of the seven clans from the Camarilla. Each 
 clan is given a specific bonus and a weakness. Some of the clans, especially the Malkavian and 
 Nosferatu, completely change the way you approach the game. At the start of the game you choose 
 your clan and sex. You're then free distribute points across a psuedo-character sheet that has 
 practically been ripped right from the rulebooks of the original roleplaying game. Throughout the 
 game when you're not in a combat zone, you're forced to uphold the laws of vampire society in not 
 revealing yourself to mortals. This means that you need to do creative things in order to feed 
 without being caught. Sometimes you mug a guy in an alley, other times you might convince someone 
 to join you. Your ability to do a lot of things such as persuasion, intimidation, and other social 
 related conversation options depends largely on your sex and level of skills you have. Certain 
 people require a higher level of skill than others. There are also responses you can give to people 
 that are discipline related such as using Dominate or Dementation to influence the conversation.
 
  
  The powers, while not completely staying true to the books, maintains the sort of functionality 
 that would be appropriate for video games. I spent quite a bit of time just developing certain 
 powers to see what their effects would be. The biggest thing about the gameplay that makes it so 
 fun is the interactivity that you have with the people around you. Unless you are in an elysium, 
 you can kill potential quest givers, thereby losing that part of the game. The Malkavian and Nosferatu 
 clans bear special note. Malkavians are all certifiably insane and because of it all of your conversation 
 answers are completely different than the other clans. It's almost a game to determine what the 
 right answer is to give to any one person. The Nosferatu, since they are all horrific to look at, 
 must use the sewers to travel about or risk breaking the Masquerade, thereby getting your character 
 killed by the Prince who is the leader of the city.
  
  The game looks pretty nice, but suffers from some collision issues. The characters look very lifelike 
 (as much as an undead person can anyway) and are pretty expressive. The environments themselves 
 this time around are smaller in scale, but much more detailed and alive. There are people roaming 
 the streets to interact with and many things to see and do.
  
  The sound in the game is utterly amazing. It has a dark, disturbing score that rivals Akira Yamaoka's 
 tracks in Silent Hill. The voice acting is terrific and you'll really get a feel for the characters. 
 There are even licensed music tracks that you can hear when you're in clubs (a CD comes with the 
 game including all of these tracks) . Sound effects are top notch too.
  
  There are multiple endings as before and the choice to go through the game with different clans 
 making it a challenge to play though the game multiple times. There are also several side quests 
 that you can take up if you don't feel like doing everything the main game has to offer. You'll 
 probably finish the game in roughly the same as the last, 10-12 hours.
  
  I feel that this game is far superior to the previous one. I found myself completely enthralled 
 with all the subtle little things that you can do in the game. One of the endings is considered 
 canon, so you know the game's script was supervised by the creators of the tabletop game. Only 
 minor issue I had was having to install the patch from the now defunct Troika. Fans have taken 
 it upon themselves to program patches for it so support for problems will likely come from them.
 
  
  The good: Excellent presentation, sound, and graphics, fairly open-ended gameplay, good replay 
 value.
  
  The bad: Combat still clunky, collision and frame rate problems here are there, patch required 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  I feel so sorry for Tro&iuml; ka, a sacrificed company who had the genius of crafting Arcanum and 
 this excellent Bloodlines. Those guys are real artists and deserve a place in the pantheon of pixelised 
 RPGs creators.
  
  With the official + the unofficial patch, Vampires II plays very nicely (if not perfectly) . Atmosphere 
 and game-play are a real success, a perfect blend of action and role-playing, with a zest of exciting 
 adventure.
  
  Perhaps because I am reaching the age of 40, and also because I own and have tested more than 300 
 PC games, I am more and more often disappointed by the aim-for-the-kids-wallet feeling of most 
 of the games released in the 21st century. But man, Bloodlines got much in store to please an adult 
 gamer. And that does not mean it's an erotic or uberviolent game, no (two subjects that by the 
 way, though adult rated, are more focused toward the teens) . Vampire vision of the world, its characters 
 attitudes, the game-play itself, feels mature and evolved. It's interesting, cleverly dark, set 
 in a complex and varied environment.
  
  Now, enough of this typing, I head straight back inside Bloodlines. I can't remember having been 
 so much hooked by a game since the first Deus Ex.
  See you... in a dark alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmbryoExMortiis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game ever, when I first bought it I played it for two days straight. This 
 is a must have for those who enjoy this kind of games and especially White Wolf's games and World 
 of Darkness based games. My personal favourite is the Malkavian because of the dialogs but I think 
 the Tremere is super powerful when it comes to combat, and the Nosferatu offers the best game-play. 
 You just have to try it, it's the Quake II of role playing games !!! The guys from Troika really 
 managed to create an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swr1ght
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I find it difficult to put into words how great and revolutionary this game was. Before Oblivion, 
 and before the soon to be released Hellgate: London, no game company was creating RPG's using a 
 First Person Shooter engine. In this case, they went with the Source engine, the same that created 
 the amazing Half-Life 2 game. The graphics in Vampire is not in the same league as the HL2, and 
 the quality of the graphics caused all kinds of problems with peoples systems when the game came 
 out. The fact is that unlike HL2, Troika really failed to optimize their game for the Source engine. 
 As such, when the game came out, even high end systems really had problems running it. Further 
 complicating the issue, the game was not complete and not properly tested, as such, before you 
 play the game you MUST patch it. There is literally a level about two-thirds of the way through 
 the game that cannot be beaten without patching. In spite of this, I have told every RPG fan that 
 I know that this is one of my top ten all time favorite games. The story is nothing short of amazing. 
 The character creation is simple, yet with substantial differences in game play between different 
 character bloodlines (think classes) . Some bloodlines are stealthy, some are fighters, one is a 
 mage, and some are specialized towards communication. In general, Troika did an excellent job of 
 balancing the game, without making it feel like you your choices do not matter.
  The FPS aspects of the game are the truly revolutionary aspects of the game. As your character 
 advances, and you spend experience raising your firearms skill and your attributes, you will the 
 recoil from weapons gets less and less, the crosshairs (the area in which any given bullet will 
 hit) will get smaller and smaller. Early in the game the more powerful guns are virtually unusable 
 because of the amount of recoil, and your characters inability to use the gun at any significant 
 range. What is interesting is that with melee and unarmed combat the game designers went in a totally 
 different direction. As your skill and attributes are raised, your character can do more damage, 
 and attack faster. While this may not seem significant, it is actually really intuitive, and very 
 realistic.
  Finally, I would like to mention that the year this game came out, it was awarded the Best Level 
 Design by Gamespot. Never heard of best level design? That is because that year Gamespot created 
 that award, just because they knew that this game, which only received a 7.7 from Gamespot, nonetheless 
 deserved to be credited with being one of the great games of the year. And I certainly agree with 
 them. The level that they mention in that award, the Haunted Hotel, is one of the most interesting, 
 most memorable, and just the spookiest level that I have ever played. It is simply an amazing level.
 
  With the necessary patches, and a system considerably more advanced then systems were when this 
 game came out, the game can be smooth and very fun to play, and still visually appealing.
  A definite recommend, and a great game. It is up there with Psychonauts as one of the greatest 
 games ever made, that no one you know has played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsylvester
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Just a note for Hydrofirex: the reason the game was abandoned by the developer, Troika Games, is 
 because they went out of business last year. That's unfortunate, because I know they released one 
 or two patches for another excellent, yet bug laden game, The Temple of Elemental Evil. However, 
 this game is simply great for the atmosphere itself. While the graphics may boast using the HL2 
 engine, they're not close to being as beautiful as that game, nevertheless, they look good. The 
 gameplay is more centered around exploration than it is gunplay or battles. It is where the game 
 falls short, as you've probably read a hundred times already. Simply put, this is an original, 
 fun and sexy RPG that should hold your attention for a spell... bugs and all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrofirex
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  A game that deserves a 10, but can only achieve a 1 in my book. This is due to the fact that the 
 developer decided to release an unfinished product which was unplayable. Two years later the developer 
 hasn't seen fit to fix really any of the problems in the game. This is one of those cases of ,'here 
 you go: we're not investing anymore money in this project.' Thankfully, fun updates have been tediously 
 worked on to the point that the game is finally a fully working vision of vampiric un-life.
  
  What a huge disappointment, becuase the game was visually stunning for it's time (still holds 
 up VERY well today) , as well as groundbreaking in terms of game mechanics. If you're a fan of RPG's, 
 vampires, or White Wolf I would definitely suggest checking this one out - just make sure to update 
 to the official patch, and then download and install the unofficial one as well.
  
  My only point of dissatisfaction with the game in itself would be the shoddy ending. All of the 
 alternate endings seemed so completely lacking, and you're locked into really only a few outcomes. 
 All you pretty much get is a 10 second clip and the classic The End. (I would like to note that 
 the only reason I spent so much time playing this game is becuase I had to restart it 3 or 4 times 
 from pretty far in points due to the need to install more updated version of the game. It is definitely 
 a testament to the game that I would put up with this and still complete it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  I was very anxious to play this game as soon as I heard of it. I played it two years ago and I 
 am planning to play it again. This is mainly because from the release date of the Vampire Bloodlines 
 since the present day I didn't find any other RPG title to be such intriguing as this one. Almost 
 all the new (and old, as well) RPG titles are proposing knights, dungeons, fantasy worlds etc. 
 Vampire Bloodlines have very promising premises: you are a vampire and the ordinary surrounding 
 world is full of vampire clans fighting each other to gain control over Los Angeles city. This 
 is one of the most strange, creepy and fascinating RPG game I ever played. The athmosfere is great 
 and sometimes superbly done though some levels are poor realised. The action is taking place in 
 a strange and freakish modern Los Angeles city and some locations in his suburbs. One of the scariest 
 levels I ever met in a videogame is The Haunted Mansion mission at the very beginning of the game. 
 If you are not fond of RPG's games, you have to play the first part of the game only for this mission, 
 but, after playing it, I bet you'll choose to play all the other missions too, wich by the way, 
 some are greatly realised, some are very poor. The graphics are excellent, the game being realised 
 on Source engine of Half Life 2 and it shows it without any doubt. You'll encounter some memorably, 
 complex and good looking characters in the game and especially a lot of hot, good looking vampire 
 girls. The developpers are trying and succesfully approaching on psichological aspects of the characters, 
 one of them has a double personallity (very exciting character) , this way adding more depth to 
 the interactions with the characters.
  The acting voice is well done, there are some great lines in the game.
  
  The bad parts of 
 this game are numerous as the good parts. Unfortunately, the developpers failed to put them in 
 a balance. It seems the developpers were unfortunately very rushed to release the game due to poor 
 financial situation of the Troika Games who have definitively closed the gates after the release 
 of the game. The game has numerous small bugs and glitches, but, if you can past over them, this 
 game could be a very interesting experience. The game has also several different endings, so, you 
 should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephrex
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I stumbled onto Bloodlines by chance picking it up at a bargain bin at my local EB. After the some 
 what lame intro sequence I hit the streets of LA and from then on I was hooked. The atmosphere 
 is astounding... its so dark and dirty. The sound track is great and really suits the games theme.
 
  I played this game non stop pretty much until I finished it... and now I'm about to start again. 
 It is such a shame Troika went bust! I would love to see another game like this. I had some issues 
 with bugs but patching the game seemed to resolve that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  As you may have heard, this game has some bug problems. Please dont let this put you off, as it 
 is a truly great RPG with style and depth that really deserves attention. For starters, there is 
 the rather cool world of The Masquerade that youre let loose in. The characters and clans you can 
 choose from are all equally interesting, and play very different roles throughout the game. Do 
 you be a brooding Brujah (i think thats how u spell it) and walk around owning people up with your 
 sweet brawling skills, or do you choose to be a Nosferatu, skulking in the sewers, unable to show 
 your deformed face but have the sneak and computer skills of no other. The different styles of 
 play from different races provide much replayability. You will probably want to play through this 
 game after first completion anyway as you will not see everything there is to see first time around. 
 Missions failed mean oppurtunities lost, and you are constantly presented with decisions to make, 
 all of which have an impact on your fate in the game. The melee combat is great fun, however the 
 same cant be said for the gunplay. Shooting feels unnatural as it is not entirely based on how 
 well you aim, but on your shooting skill, unlike Oblivion. The melee weapons are much more interesting 
 anyway, with katanas and baseball bats at your disposal, whereas the gun side lacks a little, with 
 generic pistols and shotguns. Levelling up your character in this game requires the completion 
 of missions. No grind here people, you dont even get experience for killing. There are hundreds 
 of main and side quests to be getting on with though, and all of them are varied and enjoyable. 
 The effort put into the missions is impressive, with things like creeping through a haunted house 
 and hacking into computers for data being commonplace. There isnt much 'go here kill this' tedium 
 in Bloodlines. Each mission has a distinct style and flavour, and the game never gets repetitive. 
 I think Bloodlines is one of the best FPS RPG's out there. The minor flaws never distract from 
 the utter greatness of this game, so get out there and get it.
  
  The Good - Great quests, and lots of em - Interesting characters and voice acting - Fun melee combat
 
  
  The Bad - Naff shooting combat - A few bugs - Graphics go from looking alright to plain bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Tapping into B-movie essentials, the vampires in Troika's latest RPG have all the stereotypical 
 trappings -- a penchant for melancholic rock and electronica, black nail polish, and senseless cleavage 
 bursting out from buttoned-down shirts. It's still nichey like the first game, but provides a memorable, 
 if not haunting, experience. Activision today confirmed that Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines 
 has been shipped to retail outlets throughout the US and Europe. Based upon the popular pencil and 
 paper role-playing game, Troika Games title is the first title outside of Valve to be developed 
 upon the powerful Source engine that powers Half Life 2 and Counter Strike: Source.
  
  Powered by Source - Valves next-generation engine technology, Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines 
 delivers the most authentic White Wolf World of Darkness&reg; experience yet, states Kathy Vrabeck, 
 President, Activision Publishing. Bloodlines has everything fans expect from a true RPG  deep 
 storyline, character development and interaction, exploration, multiple solutions to quests  combined 
 with all the benefits of a next-gen first-person action game, including beautiful graphics, fast-action 
 and first-person immersion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe93gt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I was initially very excited to play this game once I downloaded it (digital purchase) as I am 
 with every game I buy. However, this game is a big let down. Gameplay is pitiful. The constant 
 loads are monotonous and frequent. Every time you walk in or out of a building (which happens very 
 often) there's a 5 second load. Needless to say it gets old. Unarmed and melee fighting is very 
 juvenile and feels more like a turn based rpg than real time; okay, I get three hits and you get 
 three hits. You also can't attack someone when they are on the ground (who decided that the fighting 
 had to be fair?) . Even though there is no difficulty setting for this game, I find it hard to defeat 
 some enemies. Enemies have the ability to dodge a lot of your attacks but all you can do is grin 
 and bear theirs. You have to put all of your experience points into fighting and dodge just to 
 complete some quests. What does that leave for lockpicking and computer hacking, which are also 
 very important? Zip. Its the same with ranged weapons (guns) . It takes about 12-15 seconds to get 
 off 6 shots with the .38! The shotgun is no different, except its like 20 seconds for 6 rounds. 
 I don't know what kind of guns they have in LA but here in San Diego that 6-shooter would be empty 
 in about 2 seconds! This makes ranged combat almost useless. You should be able to walk up to someone 
 and pump 6 rounds into their gut in less time than it takes to say the title of this game. The 
 graphics suck at best. Don't confuse graphics with art though. Everyhting is drawn pretty well, 
 but the game is buggy (twitchy) from blood on the ground to grafitti on the walls, at least on 
 my computer. I've also got a fairly decent system and the game runs like **** Sound is okay, nothing 
 special here, but not bad.
  
  I paid $30 for this game. I hope somebody else won't make the same mistake. Borrow it from a buddy 
 if he was unlucky enough to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jshaw71
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  When VtM: bloodlines came out i heard about it's problems right away, but i decided to pick up 
 the game anyways, stability and some gameplay issues aside, i found the game to be very engrossing, 
 i have not really finished the first chapter quite yet, but the game is very interesting, with 
 tons of voice acting by what sounds like undiscovered top notch talent, i hope these voice actors 
 were payed before trokia went bankrupt , the game has a sick sense of humor that is everywhere 
 from character interactions, to a radio call in show that has some of the best dialouge, all in 
 all, check your bargin bins ppl, this game is worth, looking at, I hope you enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics with non linear gameplay, offering endless hours of fun. Lots of unique 
 missions and weapons. Good upgrading system, open ended charecter development. Great game which 
 i had a lot of fun with and got it for 20 dollors and don't regret spending the money.
  
  The Bad: Clumsy combat system favors melee over firearms; some graphical glitches; a few stability 
 issues. Had the potential to be one of the greatest pc games but was overly rushed which a few 
 extra months in development could of fixed. I would of given it in the high 90's if it wasn't as 
 buggy which made gameplay quite hard at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Value
  To put it simply i bought this game knowing all the bugs it had, i brought it home and took it 
 out of its case, inserted it into the computer and after 2 days of trying to make it work and get 
 everything into place you know what... it was so worth it
  
  Graphics
  The best part about this game is the graphics, even though being released in 2004 does not make 
 this a worse game at the least. This game has some of the most revolutionary facial expressions 
 out to date and i think it will remain that way for a long time... it is as though it just came 
 out yesterday.
  
  Game play
  The Game play has a story line that doesnt disappoint, being a new vampire to this unknown culture 
 really gave me satisfaction to know i was beating up these 200 yeah old god like vampires with 
 ease. They also bring some strategic moments into the piece.
  
  Music
  It has a good mix of music threw out different environments which allows for easy awareness of 
 what youv just got yourself into, what people your hanging around, the hole works.
  
  This game is a masterpiece dont let it pass by just cause it was made in 2004 its not even noticeable. 
 The only bad thing i can say about this game is getting it to run, but after that its an amazing 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines allowed the player to assume the role of a new vampire from 
 one of seven clans. The game was slightly different based upon the chosen clan.
  
  As a vampire, the player accomplished various tasks for other vampires, sometimes for those related 
 through the Embrace, and sometimes from those outside the clan. Accomplishing the tasks would earn 
 the player experience points which could be used to improve various skills including lock picking, 
 computer hacking, and marksmanship.
  
  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines was fairly non-linear in that the player could choose who 
 to align himself with, and could decide which missions to undertake. Each decision would ultimately 
 affect outcome of the game.
  
  The music in Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines included an original score, as well as tracks 
 from bands including Ministry, Lacuna Coil, and Chiasm.
  
  What made Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines so much fun was the incredible open-endedness. 
 With so many individual decisions to be made by the player, no two run-throughs would be alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 13, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever wondered how a life (or death) as a vampire could be, V: TM-B has an interesting 
 and intruiging answer.
  
  From the very beginning of the game you have to deal with the classic paradox of the vampire myth 
 - what separates the vampires from other predators and beasts? Is it possible to be a good vampire, 
 when your very existense depends on the life and blood of humans? Without giving any straight answers, 
 the story itself will let you choose your path through intelligent conversations, and some situations 
 which can be solved in more than one way - but don't forget your combat skills, as those are absolutely 
 necessary to complete the game, unfortunately.
  But when V: TM-B is at its best, the stories and plots are at a level few other games have achieved. 
 The dilemmas and the darkness of this game is perfectly balanced in most aspects, and compared 
 to other similar games, Troika made a point out of avoiding the clich&eacute; s. At least the bad 
 ones.
  
  Combat is - well... remember AD&amp; D based games? Combine the random nature of most dice based 
 roleplaying games with FPS style gameplay, and you have fights which can go either way, with only 
 your special vampire powers to sway the battle. As most of the tougher opponents have these powers 
 as well, be prepared for some annoying boss battles from time to time.
  
  Its unfortunate that the game is powered by a beta version of the Source engine, as the bugs really 
 become annoying from time to time. Once I was given the task to kill a fledgling cabal vampire 
 (in the beginning of the game) but was unable to select any weapons (making the task impossible) 
 - starting over solved the problem; but expect frequent weird graphical and AI related problems. 
 (As 'floating heads and eyeballs', opponents turning the back on you - staring intensly at the 
 wall in the middle of a fight, troublesome pathfinding for NPCs etc. etc.)
  
  Its a bit sad that the game has to fight with these problems, especially considering that the voice 
 acting - for the most part - is brilliant. The dialogue options varied and intelligent, the story/stories 
 is in my top 10 list of best stories in PC gaming and the texture work and details of the vampire 
 world is at a level beyond the competiton.
  
  You could call this a 'Diamond in the rough'... unfortunately the rough around this diamond sometimes 
 makes the game unplayable (which makes frequent saving a must) - but if you have the patience and 
 persistense, this game will not leave you dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kastanok
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  I have perhaps spent far to long playing this game over the past couple of weeks.
  
  Vampires : Masqurade - Bloodlines (That's far too long... I'm calling it Vamp2) is a PC game set 
 in a dark, alternate world from the pen-and-paper RPG by White Wolf. You are a newly sired vampire, 
 thrust into the politics and danger of Los Angeles. As you try to pay off your debt of continued 
 existence to the local head-honcho and also do your best not to annoy the wrong people (or annoy 
 them, if you're rather suicidal) you find yourself sinking deeper into biblical mythology and whisperings 
 of the apocalypse. Big stuff.
  
  The city's supernatural are positivly buzzing with rumours and speculation as a transport ship 
 floats in on the evening tides, nothing remaining of its crew save several bloody smears. Not only 
 this, but an ancient sarcophogus, possibly even the resting place of Caine (brother of Abel, mythical 
 first vampire) . I imagine you've been wondering who the illustrated red-head is. Just look at that 
 beauty... her name is Velvet and she's the sweetest, most sensitive little vampire stripper you'll 
 ever be lucky enough to meet. I decided against introducing you to Janette - she's a little too... 
 well, slutty to be perfectly honest.
  
  What's the point of talking about a couple of the lovely ladies gracing Vamp2? Nothing really. 
 I just like them. But there is some wonderful dialogue associated with indeed all the characters 
 in this game. Many respond diferently depending on your clan (of which there are seven) or gender. 
 The crazed Malkavian clan's genius ramblings are particularly fun to read. Sadly... your own responses 
 are incredibly limited and it doesn't seem to matter WHAT you say to the key characters - one way 
 or another you'll do what they want you to. As pivotal as you are to the plot and for all the appearances 
 of choice you're given, you could very well give your employers the finger and you'd still end 
 up doing their dirty business.
  
  Talking's not the only thing you do, of course, though it can get you out of a pinch. Over the 
 course of the game you have access to an incredible range of weapons. Melee options range from 
 hard fists to katana and sturdy sledgehammers, while ranged items... erm... range from little pea-shooter 
 pistols to bleedin' automatic shotguns and flamethrowers. No heavy weaponary, mind you. Even with 
 such a marvelous range of firearms, ranged combat is... well, boring. Lackluster. Almost clinical. 
 Melee combat is fun - each hit really packs a punch - but combat gets very repetative. Where the 
 action really shines is actually in stealth, would you believe it. Creeping along the roof girders 
 of a warehouse while a dozen rabid cultists stalk around below you... ah, hell, who cares?! You're 
 a vampire!
  
  Vamp2 could have been so great but it lacks polish. It was delayed for two months until Half Life 
 2 came out, so Troika had extra time to clear up errors like bad spelling and characters talking 
 about things they shouldn't know about. However, it was decided to go gold early. It really is 
 a shame because this is quite possibly the best modern-set roleplaying game. Actually... now I 
 think about it, its possibly the only one. But it's still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerd_rock_riot
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  So I played, stopped, sold, rebought, played, stopped, then finished.... so I've seen the game 
 a fair amount. So i can give a reasonably educated opinion....
  
  Graphics: Good looking, but not stellar, Great Character animation, Some flickering textures, Sluggish 
 Performance and loading times
  Sound: Some end up being a little repetitive and the guns sound like like cheap toys.... Music 
 is kick ass
  Gameplay: Guns are completely useless (except the colt and the deagle) stick to bladed weapons 
 the entire game unless the mission requires otherwise, other than the combat the controls and gameplay 
 mechanics are great, but the combat sucks because its an action rpg
  Value: I felt better buying it used at twenty five than I did at forty new, but if you complete 
 all the side quests and the main you could be playing for a while.... all in all it was a good 
 purchase
  Tilt: With the four endings, the many different types of Vampire classes, and the multiple ways 
 of completing the quest, its a lot of fun, and the story and the writing and the characters are 
 really **** good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImJohnnyKnoxvil
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  If you are reading this review it is mostly likly you are really thinking about dropping the cash 
 to buy this game and let me just say do it! This game is like a KOTOR/Elder scrolls in most ways 
 so if you are a fan of them or atleast find them enjoyable and maybe sometime you said hmm it would 
 be badass to be a vampire wouldnt it then this game is for you. First thing i should point out 
 is the story which is great and really makes you want to just keep playing and playing all night 
 long. Second the graphics are pretty good no where near HL2 but you can see where some textures 
 have some HL2 in them but in the end it still looks great. (check KOTOR 1 graphics) . Last but not 
 least controls which is something i happen to see around the fourms for this game and even in the 
 review from gamespot saying they are clumsy which is totally not true feels the same to me as KOTOR 
 did. Also make sure you patch all the way up to 2.9 or atleast 2.1 because it is very glitchy in 
 some spots and with out patchs it can alsmost be unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJD-sin4profit
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game during it's prodection for awhile. Though i waited for the price 
 to drop before i wanted to try it out, i broke down and bought it for around $30 and finished it 
 recently. The game started off on a bad start for me as i watched the poorly animated cutscenes. 
 Animation throughout the game killed the mood as i had to go into first person view just so i wouldn't 
 have to watch my character's, lets say akward looking, walk cycle. As far as the graphics go in 
 the game, they make better screenshots then anything else as the animation needed alot of work 
 or just more capable hands.
  
  The combat in the game is pretty horrible at first, though once your character becomes stronger 
 and deals with enemies a lot easier this becomes less of a nuisance and lets you focus more on 
 the better half of the game, the quests and the story. It's political tangle of a story was interesting 
 enough to keep me playing through the game, the characters were interesting enough to make the 
 quests enjoyable to play through.
  
  The glitches in the game were plentiful... the only gameplay glitch that annoyed me, however, was 
 the fact that my controls would constantly lock up. This was a serious problem in the boss fights, 
 as you could imagine. The other gameplay glitch served to help me in the game as i could sneak 
 right up under an enemy's face and either kill them by bleedin them with my bite or manuver around 
 back of'em and stealth kill'em, which for me is always satisfying no matter what game ya play. 
 From the Sabbot HQ til the end i played the game this way. This did slow the game to a crawl, but 
 as unsatisfying as the combat was i was just trying to get the game over and done with.
  
  In the end i thought the best part of the game would have to have been the story and my feeling 
 of involvment in that story but looking back it's disapointing to see that the game did have a 
 lot of good ideas that were better suited for a more capable development company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines 07-03-06
  
  Ill admit I am not up to the times with this review, as Vampire was released in late 2004 and 
 I write this article in July 2006. As you can imagine, I have read many articles concerning Vampire 
 over the span of these near-two years, most of which grind the game for its lackluster use of the 
 Source engine and innumerable bugs/glitches. So my expectations, as to be expected, were quite 
 low when I found a jewel-case copy resting for $8.99 at EB Games (I had actually been waiting to 
 find a copy for this price: I was unwilling to fork over $25 for a game so panned by the media) . 
 Holy **** was I wrong. Almost instantly I was sucked into the vast storyline of vampires vs. vampires 
 (and the occasional human vs. vamp) with the necessary blood feuds, rivalries, and the Camarilla, 
 a has-been vampire government. You play as one of seven clans (races) , each with its particular 
 statistical and actual-world benefits/detractors. The Nosferatu, for example, are unable to utilize 
 the taxi system, and their text options are drastically differing due to their grotesque appearance. 
 I chose the Brujah, a clan with a focus of hand-to-hand violence. Players commence in Santa Monica, 
 California with optional instruction from a character resembling a certain old man from the Blade 
 movies. The tutorial gives you a chance to get to know the basic controls, such as sneaking and 
 attacking, and the not-so-normal skill feeding, where players recharge their health and blood (mana) 
 by sucking the blood from hobos, prostitutes, and rats.
  br /&gt;
  br /&gt;
  Running parallel the immediacy of the games amazing story are Vampires flaws. In betwixt each 
 area (houses, rooms, locations, etc.) , the game must load data, which takes anywhere from five 
 to sixty seconds; completely ridiculous considering both the games engine and the fact that the 
 graphics are nothing to write home about. Clipping, disappearing/flickering graphics and textures, 
 annoying audio flaws, and general waste of Valves Jesus-like Source engine are all evident within 
 five minutes, which leads me to believe that either Troika licensed a beta version of Source (unlikely) 
 or their transition from 2D RPGs such as Arcanum to 3D titles was met with a lack of knowledge 
 and understanding concerning the said technology (more likely) . Whatever the reason, Vampires 
 overall appearance is seemingly based off 2002 technology; in summation, Troika wasted ungodly 
 amounts of money and time with Source because they easily couldve obtained the Quake III engine 
 with better results. And not even the graphics feel like soggy turd; virtually all of Sources 
 great features are emaciated. The cakewalk speech-mouth movement system fails to match the two 
 with success: it feels like a dubbed Asian karate flick. While the voice acting is above and beyond 
 98% of any other game, 2004 or now, it remains annoying to see something that couldve been easily 
 fixed. The physics are also utterly worthless. We all know what Source can do with physics, having 
 seen, played, or heard about Half-Life 2s Gravity Gun, so, rightfully, we expected Vampires physics 
 to be great, or even play an integral part in the game. Nope. Integration of physics is horrid 
 at best; they play no part in the game excepting the jiggle of the female bosom and only serve 
 to humor curious players for all of 3-21.7 seconds. Honestly, the only part of Vampire which harnesses 
 Source to any beneficial (or competent) effect is water, with its ultra-realistic textures and 
 movements. Any other technical aspect of this game, sound excluded, can be considered a waste, 
 or, again at best, tolerable. And lastly, the game suffered many crashes, most of which restarted 
 my computer, and these mainly occurred when feeding (a common occurrence, assuming vampires live 
 on blood) . The 1.2 patch fixes some of these crashes, but not all.
  br /&gt;
  br /&gt; 
  More importantly to RPGers, naturally, is the story, leveling, and stat system. Beginning with 
 the latter, the stat system is a normal affair with experience points being awarded at the conclusion 
 of quests. I wouldve preferred a system a la Morrowind/Oblivion wherein utilization of the skills 
 improves them, as this would have tied a little better with the overall approach of the game, but 
 the implemented method operates and is entertaining. There are the normal skills, such as hacking 
 and strength, and clan-specific proficiencies which can be leveled accordingly. And lastly, the 
 story is a phenomenal campaign sprawling Santa Monica, Downtown, Hollywood, Chinatown, and many 
 other side locations including random forays into the sewers. Throughout every quest I was purely 
 enthralled and captivated by the tale of urban vampirism, which included rich characters and truly 
 entertaining missions. I wont spoil any of the details if youve never played Vampire, and if 
 you have, then you know to what I am referring.
  br /&gt;
  br /&gt;
  In conclusion, Vampire is a great RPG which uses a fabled engine with lackluster results. The story 
 is a tale of grandeur and will be enjoyed by vampire fanatics and the undead-haters alike. While 
 the technical issues detract significantly from the atmosphere, if you dont go into Vampire expecting 
 to be blown away by Source, then you will uncover an excellent game. br /&gt;
  br /&gt;
  Highs: Amazing story; interesting environs; never becomes boring
  Lows: Crashes are horrendously 
 annoying; graphical/sound glitches; Source implementation is embarrassing
  
  Scoring
  Time Value: 99% Graphics: 70% Overall: 90%
  Price Value: 95% Sound: 97% Performance: 80% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TorOeksendal
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 12, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Already in the opening video of this rpg, you get the sense that this game is deeper than the usual, 
 and for me, it kept me glued to the screen until the end of the game. The characters are interesting, 
 the music is the best and helps maintain the gothic feeling of the game. The quests are most often 
 very well composed and often surprises and frightens you. When creating a character, you choose 
 from the different races of the Vampire rpg-world. I played as a Ventrue, the leader-race of Vampire-society. 
 The great rpg experience and level-up point system as well as the talk-mode reminds me of Fallout, 
 which is not surprising since Troika made the game, and I sincerely hope this tradition lives on 
 (fallout 3 too hopefully..) , as this appeals to me. You will have to spend the experience-points 
 carefully though, the game has some hard enemies.
  
  The game has a very dark and creepy feel to it, so it is not for everyone. You won`t survive here 
 unless you`re cold enough to suck blood of a strangers neck.
  
  Lacuna Coil and Tiamat have some great sound-tracks here, the other sound tracks are also great.
 
  
  The graphics are neat, the environment of the night-towns, the clubs etc. is generally interesting 
 and enjoyable, which is important as you will have to do a bit of walking back, forth and around 
 to solve the quests.
  
  As for the combat system, II found the sneak and kill-method a bit too easy compared to the man 
 to man fighting. I can`t say I totally agree with th critics saying the combat system is very clumsy. 
 It works quite well with me.
  
  Just one thing to say, this game warms my heart.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game has awakened the vampire inside me. I decided to play a stealthy character compared 
 to my usual tank characters in other RPG games I've played. The vampire theme makes this so much 
 better. Using the special power that renders my character invisible, I get a thrill taking out 
 bad guys without them having a shadow of a doubt that their life is going to end by my fangs.
 
  
  Okay, point is I love this game. While its not the graphical equivalent of Half-life 2, which is 
 also based on the Source engine, it still rocks. Graphics aren't everything in games in my opinion, 
 and this game shows this. Fighting is clunky yes, like gamespot says, but its still fun. I approach 
 each game with an open mind and details like this one don't even bother me.
  
  Quests are fun to play, with great variety. Exploration is suggestive but itsbetter to follow the 
 main quest and side quests, they seem to lead to all areas eventually. No point in sneaking around 
 in Hospital in Santa Monica before taking in the 2 or 3 quests that ask you to do the same thing. 
 Plus quests items only spawn when the quest begins.
  
  Characters models have great variety and storyline so far is great. Dialogue choices are varied 
 and perks, skills and other stats add replay value to the game. Myself, once I'm done the main 
 quest, I don't see the point of playing through it again. Not many games get replay value with 
 me. This one might.
  
  ... mivanc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Like Vampires? Want to be one? Like the Pen and Paper version of Masquerade? Well, here's a game 
 for you!
  
  Graphics: Pretty good, espeically on a decent computer. This game was made in 04, so it has pretty 
 good graphics, even for today. With the option of going First Person, or Third Person, this game 
 plays to both likes. Lighting and area effects are well done, as well as water.
  
  Sound: Very good. I like the fact that it has a semi-rock soundtrack to get your dead blood pumping. 
 I really like the fact that each area has its own type of music. Very nice touch.
  
  Playability/Replayability: As before mentioned, this game caters to both FPS fans and Third person 
 fans. The replayabilty is wonderful, dialogue and reactions of NPC's changing with gender and clan 
 as well. There are a lot of different paths to choose, making this game semi-open ended. Yes, you 
 have to do some quests, but that's only because you need to advance the plot somehow. Forgivable, 
 I think.
  
  Poor Multi-player. Yes, I know that there is a little muti-player in this game. At least that's 
 what I've been told. No, you can't team up, there's only a basic Deathmatch type game. A real down 
 side to this otherwise great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x3lnaga86
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  FYI: I am an undead fan.
  
  Just went out and bought a copy of this game at my local gamestop. I was intrigued by the games 
 first entry and the review for the sequel sounded ok, I really thought this would blow me away.
 
  
  I went through the character creation and it seemed half-assed to me b/c I didnt even get to CREATE 
 MY AVATAR, it just gives you one if your male or female.
  
  Well the problems just began, and after 2 more hours of boring and bull**** talk about vampires 
 that are not allowed to drain their victims of their blood and other crap about vampires are immune 
 to silver and such, just seemed to me that the developer didn't really give in much to the PLOT 
 OF VAMPIRES IN THE 21st CENTURY at all.
  
  There are countless I mean freakin countless amount of glitches even after the patch, so many that 
 if you just try to run the stairs at the START OF THE GAME youll see, and the first cutscene in 
 the game has my AVATARs arm go through the wall and boxes -_-. I really cant explain how crappy 
 this game really is until you unfortunately have played or bought this game. Words really cannot 
 explain this abomination for a game based on HALF-LIFE2 ENGINE?? LOL.
  
  It is the wee hours of the night, about 3:14 a. m. and Im totally pissed that I just spent 50 bucks 
 on this game.... this should have costed me 20 b/c thats how much I think its worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Alot of different views and opnions on vampires and how they would adapt with humans in a real 
 life. I think the story is great and very detailed game play. I love the atmosphere in this game. 
 The soundtrack is awsome. The side quest and missions in the game. The character life or npc are 
 good. I love this game and still play it today. The different character's to choose to play and 
 how you must retain your thirst for humans is all good. The sneaking around dark atmosphere is 
 great. Every npc has a personality of its own. Up close interaction with the main characters in 
 the game are very cool. Using your skills to change the effect it has on the game. Its a great 
 game and deffenitly worth to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  If you like atmospheric action/rpg games, you will not be dissapointed in Bloodlines. It's based 
 on White Wolf's pen-and-paper RPG series, some may also remember a short tv series called Kindred: 
 The Embraced, and some books set in the same world.
  
  The game starts by creating your character in a traditional RPG style, you can choose from 7 different 
 clans, which differ from powerfull and mostrerous Nosferatu to aristocratic and elegant Ventrue. 
 This choise will affect the rest of the game. Then you distribute the given points to skills you 
 want and start playing. 
  
  After creating your character, you will watch a cutscene where the player is turned into a vampire, 
 that is the beginning for a great and immersing story taking place in the streets of Los Angeles. 
 Even tho most missions are very linear, the game involves plenty of wandering around freely, very 
 open-ended character development, and several different endings.
  
  Bloodlines uses Half-Life 2's graphic engine, and it shows, the world is beautifull, L. A has never 
 looked better, and neither have the sexy vampire chicks the game introduces, or the monsters you 
 will be fighting. 
  
  The sounds are also great, voice acting is again great, all dialogue will be spoken, and by good 
 voice actors. The combat sounds, voices in the dark sewers ect. all contribute greatly to the games 
 already intense atmosphere. The game also involves some great music.
  
  The missions vary a lot, and luckily most of them are very interesting. Some of them are just brilliant, 
 like the Ocean House level where you will wander around in a haunted hotel, it's one of the scariest, 
 and definately THE MOST atmospheric gaming moment ever. Not to mention encounters with werewolfs, 
 zombies and other nasty things you will meet during the game.
  
  The gameplay is very good, only the shooting leaves something to hope for. Weapons are underpowered, 
 and shooting accurately is difficult unless you have maximum points in the aiming skill. The game 
 is best played with melee weapons, it's much easier and more fun, even tho flamethowers and such 
 are handy in boss fights, and zombies are best blown away with shotgun. In other aspects the gameplay 
 is fun, sneaking, melee combat, special powers and sucking blood from enemies or people to replenish 
 you energy are all well done. Tho the game could had used more melee weapons of different kind.
 
  
  Bloodlines has gotten lots of critic for its stability, but atleast for me the game was perfect, 
 not a single crash or a glitch that I noticed. Propably thanks to the patches. And the game ran 
 perfectly on my 6600GT, and the loading times were swift. No complaints from me here.
  
  Also the difficulty level is near perfect, you will be challenged, but not frustrated. Tho people 
 playing with characters using ranged weapons might find it a tad bit more difficult than those 
 rampaging the game through with a melee combatant, especially in boss fights the difference is 
 obvious.
  
  The trademark for this game is its dense atmosphere and brilliant missions. There is simply no 
 excuse for not experiencing one of the best games ever made. It offers so many unforgettable moments, 
 very addictive story and gameplay spiced with beautifull graphics, you'd be crazy not to give it 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilano
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  first of all i want to say that this game is so cool it just feel so good to hurt somebody with 
 a fire axe.
  
  good : good graphics , excellent combat , tons of dialogues , tons of side quests to do in the 
 city , i just keep playing this game it never gets old
  
  bad: if you use firearms its a bit clumsy , many bugs , no multi player
  
  information : you 
 can choose out of 14 characters al with different dialogues. 7 boys and 7 girls .
  there are 7 clans.
  you can go to 4 city's in L. A. like Santa Monica, Downtown, Hollywood, Chinatown 
 and some area's where you need to go for a quest like on a boat and several houses.
  you can use your fists or bats and fire axes or shotguns,...
  you can buy things and sell things 
 in shops.
  you can go to nightclubs to dance yes you heard me you can dance
  there are hookers who give their neck to you for money.
  
  conclusion : a great game but troika 
 games isn't there anymore so i hope that doesn't mean that there won't be a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximum_maximus
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  I am presently playing VTM Bloodline, and I am totally enjoying the experience. I was a little 
 skeptical about getting VTM when I first heard of it simply because of all the other failed attempts 
 by others to create a good vampire game. As time passed and I got more information on VTM I decided 
 to get it, and I could not be any more pleased about that decision. I can go into details about 
 what you can expect of VTM Bloodline; however there is simply too much that I would like to say 
 about how great this game is. There are a few, very few things that could have been done a little 
 differently such as the combat system which greatest failing is the lack of any type of enemy lock-on 
 system whatsoever, however simply because of how well everything else works and how great the graphics 
 and audio are, you will undoubtedly overlook these minor shortcomings. As I said before, I could 
 go on and on about VTM Bloodline but would only be repeating much of what you may have read from 
 other reviews and I do not want to waist your time. I will say that Vampire the Masquerade Bloodline 
 is by far the best vampire RPG that I have ever had the pleasure of playing, this game is a hit, 
 an instant classic, and one which you will undoubtedly enjoy to no end for many, many hours. I 
 totally recommend VTM Bloodline, and am looking forward to the next installment in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayjoh
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade Bloodlines is a Action-RPG, in which you play a vampire (you choose the 
 clan youself) who is newly 'embraced' and thrust into the vampire underworld of Los Angeles. All 
 is not well though, and you soon find out that there is a bitter struggle going on between the 
 different political factions of the L. A. vampires. 
  
  You start off as a pretty crappy vampire, with no really great skills, apart from being able to 
 suck blood from humans and rats. You have to work your way up in the different factions (whichever 
 you choose) following the games storyline.
  
  Gameplay: You see you character from behind when you run around (you can view in 1st person, but 
 I wouldn't recommend it) , and it plays a lot like other actiongames, albeit the controls are a 
 bit clunky. You explore L. A. at night, and do battle with thugs, monsters and other vampires. To 
 do this, you have some weapons at your disposal (weapons are found or purchased) . Baseball bats, 
 katanas and a variety of firearms (The katana is by far the best weapon in the game, and almost 
 all the firearms are vastly underpowered) .
  Combat is pretty tricky in this game because of the difficult controls. When you melee-attack someone, 
 you are going to have a hard time keeping track of where they are, and most of the time you just 
 smash around, hoping to hit them somehow. This kinda ruins the illusion of the classic graceful 
 vampire. That being said, combat is still pretty fun with the katana, especially when you're fighting 
 weaker opponents. They tend to fly quite a distance when you slash them open, which is always good 
 for a laugh or two. 
  When you're not fighting the creatures of the night, you are conversing with people, which is also 
 a major part of Bloodlines. A lot of conversations are really cool, not to mention funny, and depending 
 on what clan and political faction you are, you will recieve different reactions and answers from 
 the people you talk to.
  There is also a double-stealth side to Bloodlines. The first is the obvious one, where you sneak 
 around in the dark (although this is seldom required) killing enemies and stuff. The other is that 
 which is call The Masquerade. The Masquerade is basically what keeps the vampire community a secret 
 the humans. The masquerade can be broken if you do some cool vampire stuff infront of humans, and 
 doing so will be punished by other vampires from close and afar. 
  
  Graphics: The game utilises an early version of the Source-engine. Which means that the graphics 
 are allright, but far from being spectacular. Apparently, the fact that it is only an early version 
 of the source engine, causes stability problems on some systems, although I haven't had any, yet. 
 There are some nice textures in the game, but there are also quite a few mediocre ones, which really 
 don't belong in a game from 2004. There are also significant slowdowns, even though my system is 
 far above the recommended requirements. 
  
  Sound: Pretty good voicework, and some cool licensed music make the game shine here. Although some 
 of the sound effects are not really that great, the quality is overall pretty good.
  
  Final comments: Bloodlines is a good game, but it misses a few aspects that could have been added 
 to great effect. For example: Why can't you dress your own vampire? This would have been really 
 cool. I was horrified when I saw that my badass gangrel vampire wore a hockey shirt, which read 
 Sycosis on the back. I want to be able to dress my vampire so that he looks like one, dammit! Also 
 for an RPG the storyline is rather linear, you first really make a choice on where you belong in 
 the last hour or so of the game. 
  
  If you like vampires and RPG's you should definately check this out. However, be prepared for a 
 game that feels like it was rushes a little to much and could have done with some deeper gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crisy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE this game!! Sure it has a few bugs here and there, but the latest patch seemed to fix that. 
 After spending a few minutes reloading the game, patch installed.... it was great. The overall story 
 was great and had you wondering what would happen next!! The ending really surprised me, and it 
 made me laugh a bit and agree with what happened. You even seem to get attached to certain characters 
 in the game. It was like a really great book that you can't stop reading! It is re-playable MANY 
 times over! I find myself waiting for another installment in the Vampire the Masquerade legacy! 
 If you haven't played this game.... YOU SHOULD!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HUSS06
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Although the game has it's shortcomings it never fails to fails to amaze! From vampire mobs to 
 some very interesting characters and a creative satiric style storyline this modern RPG is close 
 to having it all! There's a word for games like that: "Brilliant!" Sure the combat system is kinda 
 clunky, but you're offered a wide variety of weapons; from shotguns to sledgehammers; and powers 
 for you to be creative and use your imagination and preform the ultimate kill. Be it a stealthy 
 stab in the back, or a loud and gory gunfight. As for the stability, the game might have been prematurely 
 released before a thorough check for bugs and problems that may occur. Luckily game-spot offers 
 a wide range of official and un-official patches and mods for you to improve your gaming experience. 
 All in all the game in my opinion was under-rated so here's my review to try to set things straight! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuiweha
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Very realistic and a lovely storyline and interesting characters and wonderful Graphics 
  I enjoyed the game very much but even with the Patch the are serious bugs which seriously flaw 
 the game play Thats why it get 8 
  Apart from that the Facial expressions of the characters was a great plus 
  Also i did the use 
 of vugal language - makes it more realistic.
  But you have to patient with the loading times (it takes almost forever)
  Also demands a lot 
 from your PC
  Good al round game thou a bit easy
  
  Very realistic and a lovely storyline and interesting characters and wonderful Graphics 
  I enjoyed 
 the game very much but even with the Patch the are serious bugs which seriously flaw the game play 
 Thats why it get 8 
  Apart from that the Facial expressions of the characters was a great plus 
  Also i did the use 
 of vugal language - makes it more realistic.
  But you have to patient with the loading times (it takes almost forever)
  Also demands a lot 
 from your PC
  Good al round game thou a bit easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcboogs
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  All in all, I thought this was an excellent game. The story is very well thought out with a lot 
 of interesting characters and the atmospheric qualities of the game are some of the best I have 
 ever seen in an RPG. It wasn't without shortcomings, however, as the combat system as many reviewers 
 have noted really favors melee ahead of the ranged weapons, despite having a plethora of fun to 
 use guns. I didn't experience any stability issues, however I played it about two years after its 
 release after major problems had been fixed.
  The atmosphere of the game is where it really shines. The Source engine obviously allows for excellent 
 eye candy, but the work of the artists comes to play throughout, as the gritty underground Vampire: 
 The Masquerade world really comes to life. 
  The game does as good a job as any I have played at forcing you to really feel like you are in 
 an alien world, which you are as you play a fledgling vampire. You are never quite sure who to 
 trust, what NPC motives are, and the layers of the vampire world peel back to always reveal darker 
 and more sinister developments. Throughout the game you never really feel as if you are in control 
 of events - you are clearly a pawn of other forces. This makes the game very compelling as the 
 perspective of your PC is supposed to be that of a rookie or fledgling vampire, thrust into a hidden 
 world that is hidden from mortals. 
  The NPC characters are well fleshed out and fun to interract with. The game doesn't pretend to 
 be fully open ended (although the character development is) , and this allows NPCs to be much more 
 fully realized as per the authors' vision. I personally appreciate this very much, as it reminds 
 me somewhat of Planescape: Torment in the way the game feels more like a novel that you are playing 
 through than a game.
  I say it's a mustplay for RPG fans, particularly since it can be bought cheaply in stores or even 
 downloaded from Direct2Drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Immortal_Zarok
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Vampire bloodlines takes you into the life of the undead a game that lets you experience what it 
 is to be a vampire sucking the blood of the living to sustain yourself with several different clans 
 to pick from all with their own set of vampire powers from transforming into a beast to dark magic 
 that causes the target to float into the air and explode with all their blood and gut flying all 
 over the place
  
  Vampire bloodlines allows you to go into their world different people and vampires may react to 
 you differently depending on your clan from the gangrel animalistic vampires with a close bond 
 to the beast within to the malkavians who are incurably insane or even the tremere blood mages 
 with the power of blood magic with 7 clans to choose from
  
  Vampire bloodlines allows you to make use of what skills you want whether you choose to go in stealthy 
 and avoid detection or even performing stealth kills or go in fighting or guns blazing making use 
 of weapons such swords axes severed arms knives or even a bush hook or ranged weapons such as shotguns 
 or machine guns or pistols or even crossbows
  
  Vampire bloodlines has a terrific storyline with amazing gameplay you will really feel like one 
 of the damned 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ftb82
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  I never was a big fan of these games, but a friend of mine had a wallpaper with Jannete, and caught 
 my attention... I said i need to play this game, however my friend told me that i won't like it...
 
  
  But Janette was too appealing to me then just leave it, so i started to play.
  I choose a female Torreador, Just because it has the "human touch" but can be cruel.
  
  I liked 
 that never got bored at this game, it was always thrilling to sneak behind the enemy vampires (LaCroix 
 tower, vampire hunters) , or just get head on attack (in the parking lot, old sewers) , or convince 
 a gargoyle (or anybody else) .
  
  I know there is quite a few bug, glitches, and the combat is not that brilliant (just strike with 
 the katana is the best, especially with the celerity) , but i still say it is a great GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frog_jr
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  A lot of games really should be considered artworks more than as games. This is definitely one 
 of those, since what is really great about this game is the characters and the interactions, and 
 the environments. I am not saying it is in the graphics either, but more like the characters you 
 run into in the game are surprisingly like people you may have met at one time or another, except 
 they are, say, vampires. And as for the graphics, yes, they are pretty good, but nothing has beat 
 HL2 for quality graphics so far. The Doom 3/Quake engine is crude compared to it -- that is the 
 graphics and the rendering, btw, not the game itself. I loved all 3. But a particular strong point 
 of Vampire Bloodlines graphically is its rendering of characters. The were clearly made with great 
 care and attention, I suspect by people who really loved vampire games -- go figure. Or who really 
 loved hot chicks in sexy outfits, since this game is full of them, and some are extremely hot. 
 This game actually has the best rendering of the female body I have seen in a game, and be warned, 
 you get to see it a lot. The underworld that the vampires inhabit is shared by the underworlds; 
 namely, strip bars, prostitutes, an internet porn studio, not exactly the kind of stuff you might 
 want young kids or your parents even seeing on the monitor. Not that it involves serious nudity, 
 but the strip bar is pretty close (pasties and G-strings, lovingly rendered) . 
  
  But this game is also a work of art in that it is sort of a tribute to the long line of vampire 
 role-playing games that originated it as well as a bunch of other vampire productions, such as 
 Blade, Bloodrayne; probably tons of others were fueled or directly inspired by the creativity of 
 these RPG-ers. And that is the creative energy that finally generated Bloodlines; sort of an attempt 
 at a lot of things, and IMO, successful at very few of them, but still a very entertaining game. 
 This game will probably disappoint a lot of RPG-ers, and the combat portion of the game is a definite 
 disappointment to folks like myself who had hoped for a good action game, having seen that it uses 
 the HL2 engine. But it has turned out to be a really successful graphic novel type thing, where 
 you interact with a lot of really scarey or repulsive people, and have a blast doing it. I found 
 the game to be much like reading a really good comic book, of the old-fashioned HEAVY METAL sort. 
 
  
  So in short, the combat is terrible, the graphics are pretty daggone good, the models, or avatars, 
 are superb, the story line is pretty good, too. It was intended as a graphical RPG, but was sorely 
 limited in plot, since it was still a single player, and true RPG's are all about interaction and 
 community. But as a loving tribute to one of the best RPG's out there, which BTW, used the best 
 graphic engine available so far, the game is pretty entertaining. It is strictly adult material, 
 and the characters you deal with in the vampire underworld are mostly unsavory and wicked, (and 
 funny) and so if you want to avoid being a bad influence on the younger sort, keep this game among 
 the adult types, or those of us juvenile enough to enjoy vulgar stuff like this. Like me. 
  
  I should also add that some of the music in this game is really good. The tune, "Isolated," 
 performed by Chiasm, is the best, imo. 
  
  BTW, the rating standards provided by gamespot are highly variable from one person to anither. 
 Regarding the learning curve, if you are familiar with most FPS style games, you will be right 
 at home in this interface, and can use your favorite keybindings you would have from Doom or whatever. 
 But if you have never played a FPS you may find the controls a little dificult at first. I am old 
 school, so I never use a joystick, but a joystick would probably make it easier to get up to speed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephyrwwong
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  Cool game, but not a good game. The game's graphic is too dark and shady. But the story line is 
 quite good, you can know what the vampire do and live on earth, if they exsit.
  But I played it after I play Splinter Cell: Chaos Thetory. The same shady graphic game. May the 
 producer is different, Ubi could contrl the darkness in just a right way and the lights are tender 
 than Vampire, and maybe SC is after a year launched, the year of the graphic had revoluted.
  And this game seems call for many use of CUP, anyways it always start slower than SC.
  And its 
 battle systems do really bad!! If you are true wanna study in it and use it veeeeeeeeeeeery well, 
 you must be a Master of Vampire Bloodness.
  Try it you will see what it worth, this game has quite many unexpected, and flash.
  Enjoy everyone 
 you embrace and you kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonbenoot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  When I played this game for the first time, I really had a feeling like 'WHoooahh!!', this is really 
 one of the best modern time RPGs ever made. It's a game who takes place in the underworld of LA. 
 You are a vampire, and there are different classes to play with: Brujah is a pure melee tank, a 
 Malkavian is a psychotic sick guys with nasty spells, a Ventrue is a nice shooter,... The story 
 is so amazing, the dialogs are divine, the world is beautiful,...
  The game is really underrated: 7.7 is ***** low. Most people say that combat is bad in this game, 
 don't listen to them; combat is awesome, especially melee. The game is really worth to buy!!
  
  Simon
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marijuana_man2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  Its an alright game, I like how each character has an advantage and disadvantage, and vampire 
 powers each one has, the story was above average, however the game feels kind of rushed, and because 
 of that most of the main character (s) doesn't actually fit into the story a bit... The sound is 
 incredible, as well as the voice acting, and graphics is incredible, but since Troika was in a 
 rush to ship this out, there's still a few bugs in it, be wary of that, but despite all that, it's 
 a decent game and it's right between the borderline of buy it or leave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord2000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  If you ever wanted to be a Vampire, and wondered what vampire society may be like then this game 
 is for you.
  
  Simple as that, you get to choose from a variety of clans based on white wolfs classic RPG, and 
 the game does a great job of making the clans extremely individual. Each clan has diverse cultural 
 traditions and individual statistics and vampire powers. 
  
  The game does a great job of making the player feel as if you are actually the character you choose, 
 and the cultural systems within the game are really believable, such as the masquerade and the 
 fine line between humanity and the beast within.
  
  The world in Vampire the masquerade: Blood lines is immersive to say the least, even the shortest 
 quests that are involving and intriguing, revealing more and more about the world of darkness that 
 Vampires and other supernatural monsters live in, all hidden from the eyes of humans of course. 
 
  
  And you get to do some really cool stuff, aside from drinking blood and learning the secrets of 
 the clans and vampire society as a whole, you get to kill cultists, vampire hunters, zombies and 
 investigate a haunted house and take on a whole array of supernatural oddities, some of which really 
 make you are very cool looking!
  
  The combat is a little bit on the lame side, but once you get the feel for it its okay, and most 
 enemies are pretty easy to dispense with, but remember to save the game often incase of a boss 
 fight you cant handle first time, that way you wont be forced to load a save from two hours ago 
 and go through everything you did.
  
  The storyline, is absorbing, obviously learning a whole new and secret culture is always fun, but 
 the overall story is epic. A really cool feature is the conversations and the graphics of the faces 
 in the game.
  
  One of the best parts of the game is the players ability to affect the games progress, you can 
 often talk your way out of a sticky situation or you could simply kill them, or you could sneak 
 your way through, or get in a blockbuster gun fight. 
  
  Overall Vampire the masquerade Bloodlines is an enthralling and realistic RPG, with a few problems 
 but otherwise totally fun and worth buying for fans of the supernatural and fans of RPG games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sydsoftware
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I must say this is one game that is in my top ten list of all games I've played. I've been playing 
 this game ever since I bought it since dec2004. 
  
  The game has a nice selection of weapons, it has awesome stealth kills, the list goes on. You can 
 play as a number of different vampires giving you a different experience. It has great dialogue 
 options, you can be nice or a complete you know what. The game also has different endings based 
 on your alliance and/or character. All in all it is a great experience, I just wish the company 
 who made it didn't close its doors. I hope that someday a followup to this game is made if possible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  Statistics 
  Played: April-May 2006. 
  System: AMD 2600+, 1 GB memory, geforce 5200 fx 256 MB card. 
  History: 
  
  Summary 
  I 
 liked this fun game which captures the mood of being a vampire well and is fun to roleplay. I got 
 the feeling the game somewhat adapts to the character you play. It's a pity it is still combat 
 heavy and in this combat fireweapons and brawling are to weak in the end. The game has it's bug 
 so patching is advisable. 
  
  Introduction 
  It's a funny thing that most RPG's I liked, I bought years after their release. I just overlook 
 them. This also the case with Vampire the Masquerade: Bloodlines, which I will call Bloodlines 
 for short in this review. Bloodlines was released in 2004 and I bought it last April (2006) . I was 
 late in buying it because the game didn't appeal me at first. I haven't got anything special with 
 vampires, the front cover of the box I found ugly and the screenshots on the backside don't entice 
 me. I got the impression it was a sort of mindless action game like diablo II. How wrong I was. 
 Bloodlines is a genuine roleplay game build around an action game engine (if I am correct it is 
 the half-life 2 engine) and in this it has but a few companions. 
  
  The right stuff 
  Let's have a look at the rpg part first. When the game starts you create a fledgling vampire who's 
 is a member of a vampire clan. This clan membership should be viewed in a loose way: it determines 
 certain aspects of your character, specifically the kinds of power used and the way your character 
 looks, but it doesn't determine you final loyalty. A nosferatu, for instance, is an ugly vampire, 
 who needs to stay away from the public, but who is a good fighter. A toreador is a stylish vampire 
 easily able to blend in with human society who more relies on social skills then on slugging it 
 out. Each of the seven clans has it's own characteristics and during game play your clan membership 
 plays a role, albeit not a crucial one. Skill selecting is up to you, because once the game has 
 started you are allowed the spent earned experience points in any way you like. There are social 
 skills, fighting skills, thieving skills and magic skills to choose from and, of course, never 
 enough points to get them all. 
  
  The way to play 
  To me this is the way I like to play a rpg as I want be free in choosing which way to develop the 
 character and follow the route of my own choosing. If I want to sneak, I spent a lot of points 
 on sneaking. If I want to bluff my way through the game, I spent points on social skills. If I 
 want to cut my way through heaps of foes, I want to spent points on melee skills. Bloodlines allows 
 a lot in this respect. 
  However a very good aspect is the music combined with the mood and the story. You spent most of 
 the time in an urban setting amongst normal people who go at their business in the night time. 
 This part I like the most inteacting with the enviroment. 
  
  That bloody act 
  Combat in Bloodlines is well done for a RPG. It's smooth, easy, varied and takes into account things 
 like cover and distance. Fighting skills can be assigned in hand-to-hand, melee or firearms. The 
 AI is adeaquate and the bossbattles are reasonable, although still suffering from the typical it (some 
 tremendous strong monster) and me in a enclosed space; and only one of us will get out alive. 
 
  However the game favors melee above the other forms. Melee weapons are by far the best choice 
 in the game as they don't required you to spent money on ammunition (so you can spent it on something 
 else like armor or blood) and you deal out damage equal to most guns. The only downside is that 
 you need to close with your enemies and some enemies are hard hitters so you need to be carefull. 
 However with a good melee skill and good defense you will hold you own. 
  I think it is really a pity firearms come out weak in this game. At the start of the game I you 
 get the saturday nigh special, but both your starting skills in firearms and the damage this gun 
 does are much to weak. A foe takes up to six hits to be killed from a distance and since guns have 
 a tendency to attrack attention, you find yourself up against several enemies at a time. Even shotguns 
 and the repeating shotgun are weak in this game as it takes sometime up to three upclose loads 
 to down a common grunt. In most games a full load of buckshot upclose is enough to blow someone's 
 head off, but not in this game. 
  Added to this is the fact that firearms and the ammo difficult to be had. I found that it was always 
 to little and to late. This is a pity as some guns are really fun, like for instance the colt anaconda, 
 which makes a sound like a cannon being fired, but is available only very late in the game and 
 then used seldom because of the lack of suitable ammo. Of course you can buy the ammo, but it was 
 quite expensive. 
  
  Paint me a story 
  What makes or breaks a rpg for me is it's storyline and mood. And with Bloodlines I was pleased. 
 The game breath the mood of the vampire as we know it from Stoker (and King and Lovecraft) is for 
 instance full of the anti-theses so common to vampire lore. Vampirism offers beauty, health, longlivity, 
 attractiveness and eloquence but this really hides a ugly sick predatory infliction. The key to 
 this seduction, but this seduction is double layered as it pretents to be aimed at the intercourse 
 but the seduction is really needed to indulge in the drinking of blood: the red nectar is the only 
 god a vampire refers. 
  The HL-2 engine offers stunning beautiful characters who look livelike and attractive and support 
 much of the mood. 
  The story line has it's twists and turns and the setting is varied and the mood is fitting. Outstanding 
 examples are a haunted hotel and a house filled with mad people. At one point the game makes you 
 confront your human past and you are facing a difficult choice how to handle this. 
  
  The problems 
  Yet while Bloodlines has much atmosphere it stops short of driving the nail home. 
 The vampires strenghts are in general balanced by some serious weaknesses. The first which springs 
 to mind is the vulnerablility to daylight. Daylight, the cleansing of the sun, doesn't play any 
 role in this game. This might be handy in term of gaming, because you don't want to force a player 
 to sit around for hours waiting for the sun to go down, but somehow this remains a missed point. 
 Another weakness is that the depencency on blood isn't played on more. While attacking a victim 
 openly can be penalised when seen by others, it is easy to avoid because many 'humans' linger in 
 dark alleys. Indeed in the game you can pay a hooker and then feed on her, but why should you do 
 so when a few blocks down the street there is an victim wandering alone in a dark alley? What is 
 more your supply of blood only seems to diminish when used for magic, so in theory a vampire in 
 Bloodlines could live forever on one refill as long as no magic is used. 
  So you feel yourself quite strong in this game while not burdened by the vulnerabilities common 
 to vampires. It somehow is a weak point to me. 
  As said before the game is fairly combat heavy and in this tends to favor melee.
  But there is 
 one more point I like to add. I liked the part where I had to interact with the human world. Less 
 interesting are some of the almost dungeon crawling battles especially in the latter half of the 
 game. It's a pity the game drops the ability to sneak or talk your way through and changes into 
 a set of all out battles. At least that is how I experienced it.
  
  These crawly little things 
  A last thing I like to mention is that the games has it's bugs. 
 I would strongly recommend to install the official game patch 1.2 and even recommend the unofficial 
 2.2 version. 
  If you like this game you can download some mod's and reskins made by the gaming community. Some 
 really are beautifull and since you spent most of your time looking at your own character it's 
 nice to have something good to look at. 
  
  Evalution 
  So if you forget about some weak points and overlook the somewhat heavy combat orientation Bloodlines 
 it is a fun game that I would recommend to any role play fan out there who can stand playing vampire. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphim591
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Games that try to be both roleplay and first person shooter, very often fail. This game however 
 does not. Infact it makes for such an enjoyable experience that you start to wonder, why other 
 fps games haven't gone the same route.
  
  I had the misfortune of playing the previous title, Vampires - Redemption. While I liked the series 
 back then, this release is definitely something you want to have in your collection, while the 
 previous title will serve a better purpose left at the shop.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  
  I could hardly wish for more. Very well done and very immersive. A noticeable amount of bugs make 
 the game unstable at times and frustrating, but it can't ruin it.
  The Official patches cleared most of the problems, and unofficial ones have done the rest. if you 
 buy it now, and update it - you'll have a game that is exactly what it should have been in the 
 firstplace - a complete masterpiece.
  
  You're a vampire, and how cool is that? You get to walk around L. A. and complete various quests 
 to drive the storyline. While a lot of the quests aren't optional, some are - giving you a true 
 feeling of freedom. And the story will have you on the edge of the seat at times, really fun and 
 enjoyable.
  
  Different clans can offer completely different gaming experiences, so try them all out. From different 
 dialogues to different style of play - there is much to fiddle around with.
  With several different endings to pursue, you'll have tons of fun with this game.
  
  
  Graphics 
 - 10
  
  We are talking about HL2 graphics here basically, and you know that this means top of the line. 
 Beautiful characters, animations and overall visual quality. All you need is a powerful PC to back 
 you up, and you have all the eyecandy you could ever want.
  And if you aren't the one to ditch the game because of poor visuals, you can rest safely if you 
 own an old computer. This game will run fine even on slow pc-s, as long as you are willing to cut 
 the eyecandy and concentrate on the story and gameplay alone.
  
  Sound - 10
  
  I love it! Many games create their own soundtracks for originality and for the purpose of getting 
 it just right for their game. But this game isn't afraid to give you some of the best rock/metal/gothic 
 songs out there. 
  I was so pleasantly surprised to hear Lacuna Coil in the game, during one of the club sequences. 
 Ofcourse the game has it's own soundtrack aswell, which is appropriately creepy and fits in well 
 with the dark LA streets.
  
  Sounds for action are great, and the voice acting is Superb. Hearing the lines from "Jack" for 
 example just make your day. If you don't feel like you aren't talking to a real person, then you 
 have really got to get out and socialize, cause the developers of this game certainly have done 
 their homework on this one.
  
  Value - 9
  
  Plenty to keep you interested in this game, even after you have completed the game.
  You have 
 other clans to try out, other ways to develop your character and another go at trying to complete 
 every quest with all conditions filled to get the max rewards. Some quests have hidden bonuses 
 aswell, depending on the way to solve them - some are rather impossible to predict, but if you 
 decide to take a different approach, you might get a pleasant surprise.
  
  Tilt - 9
  
  A great game, really, it is.
  
  I played it when it came out, and again after some patches 
 and once I had gotten a new rig. It was just as enjoyable the second time, if not more.
  
  Try it out, if you're into roleplaying or just fps type games, this one will not leave you cold... 
 
  
  ... undead maybe ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungfodud
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 24, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game a lot. The ways you can use your powers or talk your way into getting anything 
 is great. You can approach with a sword, make the gaurds commit suicide or intimidate the them 
 till they hand over keys. The hardest problem is deciding which bloodline you'll chose. It has 
 a dark and moody overall vibe. The major downsides are that some of the side quests have bigger 
 environments then the hubs; some of the sidequests are pretty hard, but a couple are really really 
 long. Its also hard to feel like u covered all the ground in some sidequests and you can never 
 go back to check. Words of advice== guns are often inadequate and nosferatu are not easy to start 
 with 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rrmanhas
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 19, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Vampire: the Masquerade - Bloodlines (VtMB) is the most immersive game I have ever played. Dark 
 and chilling, the game's environment, music, and storyline come together to create a somber and 
 perpetually bleak atmosphere that makes one truly believe they were living in a world of vampires, 
 werewolves, and evil spirits. Conceptually, this game is peerless: the whole idea of vampire societies 
 pulling the strings of the mortal world (and ancient Antediluvian vampires influencing the thoughts 
 and actions of these very vampires through their dreams) is fascinating. The biblical history of 
 vampires and its significance for the future is equally intriguing, and as one progresses through 
 the game, one will constantly find himself speculating these mysteries. VtMB also does an great 
 job of making one feel alone and desperateyou dont know who to trust, as every other character 
 in the game has their own machinations and has been plotting long before you were ever Embraced 
 and turned into a vampire. Depressing at its most optimistic points, and suitably morbid and depraved 
 at its darkest, VtMB truly makes you feel like you have become one of the Damned. 
  
  The gameplay is relatively simple, and in an hour or so most players will find themselves used 
 to combat and their characters powers and abilities. One nice aspect about the game is that it 
 usually allows one to complete an objective either through combat or through persuasion, although 
 many secondary abilities are more useful than others (hacking is much more practical than haggle, 
 for example) . The main line story is well-formed and addictive, and the side-quests are plenty 
 and really enhance the gameplay experience. The graphics are great and the voice-acting is phenomenal. 
 Another noteworthy part of the game is that the music fits very well with the dark atmosphere.
 
  
  Despite its conceptual brilliance, VtMB does fall short in a few ways. For one, the loading times 
 can be extremely lengthy, and, additionally, there are a lot of bugs in the original version of 
 the game (although most of these are fixed in the official and unofficial patches) . The games 
 ending is also somewhat of a let-down at first, but given time to mull over it will grow on you.
 
  
  At the end of the day, VtMB is one the best games out on the market, despite a somewhat flawed 
 implementation. With an excellent story, characters, atmosphere, this game will most likely consume 
 your thoughts for the time you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandomonk
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 14, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I don't have much to complain about regarding this game. With that said, now for the complaints: 
 The load times are terrible, not just the initial load, but going from HUD to HUD is laborious 
 and totally removes one from the game play immersion. Upon lunch the game had many bugs, some of 
 which the now defunct Troika Studios tried to address, but there are some good 3rd party patches 
 out there. The game was one of the first to use the Half-Life 2 Source engine and it shows; the 
 graphics are amazing and the facial textures are beautiful. The story line is deep and the game 
 controlls are responsive. There are well-defined character classes to choose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caotico69
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 9, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  The only thing I dont like, You are promised to be one of the greatest Vampires ever but you just 
 Grow levels since embraced in just one night!!!, you are embraced and became powerfull and end 
 the game the same night, the first Vampire mascarade game you were embraced almost 1000 years ago 
 and fight many weeks, that justify your power and your level.
  
  It will be better if they will add 5.1 sound and less bugs, I waited 2 years to play it and ended 
 a week after the release it. I would prefer taht 1st person view only apply for fire arms, and 
 the rest of the game in 3th person, that thing of have to switch each time was annoing.
  
  But Still the best Vampire game ever and hall of fame of RPG.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game, really great
  You choose your character and a clan and you must survive in an LA filled with crime and chaos.
 
  Its a mix on some of the best genres around, its stealthy, violent, adventurous and an RPG along 
 with them.
  But what makes it great? its atmospheric, addictive, and it has some good looking visuals and good 
 sounds. The story is great and grabs you by the balls and doesnt let go :) .
  The dark and seedy enviroments are fun to explore and the missions are fun to play. A wide range 
 of weapons makes this awesome to smash through as well, weapons include fire axes to revolvers as 
 well as some cool vampire style attacks.
  You choose your character and a clan and you must survive in an LA filled with crime, chaos and 
 BLOOD!. Yup thats right you can suck blood :) .
  It is slightly buggy in places but the patches sort that right out, however the bugs were minor 
 to start with.
  The ranged combat could have been tweaked slightly and there could have been slightly bigger maps 
 but thats no real problem there is still a lot of ground to cover, so no big deal really.
  I do not know why but it kind of reminded me of the classic deus ex, but thats just me.
  To conclude 
 this is a great game with very few flaws, and is worth getting!.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: popov89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  Highly underrated, story driven, great voice acting and immersion all say some positive aspects 
 of this game yet buggy, under polished and boring in some bits also describe the game.
  While the story of 'Vampires' in the end dissolves to the bare basics it's the parts around it 
 that really make it. Luckily there's lot of other bits that you'll please any RPG fan. Yuo start 
 out as a new sired childe with little guidance. Although the tutorial does feature the game's coolest 
 character and one of my personal favorites. The game does an admirable job of immersing the player, 
 the constant modern day jokes, the current problems, the references to real threats to vampires 
 and the news reports all make you think that of you look hard enough you'll find kindred in real 
 life, I know I did. 
  The graphics are built using the source engine so you know's pretty. Although, there are some bland 
 colors, much like DeusX2. The physics are sadly wholly underused, they're applied to maybe a little 
 over 20 objects in the world. 
  The worst part about the game, however, are some bland missions and the bugs. The intro movie, 
 without the offical patch, is one of the worst things you'll ever see. The bugs show up often and 
 ugly in the game as well. Get the offical patch and all the unoffical patches to really enjoy the 
 game. 
  I wanted to give this game higher then an 8.9 but I couldn't due to all the bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This game started off very strong for me. I loved the graphics and sound and atmosphere and the 
 music in this game is awesome (Goth but awesome) . 
  
  The characters and the subplots in this game are very well done and will keep the game interesting 
 for many hours. However, at some point well into the game (40+ hours in) , the game started to lose 
 me. I started to get the sense that the game was too long and was simply trying to finish rather 
 than continuing to enjoy the game. 
  
  I realize that a game being too long is an odd complaint, and one I don't usually make, but this 
 game just started to run out of gas towards the end - for me at least.
  
  I do recommend the game, and for the first 30-40 hours really enjoyed it and would give it a 10 
 or close to it, but late part of the game really became an exercise in finishing and lost the same 
 level of interest and atmosphere of the first 3/4 of the game. Hence, my final score of 8.2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emperor_Paul
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game takes two great factors and mixes them. Undead and Guns. Need more be said? All you vampire 
 lovers this is your type of game, you get to select from several clans, depending on which suits 
 your.. special needs. Great selection of clothing and of course WEAPONS, from knifes to guns to 
 human arms. Large selection of missions and so many different ways to play the game the replay 
 value is awsome. Increase your skills to help what you do best, weither it be useing blunt weapons, 
 swords or ranged guns... maybe you use your charming looks to get you though the day... erm I mean 
 night. What ever your style they have it here I gave this game a 10 due to the wonderful gameplay 
 and storyline and accessorys. PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chroniculon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Bloodlines has an excellent story line which only comes to full fruition at the end of the game 
 when you realize all the things that were soo obvious at the beginning. This game has a raunchiness 
 to it that you just don't find in other games. It's like KOTOR but rated XXX. It's a shame this 
 game hasn't gotten better reviews, while other mediocre titles get so much hype. The easter eggs 
 are excellent and the hookers are hot for a video game, not to mention the voices and choice dialog. 
 The NPC's you meet are top notch. Many multi dimensional characters. This game also has replayability 
 being that the different vampire bloodlines play significanlty different roles in the game. Thought 
 the basic story line plays the same, if you choose a different vampire bloodline, the game changes 
 significantly. This game is actually worth paying for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zootsuit
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  This (last) offering by Troika was a trifle rushed out the door - they couldn't wait for Valve 
 to fix up their HL2 engine and rushed on regardless - leading to the need for heavy patching. Before 
 you even think of playing this game (or even buying it) get all the patches you can. Ever played 
 the Fallout series? Great series, but if you didn't play them patched, you needed your head read. 
 Same deal.
  
  That minor aside, the game is quite gripping in places and genuinely spooky. Play the hotel mission 
 late at night or some sections of the sewer at ANY time and be somewhat spooked. For a more cerebral 
 thrill - listen to the tapes in Grout's mansion - a lot of care and effort went into describing 
 the descent into his madness.
  
  General gameplay handles quite well, the controls are responsive and movement is clean - there's 
 no problems getting stuck on objects or the like. Combat can be a bit of a slash fest with a melee 
 weapon or unarmed, it's satisfying but sometimes it does feel like "how fast can I click this left 
 mouse button" sort of thing. However, since your attacks are underpinned by actual character stats, 
 so with weak stats, it doesn't matter how well you button mash, you're probably still "lunch" to 
 some monster.
  
  One thing I'd like to concentrate on is the open endedness of the quests. The quests are cohesive 
 enough to add a sense of plot and structure to the game without becoming a straight jacket - most 
 are optional and many have different endings depending on your actions, and a fair few can have 
 later repercussions that you hadn't thought about at the time. Admittedly, not as much as I'd actually 
 like - some of the quest NPCs I really did want to continue to talk to in some meaningful manner 
 because I enjoyed their dialogue and nature (particularly Jeanette and Therese Voerman and Gary 
 Golden) and you get enough of a taste to appreciate them ... but not any more! Gah. The game is 
 definitely crying out for a sequel set in the same area - but unlikely with the doom of Troika.
 
  
  That brings me to the wealth of NPCs in Bloodlines - the voice acting is generally excellent and 
 the responses are often very amusing or just very apt - your own character's possible responses 
 vary widely and also become altered by certain skills - Intimidation, Persuasion and Seduction 
 offer their own dialogue options when possible, not to mention the disciplines of Dominate and 
 Dementation which can give you some rather "extreme" responses to situations!
  
  The open endedness to the quests extends to the endgame, although without spoiling it too much, 
 due to the rather boolean nature of the final quest object, there's not many ways that it could 
 turn out. Ahh, well.
  
  One thing that did irk me though - some stages of the game the difficulty factor/learning curve 
 jumps markedly - you can progress to stages where you are quite incapable of achieving your objective 
 and have no way of progressing to the next position without those abilities. I had to restart characters 
 regularly because they couldn't get past certain sections. A wholly social character is going to 
 be smacked around in a pure combat scene like the Sabbat warehouse, while a close mouthed mook 
 may have issues talking through some quests. And yes, you don't want to hear about my stealth-less 
 Brujah trying to blunder his way through the Nosferatu quests!
  
  Due to these factors, you're going to have to be mindful of shaping your character from the beginning 
 of what's going to happen next and be aware that some situations you may be weak to the point of 
 completely pointless and adjust yourself accordingly before that happens.
  
  A fairly solid game that will give you a run for your money - at the time there was a complete 
 scarcity of decent action RPGs and Bloodlines definitely didn't leave gamers ... thirsting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo431
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Vampires. Demons. Ghostly apparations. There are a lot of things that make this game great for 
 people that like these kinds of things. You can create your vampire with different clans, these 
 clans determine how you play the game. Different clans change the way you will look, and the way 
 you will play through, using the skills you're able to learn. For example, the Gangrel clan is 
 known for their shapeshifting forms. You're able to turn your eyes red, allowing you to see in 
 the dark, change your hands into claws, turn into a bestial form and so on. Others include the 
 Nosferatu clan, which has vampires so hideous, they are forced to live in the shadows, and in the 
 sewers. Direct communication to humans isn't a good thing for them.
  
  The graphics in this game are very nice. The spells being cast, the creepy atmosphere, the living 
 breathing environment around you make this more fun and should get you hooked pretty quickly.
 
  
  Guns don't do as much damage as they should. This game mostly focuses on the melee and spellcasting 
 parts of gameplay. That doesn't mean guns are useless, though. They're good for long range when 
 hiding in a high place, and stuff like that.
  
  Another great thing is how well it's all put together. You can change the storyline just by choosing 
 different options when talking to people. Such things like the ability to choose whether or not 
 to go get an item for somebody so they will give something in return, or just kill them and get 
 that item they have. With the different storyline paths, this game has a good replayability for 
 playing through a second or third time to find out what would happen if you did this or that, changing 
 around the storyline a bit.
  
  So in conclusion, this game is a good choice to try out if you are debating on whether or not to 
 do so. If you're into the classic hack and slash RPG games, this may not be the game for you. But 
 if you're looking for something a little more like Deus Ex (better than Deus Ex in my opinion) 
 this is a game worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and i mean very. The graphics are ok for it running on the Half life 2 source 
 engine. This review would be ranked higher if i could get passed all of the bugs. The bugs cause 
 the game to crash on the Society of Leopold mission were it crashes no matter what ive done. No 
 patch both retail and unofficial patch did not fix this problem. The game is fun and the clans 
 are cool, and the dialogue is very funny especialy when playing as the Malkavian clan. This game 
 is very classy and stylish. If Activion and White Wolf studios could fix the problem it whould 
 be a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Just bought this game pretty cheap last week since it has been out for some years now, but the 
 graphics still look good. I actually have the same buying expeirence with this second vampire game 
 as i had with the first one, bought it some years after its release. The first game had some very 
 cool stuff in it, and some dull irratating things. But the good stuff made me wanna buy Bloodlines, 
 and im usally an FPS fan, but this game is pretty good. I like all the choices you can make while 
 talking to all the different charecters in the game, and the fallout of the way you want the conversation 
 to go. The Beginning in blood lines is the best, because its like you have a lot off freedom there, 
 and i like that in games, and even though the main story in the game is good it gets a little frustarating 
 later in the game that you have to follow the main story so much and a level in the sewers felt 
 like it went on forever, but in the end this games really strong points is the cool vampire universe 
 its featured in, and that alone will properly make me come and go trough it a second time with 
 a different clan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StGunther
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  This game is really good, sure it has problems, but not bad enough to wreck the experience. It 
 reminds me of the first Tomb Raider, Thief II, even a little bit of Myst, and a hint of any good 
 RPG. I'm not one for pen & paper roll/role playing, nor am I into the mystique of Vampires, yet 
 this game, its' plots, and the role playing are accessible anyway. At, $20 bucks for a used copy, 
 it is a great value and it is a shame the developers are out of business. In a way game play is 
 fairly linear, however, the side quests offer enough diversity and travel between locations so 
 that one doesn't feel manipulated down a cattle chute. Too because the side quests are loose from 
 the main plot line one can grapple with them in a variety of ways, stealth, guns blazing, vampire 
 magic, until one finds a way to succeed. This inturn sets one up to handle the main quests more 
 effectively. Because of the various clans, and because of the alternate endings, it has a huge 
 amount of replay value. 
  
  I would love to see a big game company like Eidos, pick up the fanchise and produce some sequals. 
 Were it me I'd lock my writers, and developers in a room with copies of Dungeon Seige, Myst, Tomb 
 Raider, and Thief, and this game, and have them play through all of them.
  
  I'd like to see a player start with a vanilla vampire, that has access to all, the vampire magic, 
 all the dialoge options, and so on. Then rather like Dungeon Seige, based on how a person plays, 
 that is how their character develops. For example, the more stealth kills, the more lock picking, 
 the more hacking, the more time squelching about in the sewers, the more twisted and deformed they 
 become until they are Nosufertu. Or again, based on dialog choices and game play choices they become 
 Malkavian, and so on for the different clans. Kind of a two tierd system of awarding expereince 
 points, one for game play choices and one for completing missions. These choices could in turn 
 limit the game ending options as well. Perhaps based on Masqurade violations, and humanity loss, 
 one becomes a Sabbat. Too, I'd like to see more ways to complete a quest, less linear problem solving, 
 and more manipulation of the environment. For one example, being able to shove a box in the way 
 of the overhead door, and then crawling out under it instead of having to go down the stairs.
 
  
  The fact that I'm imagining a future for the game franchise speaks volumes about its' underrecognized 
 value. Get out of your comfort zone and try this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdityaN
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Its not uncommon to see a game be brilliant in idea and design, but lacking completely in the technical 
 aspect of the execution. vampire: the masquerade is an excellent pseudo rpg, with some great music, 
 fantastic graphics and an addcting gameplay. It could honestly easily overshadow its sibling Half 
 life 2... if only it wasnt one of the worst technical nightmares ever.
  
  What do you say when a game in released in such a buggy state that it not only runs pathetically 
 on very high end computers, its actually impossible to complete because of a game breaking bug 
 that remains for over an year before a path is officially released (and that patch coincidentally 
 fixes almost none of the major performance problems) . The pain may be traced back to an absolutely 
 broken hl2 engine, an early buggy version that is light years away from teh final one. its a pity 
 that such a fantastic game was butchered so badly as to be unplayable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruekilla69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Vampire: Bloodlines. I seen this title and thought ohh god another boreing vampire game like most 
 of the others bite people and watch them run hide in the dark bla bla bla BUT WATE! Vampire: Bloodlines 
 is nothing like that! it takes thinking stratigy and well some.... lots of killing bash ur opponint 
 use vampire skills or shoot them to get what you need. dont like killing? ahh who dose if ur like 
 that suduce, bribe or scare them to get what you want! thats rite i said it! most relistic game 
 ive ever seen! do quests the way YOU want to dont let them all have 1 choice CHOSE WHAT YOU DO 
 YOUR SELF! theres a good slection of vampires to choose from even! a load of fun for anyone that 
 wants to try it! Thanx -Shane- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldead
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Even though there are a lot of reviews about this game, i'd just like to add something small about 
 my opinion about it... I really believe the game underappreciated... VtM is a very known fantasy 
 novel and also a pen and paper rpg (just like D&D) ... Bloodlines has a very nice story, extraordinary 
 npcs nice ambient sounds, action and a lot of fun! You'll find a lot of different types of characters 
 from human to all kind of vampires and also a lot of other "surpises"! There will be great and funny 
 characters like Jack, a lot of beautifull women, and of course the mysterious taxi driver (who might 
 he be?) . You can create different kinds of vampires choosing from a great number of races, everybody 
 with their own personality (try playing with a Malkavian) and a lot of different other interesting 
 feautures. I finally i suggest that if you haven't you should try this game, it's a real gem and 
 it shouldn't be missing from any gamers collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeoh
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  It has been really long time that i have not played good RPG. Vampire: Bloodline is well made solid 
 game. 
  
  The game has beautiful graphic (year 2002 point of view still quite good) and excellent voice acting 
 for most of characters. Music and sound effect seems just enough, neither too repetitive nor too 
 long. Story and game play is interesting and solid, especially fight is plain fun. The game is 
 somewhat open ended and there are many ways of doing/solving quests. It also capture good atmosphere 
 and mood. (everyone is saying its L. A.!)
  
  However, there are some drawback in the game. I have not encountered any bugs, but i heard there 
 are numerous bus in the game. Some of the voice acting is really wierd, it sounds like some body 
 else is speaking. Setup window is very unconfortable and has really long loading when u first get 
 in to the game.
  
  This game could been better if developer chance put some more effort into detail and freedom of 
 game play (some property/business to buy and some other way of spending the money other than getting 
 whole bunch of ammo) . I feel this game does not have some of feature that design to be included 
 but it did at some point of development.
  
  Overall, it is good game with some adult taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallumP
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is a very good RPG. There are seven different vampire clans 
 to choose from, each with their own abilities and skills. You start as a 'fledgling' (new) vampire, 
 and slowly work your way up the ranks. There are lots of quests to complete in each area, including 
 numerous side quests. The graphics are good, but not great due to flickering textures and numerous 
 other bugs. The game can be quite difficult at times, especially if your character is not a combat 
 type. Overall, the game is very good, and if you are a fan of RPGs you should definately play it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  Vampire: Bloodlines lets u indulge in your inner vampire and in this it succeed. But man, the bugs 
 in the game are too numerous to count.
  
  Pros: The basis alone is a pro for me. Who doesnt want to play as an honest to goodess vampire. 
 Throw in the many clans and u have a great replay value of a game. The graphics aint half bad either 
 and really does a good job of projecting a gloomy and dark atmosphere. 
  
  Honorable mention: The haunted house mission. It is a bloody work of art. Very scary, very fun 
 to play thru the first time round. I believe my mouse jumped out of my hands a couple of times 
 :)
  
  Cons: The game is very very buggy. Poor Framerates and some glitches mar an otherwise great game. 
 I was one of those who got the Leopold mansion bug, where we were thrown right to the desktop and 
 unable to continue with the game. I tell u, that sucks big time. 
  
  Verdict: If not for the bugs, I would have ranked this a lot higher, but oh well, it mars an otherwise 
 graet game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  While this is a good game, it is not perfect. I admit the graphics, sound, and gameplay elements 
 are worth the price of the game, but it does have it's flaws. The minimum requirements are not 
 too hefty, but what you don't know until you try to play the game is the amount of virtual memory 
 you need. If you meet (and not exceed) the min requirements then you will still need 1.5GB of virtual 
 memory to run this game as well as you can. There are some stability issues with the game which 
 result in jerky play at times. Also, if you are easily offended by language then you may want to 
 think again. This game has no problems with throwing the F-Bomb around. There is no language filter 
 so you have no way around this little issue. The game itself has a good story and takes your through 
 a few twists and turns. It has the normal go to A, do B, return to C for your reward play, but 
 it is also open ended in other ways. There are very few areas where you are actually forced to 
 follow the story line in order to open up new areas of the game to continue the quests you are 
 working on at the time. All and all I feel this is a pretty good game, and the only thing keeping 
 it from truly being all it can be are the stability issues. They get rather annoying at times, 
 and the sad thing is you get used to them and still keep on playing. It's a testiment to how good 
 the game's story was put together, but I wish they had spent a little more time fixing those issues. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archfienddan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  This game was so much fun it had my attention for a great while so much to do but I wish it was 
 even longer and has internet interativity so more and more could be added like half life mods and 
 things.
  
  Another thing I liked was the files you could get after installation the music in this game was 
 a good selection but it would be good if you could add your own music in sertain areas.
  
  The way the story progresses is great and the selection of betrayal to many of the charicters but 
 I would like to have seen at the start a selection of the 2 main factions in the game so you could 
 chose to be a sabbat or a camerilla this way the story would be a whole lot cooler and even more 
 classes would be availible : [ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fution2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about Vampire: The Masquerade-Bloodlines i was pretty excited. Ive always loved 
 RPG's , so playing as a vampire sounded very exciting. Well lets start of with the creation of 
 your character, one of the disappointing things is how limited your character looks, there is no 
 options to customize your chars face or features. Mainly there appearence changes through diffrent 
 selections of clans. Then we move onto the RPG elements of your chars stats. This is the better 
 part, where you can improve your skills (such as charisma, strength, manipulation etc) . Then we 
 move into the actual game, where its dark danky but with a familar feel to it. When doing the missions 
 on VTMB, they feel pretty in-depth and feel good, which for a RPG is a important factor. Some of 
 the miss's range from killing other vampires or going to haunted houses (which are pretty scary 
 at times) . On the combat side of things i can't say its perfect, it does offer some decent amount 
 of moves, weapons and powers to use on enemys. But the way your char hits (or miss's) can be annoying 
 . Killing ppl using stealth is a sweet touch to, but i always found that you needed a pretty high 
 Sneak feat , to actually get up behind someone without them hearing you. Feeding on ppl is your 
 lifeline and it can heal you quicker, but obviously you have to watch where you sink your teeth 
 into ppl , as doing it in public can be costly to your health (the vampires you work for, have some 
 laws you must abide by) . Your special vampiric powers are really cool, some make you invisible, 
 where as others mess and control others minds, or you might control there blood and manipulate 
 it into certain specialitys. If your looking for a pretty decent solid RPG , and you don't want 
 to pay through the nose, then i reccomend VTMB. It has enough to keep you busy for a good while, 
 and some decent missions to keep you interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savvas79
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  This is a first all right! Looking for a game to pass my time ( rpg style) and I find vampires, 
 after one and a half year from Its release for 10 Euros! Not second-handed!!! Ok, so I say to myself: 
 what do I have to lose?? I checked also for other gamers opinion, so I bought it. 
  
  Great, great, great game!! I Kind of wander why I didn't give any notice when It was out! And when 
 I played again and again to discover all the quests and subquests and enjoyed myself tens of hours 
 of addictive gameplay, I've learnt what?? Troika is bankrupt!!! So, no new vampire!??? 
  
  Too bad for an RPG/Action game with a universe of NPCs and places that let you feel like a real 
 Vampire! Believable plot, interesting quests, good leveling up of the hero, good graphics ( even 
 for a game that old.1.5 for games is a lot of time!) . Well, what else do you want to have fun!??? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Well when the game came out I wasn't sure if I really needed it, I'm not really a vampire freak. 
 But my best friend finally persuaded me. 
  At the beginning it felt a little weird with the first person changing to third person perspective. 
 But you'll get used to that soon enough. I love the game because you can once again (like back 
 in Deus Ex) walk the streets, kill whatever you want but bear the consequences. Although it has 
 a relatively linear but much longer than average storyline (at least 30 hours for the first time) , 
 you can still skip or play all the side quests at a later point of the game. And best of all, this 
 game isn't just being a vampire game sucking blood and killing with bare hands. You can fight with 
 modern weapons and blades which results in some spectacular rempage on your way. 
  In the beginning you chose between one of seven factions for your character which you will have 
 to upgrade to fight, seduce or even negotiate better. 
  
  For anyone who likes FPS but expects a little more than just shooting whatever moves and especially 
 to all Deus Ex fans (like myself) i can really recommend this awesome game. 
  
  Oh and if you can't decide which faction to chose, the Malkavian are a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  Even amongst role playing games VTM: Bloodlines stands out, a rather dark world inhabited by vampires, 
 werewolves, zombies and other supernatural creatures.
  Gameplay: Gameplay is mostly melee orientated but also features ranged combat, this depends on 
 what the player spends his experience points on. Alternatively you can use seduction, persuasion 
 and intimidation to get what you want, a wide assortment of options allowing for large replayability.
 
  Graphics: Bloodlines uses the halflife 2 engine, and while not as impressive as halflife 2 itself 
 the game does look execptionally nice with very good maps.
  Sound: Apart from stand sounds and very good music it has some exceptional voice acting.
  Value: 
 The value lies in the replayability.
  Tilt: The game is incredibly fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobHacket85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade Bloodlines is one of those games that comes by only so often. It is innovative, 
 creative, and put together well. Bloodlines, is based around game play decisions, such as selecting 
 where to put experience points as well as decisions made effect the outcomes later on down the 
 road, the decision to put points one place or another can either make quests down the road a walk 
 in the park or a living hell. This makes the game much more challenging than just picking stats 
 at random, real thought has to go into every decision you make. 
  One aspect to the game play is the decision on what clan you want to belong to. Each clan has special 
 skills and abilities that other clans do not. Not only do decisions of clan make for differences 
 in abilities but also special game play quirks, such as the Nosferatu not being able to use the 
 cab between cities due to their disgusting appearance. 
  Fighting involves a mixture of first person shooting and third person bashing. Defense is a mixture 
 of different soaks, bashing soak is a mixture of stats, ability, and armor feats where as the lethal 
 soak is only armor and ability feats and aggravated damage can only be soaked by abilities. Fighting 
 is based not only on stats you have allocated but also what type of creature you are fighting. 
 Take for example you are fighting a supernatural creature such as a vampire. Vampires do not take 
 much damage from bullets (unless of course you put a shotgun to their head...) but using a sword 
 or knife can really level the playing field. Other creatures such as zombies take head shots critically 
 usually killing them instantly. 
  Although the graphics and game play mix well to present a beautiful and addicting RPG there are 
 stability issues that luckily have been resolved with the help of patches that can be downloaded 
 on the internet. Mixed with these patches the game play with the missions and stat strategy placing 
 makes for one stunning game, and with the choice from multiple clans gives the opportunity for 
 a great replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCato
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  There are no words to describe this game. Remember that once and forever. This is unrefutable fact. 
 I only want to say:
  If somebody read this review and still did not play... Or you fan of RPGs or not, or you experienced 
 gamer or not, try to play and you will be thoroughly rewarded... Characters, dialogues, quests 
 and SOUND. The best soundtrack I have ever heard! Included Lacuna Coil, Chiasm, Ministri, Tiamat... 
 Wow! Wow! Wow!
  And of course, do not forget you play The Game made by great "Troika Games". Ergo, dialogues filled 
 with sincere humour, as well characters natural and almost live. Extreme seriosness mixed with 
 extreme humour.
  Also clans, sects, russian mafia, lone werewolf-scientist (Beckett) , chinas gangsters, towers in 
 downtown, Asylum in Santa-Monica and sweet lunatic Jeanette (I have never before feeling of love 
 to a game character... dementation indeed :) , germans-maniacs-inquisitors, nosferatu-former hollywood 
 actors and more and more...
  In common, lively sensations guaranteed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: findingaplace
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 14, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Vampire: Bloodlines is set in now-a-days LA and play a newly embraced vampire indebted to the Prince 
 that has just killed your sire. At the beginning you'll pick from a number of clans, each with 
 a number of unique abilities and looks. The story is creative and fairly linear, but there are 
 a great number of side quests that can be done. Like fighting a demon, killing zombies, and finding 
 someones lost love. In the story, you'll see how vampire blend in with modern day society and keep 
 it hidden from the humans. You'll see werewolves, demons, ghosts, a oriental vampires, and a number 
 of other strange creatures that walk the night with you as you try to pay off your debt to the 
 Prince.
  The gameplay is different. All of you melee fighting will be done in a third person view, while 
 any of the shooting can be done in a third or first person view. You will find yourself using the 
 melee more than the guns because it's just more effective and efficient to do so, especial against 
 many of the supernatural being you will fight. The guns are extremely clumsy and not very useful 
 for taking down anything other then humans, but are some very nice guns. The flamethrower and a 
 number of automatic weapons are nice to have near the end of the game.
  The graphics are nice looking for the most part. There are a number of times when some of the characters 
 simply look off and the bodies look blocky. However, the detail put into the faces and some of 
 the affect are amazing.
  There is also alot of voice acting in the game and a nice music sound tract that goes well with 
 the theme and mood of the game.
  However, it should be noted that this game is not for anyone under 17. Sex, alcohol, blood, gore, 
 swearing, and parital nudity make this game unsuitable for younger teens and children. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stratos1990
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  Not much to say, actually words can't describe it!!
  If u haven't finished the game at least 2 times u can't be called a pc gamer!!!
  I have played 
 a lot of rpg games ( my favorite kind) and i could always find something anoying or bad about them, 
 but this....... this is.......... i can't find the words, the only things that i didn't like are 
 that by playing it for several hours per day in just a week u can finish it, unless ofcourse if 
 u are unexpirienced, and the other thing is that if i there wont be a sicual i'll probably commit 
 suiside!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunno_co
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Having played in some live-action role-plays, this game appealed to me. The developers were pretty 
 innovative by combining an FPS engine with an RPG storyline, so I'll give them marks for that.
 
  
  I'd say thus far - haven't finished the game yet - the most appealing aspects of the game are the 
 ambiance and the politics involved. Also, rather than just creating a "shopkeeper," etc., they 
 created characters with their own agendas, and personalities, which really adds to the experience.
 
  
  The developers did a great job with the cosmopolitan/political aspect of the game, and they didn't 
 leave out the creepiness of White Wolf RPG's, either. There were many occasions where I practically 
 jumped out of my seat, and I was kept on-edge in a lot of areas. It probably didn't help that I 
 had all of the lights off, but that just adds to the experience. :-D
  
  Now, having said that, this game isn't close to "perfect." The biggest glich I'd say is in combat; 
 it can be pretty cumbersome, and it takes a few combat quests to really get used to it. Also, using 
 the guns doesn't prove to be a very versatile strategy, unless you're going up against a large 
 monster, or if you put a good deal of experience points in firearms. This may just be a result 
 of combining two totally different combat engines into one single game.
  
  Another thing which twisted my t-shirt a bit, was the fact that I couldn't change my character's 
 appearance when I created it. I know that considering everything else in the game, this isn't exactly 
 a top-priority, maybe it's just a case of preference.
  
  Already being a fan of White Wolf - and vampire lore in general - I found this game to be really 
 addicting. However, for the casual role-play gamer, this may or may not be the case. If you're 
 a fan of either (vampire lore or RPG's) , this is definitely worth the money; depending on your 
 tastes, the bugs in the game could over-shadow the good aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedigrl2001
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  An excellent game, to be sure. The voice acting is top notch, the game play is fun, but as with 
 most console RPGs, this thing is buggy as a dog in heat. You try to go into a building, blue screen 
 of death. You try to bite someone, blue screen of death. You try to walk, blue screen of death. 
 Troika did provide a patch, but the game still has alot of bugs.
  My advice? Go get yourself a few unofficial patches. I recommend v2.0. Just google it. You'll find 
 it.
  Great game, great storyline, it gets you to jump every now and again. It's no Silent Hill, but 
 it is oozing ambiance, not to mention it's built from the same engine as Halflife 2, the Valve 
 engine. Not to mention with all the different races and five different endings, this game is well 
 worth it's weight in replay value.
  Great fun, but really buggy. If you're patience, you can suck plenty of fun out of Vampires: The 
 Masquerade; Bloodlines. An 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  This game is almost flawless. It has a few little bugs, which acted as a minor frustration rather 
 than denting my opinion of the game.
  
  I struggle to find criticisms of this game, - all the main things that matter in this type of game 
 are there. It looks beautiful, the environments look real, and the characters are life like. The 
 background music is not intrusive and adds to the feel of the settings. The voice acting is of 
 a good standard. The missions are challenging without being stupidly hard. The story line is engaging 
 and enjoyable. Obviously the concept is far fetched (I mean it deals with vampires!) , however the 
 way that the story is presented is believable. The whole concept of a vampire society complete 
 with its own politics and conflicts existing and making efforts to make sure that humans never 
 find out about it is more believable than standard vampire stories.
  
  The missions are good fun and there is a wide variety of different challenges to complete. Some 
 missions involve fighting through bad guys to reach a boss, while others involve stealth and others 
 are more puzzle orientated. While ultimately its an action adventure, at times you are required 
 to think and work out how to get through situations instead of simply clicking your mouse repeatedly 
 on every enemy that pops up. There are some missions that are so good that they stay with you for 
 a long time after you've completed the game. Of particular note are the disused hotel mission, 
 the plague missions and of course the haunted house (I didn't know that I could get that scared 
 sitting in front of my PC!)
  
  The game has great replay value too. Dialogue options and fighting styles change for each different 
 class of vampire, plus the missions are interesting and varied enough for you to be keen to play 
 through the game several times. Even though you know what will happen in the end after you've played 
 the game once, there is such variety in the characters that it is still fun to play a different 
 style of character to reach the conclusion a different way.
  
  Its a great shame that Troika have shut down. Hopefully someone else will take up the franchise 
 and someday there will be a third VtM game.
  
  I cannot recomend this game highly enough. It is a gorgeous, immersive and exciting game that has 
 an incredible story and balences action, adventure and puzzle solving perfectly. Yeah there are 
 some minor technical bugs but they can all be fixed with the patches that have been released, so 
 do not detract from the experience. Ultimately I've never found a perfect game, though this is 
 the nearest I've come so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorin_g
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 2, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  Vampire the Masquerade Bloodlines was the only interesting Role-Playing Game since Morrowind.
 
  
  Although it was very difficult for me to play it, having only 512 MB RAM and a Radeon 9550 GU, 
 the feeling, the atmosphere of the game made me continue.
  
  The most dissapointing thing is, (except the known bug... near the boat) the ending, none of the 
 four choices fit my idea about the storyline.
  
  The story is really amazing, it keeps your interest up through the whole game and the ending cannot 
 be guessed.
  
  The character is probably the best and the most innovative part of VTMB. You can costumize your 
 vampire and enjoy all the crazy things it can do.
  
  Graphics? The games looks pretty good, but they should optimize the HL2 engine more.
  
  Final 
 word:
  One of the best RPGs of the last 3 years.
  Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iljandir
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  I used to play a lot of pen & paper games including the Vampire The Masquerade game and i hope 
 to play more soon.
  This game really put me into the feeling of that old classic.
  I had problems with bugs earlier on but with the latest patches installed it worked out fine.
 
  
  Some have complained about the graphics...
  Well i think the graphics are good except for some glitches and some white goo around and inside 
 the lips and eyes of some characters.
  
  It also has some really cool music with original rock soundtracks like that of Tiamat and Lacuna 
 Coil. This stuff really fits into the style of the gameworld.
  
  In the end this is one of the best RPG's ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Hi Guys,
  
  Well this game.... I just can't throw it away... I have played it several times now from start to 
 finish and I still haven't played all the characters which you could be.
  
  The game has got pretty good graphics, not bad sound and the storyline isn't horrendous. Theres 
 nothing like sucking the life out of bad boys trying to shoot holes in you... Oh the gifted satisfication 
 as you watch you vampire take a soul...
  
  Goth's will probably love this game... neutrals will love beating up goths..
  Some of the music 
 in bars is abit much.. but hard core rockers etc will love it.
  Its a shame the player couldn't personalise the music but nevermind.
  
  Now this game has been 
 out for quite some time now and it did have some nasty little game flaws.. most of these have been 
 patched up, so although some are still there it's unlikely to crash out as much.
  
  And with age comes a cheap drop in price although some game stores are still trying to milk your 
 hard earned cash out of you so beware.. hunt the bargain bucket in the dark corners of a store or 
 buy this vampire puppy with a 3 for 2 price tag. You should have an enjoyable time of it, and will 
 probably keep going back for more from time to time. Although sometimes you question yourself as 
 to why? MMMmmm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drivex3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't know if it is my system or what, but I have games that have more system requirements which 
 don't take so long to load from one area to another.
  
  I do really enjoy the game in all aspects, but the load times keep me from playing it lots due 
 to the time constraints I sometimes face.
  
  I cannot understand why it takes literally over 5 minutes for an area to load after exiting a building.
 
  
  I really love the storyline, I find myself consumed with the game-play and graphics, controls are 
 not difficult. and the learning curve isn't all that bad.
  
  I would recommend this game on all aspects, so don't let my statements of the loading times scare 
 you off, but be aware....
  .... or advise me what to change.
  
  have fun.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bharrison911
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This was definitely a refreshing way to play a RPG. I definitely enjoyed the story line, especially 
 considering that it focused around Vampire lore. The soundtrack and sound bytes added quite a lot 
 to the game and the overall character building definitely went well with vampire lore. The big 
 problem that I had with the game was the graphics. They were kind of slow in spots and they could 
 be in better detail. The game tried to make everything more life like by keeping the people of 
 a normal size. The camera was a little rough at times too, especially during combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Starting out as a newbie Vampire in the streets of L. A. can be very interesting when you find your 
 way up to the underworld slowly by consuming the blood of pedestrians. This game focuses on dialog 
 which is one of the main strongpoints and everything you say can alter the situation and how you 
 move on into the game. This is an RPG so players can gain experience and upgrade their skills as 
 their game progresses. A high security skill means that you are better off hacking and lock-picking 
 which is useful for information and items. High combat skill allow you to deal more damage. It 
 works like other rpgs but this game has a twisted tale leading you to a non-stopping paced action 
 of the Vampire World. This game is worth the effort and money. Play it and Love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrysavast
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Well Lets Start from how the story was for me.
  the story was awesome i love it i enjoyed playing bloodlines
  some little glitches but was able 
 to bypass them so i gave the game an
  over all rating of a 9.2
  I Give the story line a 10
  graphics 8
  sound 8
  glitches after 2.0 patch 9
  i love the 
 game i thought it was very well developed 
  game play was great great weapons great armor i have nothing 
  bad to say about the game except 
 why the hell it took so long to
  release the 2.0 patch i wanted to play the game as soon as it hit the 
  shelves but was unable 
 too very bad glitches i wont play a game 
  the glitches that bad im runnin a 3.2 pentium 4 1 gig of ram G force 6800 gt
  N vidia 256 mb 
 video card and with the 2.0 patch it runs sweet so im a 
  happy camper 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knux15
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  i love this game tons of replay value but im sorry its way too buggy. im still stuck in china town 
 after the fifth time of playing and i have tried playing it each time with a new patch. its good 
 while it lasts. id give it a 6:10 just for the bugs but fix those and ya got an easy 8. its almost 
 there but just not quite. if anyone has a patch that can fix everything lets bring it to the table 
 so we can give this game the credit its due.
  
  now right out of the box it was superb lagged alot on my NVIDIA 5500 so i got a 6600 for it. never 
 lagged again. It has superb graphics, you can tell that an artist went to work on the textures, 
 sound was blah same thing over and over and the cops theme kept sketching and it was hard to tell 
 if you needed to hide or not. the overall value is poor. if the bugs were out of it it might fair 
 better but on my preference if it wasnt for the bugs it would have an 8 so.... i give this a 6.4 
 overall.
  
  *UPDATE BELOW*
  
  Ok I finally got a patch from the great community who are just plain awesome. you guys rocks since 
 this game has been out for 5 years and still you are trying to make it perfect, those are DEDICATED 
 people to the game and genre.
  
  Now comes the moment of truth for my real review after fully completing the game with only 1 bug 
 WOOT. Story is so-so since it is kinda waggy in points and really confuses players it seems with 
 the way the game was made. Quest system was ok but just didn't match to its prior brother game 
 VTMR. Visually stunning for the game play at the time. The third person, first person views were 
 choppy at best and could have been way better but mods are out to fix this now. Modeling was good 
 but the automatic character animation wasn't fool-proof as it should have been and many time could 
 see characters that they shouldn't have been able to see which made sneaking near impossible unless 
 you were Nosferatu and had the invisibility discipline.
  
  Controls were iffy and I stay with my original score on that.
  
  Battle system was out-dated 
 even for the game at its release date. Overall a great game by community but just another orphaned 
 project that just barely made it to store shelves and starved to death once there, would it not 
 have been for the community members. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalock
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  The history of Bloodlines is an interesting one, youre a bastard in the terms of the vampires 
 nad youre left almost alone in this new world to be what you wanna be. Everyone in the game will 
 be pulling the string to make you work for their side and do whatever they want without you knowing 
 it, the essencial spirit of the Vampires roleplaying game.
  
  The dificulty of the game is basically determined by the clan you pick and the way you decide to 
 play your cards, by example, i finished the game with a Gangrel, a brutal fighting machine that 
 in the end was almost inmune to gunfire, and a friend played it with a Toreador, a charming clan 
 but not as efective in combat, so you have to know them well or read their description detailed 
 to know how your game will be.
  
  The graphics are great, excellent textures and marvelous movement, the effect of the vampires turning 
 to ashes like in the "Blade" movie are great, however, they bright of the eyes not always work 
 in the way i suppose it was intended, generally that bright dont match the enviroment light nor 
 the direction of it.
  
  The music of the game is awesome, a mix of some dark music and techno and electronic, to complement 
 the game and inmerse you in the world of the eternal night.
  
  The only thing i have to add is that the fighting combat its clumsy, not the firearms (which are 
 practically useles in the game in the senses of effectivenes) , its the melee combat that looks 
 repetitive and not well worked, however, when you have several ranks in melee and wield a katana 
 you can feel like the B. Kiddo of Kill Bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade Bloodlines is a rather good game, and is highly underappreciated. Bloodlines 
 focusing around the city of Los Angeles. Amazingly the creators managed to really pinpoint a lot 
 of real details from the actual city. The graphics are fairly good, but beyond all the dazzle.. 
 there are many glitches.
  When u start a previous game, it takes a long time for the game to reconize the mouse, and it tends 
 to make u dizzy. Sometimes the game will freeze up on u, and other times your character will get 
 stuck in rubble.
  Beyond all the errors though there are many spectacular graphic effects. The characters look fairly 
 real, and the scare effects (such as the haunted mansion) can scare u to death. 
  When in the haunted mansion, u might start to walk towards the main doors and the lamp to your 
 right will burst, making u jump out of your chair. There are many scary effects in the mansion 
 that u can't avoid from jumping at, no matter how hard u try. All part of the creators evil minds. 
 ^_^
  So if your in for a scare and just a plain fun game, then go buy Vampire: The Maquerade Bloodlines 
 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amar1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  When Troika closed it doors last year , I was devastated. I was so looking forward to either a 
 sequel or a expansion pack to Vampire - Bloodlines. I believe when Troika died so did a part of 
 PC gaming. The action RPG genre is so stagnant of late. Nearly all rpgs released these days are 
 just generic dungeon crawlers or mmorpgs, neither of which I particularly enjoy. Vampire was like 
 a breath of fresh air when I first played it, with it's combination of action , story and role 
 playing in a dark modern day atmospheric setting.
  
  I think it is this which makes this game stand out so much compared to other rpgs's , the fact 
 that is set in the modern world , and not in some far away whimsical countryside.
  
  I really don't think this game got it just deserts. It simply slipped through the cracks, without 
 becoming neither a commercial or a critical success. Why is this? One thing I found was that though 
 many people enjoyed the game, everyone complained of technical problems. One of these problems 
 was that the game had some bugs and was almost unplayable straight out the box. This is what put 
 people off the game, and made them refuse to even give it a chance. The game now has a complete 
 official patch with many fixes, and it also has many unofficial patches, mods and fixes thanks 
 to the hardcore bunch who still play this game. An underground movement that refuses to let their 
 favourite game die an early death.
  
  With thse patches applied, the game is flawless. There are no technical problems at all. Also in 
 cohert with the latest graphis driver, this game has msgically changed on my system. When I first 
 played it when it came out, I had numerous crashes, bugs and had applaing frame rates even with 
 a beefy system. After applying the latest official and unofficial patches ( all available from 
 gamespot) and upgrading my ATI driver to 5.10 , the game no longer crashes and is buttery smooth. 
 No game have I ever seen, that reacts so favourablly to simple patching and driver changes.
  
  Another thing I heard, was that some people found the combat hard to control. Again I think 
 this occured as they didn't give the game a chance. It's an rpg not a action game, but still It's 
 action is alot better than nearly every rpg I have seen on the PC. It's real time, first person 
 shooter and third
  person fighting, I mean what more could you want. Also as it the game has a skill system, where 
 you place experience points in to skills such as firearms, brawling and strengh, the control system 
 actually improves as you play. 
  
  I really think this in one of the greatest rpgs ever made, and I urge all rpg buffs to pick it 
 up and give it a try if you havn't already. Even if you don't particulary enjoy rpg's this game 
 still has alot to offer with it's mission based gameplay, alternate paths (Although the game is 
 somewhat linear you do have some choices ) and fantastic action. It's a first person shooter , a 
 rpg a fighting game and a adventure game all rolled in to one with a Vampire theme. That is how 
 I would describe it. Now how many games are there out there that can be described like that. Not 
 many, which is why it is a great shame when Troika closed it doors. Originality is dieing a slow 
 painful death and is being replaced with the likes of Microsoft's and EA's cookie cutter bland 
 commercial titles. Please Troika reopen., and save the games industry!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdinflight
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines (Activision)
  
  Many of you will be able to remember White Wolf's last foray into PC gaming with the underwhelming 
 release of Redemption years ago. While it had its moments, there were far too many problems & glitches 
 with the game to be able to call it a quality product. Troika Games (makers of Temple of Elemental 
 Evil) decided to take on the task of doing something worthwhile, and I can't believe just how close 
 they were to perfectly nailing it. It almost makes you forget the crappiness of the original. 
 
  
  "Bloodlines" is easily one of the most entertaining releases of the past year, even if you aren't 
 a fan of the original table-top roleplaying game that it is based upon. But make no mistake that 
 while it is incredibly entertaining, it could have been much better. On the positive side it has 
 an amazing soundtrack, intriguing storyline, and a replayability factor. On the negative this game 
 was released with a horrid amount of bugs & glitches, as well as a combat system that is noticebably 
 flawed. 
  
  So you want to be a bloodsucker? 
  
  In "Bloodlines" you get to choose between the standard 7 camarilla vampire clans (kind of like 
 classes in D&D only a little less limiting) . So you can pick what style of game suits you the best. 
 Do you want to talk your way through the game, rather than fighting? Then best bet is to pick the 
 Toreador, Tremere or the Ventrue. Do you want something more akin to a hack & slash style game? 
 Then you are going to enjoy the Brujah or Gangrel clans. And if your favourite games always rely 
 on stealth to get you through... then the Nosferatu are right up your alley. Lastly, you have the 
 Malkavians who are completely **** loco. They also have the most interesting and humourous dialogue 
 options among the different clans. 
  
  No matter what you end up picking you can develop a character that is more to your liking with 
 any of them. The clans just give you a boost in certain directions from the beginning. There isn't 
 a large storyline twist if you play certain types of clans unfortunately, which is one of the biggest 
 drawbacks of the game itself. The Vampire RPG is built off of political intrigue between these 
 vampire clans and "Bloodlines" doesn't fully explore that with your own clan choice. There are 
 only two exceptions with this, if you choose the Nosferatu and the Malkavians. The Malkavians simply 
 have an entirely different dialogue than any of the other clan choices, while with the Nosferatu 
 you are forced to roam the sewers since you look like something that fit the 1922 version of what 
 a vampire should look like... only uglier. 
  
  The basic storyline of the game doesn't differ too much for each clan. You start off as a person 
 who has been embraced (translation: turned into a vampire) without consent by the Prince of the 
 city, who is the person who supposedly enforces vampire law within the city. The person who made 
 you a vampire is killed for this wrongdoing but you are surprisingly spared from the same fate. 
 From then on you are sent on quests by the local prince of Los Angeles to prove that you can exist 
 in vampire society. From then on you are on your own. You get offered new quests by just about 
 every vampire (or human) that you meet in the game. You can do all of these optional quests, or 
 just forget them and follow the main storyline. 
  
  The games engine is adequate but incredibly frustrating at times. You can choose between either 
 3rd or 1st person perspective. But certain modes don't work well in certain areas. When you are 
 crawling through sewer ducts the last thing you want is to have 3rd person perspective on, because 
 you get a lot of graphical glitches and control problems. The combat system is a bit clunky as 
 well. And you'll get a lot of those graphic glitches once again when the combat gets ultra-heavy. 
 It definitely seems that they did more work on the environment and feel of the game, rather than 
 how you physically move or fight your way through it. All in all, it is bug-heavy (even with the 
 latest patch) but you can swallow the problems since the storyline and decent graphics make up 
 for it. 
  
  Play that funky music lick boy! 
  
  One of the most impressive qualities of the game is the soundtrack used within it. Aerial, Chiasm, 
 Daniel Ash, Darling Violetta, Die My Darling, Genitorturers, Lacuna Coil, Ministry, and Tiamat 
 are all featured in the soundtrack which gives the clubs you enter a more realistic feel. When 
 you enter a club that has a bunch of goths milling around you shouldn't hear annoying hip-hop music. 
 Troika did a great job at selecting the perfect music to go with the game. If you look closely 
 at club walls you'll also see a series of flyers for these bands and many more the weren't included 
 (including bands like Collide and Bella Morte) . 
  
  Note: Props to Troika on making goth clubs more realistic for another reason. There is hardly anyone 
 in the clubs, and they all dance like complete dorks. 
  
  Where Troika missed the mark again is that there are no unlockable features when you beat the game. 
 With White Wolf's World of Darkness there is almost an endless amount of possiblities that they 
 could have chosen from to enhance the replayability factor, but they didn't bother at all. They 
 could've made it an option to play the game with one of the other lesser-used vampire clans like 
 the Giovanni or the Samedi. Or even gave you the option of playing as a clanless Caitiff vampire. 
 At least they you would be able to tailor make a character that completely suits you, including 
 the disciplines (since you don't get anything other than your standard clan disciplines in the 
 game) . There isn't even additional different character looks or anything. Even something as small 
 as that would have been appreciated and made the replayability factor a bit better. 
  
  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is a great game that could have been much better. But in ways 
 of an enjoyable cross-genre game (RPG, first person shooter, adventure) it is easily the best pick 
 so far this year. It far surpasses its incredibly limited predecessor. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nature-elf
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  In many RPGs, you will either be walking around, doing quest and leveling up using the mouse click! click! click! (Like 
 Diablo) or i a group with other computer player (like most Final Fantasy series) , these are the things 
 most gamers will think of when you hear RPGs, but Vampire The Masquerade Bloodline is different 
 because its an action game +RPG, so its a very different approach. In Bloodlines, you can choose different 
 breeds of vampires (i didn't know there were so many kind though) and their gender, and start your 
 missions to prove to the Vampre boss that you are useful because you were created without permission 
 so your creator has been executed, gameplay is pretty interesting because how you talk to each NPC 
 can change the outcome of the game and you can even have your own ghoul (the gal in the hospital) graphics 
 is good but can be better because the engine wasn't fully used to the full potential (the one that 
 powers Half Life 2) music is pretty good too, this game is worth your buy because it has a great 
 replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bramaputra
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  What can I say. After patching the game it is superb. The only bad thing - and I know most people 
 don't agree - is that you wanna play it with every different clan just to test what the differences 
 are. And the game is too long to do that. Doing the same missions all over just to get a different 
 line from one of the vampires in the primogen isn't my idea of fun.
  
  Why not make a vampire game that is all about one event, and to make you play different clans would 
 let you get a totally different perspective on the matter? Or why not make it co-op and play over 
 the net two players helping each other out, but they have different agendas according to their 
 sires wishes??? That would be a good role playing game I think... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kueiyen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Vampire the Masquerade: Bloodline, is the by far the best thing ever happen to a vampire game. 
 
  For me, writing this review after the game had released many years indeed put the game to the test 
 of its quality . By looking back to all the RPG I have played, this game is still the best RPG 
 I have played. 
  
  The games indulge players inner vampirism. It starts with given choice of answer personalities 
 to see the type of vampire that suits player personality to determine the clan of your characters, 
 or you can just select your desirable clan directly. The games have 7 different vampire clans for 
 you to choice and each one is empower with special ability and behaviors. As in game conversation, 
 different clan response to NPC with different attitude or choice of words that reflect their personality. 
 
  
  Although using the same engine as Half-life 2, the graphic is not as great as Half-life 2, but 
 the graphic is very decent and stylish. However, I not going to critique the value of the game 
 based on graphic since the notion of good graphic do evolve throughout time. But the game is 
 worthed praise for its effort to captures lively facial expressions that changes fluently with 
 the voice dialogue. And the environment is full with details that generate the atmosphere of the 
 setting. For example, in pub you found bunches of garbage, and posters of rock bands. And in various 
 Pubs, the game incorporates actual songs from actual bands which successful generate the atmosphere 
 of the pub. However, the song is constantly repeat, which kind of selling the idea short. Nevertheless, 
 the game does a good job of creating a believable environment that echoes our surrounding. For 
 example, you found in porno video stores .. you found OF COURSE,. porn video. and in strip club. you 
 foundOF coursestrippers. 
  
  For The Leveling system. Unlike most RPG the game level up though completing quests and how well 
 you perform your quest. Players wont get any experiences by the number of suckers you slain; instead 
 you get points for how well you completed your quest. Hence, this saves the trouble of mindless 
 and repetitive of fighting to leveling up your character. 
  
  For the points, they are used to add on your skill charts to improve your character in various 
 skills. It is interesting that not all the skill are focus on combat/magic, there are skill that 
 improve your social status, hacking, persuading skill which will affect how your interact with 
 the NPC. This gives multiple solutions to solve a problem based on the type of character and the 
 type of ability you possess as you can seduce, persuade, fight, offer money, hypnotize the NPC 
 you counter to pull your way off the mission. This means not all the quests involving fighting 
 as some quests request you spying, gathering data, and delivering items.
  This is similar to the game KOTOR series.
  
  The control works very well using mouse and keyboard. 
 The game allows the gamers to play the game in 3rd or 1st person perspective. This gives the gamers 
 various experiences to walk through the beautiful scenes in the game. The collaboration of these 
 two perspectives is not revolutionary at all, which it had been used in games like Jedi academy, 
 suffering, and many more. However, it is really rare to use incorporate such element in the RPG 
 game that intensify the experience and accommodate viewers preference in the camera perspective. 
 
  
  But the best element of this game is the story and the attempt to portray what a real vampire might 
 have lived in modern time. The games makes the player to determine their belief of utopian vampire 
 society by agree/ disagree with different vampire clan masters propaganda. The world view is very 
 convincing by incorporating real societies rule. i. e. if you whack somebody and seem by cop you 
 get bunch of cops shooting stuffs at you. 
  The games also incorporate moral decision which is by far the best one I seem in a lot of games. 
 There are a lot of games that offer gamers to select their moral decision, such as Star Wars: KOTOR 
 series or Fable. However, none of these games really offer you the crucial-ness of your decisions. 
 For example, if you murdering weapon supplier may permanently result you buying any arm supplies 
 any more. Or upsetting your blood supplier by saying nasty things t will make him refuse to sell 
 you any blood supplies throughout the entire game. This is different from KOTOR series or Fable 
 that killing a random NPC doesnt make that muchof difference in the game as the NPC well reappear 
 next time you enter the area. But in Bloodline, all NPC is unique. So what you do, you have to 
 accept the consequence of your action because there is no turning back that when people gonethey 
 are gone for good. 
  
  But at the same time, there isnt an obvious good /bad decision that contribute the outcome of 
 your decision. This is because the moral aspect is ambiguous. As result, there are a lot of times 
 you not sure whether the decision you made is by far the most morally right since different clan 
 masters offer different philosophies on creating a utopian vampire society that lures you to do 
 accomplish their political power. Thus, there isnt a absolute good or bad guy in this game. . 
 It is a dog eat dog world, which everyone is dirty, just by degree. Like real world, the game makes 
 you doubt on whom you should trust. 
  
  The NPC is unique and possess interesting (and realistic) personalities as some of them deceive 
 you to help them or trick you with false information to make you fail your mission or put you in 
 danger. 
  
  Meanwhile, the game offers 4 different endings for alot of replay values. Unlike conventional multiple 
 ending game that the ending is evaluated throughout the actions you made in the game; in Bloodline 
 type of ending is selected when near the end of the game you got on taxi and chat with the cabby 
 about the type of decision and action that feel is most right to you after you have been betrayed 
 by your sire. Then the cabby asked you where you want to go. and who you want to meet, which this 
 critical moment will offered you the path to walk your end. 
  
  If you are a horror movie geek, you well find the game has a lot of references to various genres 
 of horror movie genre such as: cemetery man, Shining, Buffy the vampire slayer, and resident 
 evil. the referrence is not obvious but you can see the resemblance in setting or in plot.
  
  The downside of the games is that the game could have been made better. For example there are 
 very limited weapons and clothing the character can equip. And there is shortage of inventory space 
 to stock items you found. 
  The control works well with keyboard and mouse. However, the control for range attack in 1st person 
 perspective is not as fluent as typical FPS. In addition, range weapon is very under power and 
 inaccurate, nevertheless range weapon is useful to deal with foes that are too dangerous to attack 
 at close range.
  
  Beside that enemies AI is very low you just keep shooting, hitting at you with the same attack. 
 
  And the games run very slow even at recommend setting. 
  
  The game is not very long if you ignore the entire side quests, you can probably finish the game 
 in 6~10 hours. However, most likely you will find yourself dwelling in side quest since they offer 
 a lot of fun and addition points to add on the skill chart which will add up to 30 hours of game 
 play. 
  
  And similar to KOTOR, the game is not as fast pace as typical action RPG. As you will soon found 
 out that when you are not doing any quest there are hardly any blood-boiling action (unless you 
 violate the law that forces cops to chase after you) . However, you will find yourself enjoying 
 doing various things that the environments have offered. i. e. Check email, listen to funny radio 
 commercial , dance in pub, seduce beautiful girl, watch strip dancers erotic show, etc. 
  
  p. s. please forgive my grammar mistakeI am trying my besthaaaa
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: capthowdy28086
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good at giving the player the chance at living there life through the eyes of 
 one of the dark ones, yet combat system and the game still has some of the problems that the earlier 
 version has, like the vague combat system and the lack of variety of deaths that you can deal to 
 your enemies. However there is somewhat of a good story behind the problems that this game has, 
 so if you like the previous game then you will like this one much better. But dont be expecting 
 a game that will suck you into it like other games out there, just be prepared for a game that 
 is worth playing but the replay value isnt worth a ****
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: croydcrenson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  I had stayed away from buying this game because of all the negative press but recently picked it 
 up on sale and have to say that I have not enjoyed an RPG more since probably Baldur's Gate. I 
 just finished it as a Malkavian and did not have a single bug issue (with all the patches installed) . 
 Maybe when it came out it sucked but as it is now this game kicks. Simply put, it is dark, scary, 
 sexy fun. It is unique. The graphics and sound are beautiful. The gameplay is immersive and challenging. 
 I cannot wait to play it again as a different clan because I know it will require a totally different 
 approach. It you are a fan of this story, you will love this game and if you are not a fan but 
 are looking for something kinky in an RPG, you will love it as well. I think it is tragic that 
 the original release was so bad as games like this come along very rarely and there will likely 
 never be a sequal to this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_prince_1981
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:24 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved this game! I think you really get a good experience of how it would feel when 
 you're a vampire (although the "quickly, get home before the sun comes up!" part misses) , for example, 
 the vampure that I got appointed after answering the questions (a Toreador) really felt like me 
 (as a vampire that is) . So the gameplay was just great. What I didn't like is the stability of 
 this game, lots of bugs and I get thrown out of the game sometimes! But if you save a lot, this 
 shouldn't be a problem anymore, but it'll keep being a major irritation. I also liked the missions 
 a lot, of course I didn't like all of them, some were a little RPG clich, you know like "fetch 
 this, fetch that" 'n stuff, but there were really good missions to like for example the 'ocean 
 house ghost' mission. But to make a long story short, I absolutely recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djames216
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Aside from the fact that there are too many bugs, this is a great game.
  
  Memorable, well written (and well acted) characters that evoke emotion and thought. 
  
  A variety 
 of well-designed quests. There are 4 main "city" zones. These are free roaming areas from which 
 you can enter various buildings to talk with people and get quests.
  
  Atmospheric music and sound effects that don't become too intrusive or repetitive. 
  
  Its 
 combat could be better, but, personally I find it very satisfying slicing through enemies with 
 my trusty sword. Stealth kills are pretty cool too. Stealth kill methods vary depending on the 
 weapon used. Snap his neck with your bare hands or use a knife to... well I don't want to give away 
 all the cool stuff.
  
  Getting back to the bugs. I just find it plain annoying that a company will release/allow to be 
 released a game that, quite simply isn't finished. It should have gone through a bit more QA to 
 iron out some more of those bugs.
  
  To sum up. Vampire is a great (mostly playable) game. Its just a shame its let down by all those 
 bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bountydoom
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Well... what should I say?
  Ok I know!
  
  The storyline is nice and creative, customizeing part is getting old. Sure you pick your clan thats 
 cool. Its just the level up part. It doesnt give you many options... 
  
  Bountdoom Presents... GAMEPLAY!!!
  Like I said the customizeing sucks. But how about the combat 
 system sux. You got guns you aim you shoot... and a whole damn clip to kill one person
  
  GRAPICS!!!!
  WTF! They say these grapics are from the Halflife 2 engine. Yea right... Right, 
 it really does look good in some parts of maps and stuff. But other than that screw it.
  
  BUGS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Yes theres bugs yes plenty... and how long did they wait to release 
 the game?
  *SOMEONE WHISPERS: Almost a year*
  
  SOUND!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Sound is ok nothing good
  
  RT!!!!!!!!
  It really does get you in the storyline thats what 
 saved this game from a "FAIR"
  
  BOUNTDOOM OUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Vanoure The Masqyerade, from the off look to be a great up-coming game.
  
  Video interviews with the developers got me really excited to play this game so much so that I 
 pre-orded the game and got the T-shirt with the Lovely Jenette.
  
  I'm glad to say I wasn't disappointed although frustrated that the game was broken in places namely 
 towards the end. So I had to waite for Troika to come up with a patch to fix. The game has been 
 rushed out to meet the growing demand of the general public.
  
  To date I've only seen two offical patches, namely patch 1.1 and 1.2. Even after these were in, 
 there were more problems created by the patches then they did solve. 
  
  So it was up to the players to make patches for the game to fix, perhaps the owners did feel rushed 
 to make this game. Who knows, Sinse playing it I've had a lot of fun playing the game.
  
  I suggest the Tremere clan and use blood boil, very nice.! hehe
  
  over all a good game to 
 have and play and worth its money and its place on Gamespot. com just have to keep in mind nothing 
 is perfect and all good things comes with their problems.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: james-lee85
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say about a game that allows the player to interact with the environment just as 
 good as Half-Life 2, has a great storyline and dosen't include too many cliche's. Well patching 
 games pisses me off, as soon as i get it i play straight up to the society of leopold, and what 
 should happen as soon as i complete the mission, the goddamn thing crashes out to windows, so okay 
 i play it again and quicksave just before exiting onto the boat, and it still crashes, lucky i 
 can patch it yay me. So i patch the stupid game and then i get to my haven in downtown, WTF the 
 elevator dont go to levels 2,3,4 and 6, so i use the noclip command in the console, why the hell 
 are the doorhandles grass sprites, but anyway i download the new patch today hopefully i can play 
 through without losing immersion to the game, because seriously it has a real good storyline, the 
 characters are well done with excellent voice acting, sure when you shoot a human in the forehead 
 with a .45 magnum you may only do 25 damage on occasion, the game is not purely a shooter, which 
 needs to be remembered. just do yourself a favour, download v1.2 patch and then v1.9 i know it's 
 a pain but the download is worth it, well at least that is my crappy opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamate
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 2:47 pm PT
Review:  cool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool cool coolcool 
 cool coolcool cool cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javis1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  This game is the best first person RPG Ive ever played. This atmosphere, sounds, people - I mean 
 vampires, ghouls and other creatures, graphics, source engine. The faces and emotions are perfect, 
 if you see Jeanettes beautiful lips moving... Ive played the first RPG - the Redemtion, and that 
 was fun. But Bloodlines are masterpiece! Lots of clans, vampires, places, guns, abillites... + 
 L. A. deadly and dangerous nights... This game shows you, that the bloodsucking creatures are not 
 only the bloodsucking creatures, but intelligent and hidden society with his own structures and 
 members with very rich history. We can feel the long age influence of the vampires in every corner 
 of L. A. The city is huge, with 4 main locations (Downtown, Santa Monica, Hollywood, Chinatown) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  After the abomination that was Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption I wasn't expecting much from 
 Bloodlines, but when I played it I was surprised. After creating your character you find that you 
 just got embraced during a one night stand (clever) and you have no idea what's going on. After 
 you come to you see your new sire sitting on a couch; then the suits bust in and stake both you 
 and your sire and take you before a trial... if you'd call it that. After your sire is executed 
 you are spared when a possible ally intervenes; thus the story truly begins.
  
  Bloodlines has a great story that like Planescape: Torment; proves that you do not need to put 
 the entire universe in danger to tell a good story in an RPG. For most of the game you're performing 
 tasks for Prince LaCroix (The Leader of the Camarilla in Los Angeles) and side quests for everyone 
 else (and these side quests sometimes effect your standing with a particular faction or individual) 
 but the game manages to link even what may seem like the most irrelevent mission possible to the 
 plot.
  
  Bloodlines is a first\third person RPG similar to The Elder Scrolls series. When using guns you 
 can switch between first and third, melee however forces you into third and conversing with NPCs 
 forces you into first. In Bloodlines instead of getting experience points that round in the millions 
 you get one exp point for completing quests. You can use the exp you earn to improve your most 
 important skills like melee\ranged combat, manipulation etc. The area design in Bloodlines is nice; 
 a lot of time was spent on structuring the games many areas and they are very large and atmospheric.
 
  
  The graphics are wonderful; Bloodlines uses Valve's Source engine so the textures and characters 
 are extremely detailed. The characters especially look life-like as they cast realistic facial 
 expressions your way. Everything is crisp in the graphics department; unfortunately this also creates 
 stuttering problems (though that may not be related to the graphics) .
  
  The sound is just as good if not better than the graphics. The music is atmospheric and picks up 
 during battle, and the sound effects are superb. The most noteworthy aspect, however; is the voice 
 acting. The voice acting in Bloodlines is nearly flawless; every character has a voice that fits 
 their personality and the voice actors manage to give entirely convincing performances.
  
  Bloodlines is an amazing RPG with a great storyline and a cast of memorable characters. If you're 
 looking for a solid RPG with a great plot, great graphics and great sound look no further... Bloodlines 
 delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_bi99man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I played Vampire: The Masquerade-Bloodlines at my friend's house and I loved it. I know the developing 
 company went out of business, but I thought it might still be available. I couldn't find it in 
 any stores, and finally I just found a good torrent of it and downloaded it. All in all, It's an 
 excellent game. Good gameplay, and I like that guns are underpowered. I enjoy getting my hands 
 dirty. Graphics aren't as good as they could be on the Source engine, but it's the gameplay and 
 story that really make a good game (although awesome graphics are pretty to look at) . Even though 
 it's kinda worthless now, since I already have the game, I have to know: Did they stop selling 
 this game, or did I miss something and then waste my time with a 4 day download? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are comparable to Half Life 2, but not as polished. That's not a bad thing at all 
 seeing as HL2 was one of the best looking games of it's time. The majority of the character models 
 were gorgeous, or disgusting.... depending on who they were. This helped to give each character 
 a very distinguished look from one another.
  
  Sound... What can I say? Everything sounded like it should and the voice acting was terrific. The 
 way some of the characters were portrayed was done beautifully. The script and graphics came together 
 in a perfect combination. Gun shots, choking, screaming, music... those were all done well too.
 
  
  Gameplay takes a few hits. Some of the boss battles have glitches that can be exploited. I don't 
 know if this is done on purpose to help out the stealthier characters, but it seemed to cheapen 
 the game as some bosses could just be dispatched by sticking them in a loop of actions. The combat 
 system was pretty bad, worse than Morrowind. Some combos wouldn't connect with certain characters, 
 leaving you wide open for counter attacks. The FPS parts didn't seem too good either, it seems 
 the engine can't tell the difference between a head shot or when you knee cap some one. In a game 
 done this realistic looking, the combat engine falls very short. Each mission was done well, and 
 theres a lot of variety... BUT the loooooooooading. Some missions were terrible just because of 
 the constant back tracking.
  
  In the end it was a terrific game that just had some horrible parts. It's kind of like eating the 
 best mashed potatoes you've ever had, then finding a hair in it at the end
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KidCaboose
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:45 am PT
Review:  With all the choices you have in character creation, I found it sadly disappointing that there 
 were very few choices available in game. What choices you do have are limited to dialogue options 
 "a la" Knights of the Old Republic. The only freedom it feels like you have is choosing to try 
 to find all the game's little hidden side quests or not. In fact, the game feels a lot like Knights 
 of the Old Republic, with its small environments and its railroaded story line. The choices you 
 make in character creation end up feeling a little superficial. 
  Is your character a vampire? Yes. Does it feel like you're playing a vampire? I didn't think so. 
 And beyond graphics and gameplay, immersion is what I think is most important to a game, especially 
 for those who play as an escape into the imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freak24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:46 am PT
Review:  Vampire the masquerade, bloodlines is a good game where you can go in any of the many vampire clans 
 who all have different powers and different characteristics, and play in the huge environment. 
 You have to feed, do missions and earn money in order to survive. This game gives you the best 
 of third person and first person playing in fighting modes, sneaking about or just talking to other 
 characters.
  If you are going to buy this game you should have a fairly modern computer with lots of space and 
 a recent video and sound card otherwise lots of parts of this game will look and sound like it 
 is stuttering. This is a fun game and you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camerilla
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I love this game truth to tell. It contained different varieties of aspects and difficulties, there're 
 a lot of missions and mini-missions in this game. I personally very much appreciate the clan system, 
 it gave me different opportunity to learn different spells and challenges. The graphic was just 
 an OK, I don't assume anything superb but the graphics could be better. The music was great, though 
 the previous game was better. 
  
  However, there're one thing I really couldn't tolerate in this game!! It had a lot of bugs. It 
 crashed all the time during the gameplay, and I had to start all over again from wherever I saved 
 at the previous point. This wasted me a lot of time, and I'm definitely not happy about it. The 
 patch, I didn't find it useful... bugs still there. The game would be extremely better if Activision 
 released a more workable patch file. Do remember, save all the time!!
  
  By the way, I think the Leader of Tremere (ie. the sunglass man) is sooooooooooo COOL!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intsm
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay should've been improved in the combat and sneaking sections. I can go with the stale 
 combat, there are games with much less variety in combat while it's one of the main aspects of 
 the game, and I can live with the featured vampiric powers as most of them were useless, but sneaking 
 in well lit room full of soldiers and sneak killing them right there in front of each other without 
 the other soldiers even moving a muscle is kinda ridiculous. I mean, perhaps it was a bug, perhaps 
 the soldiers just got so scared that they froze, it sure made the game easier at some points, but 
 I'd take a better written AI system than a free slaughter. And then of course we have the bugs 
 which can often completely ruin the game, luckily for me, the bugs I found were fixable and I managed 
 to see the game through, there's nothing worse than having to stop playing a game until a patch 
 comes out because of a bug.
  
  The graphics were awesome and you also need a decent machine to run it smoothly. The background, 
 the characters, the special effects, none of them had any noticeable flaws and blended perfectly. 
 The graphics are not the most important thing in a game, but it's a great bonus if they're top-notch.
 
  
  Audio part of the game didn't lose to the graphics. Voice actors were surprisingly good, bad voice 
 acting can often make the game seem fake which would've been devastating for Bloodlines, but they 
 came through it with an excellent cast, just that the subtitles were most of the time completely 
 out of sync, no big deal. The sound effects were there, using the same bang effect for all the 
 guns is a sign of a low budget game, Vampire: Bloodlines is definitely not one of them. Moving 
 on to the music, this is where the game really shines. The licensed songs taken out of albums in 
 sale enhances the overall mood of the game, I mean, if you go to a club, you expect to hear songs 
 with professional vocals and production and this is what Bloodlines gives you. The ambient sound 
 playing in background in different areas and scenes completely makes the mood of the situation 
 you're in, this game features one of the best BG music I've ever heard. It definitely adds about 
 70% to the fear factor in spooky scenes.
  
  For me, an excellent plot makes up for all the gameplay faults, bad graphics and sound, not that 
 this game had problems with the last two. The reason I love this game is for the plot, it made 
 me get completely involved with it in no time. Intriguing events and characters, anticipation to 
 see what happens next - it's all there, almost as if it was taken from a novel. The quests are 
 well made, including the side quests. A lot of games have sloppy side quests, Bloodlines greatness 
 however, comes largely from all the side quests, in fact, they at some points even outshine the 
 main quests.
  Yet still, there were some disappointments... The clan feature for example, it could've been used 
 for a lot more than just for choosing your appearance and those special feats which don't make 
 much of a difference (unless you choose Nosferatu or Malkavian, those change the whole gaming experience) , 
 there could've been more interaction between different clans, but well... there were none. Furthermore, 
 the first part of the game was the best, it continued as a masterpiece in story through the middle 
 part of the game as well, yet closing to the end and especially the final part of the game was 
 a disappointment for me. What some characters tell you in the game, you being an errand boy, is 
 correct and that's why the side quest are better than some main quests cause the latter ones are 
 mostly messenger/fetching missions. After beating the tough end bosses (believe me, they were nasty) 
 I was expecting a bigger reward than some 30 second long cut scenes, making it longer would've 
 made me content, but I would've preferred a little report over the major characters to see what 
 had become of them after, how you affected them and so on.
  On another note, I prefer for the character to have more of a story behind him/her, Bloodlines 
 had none whatsoever or wait, there was this 1 occasion which really surprised me, but there really 
 wasn't much into it, I tried to see if it could be developed, but it was a waste of time, you'll 
 remain a generic, yet powerful vampire throughout the game, which this time didn't bother me as 
 much because of the interesting plot and other well made up characters.
  
  In overall, this is a game worth playing, I wouldn't call it an RPG, but you do get experience 
 and evolve cause of that. Even if I didn't like the ending that much, most of the game was really 
 fun to play and the haunted mansion sure added a lot to it, I don't remember the last time I was 
 so scared because of a game, perhaps never. Vampire: Bloodlines is a definite classic in my eyes.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cawscorp
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing! My main complaint about the game is that you could really feel the strain 
 of the developers who were dealing "political issues". Though a thouroughly enjoyable game, it 
 feels truncated. It really feels like a preview of the Vampire Bloodlines World that COULD HAVE 
 BEEN. In other words, I was left wanting more. It would be great to have the creative geniuses 
 behind Troika reunite in some other form, and revisit the world they created in Vampire Bloodlines 
 in more depth. A world where the player isn't limited to 4 or 5 different endings and that's it. 
 A vampire Morrowind if you will. A girl can dream can't she? The artistry and attitude of the game 
 make it all worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shambalanhas
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the vampire the masquerade tabletop games and the game does do it some justice 
 but there are a few things very wrong going o in it.
  Mainly, the way the game is it's to adventuresome and not very rpg-like. There should have been 
 more research, and actual role playing and less invading and fighting. The disciples could have 
 been put to better use, we could use a group in the game and the story could have been better from 
 middle to end game. After all the vampire world is about using and being used not simply running 
 errands and have the whole feel like the elders are bad. That was horrible, not only should we 
 be able to use others as well but the whole anarchy is good and camarilla is bad had nothing to 
 do with the real feel the world has. There is no good or bad, it's like politics, and hate just 
 because it's not as simple as normal life, and that's what it had to have to be the greatest game 
 ever. Don't forget next time, there is no good and evil, there's just a bunch of different points 
 of view and we should be able to play them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cikame
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  Could have been just a modification more so than a whole game, but hell it supprised me. Took me 
 30 hours to complete first time through (xfire told me)
  Gameplay - Well, its not bad, nor good, it works lets say. It takes a little time to figure out 
 what the best way to survive large battles is and then the same thing works over and over again 
 so, it gets abit repetitive once and awhile, guns are optional and i only found myself using them 
 against bosses and distant enemies, katana takes gold. Quite abit of variance between the vampire 
 clans, you get to choose a clan and either male or female and some of the story changes depending 
 which clan you are, also i found with male i generally end up in fights, and with female i can 
 often charm my way through without a hitch. Stats system is good letting you know what you need 
 to improve to get higher levels of things like lock picking or computer hacking. Can be anoying 
 when you need to find a key and you have no idea where it is. (like a sewer)
  Graphics - Lots of pretty design, i often got the fealing the source engine wasn't made for this, 
 frame rate was low initially but was fixed by decreasing the distance level of detail on models 
 then everything ran smooth. Generally a good looking game. (character models - excellent)
  Sound - This is an astonishing game when it comes to sound, the narrative for all the characters 
 is excellent and there is lots of it, some characters like the guy in the pawn shop sound like 
 they were quickly voiced by one of the developers, but you don't see them very often so its alright. 
 Guns sound hard hitting, same with blades, excellent sound track with developer made music for 
 adventuring and combat which sounds good and licensed rock and dance tracks for certain occasions, 
 a hint of goth in most tracks but nothing like the anoying midget in cradle of filth, the song 
 in the credits 'lacuna coil - swamped' made me get their album. Ambient sound (i. e the background 
 stuff) is very good, always something to listen to be it distant cars, whispers of ghosts in your 
 ear or the tv or radio - radio being a rip off of one of the funny radio stations in any gta game, 
 but its funny so its good... thats good friggin' chicken.
  Value - Well, i'll admit, 5 off of ebay... so excellent value, if i knew how good it was i would 
 have got it full price off the shelf when it came out.
  Bit that anoyed me most is you don't get to keep adventuring after the credits, i still needed 
 to do a quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moleatom
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:41 am PT
Review:  Vampire: The masquerade - Bloodlines
  
  Is just one of the best role-playing game... it will really control you and make you go so deep 
 inside it thinking and thrilling for quest results.
  
  You will investigate, search, seek and of course fight in order to please some authority on the 
 way to reach a stage where you will become able to take your own decisions and make youru own (and 
 others) destiny.
  
  if you find any difficulties finishing any quest, just visit the WHITE-WOLF. COM forums and you 
 discuss the game and get aswers.
  
  Despite the long loading time it takes... This is one of he best games i have ever played.
  I 
 strongly recommend i t!!
  Enjoy...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: angry_machine
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  The story suits rpg concepts greatly.. level designs are ok.. main quest level designs i found almost 
 sequel.. like 3-5 levels in an building... combat system i would say its not worth the story line... ending 
 could be better... the bugs really bugged me.. and the bosses... same goes here.. all the bosses stand 
 right at the end of the main quest levels khik! some side missions are so easy that i really dint 
 like to do and left side quest around the ending.. melee combat really worked for me.. it was better 
 not to keep any fire arms option..
  
  what i really liked was to storyline and talking to people and having use of persuation... also 
 computer hack and staff. but stealth are in some parts very illogical like u r killing ppl from 
 the back and when u kill u r standin.. just the guy beside dint see or hear it? funny i see..
  
  Sometimes the sound was fishy to.. like walkin on the streets hearing cars horn s just beside 
 but there is no car at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  This is a superb RPG and i'm going to review it on that basis, it does have a significant FPS element 
 but that, along with the overall glitchy and very demanding game engine is what brings the title 
 down.
  I wish this game had been in development longer!! if they had used a better engine and had worked 
 more on the combat esp. ranged, then this would have been one of the best games of all time!!
 
  The atmosphere in the game is superb and it backed up by a very appropriate sound track, the plot 
 is brilliant and very immersive though it does become less so as the game progresses. The first 
 and perhaps second game areas (of which there are four) are really astoundingly good.
  The actual gameplay is somewhat similar to Deus Ex although the plot/RPG element is much stronger.
 
  Troika have done a wonderful job of translating white wolf's Masquerade world into a computer 
 game, and you can create your character from one of 7 different clans which have quite different 
 abilities and even dialogue options; although at about roughly half way though the game this pretty 
 much goes out of the window somewhat as you have no choice but to fight some very tough battles 
 which forces you to focus more on combat abilites.
  The combat isnt really all that bad though the guns seem ridiculusly underpowered and inaccurate, 
 close combat is generally more effective.
  You cant help but feel though that with just some simple tweaking the combat could have been much 
 more pleasurable.
  If you like vampire mythology you'll love this game, if you like RPGs you'll love this game, otherwise 
 give it a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthreven85
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  i played the game on the hardest difvculty possible i say it is worth playing i play the pen an 
 paper version of the game so i am a fan of the game it is worth playing i had hours of fun with 
 it and i would play it again this game is very fun and the vampire fan will enjoy this game i know 
 i did great graphics great sound loved the storyline i am a huge fan of rpgs and this one got my 
 attion for an rpg guy like me it was a great editon to my collection
  this game is worth a 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fluffdrake
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:50 am PT
Review:  I actually liked this game. Although, I must say it got boring after a while (thank goodness for 
 cheats) . It's easy in the sense that it's pretty linear, you can pretty much only go where you're 
 supposed to. It's difficult though, since earning experience points takes forever so you keep getting 
 your butt whopped. I would have liked it more if it had allowed me to for instance choose to make 
 ghouls and stuff like that. Gaining influences by having gouls in high places, stuff like that.
 
  Also, it's a bit too heavy on my poor bucket, the graphics wasn't realy cutting edge for me, and 
 loadtimes were a nightmare.
  All in all it's a game well worth playing though. It helps if you have some pre-knowledge of World 
 of Darkness and the Vampire game system.
  Oh, and it helps if you like Goth-ish music. I do, so I LOVED the music in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fhelvie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2005 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Vampire: Bloodlines was a game that had many fans rapidly awaiting the release of. Based on the 
 pen and paper game by White Wolf, it was based on a rich plotline of a dark, secret Vampire Society, 
 and in the game, you were newly exposed to the World of Darkness as a neonate bloodsucker. 
  
  This game has some great game concepts, and visuals truly surprising even the most experienced 
 and jaded of players with some of it's effects. It's pretty ruthless in game play- even allowing 
 you force someone to strangle themselves to death- though you will no doubt be forced to lose humanity 
 points, and growth closer to losing control to the Beast (that which makes vampires evil, and in 
 essence, causing you to lose the game) . The mix of weapons and powers is plentiful giving the players 
 a variety of different means of reconfiguring their enemies faces. The portion in the haunted house 
 genuinely had me on edge wondering what would happen next ready to jump at the next flicker of 
 a light.
  
  The biggest problem with this game is ultimately it's greatest downfall. Mechanically, one cannot 
 help but wonder if this game was rushed to press too soon. Game freezes were commonplace, and it 
 wasn't unusual to literally wait 5 minutes just to load a different part of the map to explore. 
 Load times in general were painful at best, and honestly took up almost half of my entire time 
 with the computer. In fact, I finally got so fed up, I never bothered to finish the final level. 
 I'm sure I will go back to it soon, but not for a while. 
  
  If you are a diehard fan of the series or genre, then this would be a good pick. Just bring a book 
 along to get you through the long load times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilmaat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2005 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The latest game to be based on the Vampire role-playing system makes for an ambitious and generally 
 enjoyable attempt to provide an open-ended experience for any budding Childe of the night, but 
 falls short of delivering on the great initial promise.
  
  You start the game by picking your vampire, selectable from a variety of clans with a variety of 
 special attributes and very different appearances. This isnt Count Dracula and flowing capes, 
 but rather what a vampire might look like in modern day Los Angeles. The clans include the Toreador, 
 who are happiest mingling with unknowing humans; and the hideous Nosferatu, who must always remain 
 out of sight lest they violate the Masquerade - the law obeyed by most and enforced upon all vampires. 
 Vampires can never let the ignorant mortal masses know of their existence, or they risk being exterminated 
 for sure.
  
  Despite this primarily being an RPG, the game plays more like an action adventure - Deus Ex albeit 
 with a 3rd person view and more melee combat springs to mind as a comparison which flatters Bloodlines, 
 but gives an idea of the gameplay. In fact its likely that the player will opt for melee combat 
 more often than not - most foes can be overcome with a few crude mouse button bashes in their direction. 
 This approach will not always work however, particularly later in the game, when caution and guns 
 may have to be utilised. 
  
  Between the running around and chatting to people that goes on, the core part of the game takes 
 place in the combat zones. These sequences, which often see you infiltrating some place or another, 
 can be very atmospheric and tense, but are essentially linear more often than not. The excellent 
 use of sound in some of these parts of the game really insists on surround sound, it becomes genuinely 
 uncomfortable in places, to its credit.
  
  The graphics on the whole are very good. This was the first chance to see the Half-Life 2 Source 
 engine at retail, and it appears to have been utilised very effectively. The dingy LA locales are 
 very nicely realised, with atmospheric lighting used... sparingly at times, but it works. The people 
 in the game look pretty good, although their animations arent always slick or even that consistent. 
 Here Ive started to touch on the games recurring weakness - instability. The game pretty much 
 requires patching, and I recall many a frustrating moment when a bug in this game influenced play 
 noticeably. In addition, when the camera swings round in 3rd person view youll often catch a glimpse 
 of the other side of the adjacent wall. You can even attack enemies through doors and thin walls, 
 which isnt intentional Im sure. A real shame that such moments should harm a game so, but they 
 are hard to ignore and go some way to take you away from the vampire in LA back to the frustrated 
 gamer in front of their PC. 
  
  The Deus Ex comparison made earlier is in fact very valid - maybe more so with its disappointing 
 sequel Invisible War, as the games share a similar open objective-based progression system, and 
 multiple endings based on which faction you align yourself with. Combining this with the variety 
 of vampire clans to try at the beginning means that the game has good replay value, although the 
 big choices only come very close to the end, so you may in fact not want to go through the whole 
 game again, as it is a pretty good length the first time through. Either way theres good value 
 here.
  
  Bloodlines is far from perfect - both technically and in terms of the design of the game, but somehow 
 its hard not to like a game which has you stalking a twisted vision of Los Angeles by night, preying 
 on those who cannot know the existence of you and your Kindred. All in all this is an atmospheric, 
 enjoyable, yet somewhat flawed game; still well worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobdillon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 24, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Having been a huge fan of Half-Life my expectation for its sequel (Half-Life 2, obviously) all 
 but blinded me to the potential delights of Vampire, The Masquerade: Bloodlines. However, now that 
 Ive completed the game a number of times the truth is that Im still finding myself drawn back 
 to its deep and fascinating world of half truths and shadowy characters. I can now say that this 
 is one of my favourite games of 2004.
  
  A lot has been made of Bloodlines buggy, unfinished nature. Of course this fact cannot be ignored, 
 although it must be said that the unofficial community-made patches have gone a long way to rectify 
 some of the initial lack of polish. When it comes down to it though, all of the bad press has done 
 this game a huge disservice. Bloodlines actually features a wealth of gameplay, not to mention 
 one of the most engaging game worlds I have ever played through. For me Bloodlines comes exceedingly 
 close to the Holy Grail that was the original Deus Ex, and that in itself is no mean feat.
  
  The atmosphere built up from the get-go is never less than enthralling and really goes a long 
 way to reflect the dark and mysterious source material. The script is also fantastic with a myriad 
 of twists and turns, causing you to constantly revaluate your loyalties to the cast of (refreshingly 
 interesting) NPCs. On top of this the potential for player-led improvisation really does elevate 
 Bloodlines into the realm of classic PC games. Not only are there the multiple character classes 
 on offer  all of which alter the way you play, from your core abilities and combat tactics to 
 the very dialog choices on offer  but also the extremely open nature of the many and varied missions. 
 The game always encourages you to experiment with different play styles and you often find that 
 the more indirect path is the most rewarding. Needless to say the replay value of Bloodlines is 
 absolutely huge.
  
  Unfortunately I am sad to say that Bloodlines is destined to be known as a what if game (i. e., 
 what if Troika had been given the time to bring the game to full fruition  on this evidence Activision 
 really should star in its own dodgy daytime TV show called something like, when games publishers 
 panic..!) . As it currently stands Id be lying if I said the game was without its problems. Some 
 world areas are woefully underused and combat can be a real hit and miss affair, although its 
 nowhere near as bad as has been suggested in some quarters. Looking at the broader picture I really 
 feel that many of the quoted quirks have been blown way out of proportion. The diversity of the 
 core game alone more than makes up for any effort you put into it.
  
  I make no bones about it; I have really enjoyed playing Vampire The Masquerade: Bloodlines  much 
 more than I ever thought I would. At some of the cut down prices Ive seen this game offered it 
 really would be a crime not to give it a whirl. You never know, it might just sink its teeth in 
 to you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 17, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  When I loaded up Vampires: Bloodlines, I felt that I was going to be disappointed. Troika Games 
 was on the verge of folding, reviews talked about the bugginess of the game, and I was afraid it 
 was going to be a Diablo type affair like the first Vampire: Redemption. I have to say that I was 
 wrong on all aspects and was pleseantly surprised by all that this game does right.
  
  The story is a separate entity from the first game and you need not to play it to get into this 
 game. The game starts with you picking a clan, stats and a name. And then you are introduced via 
 some cut scenes into the Vampire world. From there you are tasked on several main missions that 
 advance the plot and many, many more side quests for your character to complete.
  
  One of the things that I noticed right off the bat wtih these missions is the variety of them. 
 One mission requires you to take web cams and set them up in a house without being detected by 
 the occupants in the building. Another takes you into a hotel that is haunted with a ghost and 
 you need to free her from her bond to the hotel. The missions are well thought out and barring 
 a few bugs here and there (now fixed with several official and non-official patches) are a blast 
 to play through.
  
  Your character over time builds up via experience points that you gain by completing each quest. 
 Also, there are several ways to finish some of the quests and by using some ingenius thinking, 
 can get extra experience points by trying something a bit more adventurous. Points are can be alloted 
 manually or by an auto allotment. I tried the auto allotment system for a little while, but I felt 
 it was putting into skills that I did not feel were needed at that time in the game. You may want 
 to experiment to feel which way is better for you.
  
  All the graphics in the game are fantastic. They are powered by the amazing Half Life 2 Source 
 engine which provides for some very realistic details in regards to the character models and environments. 
 The characters facial animations are great and really bring life to the characters. The environments 
 are also well done and feel different from each other. I ran them at 1280x1024 at 32bit color and 
 had no hiccups on my system (AMD64 3000+/Geforce6800GT/1GB RAM) , but the engine is pretty scalable 
 for lower end systems.
  
  Sounds are also well done with the voice overs being really good. I am not sure if there was any 
 major talent hired to do the voice overs, but I have to say that I was highly impressed with all 
 the voices in the game. Weapons had some fulfilling sounds and the ambient noise of the levels 
 was quite nice. Of note is the great licensed tracks that are used in the game. They are available 
 in an MP3 format on the first CD, a nice bonus to be sure.
  
  There are some bugs in the game if you do not have it patched and I ran across one bug that had 
 not been fixed yet and is well documented that I ended up having to use a clip cheat to get past. 
 That is a bit unexcusable, and I did ding the gameplay a bit because of it. Also, load times are 
 a bear and there are some clipping issues. Subject matter could be an issue to some due to some 
 harsh language and strong sexual overtones at times.
  
  The best compliment I can give this game is that there were some really good spook me out of my 
 seat moments that had me playing with the lights on just because it had freaked me out good. I 
 can't say more about the immersiveness than that. So I would highly recommend this game to all 
 players out there. I would say patch it before you play so you will have the best experience possible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supamunky
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 23, 2005 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the sequel to the Vampire: The Masquerade  Redemption. Although the game is a sequel, 
 I dont believe it carries on any story from the original as I have never played the original but 
 had no difficulty in following this games story.
  
  The story is that you are a fledgling, a newly embraced vampire in L. A. The vampires are split 
 up into about four major factions. These factions all want full control of the citys Vampire community. 
 You work with the Camarilla, this sect believes that all vampires should follow the Masquerade 
 whether they know of it or not. The Masquerade is the rules of not showing that you are a vampire 
 to the human society. As breaking the Masquerade will result in vampire hunters trying to kill 
 you and then eventually vampires will kill you. So it is a good idea to not show off that you are 
 a Vampire to humans.
  I do like the story as it shows that vampires are up to date in the world and know the risks of 
 being found out by humans now as the numbers of vampires compared to humans is tiny. So its important 
 for them to keep secret. I also like the range of missions from killing to stealth to negotiating 
 and to collect things. They are all usual sorts of quests, but you can do most of them how you 
 see fit. You can kill everyone. You can just be stealthy. You can even talk your way through some 
 people. It is pretty good they let you be open about what youre doing. Plus you have to worry 
 about committing crimes at the beginning of the game as you are rather weak to begin with and the 
 police will be able to overpower and kill you. But the police never try to arrest you, which youd 
 expect if you are unarmed and just standing still not resisting, arrest but taking a beating. But 
 you can easily evade them.
  
  Character creation within the game consists of selecting what race of vampire you are. There are 
 7 clans to choose from and each has some uniqueness about them. My favourite is the Malkavians. 
 These vampires are able to see more from people than people may reveal, but they are made crazy 
 because of this. Their madness is noticeable whilst you play so its not that you are mad but you 
 cannot tell.
  Other clans include the Nosferatu, Brujah, Tremere and others. They have their own unique strengths 
 and weaknesses. Selecting gender is also important as characters will react differently depending 
 on gender. But the only problem is you cannot customise their looks at all.
  
  The graphics are using the Source engine that originated in Half Life 2. This is shown most of 
 the time, but unfortunately. The graphics are some what rushed at times as their characters that 
 look really good and are animated really well when talking. But there are generic NPCs that just 
 walk around and they look really bad. They are really basic and dont show any work done for them.
 
  Areas within the game look good most of the time as the good places have atmosphere. There may 
 have been a few places that I wasnt impressed with but they were rather small.
  Another horrible graphical problem is that water is only made to look good in a few areas of the 
 game. As that water reflects and looks just as good as Half Life 2s. But there are some areas 
 where the water has graphical bugs like it flashes chunky pixels. Its most noticeable in the sewers 
 towards the Warrens and in the Warrens themselves. It is rather noticeable when it occurs.
  Animations are also somewhat irritating as the 1.2 patch didnt have characters opening doors with 
 an animation I think. But the 1.5 unofficial patch makes characters kick doors open pretty much 
 all of the time. It looks amusing to begin with and then just irritates me.
  
  The sound in Vampire: Bloodlines is good on the vocals, but the sounds in general werent as good. 
 The voices were good as they showed how the characters were feeling, especially in characters like 
 Damsel. But there are some bugs where they only say so much but the subtitles show more, like their 
 voices cut out during their speech. But most of the time, the voices say more than the subtitles 
 show.
  The music in the game is rather good in most of the places. When you arent in heavy combat, you 
 may hear just some background music. But when you get into a fight, the combat music takes over 
 and its pretty good and loud for making you want to kill people with. Some areas of the game has 
 good music, whereas others have rather irritating tunes.
  
  Gameplay in Vampire: Bloodlines has been corrected in the 1.5 patch, which means no more laggy 
 controls. But I still find it irritating to press buttons when in 3rd person mode, as they are 
 hard to locate when you got your vampires body in the way. But 3rd person mode is important for 
 hand to hand combat. So when being attacked and theres a button to drop something from a crane 
 to crush some one, its hard to press.
  Combat in this game ignores all the damage caused by shooting some one in the head. So Jacks little 
 tutorial of what will harm you and what doesnt have its flaws. As you can pummel a person with 
 a sledge hammer but it may cause little damage. Its all your stats compared to another character, 
 so you dont get any authentic FPS style damage like some games. Combat using firearms is another 
 story. It is an all or nothing situation with them when they concern weapons with a scope as having 
 just one point less than the maximum will result in the scope swinging about and being rather difficult 
 to control. Also there are no points for scoring headshots in this game as itll do just the same 
 amount of damage as shooting them in the foot. Plus there are times when guns are practically useless 
 against some things.
  
  This game is rather riddled with bugs, it would take some time type all of them. Ill just say 
 that the game may crash when it wants, thats rare. But there are times when events scripted events 
 dont play out like they should and the game cannot continue as the event hasnt finished. But 
 it cant. There are also performance problems as some areas and some fights makes my pc stutter 
 to an unplayable standard for a short period of time for unknown reasons. As my CPU has no problem 
 with this game as I tested this game with a better graphics card and slower CPU, they had the same 
 problem at the same places. So this could be another issue due to how the game may have been rushed 
 to be finished.
  
  As long as you see past the errors and problems. This is a rather good game which is easily replayable 
 as Ive played through the game twice and found new things in the game and keep finding new things 
 with each play. As long as it's at version 1.5 it won't be very irritating with bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 5
Date: May 19, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  When I read that Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines developer Troika had closed its doors, I 
 was disappointed. But now, after playing the company's final game, their closure seems well deserved. 
 No wonder they couldn't secure any more contracts with publishers, because the latest (and perhaps 
 last) Vampire RPG is a sloppy mess.
  
  There are too many instances when I had to shake my head and wonder, what were they thinking? First, 
 the choice of Valve's Half-Life 2 engine was a poor one. The only good thing I can say about this 
 engine is that water looks good. The inexplicable stuttering and slow frame rate kept jarring me 
 out of the Vampire universe. That slow frame rate is all the more galling, considering that Vampire's 
 levels are relatively empty, non-interactive and tiny. Why do I have to load an entirely new level 
 just to enter a store, apartment or club?
  
  Why must I also lock into a talking head perspective each time I speak with a character? It's like 
 holding a conversation with a mannequin -- hardly realistic. Speaking of unrealistic, why does 
 a razor-sharp Katana sword inflict less damage to an opponent than a blunt punch to his head? Combat 
 is unbalanced and wonky, with guns nearly useless.
  
  There's just a few character models employed throughout the game, and multiple examples of the 
 same model often appear in the same room. The same can be said about the soundtrack. Each club 
 or bar plays one song, over and over and over. It reminded me of The Smiths' Panic, in which Morrissey 
 croons "Hang the blessed DJ." I certainly wanted to kill the DJ after hearing too few songs far 
 too many times. Meanwhile, Grand Theft Auto III, Vice City and San Andreas each present dozens 
 of tracks on multiple radio stations...
  
  A limited soundtrack is symptomatic of Vampire's overall disease: Unrealized potential. Or maybe 
 it was overreaching ambition? Either way, Vampire - Bloodlines tries earnestly to establish an 
 urban Gothic vibe. Yet when it comes to Goth atmosphere, Vampire talks the talk, but doesn't walk 
 the walk. Vampire - Bloodlines' lack of detail and content, plus its constant technical bugs, make 
 this game feel like a blood-sucking time waster. You're better off buying the original Vampire: 
 The Masquerade in your local stores' bargain bin.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan87
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 6, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  Should i break his neck? Drink his blood? Seduce him and con him to leave my friend alone? Or persuade 
 him to leave my friend along and pay me for all my troubles? 
  These are dilemmas you'll often face through out the course of Vampire: Bloodlines, a First-Person 
 Role-Playing game from Troika Games.
  
  In Vampire: Bloodlines you take on the role of a newly created vampire whose thrust into the World 
 of Darkness and forced to survive. After your "sire" (the vampire who created you) is slain for 
 not asking permission to make you a vampire, the Prince Sebastian LaCroix, head honcho of the undead 
 society known as the Camarilla, allows you to live on one condition. That you do his bidding. So 
 you're literally pushed out the door and forced to fend for yourself in order to prove your worth 
 to the Prince and the World of Darkness.
  
  You start off being able to choose between several different classes of Vampires. Ranging from 
 the Gangrel, feral loners who can conjur up the powers of the wilderness (ranging from ghost wolves 
 to evil ravens) to the Toreador, seductive beings reliant on smooth-talking and seduction, rather 
 then brute force, to get them through a dangerous situation. Which class you choose will decide 
 how you play through the game. For example if you choose the class of Nosferatu, beings that have 
 been hideously transformed by the curse of vampirism, then you will spend the majority of the game 
 avoiding civilians and crawling through various sewers in order to reach your destanation. After 
 all, looking like a monster isn't going to go down to well with regular people. However certain 
 classes have certain benefits. As i mentioned the Nosferatu spend their time avoiding the living, 
 they are gifted with a spell to turn invisible for a period of time. Each class is given between 
 4-6 spells, 3 of which are class-specific. Each one of these spells uses up a certain of Blood 
 which is used as the equivalent of mana in this game. To regain blood... well you're a vampire, 
 so if you cant figure that out i'd be surprised that you managed to install the game and get this 
 fair.
  
  Anywho. its not long before you off infiltraiting blood-banks and seducing the living. Infact one 
 of the most memorable moments in the game is quite early on when you are told to investigate a 
 haunted mansion, and retrieve a locket from the master bedroom so that the spirits haunting the 
 mansion can be exorcised. This level in the game can truly be nerve-racking the first time (and 
 even second time or third) round. Immediately after finishing that level for the first time, i 
 reloaded an auto-save of that level so i could play it again. There are many times in the game 
 where you will encounter moments like this, and a few of them are generally quite memorable and 
 intense when you're playing them. But the main highlight of the game, are its characters. And boy 
 there are some COOL characters in this game.
  
  Perhaps the most interesting is Jeanette. Prancing about in pig-tails, a school girl outfit and 
 whole lot of cleavage, she is a Malkavian nightclub owner in Santa Monica, whose pumped so full 
 of silicon it would make Pamela Anderson impressed. Thats not the reason she's interesting though 
 (wells, its part of the reason :P) . The reason she's interesting is because of the biplay between 
 her and her twin sister Therese, who also runs the same nightclub with her. Unlike Jeanette, Therese 
 aint no hussie. Wearing fancy suits, glasses and capable of constructing proper sentences, she 
 struts about her office in a business like manner and takes care of business whilst Jeanette takes 
 care of the customers ;) . After you do a few missions for both of the girls you'll learn more about 
 their pasts and why they fight like they do, and the final outcome is very memorable moment (One 
 which i wont spoil) that you'll surely remember long after you've finished the game. The dialogue 
 in this game is perhaps the best dialogue since Grim Fandango, and thanks to the superb lip-syncing 
 of the Source engine (not at its best here, but still leagues ahead of anything else in the industry) 
 its delivered in the best possible way to give it an even better impact than in other games. Take 
 Knights of the Old Republic for example: Fantastic dialogue, terrible lip-syncing. Here in Vampire: 
 Bloodlines this is where the game really stands head and shoulders above any other RPG to date.
 
  
  The gameplay in Bloodlines is rather varied, but consists mainly on the type of person who is playing 
 it. If you're a run and gun type of guy/girl, then you'll pull out a shotgun and start blasting 
 away at the undead like there's no tomorrow. If you like stealth, you'll be sneaking around breaking 
 people's necks, stabbing them through the back with swords and a whole bunch of other gruesome 
 deaths. But if combat aint your thing, you can just smooth-talk your way through most situations. 
 Unfortunately though, as you near the end of the game, smooth-talking begins to remove itself entirely 
 and you're forced to take the violent approach. Also the combat is stat based too, so if this characters 
 strength if greater then yours, they wont get hurt as much and yada-yada-yada I dont really know 
 how it works but its something like that.
  
  The game also features its own Stat system like most other RPG based games (like Deus Ex or System 
 Shock) . For each mission you complete you each reward points which can be used on your character 
 sheet. Most side-quests award you between 1-3 points, where as main quests can reward anywhere 
 between 2-6. The stats range from your standard ones (Intelligence, strength, dexterity that sorta 
 thing) to your more complex ones, such as Subterfuge (ability to conceal motives) and Scholarship 
 (Ability to investigate and research) . Esentially the system is quite effective in maintaining 
 balance, as you can never become overpowered by upgrading all your stats as its impossible without 
 cheats. Every stat effects a certain feat, and each feat is effected by 2 different stats and visa-versa. 
 Strength effects Melee and Defence, Wits affects Investigation and Hacking etc. 
  
  The difficulty level is just right for the type of people who find games like KOTOR fine, however 
 if you found KOTOR hard, then you might want to consider how much you'll put into this game before 
 buying it. Because there is no way to adjust the difficulty level at all. But fortunately (unlike 
 Far Cry) there is a quick-save feature which you can abuse until your heart's content, and the 
 game auto-saves quite often after loading a new level.
  
  The games pacing is quite good too, but also depends on the kind of player you are. If you enjoy 
 side-quests then you'll find alot to do (not as much as KOTOR, but still alot) . In total, if you're 
 like me and only do about 1/3 or 2/3 of the side-quests then you'll end up spending about 40-50 
 hours trying to finish the game, and you'll even end up playing the game for up to 7 hours straight. 
 If you just want to get straight down to business it might take a good 30 hours to finish the game 
 if you dont skip through all the conversations.
  
  Vampire: Bloodlines uses the same engine as Half-Life 2, the Source Engine. Whilst its not the 
 best engine out there its certainly good-looking and more then capable of doing the job (as proven 
 with Half-Life 2) . However it isn't utilised very well at all, and the game suffers from a large 
 amount of bugs and problems because of Troika's inefficency with the Source engine. Often you'll 
 be wandering through of the games main hubs, of which there are 4 main hubs (Santa Monica, Downtown, 
 Hollywood and Chinatown) and there will be horrible stuttering. If you had problems with Half-Life 
 2 stuttering, you haven't seen anything until you've played this game. I'll tell you now, if you 
 can't be bothered mucking around with tweaks and reading various forums in order to get this game 
 working at its best, you're better off renting it. Also at one point in the game you're actually 
 forced to use the console in order to skip past a scene that crashes 100 percent of the time. Other 
 then that there is also the issue of a number of flickering textures, that really aren't that bad 
 in comparison to the stuttering issue. 
  However in certain area's the game does look quite good, but nothing outstanding when compared 
 to the characters of the game, which are real stand-outs. The first time you see Ming Xiao, Jack, 
 Venus or Nines Rodriguez you'll see how good the characters can look in this game, and believe 
 me... They look very good.
  
  Overall Vampire Bloodlines is a very intriguing and addictive game, with simple stat based gameplay. 
 Unfortunately because of its terrible stuttering and fatal bugs, at some stages the game can become 
 completely annoying to play because of them, and it turns what would otherwise be a 9/10 game into 
 an 8/10 game. 
  
  If you're looking for a game with a great storyline and great characters, and you're willing to 
 trudge through game-stopping bugs, they buy this game. If not, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2005 11:12 pm PT
Review:  This is the type of game with mixed reviews that might make some people hesitate. Don't! The game 
 is under $30, and well worth it. If you like exploring around at your own pace in interesting environmnents 
 with a good storyline and a lot of freedom of choice, this game is for you.
  Gameplay is good but could be crisper during combat; combat almost seems like a console game (kind 
 of like the matrix? ahhh!) . Some combat is fun, other times it is kind of a drag. No excuse though; 
 killing things should be the highlight of any game, and Vampire leaves a lot to be desired.
  Graphics are good, particularly with the characters during dialogue. This game is simply the best 
 at that to date. When a character is speaking to you, the animation and facial reactions are top 
 notch. The voice acting is also very good, and best of all.... the dialogue adds to a good story 
 line as opposed to being corny and sucking. Graphics are also good for the city's buildings, and 
 occasionally interiors.
  Sound effects and music are good, and add to the atmosphere of the game. Nothing groundbreaking, 
 but more than sufficient.
  Your character stats are very flexible, depending what areas you want to concentrate in. This is 
 a strong area of the game, as you use experience points to improve your character's stats. It makes 
 it highly motivating to complete quests.
  The quests themselves vary, but are often enjoyable. Even the "get this, bring to X" quests aren't 
 bad. There are the main quest lines, and also quite a few side quests that you can complete at 
 your own leisure. 
  Getting to your inventory, using items, dropping them, adding experience to stats and your quest 
 log are all intuitive and easy to use without losing the feel of the game fumbling around. 
  In all, if you like RPG's, I am relatively sure you will enjoy this game. Do not get this game 
 for its combat engine, though the ranged weapons don't suck as much as many people have posted, 
 to the extent that they are not useless (if you have your melee weapon ready, using both are a 
 good combination) . This game is fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haplo699
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Based on the popular White Wolf role playing (and live action roleplaying) games, Bloodlines is 
 the PC's second foray into the World of Darkness. The previous game Vampire the Masquerade: Redemption 
 was a landmark title at the time, setting new standards in graphics and story telling. Question 
 is, in a time where Mr Freeman weilds his crowbar virtually unopposed, can Bloodlines carry on 
 the tradition Redemption started?
  
  The first game to license Half-Life 2's source technology is going to draw obviously comparisions 
 to the "gamer's choice", unfortunately it's bugged.... and how. The game straight from the box is 
 a little wasteful with system resources and doesn't run smoothly even on a fairly high end machine, 
 but the one bug that is simply inexcusable is one that will not let you finish the game. You get 
 to a certain point and the games crashes. Ker-plooey. The only way around it is to "cheat" using 
 the console and simply skip to the next area. Thankfully there is a patch now available which fixes 
 this issue, but for a game that was sat completed and waiting for release far before HL2's appearance 
 it's ridiculous. You have to ask, was it play tested at all?!?
  
  These issues are a shame, as the game is excellent, these blights keep it from being superb though. 
 It's big far bigger than the original. The graphics are good if not quite outstanding. This game 
 in many ways is a nearly man. Most of it's ideas are good but executed with little flair.
  
  You start the game as a newly sired Vamp, belonging to one of Vampire's clans. You can choose 
 a clan, or answer questions in a Morrowind style to have the game pick one for you. These range 
 from the anarchic thugs, the Brujah clan to the sensual and shallow Toreadors. Spend a few points 
 upgrading your character and you're away.
  
  You have the option of going through a tutorial first, like much of the game the tutorial has it's 
 good and bad moments. In certain places you have to do things exactly one way or you'll not progress, 
 and sometimes you don't know which way that is!
  
  The bulk of the game is played from a 3rd person perspective, this is used for general movement 
 and hand to hand combat. When you use a gun it's switches to a 1st person mode. This mode doesn't 
 play like Half-Life, being a RPG I guess it's a little unfair to expect it to, but seeing what 
 HL2 accomplished with the same engine it is a little disappointing, with most of the guns being 
 high inaccurate, even with your firearms skill maxed. They also do comparitively little damage 
 compared to your melee arsenal, you'll soon find yourself eschewing guns altogether for swords, 
 or even just running up to bad guys and sinking your teeth in.
  
  The game also allows you to sneak and perform stealth kills similar to Manhunt although nowhere 
 near as gruesome (so Mommy and Daddy put those placards down, little Tristram isn't going to scarred 
 for life) these work well enough and add a nice little alternative. One of the games strengths 
 is that it allows you to play how you want. Little low on blood? If you're a brutish thug with 
 the charisma of a head injury wait til someone's alone and grab them! On the other hand if your 
 a handsome chap or chapette with a tongue like teflon, hit a bar pull out your best lines and seduce 
 a club goer into donating to your blood drive.
  
  Having read this far, if you've checked the score at the bottom, you're going to be confused. Why 
 is it scored so high, when so far there is little to recommend. This is a RPG with elements of 
 other genres in, so I'm going to judge it predominantly on it's RPG aspects, now this my chums 
 is where the real fun starts.
  
  Role playing games are just that, a game in which you play a role. This is what RPGs are all about, 
 once you sit down infront of your keyboard you're immersed, completely. Early in the game you have 
 to retreive an object from a haunted mansion and I kind you not it is the creepiest thing I've 
 ever played in my life. Clive Barkers Undying come in, your time is up! When you figure out what 
 to do I'll guarantee you'll be tempted to switch you speakers off and just hare through it as quickly 
 as possible! It really is that unnerving!
  
  Secondly what Bloodlines has in abbundance, a storyline that is interesting full of twists and 
 turns with a cast of characters both interesting and varied. From the psychotically sexy Jeanette 
 to the stalwart Nines Rodriguez, everyone you meet, you'll want to listen to every word they say, 
 the voice acting is superb, with a big shout going out to the actress that voice the vampire sisters 
 Jeanette and Therese.
  
  This is a superb RPG with mediocre first person shooter and stealth elements bolted on, they are 
 integrated seamlessly though so it never interferes with your gaming experience and it's rarely 
 neccesary to do either if you're not inclined to. What does let it down is the bugs. I would not 
 be able to give the unpatched version more than 10% as who wants a game you can't play half of 
 without buggering about with the console commands?
  
  However once patched it's a different story. It comes so close to being the Deus Ex of it's time, 
 so close, but just short! It's frustrating that while it was waiting around on a shelf for Half-Life 
 2's release (so as not to steal HL2's source thunder) that the developers didn't iron out the bugs.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WombatGuy
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 6, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  First, the bad. This game is buggy. If you don't follow the steps in exactly the order that the 
 game expects you to, it is possible to break quests. In several instances, doors that were scripted 
 to open failed to do so in critical areas of the game. No amount of going back to old saved games 
 helped, so I was essentially forced to use cheat codes to beat the game. So, essentially, if you 
 play the game, make lots of saved games, and don't be shy about using a no-clipping cheat code 
 or two if something breaks horribly...
  
  As frustrated as I got with the bugs, though, I kept coming back for more. The story is interesting 
 enough for anyone familiar with the old edition of White Wolf's seminal pen-and-paper RPG. Keep 
 in mind that this IS an RPG. Your character starts out weak, barely able to hit the broad side 
 of a barn with a gun. This will likely turn action fans off, but your character does improve noticeably 
 as you gain and spend experience points. If you're familiar with how leveling up your character 
 worked in the original Deus Ex, you'll likely be at home here.
  
  One complaint, though, is that some skills are plainly more useful than others. Lockpicking and 
 hacking seem to weigh heavily into many of the areas you find yourself roaming through, and stealth 
 is just flat out overpowered.
  
  Most of the quests are interesting. Even simple fetch quests tend to take dark turns and end up 
 being more than they initially seem. Most of the NPCs prove to be memorable characters as well.
 
  
  The game also has multiple endings, but since the bulk of the game feels fairly linear, replayability 
 will likely be limited to how patient you are in dealing with the many bugs that invariably crop 
 up. Anyone who doesn't mind a slightly different take on traditional CRPG gameplay or who is interested 
 in the subject matter would likely do well to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renegade_3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that for the most part I enjoyed this game immensely, but it did suffer 
 from a lot of bugs and (in my opinion) a few fundamental flaws. Let me also say though that despite 
 that fact this is an excellent game and I would be very sad to see the demise of 'Troika', such 
 a promising independent game developer. 
  
  Graphics - Firstly of course in using Half Life 2's 'Source Engine Troika have always been aiming 
 very high for the quality of this, their latest game in the Vampire series, but given that the 
 engine is extremely complex and was exclusively developed in house at Valve under very tight security 
 It's not surprising that the developers' actual implementation of the game engine fell a little 
 short of what could have been achieved. The character facial animations and face models and textures 
 are incredible, lip synching is of course flawless due to valves dubbing technology which actually 
 forms mouth movements directly from the recorded sound, but to be honest (although there were moments 
 where I believed I was talking to a real person) I found some of the facial expressions a little 
 erratic and often they didn't quite match what the character was saying. The skins and textures 
 look incredible and suit the game and its atmosphere perfectly; lighting effects are used in just 
 the right amount, creating some very good (not excellent) lighting within the game. Character models 
 are very high detail and the animations have mostly been well implemented with a few exceptions. 
 The cloth deformation effect has been a little over used, with women in long dresses looking like 
 they are creating their own personal storm each time they take a step. Also character animations 
 are sometimes poorly implemented within scripted game engine cut-scenes, characters sometimes appear 
 to glide rather than walking as well as a few other minor issues. Overall the in-game graphics 
 are pretty damn good (almost on a par with Half Life 2 itself, but the cut-scenes could use a little 
 work. SPOILER HERE - I just couldn't go on without first mentioning one of my favourite sections 
 of the game which I think creates an incredible atmosphere with the graphics alone, the haunted 
 house, there was nothing too technically impressive here, but just the way it was all put together 
 I found stunning, the ghostly figures, lighting and effects, plus the detailed textures all combine 
 to create a perfect atmosphere for ghost hunting. 
  
  Sound - This game is one of those games where sound basically just does what it's supposed to do 
 and no more, it works effectively enough that you basically just don't notice that it's there, 
 and yet nor do you notice a lack of sound. The sound effects were pretty standard but they did 
 the job, the music was a little 'budget' but what else can we expect from an independent games 
 developer. But I will say that overall most of the voice acting was surprisingly good, matching 
 some extremely eccentric characters such as these to good voice actors would be no easy job, but 
 overall Troika have passed with flying colours. 
  
  Game-play - The game-play is fairly good, it plays like a lot of other RPG's with small (fairly 
 claustrophobic) explorable areas which are re-used and expanded throughout the game in quite clever 
 ways, as in most similar RPG's there are often several ways to complete some quests, and these 
 may be dependant on which skills and attributes you have built up by applying experience points, 
 gained throughout the game. However some of these quests although they have multiple completion 
 methods favour certain skills above others, meaning that you may have to 'choose' to follow a particular 
 path in order to get the most XP, which I have to say are sometimes in short supply, some skills 
 seem to have little or no use, and trying to build a well rounded character is impossible, you 
 really have to focus your self to particular areas, but in doing so, you may make it hard to complete 
 some of the main quests which unlike some of the side quests often require a direct path (most 
 notably defeating bosses and monsters) if you apply most of your XP to passive skills such as research 
 and haggle and persuasion you may find some combat sections extremely difficult. Also even the 
 three combat types are a little unbalanced at the beginning it seems as if you should pick your 
 preferred combat type (unarmed, melee or ranged) , and that it is purely a stylistic choice but 
 as you progress you will find more and more that you will need to be proficient with ranged weapons, 
 no matter what your fighting style, no matter how many skill points you apply to melee or unarmed 
 combat, ranged weapons clearly have a huge advantage. One of the main problems I found in a fight 
 is that I would just lose too much health too quickly and would need to use a lot of bloodpack 
 during battle, but with ranged weapons, this is almost completely eliminated if you keep moving. 
 Even though bladed weapons have greater damage against supernatural foes the trade off is not worth 
 the massive health losses you will suffer. SPOILER HERE - You will even have to be very proficient 
 with ranged weapons to complete the final boss battle at all, The final boss is of course the Sheriff 
 who after you beat the crap out of him and reduce him to about 5% health will transform into a 
 huge winged beast and suddenly have 100% health again, since he is flying, the only way to kill 
 the bugger is with ranged weapons, and since you are simultaneously being attacked by multiple 
 assailants on the ground, you will have to be quick about killing him, which means you need a high 
 ranged skill. For me this was the biggest let down of the game. The game is not as much about choice 
 and finding your own style as an RPG should be it is more about making the right choices to gain 
 maximum XP and using them where they will be needed, but unfortunately it is impossible to know 
 where they will be needed until they are needed, which means you may have to go through a lot of 
 the game with spare XP so that you can apply them to skills only when you have to, otherwise it 
 is easy to make bad choices, and make the game very difficult for yourself. 
  
  Story - This is where the game really shines, it is a very story driven game and the story is well 
 implemented and very immersive, you actually begin to like and dislike certain characters and get 
 a feeling for what is the right thing to do (and dare I say it, even though Velvet Velour is obviously 
 just a character in a game her charm did go some way to getting her way, that and the promise of 
 XP at the end) . and the choices set out before you are meaningful and yet not black and white as 
 so many other RPG's and games in general are, there are lot of grey areas, and the most obvious 
 choice is not always the best one, by the game I had a real sense that I was part of this world 
 and I knew which faction I thought deserved to hold sway over this living, breathing (although 
 a lot of it's inhabitants are actually dead) city. 
  
  Overall the game is a very fun experience if you can get past the bugs and poor implementation 
 of some aspects, as a story driven game it excels (which is perhaps the only reason anyone would 
 put up with the so many bugs and inconsistencies) if you like a good story, this is the game for 
 you, if you like smooth and entertaining game-play perhaps not. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Vampire fans have been waiting for this title for quite a while, now that it's been released we 
 can see that the final product hasn't reached 100% completion. the game starts off with a choppy 
 cutscene, which gives the player a brief rundown on how his/her character was created. Right after 
 you go through a training mission where you are given a basic rundown on your vampiric abilities, 
 you have the option to skip and go straight to the game.
  
  The main part of the game sets you loose in a hub , there are 3 hubs in total, in which you get 
 diffrent main objectives and side quests. If you choose to skip over all the side quests you can 
 simply finish the game in less than 10 hours. I found the side missions to be a real bore, but 
 a few are worth completing for they hold comedic or shocking results. The game has many load zones, 
 taking away atmosphere, also many bugs, sometimes game-stopping, completly ruining gameplay experience. 
 Under all the technicalities lies an excellent game, ruined by bad production and mismanagment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtrim1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is the second attempt to bring the Vampire pen and paper game 
 to the PC platform, the first being Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption. While the first was a 
 very noble effort, (and in my opinion pioneered the idea of having a DM/player environment via 
 internet, an accomplishment that Neverwinter Nights tends to take credit for) however it didn't 
 go over as well as activision would have hoped, plagued with bugs and lacking in the type of story 
 die hard vampire players were looking for, the game ultimately failed to bring the masses to the 
 dark side. 
  
  With Bloodlines, a second attempt is made and I believe this time it has paid off. While still 
 blemished with the occasional crash to desktop and odd AI behavior, the mood this game puts off 
 creates a sense of realism in a world that is purely fantasy. As you start your adventures, you 
 truly feel like a fledgling vampire in a world of ancient undeads, just struggling to figure everything 
 out . You will get some help from a friend early on, helping you learn the ropes of your new "un"-life. 
 But soon you're off to solve the mystery on your own, relying on your own unique vampiric traits 
 to intimidate, seduce, or kill for answers. You are free to use whatever means you see fit to accomplish 
 your goals, but you must be ever mindful of the Masquerade, a rule set in motion by vampires designed 
 to protect the species from extinction. As long as humans believed they were a myth, the vampires 
 could continue their horrendous existance. 
  
  The graphics are up to par with the newer DirectX 9 games. Using the Source engine, made famous 
 by Half-Life 2, Bloodlines easily paints a brooding picture of some alternate reality Los Angeles, 
 complete with Gothic dance clubs, dark and damp alleys, liter strewn streets and run down apartment 
 complexes. You will visit some very interesting locales during your adventures. One of the most 
 memorable to me was near the start of the game, as you found yourself searching a haunted, abandoned 
 hotel. 
  
  The sound effects are great when they are present. One of my gripes is that it seems that oddly 
 there are sound effects just missing for certain actions. You might bump into a plank of wood, 
 knocking it over, but strangely it won't make a sound. Footsteps tend to lag behind your actions, 
 and other miscalaneous missing sound effects will keep you scratching your head. Apart from those 
 minor issues, the ambiance and mood do a wonderful job of sustaining your suspension of disbelief.
 
  
  The quests you will be presented with always lead you into very odd, and sometimes disturbing situations. 
 There is always something exciting waiting around the corner and it's hard to force yourself to 
 stop playing, as you will undoubtedly want to see just what is in store for you next. 
  
  The RPG elements are fully fleshed out as you gain experience for completing quests, and gain extra 
 experience for finding alternate methods to complete quests. You can spend these experience points 
 of a large selection of traits and attributes that will increase your avatar's ability to bargain, 
 fight, sneak, pick locks, reveal hidden secrets etc... It's never too long before you are able 
 to go in a boost one of your skills you've been needing, so you don't get the feeling that your 
 ever very far from new powers. 
  
  The main downfall to this game would have to be some of the odd bugs that show up here and there. 
 A patch has been released that addresses some of the big problems, but you still may run accross 
 odd things on occasion. At one point I was leaving an apartment complex, and as soon as the streel 
 level loaded and the screen appeared, my character was sucking blood from a police officer. I was 
 not able to stop the "transaction" and my character ended up drinking him dry. I was instantly 
 attacked by several other police officers and promptly died causing me to have to reload. I also 
 have a hard time moving around if my character is stepping on any geometry that has physics assigned 
 to it. For example, broken shards of pottery, or wooden planks of wood. If you step on any of these 
 types of objects, you will find yourself sliding wildly around as the physics engine tries to fling 
 the object around beneath you. 
  
  All in all, those bugs are very minor, and thanks to the patch which addresses some of the show 
 stoppers, there is no reason you can't enjoy this game. There are strong sexual themes throughout, 
 and some pretty nasty gore, so parents be warned, this game is not for the youngsters. If you can 
 stomach the blood (literally) and aren't offended by some sexual content, this game is set to take 
 you for quite an enjoyable ride!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdark944
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  You may have decided not to buy VTMB because you heard it was buggy. Well, it's true.. but everything 
 else is amazing. Vampire: Bloodlines has an amazing story that can end up in 5 different ways, pumping 
 up the replay value. The characters and the dialogue are memorable too. And the gameplay by itself 
 is very fun and addictive too.
  
  One of the things that I can reproach to this game is the bad cinematics. Let's be honest, the 
 first one is a really mess. Starting with ugly textures and characters slipping on the floor.. the 
 cinematics are not very good. Performance issues are also frequent, even on powerful systems.
 
  
  As you all know, this game is powered by the Source Engine, but don't expect something anywhere 
 near HL2 beautifulness. The characters and water effects are similar, bringing Vampire a crank 
 up it's predecessors. But the textures and overall look are quite normal nothing special. And the 
 engine isn't as well optimized.
  
  One of Bloodlines' aspects that I prefered is the dialogue. All voice-acted for sure. The voice 
 acting is excellent. The tremendous hours of dialogue are always interesting, plus the characters' 
 animations and lip-sync are very good.
  
  After the first cinematic, you'll get to know this game better. The quests are there in ton and 
 are all pretty interesting. Bloodlines is not an RPG like Dungeon Siege or KOTOR. It's more like 
 Morrowind. The hubs aren't as huge but you get to travel between them and do other stuff than the 
 main quest. In itself, the main quest is really interesting and are the most fun quests.
  
  Another good thing about Vampire: BL, the combat is real-time, unlike KOTOR. You'll use either your 
 fists ( Brawl ) , melee weapons ranging from fire axes to katanas and guns like uzis, brokk and 
 flamethrowers. All fight good and you'll find the combat to be one of bloodlines' main interest 
 even if can be choppy.
  
  As you must remember, V: B, is a vampire game set in the World of Darkness so you'll get to choose 
 your clans, skills, and spells. The clans featured in the game are the  
 and the Malkavian. All clans have specials powers (spells) that'll probably make you want to play 
 the game a few other times.
  
  You'll be able to use your powers by drawing the necessary energy from your blood pool. If you 
 run out of blood, you'll have to drink from a mortal but not to kill him, as your humanity will 
 decrease if you do. If you're low on humanity you may tend to frenzy, killing everyone in the vicinity 
 and attracting the police into a hunt.
  
  All of that mixed together creates a very fun, addictive and deep RPG that all of you should buy. 
 Don't worry about the bugs, they dont make up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kung_Fu_Koala
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 22, 2005 1:38 am PT
Review:  2004 was a very dry year for role-playing gamers from all walks of life, but the PC is particular 
 suffered from this dry spell. In fact, Vampire The Masquerade: Bloodlines was really the only noteworthy 
 role-playing game released on the platform. Designed around White Wolfs popular and somewhat controversial 
 card game, Bloodlines more takes the form of an action RPG that surprisingly downplays its stat-building 
 and leveling for a simplified, more mindless combat system. Thankfully, though, the story here 
 is very good. Looking past its many glitches and performance issues isnt easy, but if youre willing 
 to, youll find a genuinely fun  if a little bare-bones  role-playing game.
  
  The character creation is the first thing youll be doing once the game is installed and ready 
 to go, and this is, unfortunately, an area where the game falters. You can choose from seven different 
 vampire clans that comprise a group called The Camarilla, a sort of vampire police that enforce 
 the rules of the all-important masquerade; keeping your monster identity hidden is key. Each clan 
 has an assortment of skills unique to their type, but youll find surprisingly little to work with 
 here; you gain your special skills quite linearly as you go along, and there is a very tight framework 
 from which you can upgrade stats. This will disappointing to players who have come to expect a 
 high degree of character customization from Troika Games (the developer) , such as Arcanum or The 
 Temple of Elemental Evil. At any rate, once you have finished tweaking your options, the game begins.
 
  
  Vampire opens, appropriately enough, with your characters death. After being embraced by a vampire 
 in a lonely Los Angelos alleyway, you are quickly brought to a Camarilla tribunal, who must decide 
 what to make of you. Apparently, the vampire who embraced you did not have permission to do so 
  one of the many rules of the masquerade. In the end, they decide to keep you, albeit with an 
 eagles eye strictly bound to you. The game then takes you through a short tutorial mission where 
 you learn the ins and outs of things like controlling the interface, targeting enemies, picking 
 locks, sorting your journal, and combat.
  
  Combat is by far the biggest gameplay facet of Bloodlines  there is not a quest in this game that 
 doesnt require you to hack up or eviscerate groups of deadly vampires and other thoroughly discomforting 
 beasts. The goings here are very simple indeed  if you have chosen melee weapons, simply rush 
 your enemy and start frantically clicking the left mouse button. If ballistic weapons are your 
 thing, you stand back and do the same thing. Sure, you have a handful of skills you can activate 
 and utilize to help bring some strategy into the game, but most enemies are weak, rarely making 
 this necessary. In addition, you are more or less confined to melee combat; firearms are typically 
 very weak, and require a huge skill point investment before they are accurate enough to effectively 
 take down enemies. In addition, you are limited to attacking one foe at a time and stand no chase 
 of knocking an enemy down to buy time. This makes the combat quite limited in the number of effective 
 character branches you can take, but its nonetheless viscerally satisfying.
  
  Questing in Bloodlines can be a little humdrum at times. There are some interesting, event-driven 
 missions to take on throughout the game, but for the most part youre stuck performing the notorious 
 FedEx quests that simply require you to pick up or drop off an item, smashing your way through 
 the undead all the way. Nevertheless, though, Vampire: Bloodlines has that RPG trait of being able 
 to suck you in for long periods of time, and a big part of this is a well-told story.
  
  The plotline in Vampire is one with lots of choices and consequences. Needless to say, there is 
 in fact a reason why The Camarilla have chosen to accept you, an illegally embraced vampire, into 
 their society, and along the next twenty or so hours of gameplay youll find out just why that 
 is and, of course, save the day. Its not quite an original tale, necessarily, but its well-acted 
 and written, and its told in impeccable style, with a grimy, seedy tone and profanity-laced dialogue.
 
  
  The visuals definitely go along with this theme. This vampiric LA looks about as seedy as it actually 
 is, and its powered by Source technology, the same proprietary engine created by Valve Software 
 to power Half-Life 2, although Bloodlines doesnt quite look as good as that game. The environments 
 and characters have lots of nice detail to them, but the animation is slightly stilted, taking 
 away some of the overall picture. There are also some strange logical errors; LA is rather devoid 
 of people, and there are no cars in sight. Also, be ready to have a top-of-the-line machine to 
 satisfactorily run the game. However, assuming the game is running well, it looks great, with nice 
 texture detail and nifty particle effects.
  
  The audio is also excellent, with diverse mixing options that provide superb separation and panning. 
 The voice acting ranges from good to great, with some seasoned veterans (like John DiMaggio, who 
 voiced Bender on the television series Futurama) lending their talents to the game. The sound effects 
 are all well and good, although some seem to be coded at a lower bit-rate then others, for whatever 
 reason. All in all, a nice a audio package.
  
  Overall, Vampire The Masquerade: Bloodlines will serve as a worthy addition to any role-playing 
 gamers collection, assuming youre willing to look past some problems from time to time. It isnt 
 the best or even necessarily a great game, but fans of the series or just a good quest or two will 
 likely find it to be worth the effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandalvideo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 3, 2005 11:48 pm PT
Review:  And so we are graced with yet another rpg, but the question at hand is, "Is it good enough?" That 
 is what many of you may be wandering who are reading this, and I assure you this game is every 
 thing you'd want it to be and then some. This game jumps out at you with stunning visuals, fantastic 
 gameplay, and sound that leaves your mother banging on your door because it's too loud but you 
 don't realize. So come on a stroll through Los Angeles, and embrace your vampiric side.
  
  With the success of HL2, many people are wondering how the first game other than HL2 to use the 
 source engine compares graphically. The answer to that question is multilayered, like a burrito 
 at taco bell. Your never quite sure what you see is what you get. The graphics at first strike 
 you as mediocre, and not deserving of much respect. After closer evaluation the player begins to 
 realize just how detailed the world actually is. Visually, it's like a mix between Grand Theft 
 Auto and Half-Life 2. Even though the game suffers from a few difficulties with stuttering, the 
 graphics never cease to please.
  
  After the initial immertion into the world of a vampire, your greeted with a wide varray of tasks 
 and choices. The non-linear gameplay is where this game truley shines. The dialogue is reminiscant 
 of Star Wars: Knights of The Old Republich, where your skills in persuasion can alter the coarse 
 of the game. Even though the combat is rather clunky, it is superb for an rpg. Compared to traditional 
 rpgs such as Final Fantasy, this game is a much welcomed releif. The way you play your character 
 also determines what happens in the game, for example if you choose to be a Nosferatu, you will 
 spend most of your time as a sewer rat nibbling on the little morsels you find for blood.
  
  The final thing that makes this game good is the sound. If you have surround sound and a few 
 extra bucks I would definitley guarentee getting this game. The ambience in this game make for 
 some very interesting levels, such as Ocean View Hotel, a rather bone chilling experience. The 
 music and radio dialogue will leave you craving for more. Over all this is a great game, and worth 
 trying if not buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 30, 2005 2:30 am PT
Review:  I started playing the Vampire game at the best possible time for the game. I
  had just given up on two other games as being "too stupid to finish
  (Sid's Pirates and Leisure 
 Suit Larry) " and was desperately looking for a
  game to quench my gamers thirst. Then I started Vampire and thanked heavens
  for small mercies. 
 At last, a game worth my time. And while the game was
  definitely worth finishing, it unfortunately did not live up to the promise
  of the begining 
 of the game.
  
  I always rate games on story, focusing on character development. And while
  my character was 
 indeed one mean lady by the end of the game, somehow I
  felt that she had never progressed as a (dead) person. Not only was she
  dead, but also her character 
 development was dead too. That is not to say
  that you won't meet interesting people and do interesting things - it is just
  that you yourself 
 won't be that interesting.
  
  And there were some teasing glimpses into what could have been. At one time
  you meet up with 
 someone from your "life." Now to me, one of the things that
  would be so shocking about dying and then not dying would be reconcilliation
  with my time of 
 life. So I was hoping for some little back-story, some
  explanation of why my I had been chosen. I would have liked some debts
  to pay, some friends 
 to help, but to eventually have to leave my living
  world because of my sudden "difference." Well, that would have been
  nice, but it didn't happen. 
 Instead you start the game as a weak
  enigma as a person, and end the game as a strong enigma as a person.
  
  There are other quirks 
 to the game. You never have to "rest" in your haven
  - which at first disturbed me, but which I then grew to like as a game
  mechanic. The lack of 
 having to break up your missions by going back to
  your haven during daylight hours made me start to think that the things
  that were happening 
 were happening over a long period of time, and that
  as a vampire one night blends into another. Of course, it also helped
  the gameplay. Since it 
 is completely unbelievable that the protaganist
  should become so powerful in one night I chose to believe that these events
  were happening over 
 weeks, perhaps even years. Anyway, it was nice (although
  it is not completely supported by the game itself - a few references were
  made to a single night 
 or "few nights") .
  
  Also, some skills bordered on the ridiculous. For example, with a relatively
  high sneaking skill 
 you can basically walk around the most populated,
  well lighted locales - sometimes even bumping into the guards - and still not
  get caught. And 
 you might as well start building up your melee skills from
  the start - the game simply cannot be won without them. Don't try to hack
  or seduce your way 
 to the end of the game.
  
  Basically, this is a good game if, like me, you find yourself out of other
  decent RPGs to play. 
 While the story is not what it could be, it is not the
  worst story I have every played through. Many of the characters you
  meet will be voluptuous 
 and interesting. The levels are nicely done. The
  graphics are nice. It is just that your character starts out not knowing much,
  and ends up not 
 knowing much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artbars1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2005 2:13 pm PT
Review:  You may still be shaky as to how good this game is. I was to until i decided to pick it up. Now 
 i play the game everyday for a pretty long amount of time. I am still hooked to this game. It is 
 probably one of the best rpgs made in 2004. Now lets get started on the review.
  
  Gameplay- Well the gameplay has gotten much much better when Troika released a patch fixing alot 
 of the ingame bugs and problems with the game. So in my time of playing i have found only 1 bug. 
 I found a way around it that was very simple and continued playing. First your going to be spending 
 your time in three main places. Downtown, Chinatown, and Santa Monica. You'll meet some interesting 
 people along the way. Like the Camarilla and The Anarchs. Which seem to be the two main groups 
 tho there is another one. Also be careful of your choices they can severly affect how people think 
 of you in game. So the combat. First off guns are ok when you use them agaisnt humans but pretty 
 useless going up against monsters or vampires. You'll mostly be using a melee weapon through most 
 of the game. The combat can be a little tough to get used to but is pretty fun when you get the 
 hang of it.
  
  Graphics- all i can say is wow. The first time i played i was pretty amazed at how good this game 
 looked. The people the places just so much detail everywhere. The people facial animations and 
 everything just looked so real. The game looks very good and youll like just to run around just 
 to see the citys and how they look.
  
  Sound- Well The sound is damn good. Your usualy not going to be missing anything anyone has to 
 say. They speak pretty clearly but if you cant hear them there is a subtitle option which helps. 
 Every character will have his or her own voice so talking to someone will never sound the same. 
 Only enemies like thugs or the sabbat are going to be saying the same thing. They will curse at 
 you and yell the same things alot of the time but its just a minor annoyance and wont really affect 
 your gameplay.
  
  Value- Well you may only play the game through once. Since it is always the same storyline and 
 you could get bored of it. But you could the second time through do all the side quests or get 
 all the weapons but besides that you wont have to much reason to play through this game twice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 19, 2005 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I've rarely found a game, that was so challenging to review. Despite my adoration for this game 
 I need to write the review warts and all, so to speak as Vampire Bloodlines is the definition of 
 a mixed bag. For all the good in this game their are large chunks of bad, so I'll just be blunt 
 about this, if you don't enjoy RPG's you can just quit reading right now and not buy this game, 
 if you don't enjoy games that aren't very well made when it comes to combat you can just quit reading 
 right now as well because this game definitely is not for you. Now, if you're a fan of Role-Playing 
 games, then this game is by all means worth looking into as it offers a whole lot. 
  
  Vampire Bloodlines is the first game to liscense the source engine and as such it does look very 
 good. However when you compare it to the real creme de la creme of graphics it just doesn't have 
 as appealing of an aesthetic as perhaps it could have had. The game looks good, but their really 
 isn't much that really stands out as superior and above and beyond what i'm expecting after Doom 
 3, Farcry and HL2 came out ahead of Vampire. That's not to say that their is nothing to like here, 
 everything is rendered fairly competently and they do a decent job of presenting a sort of believable, 
 quasi-realistic game world. Probably the best thing about the game's graphics is it's use of the 
 facial animation technology that's built into the Source Engine. You're gonna be looking at a lot 
 of faces so you'll appriciate this. However that's not to say that even this goes without problems, 
 a few of the characters heads just look wierd. Some of the women have men's chins, some people 
 don't look like they have a neck but rather just a floating head. These are generally reserved 
 for a few of the insignificant characters who you won't be spending more than one or two conversations 
 with in general but it still can get a bit wierd looking. The 3rd person animation looks really 
 bad as well, this is especially true in combat where everything really looks like a canned animation. 
 
  
  The Music and sound effects for this game are really forgettable and nothing really stood out here 
 for better or for worse in my estimation. One of the game's real bright spots is the excellent 
 and copious amounts of voice acting in the game. All the dialogue is properly voiced, not only 
 that it was all done very well and everything just sounds great. People speak with the right pitch, 
 pacing, and emotional feel that you're expected to get from the text. IF you're talking to a skanky 
 schizophrenic or a powerful leader you're definitely gonna be able to tell the difference just 
 by the sound of the character's voice. 
  
  Most of the gameplay consists of first person shooting, or 3rd person brawling; however their are 
 many situations that can be navigated around by stealth and a few of the game's classes are going 
 to require this. It also has a very good class system that allows for several different styles 
 of playing through the game weather you want to play as a warrior, mage, shape shifter, seductress 
 or stealthy assasin vamp the option is there for you based on your class. Each class will have 
 access to some exclusive powers and it really adds replay value there. 
  
  This is where the game starts to loose steam however , as the action really feels awkward, with 
 guns nearly useless compared to hand to hand or melee weapons. My first trip through i put some 
 points in melee and some into firearms and only used guns like 2 times in the whole game. Furthermore 
 the combat system just isn't all that deep or well feeling. It has the feeling of turn based combat 
 without the tactical nature of it, just keep wacking on the mouse button and occasionally invoke 
 a power with the other one. It really, really could have used a better combat system. In a few 
 parts of the game the missions really become monotonous because their is too much combat in too 
 short of a space, it just isn't all that much fun to mow down hordes of fairly regular guys. The 
 Boss Fights really aren't all that much fun save perhaps one, they don't offer much of a challenge, 
 and very few of them have any sort of trick to beating them except using your most powerful attacks 
 on them at the proper range and pounding away until you do enough damage. 
  
  Furthermore stealth isn't exactly the best handeled in the game. The game does provide you with 
 a light meter to let you know how lit up you are but even in the dark it really doesn't feel like 
 you're dark. Furthermore the enemies are just dumb when it comes to using stealth against them. 
 I mean sometimes i could hide in places that no one would actually be able to hide in, like a slightly 
 shady corner of a huge room in a museum exhibit. 
  
  The game's story and universe are both pretty good if not wowingly amazing. The story revolves 
 around some sort of possible disaster that may or may not afflict vampires. It takes place many 
 years after the original game and introduces us to some really amazing characters. The games plot 
 doesn't have any amazing plot twists or new ideas but the execution of how you experience it is 
 pretty darn good. Like I mentioned before, the characters are quite interesting, and have real 
 life to them. One of my favorite techniques is how they always subtley remind you that you're dealing 
 with vampires, i responded yes sir once to a character and he went on about how he'd served with 
 Napoleon. Several of the characters were real winners, Jack being my favorite of them. When it 
 comes to the characters the reason they were so good is that the dialogue was so well written, 
 it really has some lifelike dialgogue, somethign that's sorely missing in video games. 
  
  One final note to complain about is that thise game does still suffer from some bugs. Originally 
 it had some real show stoppers but those have been fixed with the 1.2 patch that i played the game 
 with. I experienced 3 crashes to the desktop, some clipping issues and several of the larger areas 
 gave my PC framerate issues. I understand it's not top of the line but with a system that has ran 
 Doom 3, HL2 and farcry without blinking i expected to be able to run vampire better than this. 
 Perhaps worst of all in the area of technical glitches was the fact that the load times for this 
 game were pretty darn long, and sometimes you'll experience a few in a row and it'll be like damn 
 that's a long time. I've got 512 megs of ram, which is double the requirement on a system that 
 beats the numbers by some margin and it's like this. I'd hate to see what they were like on a 384 
 or 256 meg system. Conversely i've heard that upgrading to a gig of ram is a help for this game. 
 
  
  Well Vampire, clearly isn't a game for everyone; but if you're a fan of RPG's, especially western 
 ones that combine action gaming and role playing with an emphasis on role playing then Vampire 
 is definitely worth considering. It's quality writing and interesting characters will keep you 
 through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varik
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  I have never played the PnP version, but did play Redemption. This is, as you already know, much 
 different from the first PC version. However still a great success.
  
  As a quick comparison, this is a Masquerade version of Deus Ex Invisible War. Same type of graphics, 
 random people walking around the maps, and objects that are movable, but still have a feel of it's 
 own. 
  
  The storey is pretty complex, with lots of side quests alojg the way. One could spend hours poking 
 around looking for the triggers for all these quests. It adds to the game, as it's not just one 
 straight foward mission. Some are not quite as exciting as other, but they can't all be winners. 
 Still, most are pretty cool and add to the storey of the game.
  
  I think the graphics are gorgeous. Lots of litle details such as character's moving eyes that fowllow 
 you as you move. Mouths that move to the speech, and hair that flwos with the characters movements 
 as well. All very impressive and adds to the enviroment.
  
  This game can be buggy, so one has to save often. It's common to get stuk in a doorway, or someother 
 simple graphic. It can lag, so one will have to reload thier game often as well. Annoyances, but 
 livable. 
  
  After playing through once, all the secrets and surpirses will be lost in replay, however with 
 the different clans, and options during the game, it will be a different expeience each time. 
 
  
  Any of the four or five endings may bother a few people. The game does not have a clear cut ending, 
 and will most likely leave the player with more questions in the end than in the beginning. 
  
  If you're into the vampire genre, and like 1st person experience games... this one is a good 
 buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oman8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why some people think that this is a bad game. I played it and I really enjoyed it 
 despite some of its bugs and glitches. This game is very immersive and an exceptional role playing 
 game. The graphics were pretty good and the women were exceptionally hot. ;D All Right! Anyway 
 this game does have some issues with melee and the gunplay doesn't really make sense. How can a 
 bullet in the foot cause as much damage as a bullet in the head. Besides that this is excellent 
 game and i recommend it to all who like roleplaying or vampires or both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neurothustra
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2005 7:45 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are very nicely done, even if the bloddstains sometimes float a few feet of the ground...
 
  I'm not really into the White Wolf/Vampire mythology, but this game has me hooked and it's cutting 
 into my Halo 2 time. And I don't even care! For starters, licensing Ministry to do a song exclusively 
 for the game and then sticking it in the NYC Limelight-inspired nighclub in the downtown area is 
 brilliant. I want to keep this short and sweet - the gameplay is aweomse, the story is compelling, 
 the chicks are hot and I don't mind saying that watching a female player character suck on another 
 Female NPS's neck while drinking her blood is hot! I played the game at a generous 1280x1024 (2.4GHZ 
 hyperthreaded P4 with 1GB of 3200 DDR, Radeon 9800) with all the details on high, 8x AF and 2x 
 AA - the framerate was fine in most part but would get slightly choppy occasionally (since this 
 isn't a Shooter game, FPS wasn't paramount to the graphics for me) . I dig this game, I really got 
 into it. And since I've laready established that I'm a perv, let me point out that the Women have 
 boobs that bounce thanks to the Source physics engine. ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianzkul
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 3, 2005 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Vampire the Masquerade - Bloodlines is an amazing RPG to say the least. 
  
  Having never played the tabletop game that Bloodlines is based on, I cannot attest to how true 
 to it's roots the game stays story-wise. However, I can attest to how original the game's story 
 is. I don't remember the last time I was ever concerned with polotics among different vampire clans. 
 As the story goes, you are "sired" (fancy word for "turned into") a vampire by a member of the 
 opposite sex you just so happened to be having relations with. The sire is killed, leaving you 
 partially on your own, with no solid direction. After a very entertaining and involving tutorial, 
 you are ejected into the streets of Santa Monica to live the vampire life.
  
  And what a life you live. Whether it's luring hookers into a back alley to feast on the sweet juices 
 pumped through their hearts, to sweet-talking arms dealers into giving you a refund, to exercising 
 ghosts from a haunted mansions, you really do anything and everything. There are multiple ways 
 to go about any mission, and multiple missions to partake in at any given time. The main missions 
 which progress the story are usually the most exciting, and can involve a fair amount of stealth. 
 Stealth itself isn't a chore, but it also isn't a breeze. Its a very delicate balance between lurking 
 and tearing necks, and for the most part it is walked beautifully. As for the numerous side quests, 
 certain ones can take you hours to solve, bringing you to many different locations. Interested 
 in taking down a cult? Prepare to slog through sewers and slice through zombies in an abandoned 
 crackhouse.
  
  The characters in this game are wonderful. Each one is fully voiced, with a plethora of spoken 
 dialogue that can get really involved. The characters have different responses depending on what 
 clan you're from and what sex you are, not only what you say to them. The characters themselves 
 are very imaginative, and range from schizophrenic club owners to sickly hobos. It's very easy 
 to get attached to many of these characters.
  
  Part of the reason is because of how they animate. The Source engine (there, I envoked the name.... 
 that will be the only time I mention it) allows for some amazing facial animation that really gives 
 you a sense of emotion from these characters. Certain characters have a way of shifting when they 
 talk, others have a habit of talking with their hands. The game on a whole looks wonderful, with 
 the impressive water you'll slog around in, the atmospheric scipted events that puncuate specific 
 levels, and the "little things" such as the shimmer on a gun, or the bloodspots that appear all 
 over the place after a particularily intense fight.
  
  As far as RPGs go, this game is as flexible as a Betty Spaghetti teaching yoga. You can wield a 
 mighty arsenal of different guns, carry a collection of sharp or blunt melee weapons, or just duke 
 it out with your fists. There is no "leveling up" per se, as experience accumulated is used to 
 directly enhance certain stats.
  
  However, no game is perfect. Especially this one, which is very unforunate. The problems started 
 when I first tried to install the game. It took about 30 minutes and an inexcuseable amount of 
 hard resets for my computer. The game seems to crash a lot, and the cutscenes lack any semblance 
 of polish. Sounds are off, character models 'float' instead of walk, and there are a lot of other 
 glitches. There are also a number of cripling glitches that have the possibility of seriously damaging 
 the progress a player can make. For instance, a certain character called to me from afar saying 
 "Hey, is that you?". When I approached him I was brought into the conversation interface, but all 
 he kept doing was calling to m saying "Hey is that you?" or "Over here!". Another time I lost one 
 of my savegames because of some sort of error the message blamed on my CD. The game also crashes 
 a LOT, whether this be the game freezing, bringing me to a blue screen, or ejecting me to my deskstop.
 
  
  The numerous technical problems are truely a shame, as this would be one of the very best games 
 I've ever had the pleasure to play. As it stands now, this is a great game with a lot of frustrating 
 moments that have nothing to do with the game itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  I've thrown in a good chunk of time with the game so far, and I'm having a good time with it. It 
 feels like a hybrid of two amazingly good games, but at the same time falls a little flat in some 
 of the areas that KotOR and Deus Ex did so well.
  
  The game plays a lot like deus ex, but the combat feels a little more RPG'ish than deus ex did. 
 The stealth elements are far better in their implimentation, with detection meters etc, but the 
 game doesn't really provide you with a lot of weapons (like the silent dart gun from deus ex, or 
 the shocker) to utilize stealth to its full effectiveness. Like KotOR, you can use both ranged 
 and melee weapons, but you'll find melee weapons to overpower the ranged ones, and you'll find 
 little use for guns, etc, making the FPS elements of the game somewhat moot.
  
  I love all the conversation, though I don't really feel my decisions have an impact of change on 
 my situation. Often times the quests don't have the same freedom that say Deus Ex would offer in 
 completion. Some locked doors just simply won't allow you to pick them. And while the conversational 
 elements feel like KotOR, you don't really influence much change throughout, and I would like to 
 see more conversation twists and turns. I like linearity to a degree, I just think the game could've 
 had a little less of it. Also, there are a lot of characters you simply can't talk to, and there's 
 no real indication of which ones are important NPCs, and which ones aren't. You have to scroll 
 over each character and see if the talk option appears.
  
  Another disappointing thing is that this game was made with Valve's source engine, yet it doesn't 
 utilize the interaction to nearly the same level as HL2. Being that this is an RPG/Adventure game, 
 you would think they would use it even more. There are still unmovable desks, chairs, etc. I mean 
 come on, you're a vampire with supernatural stregnth, and you can't get passed a stairwell with 
 a bunch of furniture blocking the way? I can't scale a fence? Are we still at that level in gaming?
 
  
  But disregard my nitpickings on the shortcomings of the game. It's still a great game with a lot 
 of fun, and will definately keep you busy. If you are a fan of these type of games (deus ex, kotor, 
 etc) you should definately check it out. The environments are lush and full of life (feels just 
 like some of the deus ex environments) , the story is interesting, the characters you meet are neat, 
 if somewhat stereotypical and overdone, none the less it's a world you'll be able to get lost in.
 
  
  enjoy it, I know I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 1, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  There are far less bugs in this game than most games I buy..... I think it's solid.... the loads 
 are shorter than halflife2 and are placed in convenient locations.... mostly entering the doors 
 of the particular area. I use a p4 clocked to 3.3ghz  
 this game runs great at even 1600/1200... with little lag that doesnt interfere with your movements. 
 I love the graphics for this kind of game... their not hl2.... but fit the game well. OH.... AND FOR 
 THE REVIEWERS WHO KEEP KNOCKING THE FOOTSTEPS AFTER YOU STOP..... IT'S REALLY NOT WRONG..... IF YOU 
 SWITCH TO 3RD PERSON.... AND WATCH THE ANIMATION RUN OUT..... IT'S TIMED PERFECT.... BUT IN FIRST 
 PERSON... YOU CANT SEE YOUR CHARACTERS ANIMATION .... TRUST ME.... IT IS ANNOYING... BUT TECHNICALLY 
 NOT WRONG.... BUT STILL SHOULD FIX.
  
  THIS IS A GREAT RPG... ALTHOUGH your options will mostly lead to a linear story.... the game is nothing 
 less than an 8... buy it... it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly-Legion
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2004 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Vampire the Masquerade Bloodlines is a Game where you play a vampire, or "Kindred" as they call 
 them in they game.
  You work yourself through the hard vampire life by completing missions that later on unravel the 
 whole concept of the game's story.
  The Combat is although most disappointing, Its either 1st person shooter, or 3rd person fighting, 
 either with bladed weapons, or with your fists.
  Overall a nice 9.5 ! for that, mostly because of the nice graphics provided by the astonishing 
 HL2 Engine.
  Better way off renting it, and get the experience over with, because its not really worth playing 
 through the whole game, you will just get disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twags82
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 26, 2004 5:10 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I had some high hopes for it. Who could blame me, since I was still coming 
 down from my Half-Life 2 experience, so I was looking for another game to satisfy my hunger for 
 goodness. This game didn't deliver it as much as I'd hoped.
  
  It probably didn't help that I was expecting the amount of immersiveness found in Elder Scrolls: 
 Morrowind. I thought they would plop you in a city, give you a little direction as to how to progress 
 the story, and leave you to make your own fate. That's my biggest gripe about the game. Even though 
 there are a good chunk of side quests, it still feels too linear. It's too bad that you couldn't 
 find your way on your own.
  
  On the plus-side, the vampire disciplines are very cool. Well, most of them. Celerity causes a 
 type of Matrix-style effect, letting you dodge bullets and dish out some pain while the bad guys 
 are too slow to react. The disciplines do a good job of letting you choose how you want to play. 
 If you want to go charging into a room with guns blazing (or crowbar swinging) , you'll want to 
 invest some points into Fortitude. Want to sneak around a lot? Use obfuscate.
  
  Choosing a class wasn't overwhelming like it was for me in Morrowind, but it still sufficed in 
 letting me choose the type of character that I want to play as. Each class has their own disciplines 
 that you can improve.
  
  If you like the game, you will get a lot of replay out of it. Once you beat it, you can go back 
 and change up your style of play. Also, there are different endings depending on what faction you 
 side with.
  
  I don't think of this as a bad purchase since I easily got my fun out of it. Heck, I put more time 
 into this game than Half-Life 2 (which isn't saying too much) . If you need a fix for an RPG and 
 want to try a different concept, give this game a go. Also, the official patch has been released, 
 so it isn't as buggy and performance has improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer11115
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 26, 2004 12:01 am PT
Review:  It's hard not to like a game like Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines. Why? Well, for many RPG 
 fanatics, being able to pick your path in a seemingly open-ended environment is next to a dream 
 right? Right. Thing is, V: TM-B doesn't do that. Not really anyways. So how is it appealing? Through 
 all of its many glitches, flaws, and [spelling] errors, in the end, you're left with a solid game 
 that definitely, when you look past it all, has much more to it then meets the eye.
  
  I'd have to say that the Gameplay of V: TM-B is its strongest attribute. Sure, it doesn't run as 
 smooth as it could and there are definitely much more polished products out on the market. But 
 voiding any comparisons, you do get a storyline worth playing through with a great deal of influence 
 tinged in based on your decisions. Think Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and you'd get an 
 idea as to how things span out (Note that KOTOR is, unfortunately, a much better game the Vampires 
 but that's beside the point) . While the environments aren't exactly as open-ended as they could 
 be, nor are they really realistic, it's what sits behind every door that is truely appealing. You 
 have impressive looking characters, great voice work, and as I've mentioned before, a story line 
 that is definitely worth your time.
  
  If only the Graphics had a bit more polish to them... V: TM-B would be absolutely gorgeous. What's 
 wrong? Before we get to that, I should probably start off by saying that the game is actually quite 
 "pretty". It lacks certain details, sure (Cars in "LA", for example) but looking at the bigger 
 picture, the results aren't as impressive as they could be - They're just downright impressive. 
 And the bad? Certain characters lack the fluidity of "real" people, there are VARIOUS glitches 
 with in-game sequences, and there may be a few scenes that could lag on mid-grade computers. Turn 
 things down a notch, get over the unrealism of this would-be LA, and you should be relatively happy 
 with whats left.
  
  Sound? Aside from the voice work, nothing is particularily "special". On that note, I'd like to 
 say that the voice acting is amazing. You can't help but feel the emotion flowing from the characters 
 speaking and, on occassions, their actions too! Beautiful... When you're not interacting with NPC's 
 though, things aren't faring quite as well. For example, you'll get stuck with some rather annoying, 
 reptitive footsteps (Footsteps in, say, grass and gravel sound the exact same) that don't change 
 in running or walking and when combined with the generic "action" clips, the Sound value drops 
 dramatically. Definitely one of its weaknesses but thankfully, it's not that big of a deal... Or 
 is it?
  
  Altogether, Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is a game worth a purchase. I just got it recently 
 and thus far, I have no regrets. You can definitely say that compared to their previous title, 
 Vampire: Masqurade Redemption (Not as bad as Gamespot plays off) , there are some notable improvements. 
 Too bad they didn't include multiplayer. Leaving on a final, positive note, "Like Vampires? RPG's? 
 Got a computer to play it on? Then go out and buy this one - You'll have no regrets. Promise." 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 20, 2004 3:58 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the first Vampire game (The Masquerade) I was very excited about it's sequel.
  Unfortunately Bloodlines has many of the flaws the old game suffered from.
  One example is the 
 weapon system. It's ok to weaken them a bit, since this is a vampire game and guns shouldn't be 
 the main attraction but
  here they are just to weak.
  So you might stick with the meele weapon stuff. The problem here is that the game switches from 
 an first person to a third person perspective. This 
  wouldn't be much of a problem if the controls an the animations would be better. Unfortunately 
 they are pretty jerky in the third person fighting perspective.
  Another point which bothered me was the sound engine. Although this is the source engine you won't 
 find the rich sound options setting from half life2 there. You can't select 4.1 or 5.1 speakers 
 and on top of that the the enviroment setting gives you just one reverb effect which affects every 
 sound (even speech) you hear regardless if you are in a small room or a big hall, in or outside. 
 On the bright side we got the pretty impressive voice acting and the non linear gameplay. But these 
 things alone don't make an excellent game.
  
  At the end I feel pretty sorry about this game. There is so much potential and I wished they had 
 given the game one more year in development just to polish things. Still a solid title for RPG 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 19, 2004 3:15 pm PT
Review:  if you're able to look over the tremendous amount of bug and glitches, you'll find yourself a very 
 good action-oriented rpg game with superb story. has 4 endings, and there're 7 clans to choose 
 from and it should play differently each time so you will want to play this game again and again. 
 but i just hate the action part of the game. the handling of firearms are too sloopy and no fun 
 at all. better to use the katana straight away when you first got it until the end. u only want 
 to use fire arms when fighting bosses, and these boss fights are not fun also. in a nut shell, 
 if you like an rpg with great storyline, you'll gonna love this. i like this game but the gameplay 
 is kind of boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2004 4:55 am PT
Review:  Troika has already put out a couple of Role Playing Games including Arcanum and Temple of Elemental 
 Evil: A Greyhawk Adventure. Arcanum took place in a fictional world caught between technology and 
 magic and featured a rather good storyline and everything youve come to expect from creators of 
 the Fallout series, but seemed to lack in the graphic design. Temple of Elemental Evil was a Dungeons 
 and Dragons pen and paper adventure that was converted into a Computer RPG, and it was the first 
 game to feature the 3.5 rule system from Wizards of the Coast. Although the game came form a background 
 of imaginative background, being from a pen and paper adventure, the game suffered from a story 
 that could captivate the player from start to finish and players found that it was plagued with 
 bugs. The game did have some pretty good graphics for its time, letting the player switch around 
 their outfits and letting them be able to tell the difference within the game. So, with two RPGs 
 in their pocket, one having a good storyline and following and the other having nice graphics, 
 Troika began working on their next RPG which brought upon Vampires The Masquerade: Bloodlines.
 
  
  With the help of White Wolf, holders of The Masquerade license, Troika wanted to put together a 
 game that would have replayability, great graphics, and a great storyline that would have the player 
 wanting to come back for more each time they played through the game. With getting the license 
 of White Wolf, Troika had a good setting, being the World of Darkness, where Vampires openly walk 
 around at night alongside humans with their own society and rules that were to be followed. Throughout 
 the game, youll learn about the society of the Vampires; about the Camirilla, the Anarchs, the 
 Sabbat, and the Kuei-Jin. Youll be able to experience the society through a variety of seven different 
 clans being: Brujah, Gangrel, Malkavian, Noesferatu, Toreador, Tremere, and Ventrue. Each clan 
 supporting a different look whether youre female or male and in Bloodlines, being a male or female 
 does make a difference in dialog and situations that youll be apart of. Being apart of different 
 clans can also give anything from different dialog options to different living spaces within the 
 game. Each clan has their own specific disciplines which are also known as your vampire powers. 
 So they do give the player made reasons to play through multiple times. Add the fact that there 
 are multiple endings for the game and it seems as if Troika has finally found what they were looking 
 for; a game with replayability, great graphics, and a great storyline.
  
  The game is separated into four different Hubs located in Los Angeles. Those hubs from beginning 
 to end are Santa Monica, Downtown, Hollywood, and Chinatown. Throughout these hubs, youll be given 
 different quests that pertain to the main quest that runs the length of the game, but also a multitude 
 of side quests that youll be doing for different memorable characters for cash, experience, or 
 different items including clothing, weapons, or even bloodpacks. These are not your regular run-of-the-mill 
 quests either, not to be confused with the mailman quests found in most RPGs. These quests involve 
 anything from infiltrating a warehouse and placing explosives to silencing a stripper after shes 
 done performing her show for different geezers throughout Hollywood. But the thing is theres multiple 
 ways to complete these quests. Most developers boast about being able to do this, but none have 
 been able to truly accommodate players with the option of completing quests in different ways such 
 as Troika has in Bloodlines. Some clans have different ways of completing quests than others, such 
 as being able to intimidate someone for information instead of paying them, or hacking into a computer 
 for answers instead of having to find the password through research, or even haggling down the 
 price of bullets for their weapons in situations that arise throughout the games four hubs. The 
 story is what drives the player through the game, and with the help of White Wolfs Masquerade 
 license, Troika has developed something that definitely can have the player replaying for the clans 
 and their own different playing styles. Youll be playing through constantly deciding whether to 
 fully obey or disobey the higher vampires within the society whether its through your dialog or 
 your actions. 
  
  In wanting to have graphics that could compete with games of this year, Troika licensed out the 
 Source Engine from Valve, developers who made and used the Source Engine to make Half Life 2. The 
 Source Engine is a gaming engine that brings great graphics, great physics, and many other things 
 together to give the player a great atmospheric gaming experience which can be seen from spending 
 some time playing Half Life 2. Troika took the Source Engine, which was still in the finishing 
 stages of being complete by Valve, and implemented everything they needed to make one of the years 
 best RPGs. The graphics are top of the line for any RPG that has come out this year or even last 
 year for that matter giving the player to either play in a 1st or 3rd person perspective, but there 
 are some downsides. Youre not able to interact with as much in the city of Los Angeles as in Half 
 Life 2. No, Im not comparing the two games when saying this because theyre in very different 
 genres. Im talking about the use of the engine in these two different games. Troika didnt place 
 a lot of different movable objects within the game that the player could interact with such as 
 using an item to progress through a mission or having to use an object to complete a puzzle. The 
 facial expressions were done well in the game, but again, they didnt use the engine to its most 
 productive manner. Im in no way saying that the graphics are bad, because the atmosphere within 
 the game is better than most games thanks to the graphics. The style of graphics in the game is 
 very well done compared to any other RPG because they really put the player in the game with how 
 theyre done. So much that sometimes when in dark areas, its almost impossible to see where the 
 player is going and sometimes when in 1st person perspective when swimming, it can be very hard 
 to navigate your character. Nothing too bad, but it can get frustrating in certain situations.
 
  
  The sound in the game is done quite well. Troika signed known gothic/industrial artists such as 
 Ministry, Daniel Ash, Lacuna Coil, Chiasm, among others to produce music that would be implemented 
 within the game in different clubs and areas. The standard music, being the music that provides 
 atmosphere in the game was done exceptionally well also. In notables areas like the cemetery, the 
 actual hubs themselves, and the wonderful Haunted Hotel in the beginning, the player will enjoy 
 themselves or feel the fear that the music instills in them as they try to discover the banging 
 noise thats taking place within a washing machine in the basement of the hotel. Its one of the 
 more scarier levels this year, comparing with Doom 3, and even being notable next to Thief: Deadly 
 Shadows The Cradle level. The voice acting in the game is done exceptionally well also. Something 
 that some developers take for granted and some developers put a lot of time into it. Troika falls 
 into the second category on this one. And because of the realistic, well done voice acting, the 
 game received a mature rating. The swearing thats done in the game flows through each conversation 
 and never seems pushed which Troika should also be credited for. When talking to different NPCs 
 throughout the Hubs, and being given lots of dialog options, the player will feel like its an 
 actual conversation when compared to other RPG interrelations in other games. 
  
  The dialog was written very nicely and it is notable to talk just about the different choices that 
 are presented to the player while playing the game and talking to different people whether its 
 a hooker, or a doctor in a hospital. In most conversations, the player is given 2-4 responses, 
 but with enough skill points in intimidate, seduction, haggle, and persuasion which are nicely 
 written in different colors when given the choice of answer youd like to speak, the character 
 has the ability to act, not only differently each time they play, but also the ability to act how 
 they think their clan member would act in that situation. 
  
  The fighting within the game is something that strays from other RPGs, but this is because the 
 game is played through 1st and 3rd person perspectives. When using a melee weapon, your character 
 is shown through 3rd perspective, and while shooting any type of gun, youll be pulled into 1st 
 person view. It is something that is a lot different to RPG players, but with the ability of switching 
 between views being a simple click of a button and the transition being so smooth, its easy to 
 get used to. The player is given a multitude of weapons being: an iron pipe, a baseball bat, a 
 knife, a severed arm, a shotgun, many handguns, a flamethrower, a crossbow, plus many others. The 
 list goes on and on, but along with the more powerful weapons, the player needs to have more skills 
 in those areas being melee or ranged attacks. Something that some people have been bothered by 
 in the game is the weakness of ranged attacks from guns. The melee weapons such as the knife or 
 a katana will do more damage to vampires which is rightfully so in the vampire lore. The game, 
 with the use of the license of White Wolf, is sticking close to the actual rules of the game and 
 many people dont seem to understand that, but if you go into the game with an open mind listening 
 to different conversations from different NPCs and a little bit of vampire knowledge/lore, youll 
 be just fine.
  
  Overall, the game is a definite contender for the RPG of the year, and although it has some bugs 
 with the finished product, patches are already being made by both Troika and the fan community. 
 The bugs can be a little hard to swallow considering that the game was actually ready over a month 
 before it came out and couldnt be released until Half Life 2 was finally released. But, overlooking 
 the bugs, thinking that theyll all be fixed one day, this game is a must buy for any RPG player 
 and definitely deserves a good look from anyone wanting to get into the RPG genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 15, 2004 8:46 am PT
Review:  I really liked Troika's other game temple of elemental evil, but again just like vampires it was 
 buggy beyond belief and practically unfinishable for myself for quite a while till patches were 
 released.
  
  The lows.
  
  I bought vampires with the intention of doing as little actual combat as possible and as much text 
 based adventuring as I could, and it would be wise to do so. You can tell this is there first foray 
 into action style and I really wish they would stick to the turn based ToEE approach. The whole 
 affair of combat is just clunky and poorly executed, if this didn't have any RPing elements it 
 would be a flop. 
  Simple things like trying to attack someone with melee style on stairs will have you wildly swinging 
 over their heads. The physics in this game is absurd as well, like everyone is made of flubber 
 and bounce amusingly when hit. Mix in the dodgy AI, clipping issues and strange AI combat behaviours 
 and it is quite off putting. 
  
  Another annoying point is the lack of character models in the game, not only are you given generic 
 looking characters to choose from which is almost RP suicide from the start. But it isn't uncommon 
 to walk into a club and see 3 or 4 indentical people, same hair, same clothes. Every homeless bum 
 will look the same as will basically all the working girls. On the subject of graphics you'll find 
 numerous clipping issues, as well as the fact the objects seem to have really large invisible unpassable 
 barriers around them. One time a wandering NPC got stuck in a large doorway and even though there 
 was room to pass him I couldn't because of this strange invisible barriers. 
  
  The biggest issue is that for a fair number of people who've made forum posts is the game plays 
 terribly slow and jerky like. I far exceed minimum specs. for this game but even on the lowest 
 of graphical settings it will constatly be pausing for a few seconds to load whevner you are trying 
 to walk anywhere. Making gameplay and load times excessively annoying. 
  
  The high
  
  The only thing that saves this is the story, great acting voices, interesting characters and a 
 good plot with some decent puzzle solving.
  
  I can only recommend this game to RP types like me who really have no interest in this as an action 
 game, I'd recommend waiting for the bargin bin. Deep down yes it is a good, mature themed rpg, 
 but the poor combat and bugs and load problems severely detract from it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 13, 2004 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines has gotten a considerable amount of attention over the course 
 of its development, due in no small part to the fact that it is the first game to license the Source 
 engine developed by Valve for Half-Life 2. And the technology behind the game is definitely solid 
 and versatile. However, the game's attempts to combine first-person shooter gameplay with some 
 role-playing elements leaves each element feeling a little unpolished and unsatisfying. Still, 
 there's enough gothic goodness here that anyone with a particular interest in the subject matter 
 should find Bloodlines enjoyable. 
  
  The thought of being a vampire certainly has its allure. You get to live forever and wear really 
 cool outfits. But in the world of Bloodlines, there are some things about it that really suck, 
 too. As the game begins, you're spending a wild night with someone you met at a club who demonstrates 
 for you what sharp teeth they have by plunging them into your neck. The next thing you know, you're 
 being ushered into vampire society, which is in the midst of some pretty fierce political struggle 
 right now. A group known as the Camarilla has claimed dominion over all vampires and enforces the 
 Masquerade, the idea that vampires should blend in with human society and not do anything obviously 
 vampiric or otherwise supernatural in the presence of regular people. Violating the Masquerade 
 by sinking your fangs into someone or using one of your powers where others can see you will make 
 your life more difficult, and five Masquerade violations means it's all over. Not all vampires 
 support the Camarilla's aims, though, and over the course of the game you'll participate in the 
 ideological battle between those vampires who seek to blend in, and those who would rather dominate 
 mankind. It adds up to an interesting trek through a well-developed vampire subculture populated 
 by all manner of colorful characters.
  
  When the game begins, you create your character. You have to choose one of seven clans for your 
 vampire to belong to. Each clan has its advantages and disadvantages and its unique combination 
 of three disciplines, which are the equivalent of magic spells. (Using disciplines costs blood, 
 so you'll need to feed from time to time on humans, or rats! Yum!) You can determine your clan 
 affiliation either by simply choosing the clan you wish to belong to, or letting the game assign 
 you a clan based on your answers to a series of rather goofy hypothetical questions. Then you're 
 given a few points to distribute throughout your various attributes (strength, charisma, intelligence 
 and so forth) , abilities (things like firearms, stealth, and, of course, finance!) , and the aforementioned 
 disciplines. You can dictate how each point is spent yourself, or turn on the increasingly standard 
 autolevel function and let the computer spend your points however it sees fit.
  
  Then you're set loose into Los Angeles. The game's L. A., aside from the occasional landmark, bears 
 little resemblance to the actual city, and is instead a kind of gothic alternate L. A. in which 
 skyscrapers are adorned by gargoyles, ghosts haunt the ruins of once grand hotels, and every other 
 thug carries around a tire iron. Your travels will begin in Santa Monica, and eventually take you 
 through downtown L. A., Hollywood, and Chinatown. Each area is also divided up into three different 
 types of zones: the four urban hubs where you'll probably be spending most of your time are called 
 Masquerade zones; you can feed or use your powers there but will violate the Masquerade if you're 
 seen doing it. In combat zones, you can do whatever you want without violating the Masquerade, 
 and in Elysium zones, which are usually areas in which you interact with important characters, 
 the game simply doesn't let you equip weapons or use disciplines.
  
  And speaking of interacting with characters, doing so is one of the more interesting aspects of 
 the game, mainly because the characters you speak to tend to look great and be very expressive 
 with their faces and body language. The performances given by the characters you meet aren't as 
 incredible or as seamlessly integrated into the flow of the game as those in the game the Source 
 engine was originally developed for, but they're still impressive. You'll interact with characters 
 through a dialogue interface which usually offers up options both kind and cruel, and your choices 
 can have an effect on how your future interactions with that character play out. Sometimes you'll 
 have a few options that result in the same response, as if the game is trying to trick you into 
 thinking that you have more control over the way things progress than you actually do; nevertheless, 
 there are enough options available that you can develop friendly or hostile relationships with 
 just about any character you choose. 
  
  You also have some freedom when it comes to how you tackle many of the game's quests. Typically 
 you can go in with guns blazing, or attempt a more stealthy approach, crawling through shadows 
 and silently killing enemies; on occasion, you can also try to talk your way through a situation. 
 There's no way around combat sometimes, though, and unfortunately, despite the fact that the technology 
 behind the game was developed for a truly outstanding first-person shooter, the combat in this 
 game leaves a little something to be desired. There is a nice little array of vampire powers available 
 in the game and they work well enough, provided you've got enough blood stored up to use them. 
 Depending on your clan affiliation, you might be able to do things like summon animals to attack 
 your foes, move at super-speed, or make your enemies violently ill, which are all helpful in combat 
 situations. Firearms, however, don't work quite so well. Strangely, shooting an enemy in the leg 
 does as much damage as shooting them in the head. You're probably better off getting in close and 
 using a melee weapon. You can perform different combo moves depending on which direction you're 
 moving at the moment of your attack, but the control for melee combat just isn't precise enough 
 or responsive enough for it to be truly satisfying. 
  
  The behavior of other characters can also sometimes make combat a bit less engaging than it should 
 be. Because you automatically heal from any wounds you suffer, it's a viable strategy to bust into 
 a room full of baddies, do as much damage as you can, and then scurry back into the previous room 
 to wait around and heal up for a bit. Sometimes enemies will give chase, sometimes they won't, 
 but typically it's not that hard to find a place to hide and recover. Humans can also wildly overreact 
 to things you do, as when our attempt to crawl past the desk at a health clinic resulted in a security 
 guard whipping out his gun and opening fire and the police pulling up outside. Strangely, innocent 
 people caught in the crossfire of your battles will sometimes just stand there as bullets hit them 
 and their blood gets spattered on the wall. 
  
  A few non-combat-oriented aspects of the game also don't feel like they got the attention they 
 deserved and can break the illusion of the gameworld. Some of the most unfortunate examples of 
 this are the ubiquitous computers you'll come across and use. The game is clearly set in the present, 
 so the fact that every computer runs on a very basic text interface just doesn't fly. A little 
 more effort here to make the look and feel of the computers more believable would have gone a long 
 way. It's also worth noting that each of the dance clubs you enter must be among the most dead 
 in Los Angeles; instead of dance floors packed with creatures of the night getting their groove 
 on, you'll see only a few brave souls shaking their stuff in otherwise mostly vacant rooms. (This 
 might have something to do with the fact that the DJ at each club only plays one song all night 
 long.) And perhaps the biggest difference between the game's L. A. and the real thing is that the 
 roads in the game are completely devoid of cars, which just seems silly. 
  
  Bloodlines looks really great. The game has an effective sense of style and its vision of a gothic 
 Los Angeles is rather compelling. Light reflects off of surfaces in a naturalistic way and character 
 models are detailed and very expressive. In the sound department, things are okay, though they 
 don't measure up to the visuals. The voice acting is, for the most part, quite good; it can sometimes 
 be a bit over the top but that's just fine considering the heightened style of the game as a whole. 
 However, enemies will sometimes repeat the same lines too frequently. The incidental music is decent 
 but not memorable, and the licensed music in the game all fits the tone of the game very well, 
 but when the denizens of a club are dancing to the same song all night, that indicates that there 
 just isn't enough of it. Also, the sound effects don't always fit the onscreen action very well. 
 You might hear a constantly looping effect of an intense shootout taking place outside the warehouse 
 you're in, for instance, but, upon leaving the warehouse, not see evidence that such a large battle 
 took place, or you might notice that the sound of your footsteps isn't quite synchronized with 
 your footfalls or sounds considerably heavier or lighter than it looks. Also, while Bloodlines 
 runs very smoothly most of the time, we did encounter some occasional stutters in sound that froze 
 the game up momentarily.
  
  Bloodlines offers numerous optional quests, so those players who wish to race through it can probably 
 do so in twenty hours or so while those who prefer to seek out every little detail may find that 
 the experience lasts them considerably longer. Some quests are little more than busywork but some 
 of them, such as one that leads you on a creepy investigation of a haunted old hotel, are really 
 engrossing. There's also considerable replay value for those who wish to experiment with different 
 powers and dialogue options or try different approaches to some of the game's quests. There are 
 numerous endings as well, though a save near the end of the game will allow you to access them 
 without playing through the entire game again. 
  
  As an action game, Bloodlines doesn't quite hold up. The combat is a bit too clunky, and the behavior 
 of your enemies just isn't sophisticated enough. It works a bit better as a role-playing game, 
 but this element takes a back seat much of the time and has a few rough spots of its own. Still, 
 if the thought of experiencing the life of a modern day vampire appeals to you, Bloodlines just 
 might be worth sinking your teeth into. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: denisefr
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 13, 2004 12:21 am PT
Review:  I'll admit it upfront - this is the first RPG I've played in ages. I thought I'd take a break from 
 FPS and give it a go.
  
  I'm still not sure if it was a good idea or a waste of money.
  
  The gameplay was fairly linear - but as a newby I appreciated that - there's enough variety 
 to keep me interested. The graphics are gorgeous if a little buggy - the source engine really hates 
 my pc. It suffered from the same stuttering I got with HL2.
  
  None of that was an issue for me - I'm fairly patient with the odd freeze - what really burns my 
 boat is when games crash for discernable reason.
  
  I am around 3/4 of the way through and cannot go forward. The game loads a cinematic then shuts 
 down. No error message, no warning just shuts down to windows. Arrgghh!
  
  I notice another reviewer is experiencing the same problem - hopefully Troika will release a patch 
 or a fix - otherwise I for one will be rethinking any plans to buy another of their games.
  
  If you're considering buying this game - wait - if they release a fix for it go for it - its 
 good fun and very absorbing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunishedOne
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2004 11:43 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: There are possible spoilers within this review. Read at your own risk. 
  
  I'm not an RPG fan just to let you know. However, when I stumbled over Bloodlines on a cheap price, 
 I remember looking at some of the screenshots I saw last year.
  
  I was glad I didn't pass it up.
  
  Without hyping it at all, or wanting it, Vampire: The Masquerade: 
 Bloodlines just blew me away.
  
  The game starts off with you choosing the 12 different Vampire clans in the LA world. I choose 
 the Tremere Clan, which are the creators of Blood Magic. 
  
  The setting is in modern Los Angeles, but the city seems much smaller, and the atmosphere is outstanding. 
 People act as though is they're real, and their emotions are simply outstanding, and very easy 
 to read on their faces. Immersion and style is very high in Bloodlines, and you'll think you played 
 for only 15 minutes when 4 hours have gone by. It's that immersive.
  
  You have multiple quests to do throughout Bloodlines, which encourages replay value. Some range 
 from blowing up warehouses, slashing paintings, retrieving a ghost's personal locket, and so on. 
 There's so much to do in Bloodlines, that you'll believe it's a second life!
  
  The game takes a heavy advantage of the Source engine. Real-time shadows are great, but the lengths 
 aren't correct. Level spans range from small to large, and loading times aren't that long. However, 
 there are some FPS bugs, which cause the game to lag. But, because they're very minor, I don't 
 mind them at all.
  
  The game isn't that difficult, but when enemies are in large numbers, and you only have a knife 
 to deal with them, things can get complicated. So, that's the time you engage Blood Buff, and watch 
 the bodies start flying! The combat is so fast and smooth, that it looks like a rip-off from the 
 Matrix. That's only during Blood Buff however.
  
  The combat system is *somewhat* clunky, but it's not as bad as Morrowind's. You can fully control 
 your character (What I would want in ALL RPGs) , and perform all the tricks you want. However, there 
 is some slight lag when you click the left mouse button to attack, but it's barely noticeable.
 
  
  Sound is WOW material. Voice acting is superb, and emotions can be expressed through their very 
 voice! The voice acting is THAT good. Music in The Asylum is outstanding dance music, which got 
 my feet tapping. When your in the Ocean House Hotel, the wife ghost's voice is spine-chilling, 
 like saying "He's near", in a horror movie-style voice. In the Ocean House Hotel, it shows off 
 the audio part of the Source engine, and it's put to great use.
  
  So, basically, Vampire: The Masquerade: Bloodlines is a must-buy action RPG for any Vampire lover 
 who has a mid-range PC. 
  
  I encountered very few glitches, including the FPS lag.
  
  Bloodlines was run on:
  
  Pentium 4 2.4 GHz
  768 DDR RAM
  ATI Radeon 9800 Pro 128 MB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azazel005
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2004 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes despite all kinds of technical weaknesses a game can triumph on so many levels it is 
 still a classic. Vampire Bloodlines is such a game, sure it's in dire need of a patch, it lags 
 on sytstems it just shouldn't, but if you have a penchant for vampires or RPG's the game delivers 
 so thoroughly it can all still be overlooked.
  
  Built around the largely popular 'World of Darkness' by white wolf it was bound to draw fans of 
 the table top game. Only knowing it slightly I went into the game with a good deal of indifference 
 about the setting and the license, but was dying to get to feed on the blood of the innocence in 
 an RPG realm. Though it was the world of darkness that sucked me in, a clearly rich and well established 
 world layed a beautiful platform for a decent plot with some compelling characters and a brilliantly 
 wide focused look that encompasses nearly all the Vampire mythologies around almost seemlessly.
 
  
  Taking the role of a new born vampire you must fetch and fight your way through this political 
 and dangerous world, all the while figuring out who is on your side and who is out to finish you 
 off, some minor twists exist exist and while the story is no doubt enjoyable it's a bit by the 
 numbers. The characters however are mostly wonderful, captured in conversation with a great deal 
 of facial expressions and in some cases utterly brilliant voice acting you are drawn into a world 
 that can't help but seem lively and clever. The dialogue is very good, one could easily argue it's 
 the best dialogue in a video game to date (especially if you have taken on playing the delightful 
 Malkavalian clan of vampires) words will sometimes be exchanged that well force you to stop playing 
 for a mount while you shake off the massive giggles at what people, or you, have just said. It's 
 also quite varied with a strong support of different dialogue options given to you based on certain 
 socail skills, I am gonna go out on a limb and say it is the best implementation of that I have 
 ever seen. Almost every conversation seems to have are more talkative option depending on your 
 vampire, and depending on how you build your own personal blood sucker he may have any number of 
 inuitive things to say.
  
  Helming your own character creation (including selecting from 7 pretty skillfully unique clans 
 of vampires) adds so much to the games long term appeal and diversity it really has to be played 
 to understand. Some clans played in a similar fashion but many deliver a completely, or at least 
 almost so, gaming adventure. The expierence system to summarise is simply one of the most fun, 
 flexible and clear that I have ever used. And while the models are limited to one per gender per 
 clan (14 total) they are simply perfect in there variety and symbolise their clans image. Playing 
 the game itself runs you between the great dialogue system, some great puzzle solving systems and 
 a somewhat average but nonetheless highly rewarding combat system. Sometimes different means and 
 powers seemed somwhat unbalanced, but playing I hardly ever felt anything but joy when engaging 
 my enemies (save some of the trying near end game dungeon crawls) . The lagging issues sometimes 
 made larger scale combats annoying but on the whole it was an enjoyable option when I couldn't 
 talk my way out of it.
  
  Visually the game is a mixed bag, while some models look marvellous and some animataions, especially 
 the faces in conversation are pure gold, some are just tired and choppy. The backgorunds are dark 
 and thematic, perhaps fitting the world, but not impressing you much. Most of the special effects 
 are nice, sometimes they seem a little out of place in a dark and serious world, though (walking 
 around glowing blue doesnt seem very masqueard-ey) and then there is the peroformance issues and 
 gltches. Quite simply the game will likely run poorly even on very current systems, the frame rate 
 is going to lag quite often, and backgrounds are going to flicker and look unusual at times. Sometimes 
 sadly this just breaks you out of the brilliant moment the game has dragged you into and that is 
 a shame.
  
  A nice licensed soundtrack supports the games very solid orchestral scores and all the backgorund 
 music seems very fitting.
  
  The game has one other very charmigng advantage, it manages to deliver a strong mature vibe without 
 the tackiness that so often follows. The coarse langauge in the game is always delivered fittingly 
 and while the interactions are sometimes hilarious they do also delve into some strong and serious 
 adult issues and it never seems out of place. This is a tough balance to work and troika have definetly 
 done an impressive job with it.
  
  Vampires are cool in todays society, and Bloodlines confirms that for us all. The game crashes 
 yes, but that will all be patched out in time, what will hold is a great fun beatifully scripted 
 very original title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2004 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I think that the Gamespot reviewer expected to play Half-Life with Vampires instead of a role-playing 
 game, because thats what the review reads like. Vampire: The Masqerade  Bloodlines is not a 
 first person shooter. It is, however, a great RPG, filled with terrific script, intriguing story, 
 a sense of mystery, unprecedented character interactions, dazzling style, lots of colorful personalities, 
 and a cool role-playing system. It doesnt live up to being the spiritual successor to Deus Ex, 
 but it is still better than any other PC RPG so far this year. 
  
  To start with, this game is beautiful to look at. Is it as astounding as Half-Life 2? No, but thats 
 not exactly saying anything. A regular Corvette isnt as great as a Calloway Corvette, but that 
 doesnt mean that the regular Vette isnt great. There is a huge variety of highly detailed and 
 beautiful environments here. The game features a wide variety of gorgeous environments that show 
 the glamour and sleaze of LA. The streets are lit up with neon while the bums and prostitutes stand 
 around flaming barrels. Characters show realistic facial expressions that change based upon what 
 dialog options you select. Dialog in this game becomes the best part, largely because of the realism 
 that these characters show. The games numerous NPCs dont suffer from the attack of the clones 
 problem, except for the bums and prostitutes. This is a highly underappreciated quality for this 
 game. The biggest problem with the game is the walking, running, and fighting animations for the 
 games various characters. Some animations are done poorly. Some of the NPCs in combat seem like 
 they only have a few frames of animation. This game could have really used some motion capturing. 
 
  
  The voice-acting for the games huge script is excellent. The writing, itself, is excellent, and 
 hearing it delivered by the games interesting characters is a real treat. The firearms also sound 
 great. The licensed music is very good too, and so is the moody ambient music that plays in the 
 games various areas. Unfortunately, the audio does have some problems. One of them is the low 
 variety of ambient and licensed music, which ends up looping quite a bit. The audio also has some 
 hiccup glitches from time to time, and enemies in combat only have one or two barks, which arent 
 very convincing. Every set of enemies uses the same sound bites  this sticks out like a sore thumb 
 as a cheap shortcut. There is also a nagging glitch in the audio that causes your footsteps to 
 be heard a full second after you stop walking.
  
  Vampires has a somewhat simple but very unique and flexible role-playing system. There are seven 
 clans to choose from, each of which has their own unique traits. You start off working for the 
 LA Prince of the Camarilla, a strict society whose rules revolve around preserving The Masquerade 
 -- the process by which Vampires keep themselves a secret from humanity. Your character has a bunch 
 of attributes for fighting, infiltration, stealth, and persuasion or seduction. He/she also has 
 three disciplines, which are supernatural powers that can be used for a short period of time. There 
 are no levels in the game. You receive points to assign each time that you complete a quest. 
 
  
  The true highlight of the game is solving the games various quests while exploring all of the 
 environments and interacting with all of the characters. Vampire has a cast of colorful characters 
 that easily rivals any RPG ever made. Or any game, for that matter. Dialog is even better than 
 Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, and thats saying a lot. The dialog is often influenced 
 by your conversation skills. Special lines of dialog only show up if your skills in intimidation, 
 persuasion, or seduction are high enough. The game forces you to make some pretty tough choices 
 and live with their consequences, so you had better watch what you say and do. The quests have 
 you doing some pretty interesting stuff, like shutting up a blabbermouth who is breaking the Masquerade, 
 infiltrating a museum, and investigating the origin of a bizarre snuff film. This game earns its 
 M rating, and is not for the faint of heart. 
  
  Combat is clunky and not very deep, but its still fun. The game does a good job of mixing your 
 role-playing stats with your twitch gamer abilities. Combat generally involves using one or more 
 special abilities while furiously clicking the mouse during melee, or doing your best to move and 
 shoot your guns. You also can feed on enemies during combat, which you will often need to restore 
 your health and blood level. Firearms are somewhat underpowered damage-wise, but using them keeps 
 you safe if youre not very tough. This imbalance isnt as bad as you find in lots of 3D RPGs, 
 which always seem to favor melee combat. Combat usually isnt the strength of these types of games, 
 and Vampires is no exception.
  
  The worst part about this game though, is the tiny areas and annoying amount of loading screens. 
 Bloodlines has literally dozens of tiny maps. Some maps are only one room. Yes, one room. This 
 means that you are constantly looking at loading screens throughout the game. This game would have 
 benefited from a better layout of the maps. The video also seems under optimized, as there are 
 occasional frame rate slowdowns in the streets and during combat. Thankfully, I did not encounter 
 any of the famous big bugs that have hit other people playing this game. 
  
  The Gamespot review inaccurately states that it will take you 20-30 hours to play this game your 
 first time through. You would have to not be trying to enjoy yourself to finish it in 20 hours. 
 Its more like 30-50 hours, and after you are done playing, you can choose a different clan and 
 get an entirely different experience. This is especially true if you are a Malkavian, since this 
 clan gets an entirely unique set of dialog. There is a lot of content here.
  
  Despite its rough edges, Vampire: The Masquerade  Bloodlines is a resounding success as an RPG, 
 and it is Troikas best game to date. If you are looking for a great role-playing game, then you 
 need look no further than here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fots
Rating: 5.6
Date: Nov 29, 2004 3:40 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for long time to get my hands on a new Vampire The Masquerade game, since I 
 enjoyed the first game a lot, even though the replay value wasn't high and the story line a bit 
 linear. 
  The second fledgling of the Vampire series has bettered it's older brother in replay value by giving 
 you more options in character setup: you can now choose your characters sex and define his/her 
 clan - groups of vampires related to each other through the Embrace (the ritual of siring a vampire) 
 that share the same unique disciplines and attributes. 
  The game sets off with you being 'Embraced' followed by the execution of your sire, who has violated 
 the rules by turning you into a vampire without asking for permission from the local vampire prince. 
 This vampire prince soon takes you under his wing and you start running errands for him. 
  Quickly you learn though that not all vampires in your gameworld (modern day Los Angeles) follow 
 the prince and you will be sucked into all sorts of superhuman political intrigue. The tensions 
 between the several vampire sects is one of the strongholds of the story line and it works pretty 
 well for me. You'll learn that all sects have their own view on vampire society and they all make 
 sense in their own way, so you can feel free to choose... You can be a faithful henchman of the 
 Prince of LA or be more of a two-faced bastard trying to play both sides. You can even work for 
 another sect as their inside man. 
  The gameworld is also quite nice. Los Angeles by night looks quite good and the characters it is 
 filled with supply a wide arrange of experiences towards the player - they will talk you down, 
 flirt you up or act plain stupid or crazy. One of the biggest improvements over the first game 
 - 'Redemption' - is the inclusion of humor. Where 'Redemption' got you stuck with a mister duddly-do-right 
 that lacked any sense of humor and with NPC that were as entertaining as 'Saved by the Bell - the 
 2nd Class', 'Bloodlines' delivers from time to time some very hilarious NPCs (GO FIND THE ARMS 
 DEALER IN CHINATOWN!) and you too can make some funny remarks. You can take cracks at the Bush 
 family, make jokes or just talk non sense. 
  So far so good... but why did I grade this game with a 5.6? 
  Well first off: the numerous bugs!
 
  Secondly: the numerous bugs... I read on some forum that Troika made the game deliberatly buggy 
 when the game has been cracked... They state that if you don't have an original VtM - Bloodlines 
 disc in your computer, you will be bugged a lot. But I do own an original copy of 'Bloodlines' 
 and I suffer the same problems. The game crashes and stalls a lot... loading times seem to take 
 forever and the games graphics don't look too good, even though I meet all the hardware requirements 
 easily. 
  My third point of critic is that I find the importance of vampiric powers a bit underrated. So 
 far I managed to do quite well (I am nearly at the end of the game) without upgrading my vampiric 
 powers at all. I spent all my XP's on combat, security, hacking and sneaking skills to get where 
 I need to go. I had hoped for a bit more necessity of Vampiric powers. 
  My last point of remark is that the quests aren't very well done. Most of the quest follow this 
 pattern: you need to get object X, so you will need to speek to Mr. or Ms. Y, who will then tell 
 you to go do a quest for them. This results in finding another object or another person. Then you 
 head back to Mr./Ms. Y and he/she will tell you that in fact THEY cannot help you, but person Z. 
 is in fact the person to talk to and so on and so on... 
  Well this may be a bit typical RPG story telling and you might not be irritated by it like I am. 
 It gets frustrating though when you sometimes cannot complete a (side) quest for failing to do 
 something which at that time you could not have known it was a requirement for the quest. Example: 
 I met this NPC (A) who told me to whack another NPC (B) I just ran into in the same building and 
 whom I told to wait for me. I go back to the room to look for B, but he was gone and nowhere to 
 be found. Ergo, I couldn't finish him off and A refused to do business with me. Also I finished 
 another side quest and the reward was to be delivered in the mailbox of my hide-out... I just got 
 myself installed in a second hide-out and couldn't find my reward there and neither did I in my 
 first hide-out. When I replayed the side quest and finished it before I received a second hide-out, 
 I was able to receive my $ 500 in the mailbox. 
  It is exactly those bugs that makes me think that this game would have so great if Troika Games 
 had spent a little more time and effort in testing their product... I hope Troika Games will come 
 with a perfomance and bug fixing patch very soon... since I cannot complete the game because it 
 keeps crashing at a cerain cinematic sequence...
  Now it seems a bit of a waste of programming...
  Still, if you really like vampires and first 
 person RPG's and don't mind running the risk of serious bugs/crashes, you won't find a more gripping, 
 immersive RPG that is a beauty in all its darkness then 'bloodlines', you should buy it and pray 
 fo a performance patch to reach you soon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chetwebb
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2004 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that comes along every so often that is refreshingly different. The 
 atmosphere is what you would expect if you enjoy the modern vampire genre. It is reminicent of 
 the movie "Queen of the Damed". Your character's approach can be as diversant as your personality, 
 be it violent or suave. The story is interesting, the settings are outstanding, and the approach 
 is provocatively mature.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is in bad need of a patch. It is playable but on occasion you find yourself 
 needing to work around a game flaw. The loads are slow and the play can be jerky if too many NPC's 
 are on the screen. Later in the game it seems you have to wait forever for a game to be saved.
 
  
  In spite of the technical glitches I recommend the game. It's sexy, interesting, and fun to bite, 
 chop, and play your way through the mystery and intrigue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 27, 2004 3:57 pm PT
Review:  After 10 hours, I can see why so many are enjoying this game: the dialogue options are fun and 
 often surprising in their diversity. You can regularly use dialogue options to finish a quest -- 
 no fighting needed. Few PC RPG's even try to attempt this because of the complexity involved in 
 designing missions. There's a story that so far is very interesting. The voice work is very very 
 good. There's a lot here that makes the game stand out from the ususal action/combat-centered RPG's.
 
  
  But.
  
  Anyone who says the graphics are 'great' or 'excellent' is extremely exagerating. Troika had some 
 great artwork in their Temple of Elemental Evil game, but here in this 3D game objects, buildings 
 and character models look drab and generic. This is especially significant because Bloodlines uses 
 the Half-Life 2 engine. There really no excuse for the retro-look of this 3d game. Loading times 
 between levels are long-ish, which is jarring given the looks of the game. My PC runs HL2 without 
 a hitch. The look of the game is quite under-whelming for a game made in 2004.
  
  To put it differently, the "Hong Kong" city level in Deus Ex 1 for the PC looks better than anything 
 I have yet to see in Vampire: Bloodlines and Deus Ex is almost 5 years old and used the old "Unreal" 
 engine. 
  
  Everyone is talking about the bugs and so far I haven't encountered one. However I hear on the 
 b. boards that there are some major game-stopping bugs later in the game. We should all be advised 
 and check the boards.
  
  I also hear from the boards that the game has fewer and fewer dialogue options as the main story 
 progresses and then it ends with lots of combat that you have no means of avoiding. In other words, 
 for those who genuinely liked the game and who got to the end, the game's RPG elements peter out. 
 If that's true, it sounds like they pushed this game out the door well before it was ready.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorcoth
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2004 7:46 pm PT
Review:  For fans of White Wolf's Vampire: The Masquerade tabletop rpg, it's been a long wait for another 
 computer rpg based on the franchise. The last one was Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption. VtMR 
 was an unbelievably good game that had your character's progression range across centuries from 
 medieval 12th century Europe to modern day USA. Vampire: The Masquerade - Bloodlines is good step 
 in the right direction for the furthering of the computer franchise. For my liking, the gameplay 
 could have been more immersive. However, those who aren't fans of the tabletop game won't notice. 
 That said, I'm writing this review from the point of view of a fan of the pen & paper Vampire rpg.
 
  
  Gameplay Positives:
  -Character creation is a big step in the right direction. Where VtMR didn't allow any initial customization 
 at all (You are a male Brujah and that's all there is to it!) , Bloodlines allows you to pick from 
 any of the 7 major Vampire clans (Brujah, Gangrel, Malkavian, Nosferatu, Toreador, Tremere, Ventrue) , 
 each having their own strengths and unique powers. In addition, you can choose to play either a 
 male or female.
  
  -For those who aren't familiar with the ins and outs of character creation in the tabletop version, 
 Troika has instituted a Morrowind-esque series of questions. Your answers will determine the kind 
 of character you play. Nice touch. For those who are familiar, you're given the option of going 
 straight to your character sheet and assigning your dots as you see fit.
  
  -Like many computer rpg's today, the plot is advanced through a series of main quests and side 
 quests. The quest system works very well.
  
  -The NPC are all extremely well written and well voiced, and in certain instances (i. e. Jeanette 
 and Double-V - rrrrowwwrrr!!!) are extremely well-modeled. The voice acting is phenomenal, though 
 I would have enjoyed it more if they had gone to the trouble of voicing your character as well. 
 Granted, this would be more expensive given that you can choose between 14 basic characters at 
 the start of the game.
  
  -Combat is functional, but definitely aimed toward melee weapons than guns. A lot of people complain 
 about this, but in actuality, this is a very loyal port of the pen & paper rules system, and makes 
 perfect sense to me. Guns just don't do much damage against an immortal creature. Ya gotta burn 
 'em or slice 'em up! In addition, your stats play heavily into how often and well you hit, as well 
 as how much damage you inflict. In the case of firearms, a low skill means your aim is going to 
 be erratic. Swinging your targeting reticle in the vicinity of the enemy don't mean you automatically 
 hit. I love it! In melee combat, holding down a different directional move key and swinging will 
 equate to different kinds of swings. Your enemies will figure out if you're just doing the same 
 attacks over and over and they'll start blocking or dodging. Nice touch.
  
  -Another huge plus, in my opinion, is that the game environment is totally interactive. You can 
 pick locks and go into buildings that have nothing to do with your current quest. Loot them and 
 sell the stuff you found. Reminds me quite a bit of the Baldur's Gate games. I love that. It adds 
 depth and dimension to the game-world. One thing I hate in video games are doors and containers 
 that can't be opened. Why put them in the game otherwise?!!? You can also hack computers and check 
 other people's files and email. Brilliant!
  
  -I also really enjoy the way they've translated the Vampire Disciplines from the pen and paper 
 game into valid computer applications. Animalism, in particular, stands out as an extremely cool 
 port.
  
  Gameplay Negatives:
  There are two glaring gameplay drawbacks for me, as a fan of the tabletop game.
  
  -Firstly, 
 while 7 different clans to choose is great, there are actually 13 vampire clans in the White Wolf 
 universe, and a few of the 6 that were left out would have been incredibly cool additions to the 
 game. Namely the Sabbat clans of Lasombra and Tzimisce. While the Sabbat faction is used as one 
 of the villains in Bloodlines, it is still possible to play "good guy" versions of any of the 13 
 clans.
  
  -Secondly, Troika has decided to restrict you to being to only develop the three disciplines you 
 start the game with. This is a massive mistake in my opinion, as I ended up only using one or two 
 of my disciplines throughout the whole game, while yearning for the ability to learn non-clan disciplines. 
 I don't think it would have been very difficult to include. They'd already put in books that when 
 read will raise a skill for you. Why not a book that when read will give you a new discipline? 
 Ugh. Weak, dudes.
  
  -My only other minor gripe is that once you've finished questing for one NPC or another, you really 
 won't have any further interaction with that NPC. I'm not just whining about not getting any more 
 time avec les scantily-clad vampire kittens with the giant hoots, either. Most, if not all, of 
 the NPC's are so well-written that it's a shame to "leave them behind for greener pastures" all 
 the time.
  
  -The game had originally been planned to include a Multiplayer component as well. Unfortunately, 
 to many people's huge complaints, they had to scrap it in order to get the game out at a reasonably 
 good release date. I've never been a big fan of multiplayer components anyway, so I'm not docking 
 any points for its omission. (See end of review for further comments related to multiplay)
  
  Graphics Positives:
  Bloodlines is the first game to make use of the graphics engine that 
 was developed for Half-Life 2. In fact, Troika was building Bloodlines with it before the chumps 
 behind Half-Life 2 even began. As a result, the mood, feel and environments in the game are deliciously 
 rendered, as are the NPC's. The player character models are also quite good, but when compared 
 to those of the NPC's, they kind of pale in comparison (no vampiric pun intended)
  
  Graphics Negatives:
  -Graphics this good mean you need a monster system with a beyond-top-of-the-line 
 video card in order to avoid the inevitable skips and stutters in performance. However, as a guy 
 with merely a very excellent system, I rarely took issue with the occasional stuttering cut-scene, 
 which were the only times I experienced any such hiccups.
  -In addition, when compared to Half-Life 2 (which uses the same engine, like I said earlier) , the 
 graphics in the game could have been way better. Looks like the Troika guys rushed it a little. 
 Not that big a deal, though.
  
  Sound Positives:
  The giant stand-out here is the magnificent voice acting. These actors really bring their characters 
 to life. Even the annoying idiots like Knox and Mercurio.
  The ambient sound effects are also extremely good.
  
  Sound Negatives:
  The music in the 
 game is your standard goth/punk stuff. Nothing really stands out. It's all pretty unimaginative 
 schlock. Each dance club in the game has its own song playing non-stop, and other than that there 
 are two techno kind of tracks, one for combat and one that plays the rest of the time. Yawn.
  
  Value Comments:
  Fans of White Wolf's pen and paper game should find extreme enjoyment from 
 this game. Fans of vampire games should also enjoy this quite a bit. Players new to the genre should 
 get easily hooked and drawn into this fantastic game world.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  I'm extremely frustrated. I love this amazing game, but the excellent game environment and the 
 fantastic quest structure lead me to believe that this would make an unbelievably good MMORPG. 
 Am I right, or what, people?!!?! Think about it - the main game takes place in LA, expansions to 
 the game would take the form of different cities! It's gold, baby, GOLD!! Troika, get on it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fhalgrym
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2004 7:11 am PT
Review:  I think that gaming sites have been a little hard on Vampire: the Masquerade - Bloodlines (V: tM) . 
 Many of the complaints are accurate: yes, there are flickering textures. Yes, there are occasional 
 crashes and weird glitches. Yes, guns aren't as useful as they are in most shooters. Despite all 
 this, VtM represents a real step forward for RPGs as a whole.
  
  I want to address what seems to be the most common complaint about VtM, which is the combat system. 
 Lacking a lock-on mechanism really hurts the combat, but this is my only complaint. However, when 
 you take into consideration that this is a RPG, the combat is actually very good. Think about how 
 awful Morrowind's real-time combat was. KOTOR has good looking combat, but you're not actually 
 doing anything. VtM is one of the first attempts to meld a FPS into a RPG that I can think of - 
 Deus Ex being the other one. Judged this way, VtM's combat looks pretty good. If you compare it 
 to Half-Life 2, VtM is much less impressive. But I don't think that's the right way to judge this 
 game. 
  
  Lots of people have complained about guns not being useful, but they do have their uses. Also, 
 the game repeatedly points out that vampires are particularly resistant to bullets. Really, the 
 most useful weapon in the game - the flamethrower - is a gun.
  
  The majority of the glitches that I encountered are minor graphics issues, particularly the flickering 
 textures thing. I hate to say this about Troika, but it always feel like they release things to 
 early or are too rushed. These errors are things that should have been obvious in playtesting. 
 There are also some clipping errors and a broken quest or two - nothing major for a computer game, 
 though. 
  
  So what's good about VtM? Even if you can't be happy about the combat, the story and feel of the 
 Vampire milieu is just perfect. Everything is dark, dingy, and a little hopeless. People are used, 
 abused, and sometimes destroyed - this includes your character, if you play poorly. Having played 
 Vampire before, I'd say VtM hits the nail on the head and gets the story and role-playing elements 
 EXACTLY right. That's no small feat. It's hard to do that in a fantasy game, much less the Vampire 
 universe. Voicework and storyline are impeccable, especially when one considers the mature nature 
 of the game. It would have been easy to come off as sleazy or adolescent.
  
  Roleplayers will love this game. Others should give it a try. It's immersive, totally different 
 from anything you've ever played, and conveys its storyline deftly- an amazing accomplishment for 
 any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilidog_128
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2004 12:17 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for an engaging FPSRPG, along the lines of the original Deus Ex, for quite 
 a while. After installing Vampire: Bloodlines, I eagerly rolled up a female Malkavian and started 
 the game. Immediately, I was disturbed by the low quality of the opening cutscene -- disregarding 
 the amazing complexity of the characters' facial expressions, the piece itself seemed shoddily 
 put together. The characters seemed to move jerkily, and at places they blinked in and out. However, 
 once the gameplay began, all doubts vanished and I was totally absorbed.
  The sheer variety of emotions the story characters can portray on their expressive faces is unspeakably 
 beautiful. The engine itself renders forth a dark and dreary world, strangely attractive in its 
 decrepitude. The quality of the graphics, regardless of the official Gamespot review, is very high. 
 The gameplay itself is a synthesis of player skill and character attributes, and fits perfectly 
 with the concept of a  Guns naturally do reduced damage 
 to other vampires, but a high ranged-weapon feat tightens the firing reticle and increases damage. 
 I mainly resorted to firearms with my Malkavian character, and had no complaints overall.
  The script is well thought out, full of intrigue and surprises appropriate to the Vampire mythos. 
 The voice acting, along with the dialogue, is superb. Overall, the sound, music and graphics combine 
 to immerse the player in the Vampire universe. While there are bugs in the current retail version, 
 there is nothing game-ruining, and nothing which can't be wiped in a simple, upcoming patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bt_the_great_78
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2004 4:03 pm PT
Review:  No one disputes that the graphics are top-notch and it is wonderful to see the Source engine used 
 in an RPG. But, more importantly ---I have not experienced the bugs enumerated in the GS review 
 or suffered any of the major complaints voiced in the forum boards.
  
  Not only does Vampire: Bloodlines run smoothly, it runs with less bugs and glitches than most games 
 I have bought this year. But, as with any game, it is not without flaws. For example, items in 
 your inventory often do not match their description. If there is a driver's license with Name A, 
 it will be described with Name B, or if there is a picture in your inventory described as having 
 a message written on the back, it will ostensibly remain blank. These are minor flaws in detail, 
 but there are many of them related to your inventory and it shows an inattention to detail and 
 a general lack of polish.
  
  Building experience in most RPGs almost consists solely of fighting, but there is little to no 
 reward for it in VM: B. The game rewards you for completing objectives -- now if an objective is to 
 kill somone, then you will be rewarded for killing them and not for the actual fight. It seems 
 unusual that there is no XP gain from fighting all the enemies in an area. But, it is because of 
 this feature that you learn to focus on the Masquerade and stealth, rather than indeterminate violence.
 
  
  Much as been said about the long-range weapon system and most of it negative. What Gamespot either 
 never considered or ignored, is that this is a RPG and not a FPS. Your long-range weapon skill 
 develops as your character improves their traits. This is far more realistic and in tune with role-playing. 
 If you could run through the board riddling all the enemies with bullets as in Doom 3 or Half-Life 
 2, you would never allocate points to combat skills. Besides, anyone who has ever fired a handgun 
 in real-life knows how terrible inaccurate you are initially.
  
  The game is well scripted, the dialogue is mature and suprisingly not as cliched as most, and has 
 excellent voice-work. There are several memorable characters. Although more cinematic, the mission 
 system is similar to ES3: Morrowind's. Different NPC's will give you objectives and often these 
 will conflict or possibly even negate your ability to complete another quest. This is a positive 
 quality because it allows less linear gameplay.
  
  Overall, the game is a worthwhile buy and unique role-playing game. I only hope that it works as 
 well on other computers as it has on mine. If not, check for a patch and then buy it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jshipley01eb
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2004 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I havent completed this game yet, Ill admit. But I DO feel that Ive experienced enough to give 
 an accurate review to a person deciding if they want to pick up this game, or not.
  
  First things first, if youve played the Vampire The Masquerade pen and paper game, youre definitely 
 going to appreciate this game more then someone who is just experiencing this White Wolf Studios 
 role-playing universe for the first time.
  
  Set in White Wolfs World of Darkness, the vampire world is one of intrigue, danger, sensuality 
 and a host of other wonderful adjectives. In the pen and paper game, you play a vampire that has 
 been embraced (the vampire word for turned into a vampire) and has to survive along with your 
 friends in a Game Master run setting. 
  
  The computer version isnt much different. Youll create a character from scratch, using the same 
 philosophy you find in the table top version. However, there are a few limitations.
  
  1  Each clan vampire has but one graphic for each sex. You cant customize the look of your starting 
 vampire in any way. If you want to play a Brujah Vampire, for instance, you can be male and look 
 one way or female and look the other. Thats it. This is true for all 7 starting clans. I was a 
 bit disappointed by this, as I really wanted to play one clan, but the people looked so stupid 
 that I went with another. If Im going to be a vampire, I want to look cool, you know?
  
  2  Each clan gets three disciplines, or vampire powers. Its a shame because you can customize 
 your powers in the pen and paper, but in the game you have to take the three powers of your clan. 
 I would have liked to have seen the discipline system as a bit more open ended. But its still 
 fun to play with the ones you do get, so its not so bad.
  
  Other then that, they ported the character system from the pen and paper pretty well. You definitely 
 feel like youre playing a White Wolf game when you look at your character sheet. They did leave 
 out a lot of the options for talents, skills and knowledge, but again you look past some of these 
 kinds of things.
  
  Once youre in the game, youll find the starting story is pretty much the same for everyone. You 
 were just created as a vampire and youre captured by essentially a form of vampire police. You 
 find out that no one authorized you to be created a vampire, and in fact the vampire who made you 
 is punished for the crime. 
  
  Instead of being punished the same way, it is decided that you might be of some use, and youre 
 hauled off to Santa Monica to further the vampire cause. All of this is displayed in an in game 
 engine cutscene. Its a shame, because its not the best first impression.
  
  The graphics are okay. The character models are good, but they arent great. The mouths move when 
 they are supposed to, but they fall just short of looking perfect like Half Life 2. At first you 
 even cringe, like hearing a song that is just slightly off key. Its not so bad until you hear the 
 off pitch, and then you cant help focusing on it until it end. The opening is like that. And its 
 fairly poorly edited as well, choppy with strange fade to blacks.
  
  I was pretty unsure at that point, when that scene ended, of what I was really going to see. I 
 had already played HL2 at this point and unfortunately had a comparison. Considering that HL2 is 
 the true pioneer of the Source engine, you cant really hold this against them.
  
  Then you get to do a little tutorial with a Gangrel Vampire (vampires with more visible beastial 
 traits) who takes you through the game system and tries to teach you the controls. And yes, combat 
 is really a mess. Its very clunky, theres no lock-on feature, firearms are damn near ineffective 
 unless you pump your points into it. Even then, you can do more damage with your melee weapons 
 then you ever can with firearms. 
  
  Firearms are so bad because they are stat based. Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic is a good 
 example of how this works. In KOTR, the game fired for you and whether you hit or not was based 
 on your skills with that weapon. Now imagine that you have to aim and shoot yourself, only how 
 well you actually aim really doesnt mean anything at all, because you have to be good at shooting 
 in order to be effective at it. It might have been better if the game used your accuracy to determine 
 IF you hit, and the stat to determine how critical that hit actually ends up being. But ah well. 
 Just stick to melee weapons and youll do just fine. Youll be able to strike more then one person 
 with melee as well, which is far more useful most of the time.
  
  So surely there has to be some redeeming qualities about this game, because right now Im coming 
 down on it. Well, there are!
  
  The voice acting is really well done. Characters in the game sound like you expect from the visuals 
 you see. And the dialog is well written. The story is also very well told. In addition, the writers 
 really used the White Wolf world to tell the store to the fullest. Heres what I mean 
  
  You know when they make a movie of a video game and they do that one signature thing that the 
 characters from the game do, to make it feel like youre watching a movie based on that game? And 
 you know how it always feels so damn awkward? Like in Street Fighter when VanDam does the Flash 
 Kick? You think, Its cool, but stupid too. Well, Vampire isnt like that.
  
  In fact, for fans of the pen and paper, youre really going to enjoy the story elements because 
 they seem to have been written for you to enjoy them. A great example are these two sisters that 
 run a night club in SantaMonica called the Asylum. These two have a history that is really well 
 portrayed. At the conclusion of the tale, which involves you running around completing quests for 
 the both of them, youre fully rewarded with a great story hook. Its very well done.
  
  Despite its short comings, the graphics are still very pretty. And though there is a complete lack 
 of traffic on the streets of California, the city still feels dark and foreboding, like a good 
 Vampire should be. The environments seem realistic for the most part. I wish there was more of 
 a physics engine though. You cant even smash a pile of cardboard boxes with a baseball bat. Thats 
 bit disappointing.
  
  The sounds are great in the game, especially the background music in the nightclubs. And you can 
 dance there too, which I think is awesome. You dont control your character, its automatic, but 
 it really makes you feel like you are a part of the world.
  
  Overall, youre going to get the most out of this game if youre a fan of Vampire table top. Its 
 still a fun game though, and fans of RPGs will still find things to enjoy about the title. If 
 youre a first person shooter fan, this is definitely NOT the game for you. Stick with HL2.
  
  - JACK
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2004 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Love and hate is what sums up this review. I love the whole White Wolf mythos as a backdrop, and 
 honestly its the best vampire simulation out there. The hate is the clunky feel to the game and 
 lack of overall polish. One example is the sound when you walk, after you stop you still hear your 
 own footsteps for walking. Also there are several areas for clipping  getting stuck problems, 
 more on that later.
  
  How bloodlines differs from the first Masquerade game? You play only one character, the good thing 
 is it lets you focus more on interactions and the developers did a solid job on this. The downside 
 is that you do not have a wrecking crew and a variety of characters with their available powers.
 
  
  Bloodlines may be based on the current source engine but the graphics are not at the expected level. 
 Dont get me wrong, the graphics are solid but it lacks the wow factor when you look at Doom3 or 
 Half Life2.
  
  Gameplay for actions like movement, combat, is where Bloodlines starts to really hurt. There are 
 several places with serious clipping issues  meaning getting stuck, falling below the ground  
 up to your waist and then trying to get unstuck after recalling you have not saved your game in 
 a bit. So you jump and move around hoping somehow you get unstuck trying to avoid reloading to 
 the last save game.
  
  Also like the Gamespot review mentioned the gunplay is pretty penalized. Hopefully a patch will 
 come out to beef up the weapons some. I currently have a Brujah character and using raw fists I 
 found so far to be the best weapons  mix in potency vampire power and you tear though the enemies.
 
  
  So where is the sweetspot for this game? Role playing and story is where its at. I am usually 
 a sucker for a good story and so far the developers have done a decent job of keeping the vampire 
 atmosphere. The feel of the story is not a solid backbone-driving story where you must do X then 
 Y and then Z lock step approach but feels looser, more open ended in your actions available. 
 
  
  This is a very good thing because it lets you do several things out of order. So if someone tells 
 you to go blow up a warehouse you can do it right away or go hit the dance club and chat up some 
 people, run some side jobs etc. This is an aspect of Bloodlines that I enjoy greatly.
  
  One flaw I did find in doing missions is when you complete for example the haunted house mission 
 you cannot go back and collect any items you have missed. I found this pretty annoying as it made 
 little sense to keep players from going back if they wanted or needed to do so.
  
  The game is single player and character focused so the replayablity has some appeal because there 
 are conversation options and actions available based on your style of vampire. For example if you 
 are an attractive charmer type vampire you can persuade or seduce characters in the game where 
 a brawler type gets only the most basic conversations. Plus there are the A or B direction decisions 
 you can make as well. 
  
  As example of A - B choices, you have to decide which character at a dance club lives or dies. 
 I dont want to spoil it but it was a nice and cool surprise twist. So do you go with the prim 
 and proper lady or the one that lives on the wild side?
  
  What is needed? If the developers add in more polish and patches it will bump up the review score.
 
  
  Summary:
  So my review of Bloodlines: if you can look past the headache areas and focus on the conversations, 
 character development options, and roleplaying elements the game can be a lot of great Vampire 
 fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: placksheep
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 20, 2004 10:10 am PT
Review:  Troika has become known for developing RPGs, but so far their only two releases have met with mixed 
 reactions. 'Temple of Elemental Evil' and 'Arcanum: of Steamworks and Magick Obscura' were previous 
 Troika games, and while they were lauded by many as excellent games, there were likely an equal 
 number of gamers that couldn't get past interface and gameplay anomalies, and enjoy the games for 
 what they were: richly fleshed out game worlds with a wonderful narrative. Vampire the Masquerade- 
 Bloodlines is easily the most well-done Troika game yet, and the trademark story is still there.
 
  
  From the very first cutscene after character creation I began to experience minor glitches. The 
 animation is not well done at all for the characters, and the audio often doesn't line up with 
 what is happening on the screen at all. Characters appear to drift about, instead of walking or 
 jumping. The lip-synching of the characters is usually well done, but that was more Valve's doing 
 than Troika. The Source engine is truly an amazing piece of technology, but the implementation 
 of it for Bloodlines seems not quite there. Little things here and there take you out of the game 
 experience. More than once, enemies I was fighting suddenly teleported halfway into the ceiling, 
 becoming all but fish in the proverbial barrel.
  
  Bloodlines is certainly not a game that was made just to turn a quick buck. Much time and effort 
 went into its creation, and it often shows. The characters and storyline are unique and memorable. 
 The atmosphere is excellent, (at times even scary) and it'll have you forgetting about those bugs 
 in no time. Every character in the game is voice-acted, even though at times it's only a grunt 
 of acknowledgment upon introduction. 
  
  The combat system seems like a noble experiment, but ultimately falls flat. Action-RPG style combat 
 doesn't lend itself well to the mouse and keyboard. A mouse button isn't designed for rapid clicking, 
 and that is what you will need to do during combat. Firearms are WAY too wimpy to be of any real 
 use, so you'll need invest a skillpoint or two into melee. There are options for avoiding combat, 
 but it not un-avoidable per se. You cannot talk your way out of every situation.
  
  I cannot justify giving this game a 10 in visuals, even though it is powered by the source engine. 
 The potential is there, but some of the artwork is a copout. I know there must be technical limitations 
 to the number of polygons on characters, but some appear VERY blocky and unrealistic looking. To 
 be fair, most of these characters are random people walking around (mostly around the dance clubs) , 
 but the player's character also seems to lack detail. Again I'm sure it's a logistical problem, 
 but it is still disappointing. 
  
  That being said, there are large, lavishly fleshed-out city areas to explore with weather effects 
 and all the cool doodads one would come to expect from an FPS. The artistic vision for the game 
 was well-realized, and is a significant accomplishment. Towering skyscrapers are everywhere in 
 the Downtown area, and at first it can be daunting to find your way around. You will be impressed 
 by the visuals in this game. Period.
  
  If you are a fan of RPGs, I strongly recommend this game. If you haven't played a PCRPG before, 
 you might be in for a rather steep learning curve. Unlike most RPGs, there is absolutely no interface. 
 You access everything by keyboard shortcut, and there are things that aren't really explained that 
 you'll just have to figure out. If you have the patience though, this is easily the coolest RPG 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisart
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2004 6:51 pm PT
Review:  If you are planning to buy Vampire the Masqurade Bloodlines without being a fan of the series you 
 might be let down by the majority of performance and system bugs in this game. Hardcore fans of 
 the previous game will have no problem overlooking these issues.
  
  As some knows the game uses the all famous Source engine made by Valve and is the second game after 
 Half Life 2 to utilize this engine. Vampire Bloodlines uses the Source well and the graphics in 
 the game are perfect if you can overlook some FPS performance issues in the outdoor stages of the 
 game. Though graphics does do its piece the animations in each character is rather limited and 
 sometimes rather annoying. Cut sequences are poorly animated and it seems the game tries to ride 
 out on the Source facial sync feature something that just doesnt cut it if you want to make a great 
 game.
  
  The game also features nice voice acting but does have some sound glitches, most of the music in 
 the game is great and there is a scene in the early part in the games that truly makes your jump 
 when it comes to being scary. Overall in sounds its good but not great.
  
  The best thing about this game has to be its system, how the developers makes you able to choose 
 from a wide selection of Vampiric clans. Choosing a clan basicly tells you wich 3 main vampire 
 powers you will start out with. Though there are a few nice selections many of the clans base themselves 
 on the same selection of main powers. Each clan has its own player model and skin, male and female. 
 This was also a dissapointment since you did not get an in depth option to customize your character 
 in anyway to make him/her unique. The experience distrobution in the game is quest based. You dont 
 recieve experience by the kill but by the accomplishment of your quests. This rules out the ability 
 to go hack and slash and farm in experience points from a slaughterfest. All the features of skills 
 in the game works pretty well ruling out the sneak feature wich I personally find horrible. I also 
 found the gameworld (hubs) to be rather limited and small wich no RPG should have. The story is 
 interesting and it gives your a wide range of options of changing how things end up. If you mess 
 up characters will look down on you for your brute or ignorant performances. If you do good they 
 praise you for your good work. Vampire Bloodlines gives in many ways a complete strong RPG package.
 
  
  Though this review might contain most of the bad drawn out in the game doesnt mean there are hundred 
 of opinions on the series. If youre a fan of Vampire you will like this game overlooking their 
 flaws (like me) but if your a first time player and dont know anything about it the bugs, animation, 
 performance and sound issues might be a little to much to make this game enjoyable.
  
  For the fans: Buy the game, it delivers to expectations of a good Vampire game
  For the starters: 
 If you can live with issues that requiers heavy patching then you should get the game, if not you 
 should leave it for a while til it gets patched up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numenorian
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 19, 2004 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I don't think that a computer game has ever given me the shivers before. This one managed it within 
 a few hours. The great graphics (courtesy of the Source engine) , moody lighting, and dark story 
 set the stage perfectly for the world of vampires. The faces look AMAZING, the storys and quests 
 are dark; dialogues are well scripted and very racey and/or vulger at times- this game certainly 
 works for it's 'M' rating, which is a plus in my book- the 'World of Darkness' is a gritty place 
 where the worst side of humanity (an the undead) is on constant display. If Troika had pulled a 
 lot of punches on this front, the game would have lost a lot of it's immersive and intruiging qualities. 
 
  
  In one early mission you are asked to look into a haunting at a burned-out and abandoned hotel. 
 I have to say that that mission is by far the creepiest thing I have ever experienced in computer 
 gaming; it's worth the price of the game in my books just to play that mission. By the end of it, 
 I was actually frantic just to find a way out of the place because it was starting to really freak 
 me out, and I don't freak easily. Note to players- make sure to read the old newspapers you find 
 lying around the hotel- they won't actually help you much in completing the quest, but add immesurably 
 to the experience of being trapped in a haunted house.
  
  That being said, the controls aren't as smooth as you'd expect for a game based on the HL engine- 
 I'm a CS player of many years experience and the control interface was a bit of a dissapointment 
 to me. Ranged combat is weak and a little pointless; melee is about as overpowered as it was in 
 KoTOR. The combat animations are far more varied and enjoyable to watch than KoTOR's though, and 
 the ability to move around the environment like you were in an FPS is a welcome change from the 
 standard 'can't jump, can't really travel in 3 dimensions' feeling of most CRPGs- I really hope 
 that more CRPGs adopt this kind of playstyle, it in a lot of ways it blends the best of say, JK 
 II and KoTOR- JKII's shooter-type perspective and ability to move around the envoriroment, and 
 KoTOR's lavishly crafted environment's and compelling story.
  
  I've occasionally experienced very annoying CTD bugs, and once it even crashed my whole system- 
 hopefully this will be addressed in an upcoming patch. As long as Troika puts out a few major patches 
 for this game, I expect it to be one of the best CRPGs ever made. If major patches aren't forthcoming, 
 then this game will remain only very good, not great. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TzPsyco
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2004 3:50 pm PT
Review:  What can i say to describe VTMB well first off its in my personal opinion the second best PC RPG 
 i have ever played as far as overall storyline and charecter development goes.
  Secondly id have to say that the FPS is highly mis understood.
  People expecting to come into 
 this game and shoot up everything in sight with total ease like Gordon Freeman will be dissapointed 
 VTMB takes a different approach it makes you level up your skill with a gun being it will effect 
 your aim and other options.
  Although i feel this is needed to ballance out the game i also will admit it takes away from the 
 FPS experiance overall .
  But now to the good stuff.
  As far as an RPG goes you really cant get anything out there thats as immersive and enjoyable as 
 this game.
  The charecter dialogue options are amazing and the one of 7 clans you get to chose from when playing 
 highly effects the way other charecters act towards you.
  As far as the RPG goes it feels alot like Deus Ex 2 mixed with the dialogue options of KOTOR.
 
  The graphics in this game are amazing to say the least i feel the facial animation will redefine 
 the way PC RPGs are made.
  The screen shots dont even do it justice to see the truley amazing facial expressions i would suggest 
 DLing one of the dialogue videos off of Gamespot.
  This is a jam packed 3 disc game with TONS of sidequests and multiple ways to complete them.
 
  If your a fan of RPGs in general and even FPS's and would like a refreshing change from the usual 
 alien killing cookie cutter mold that HL2 uses i would suggest buying bloodlines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Dogg
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 19, 2004 11:02 am PT
Review:  I have been playing White Wolf's World of Darkness games for almost ten years and still play them 
 now. The first attempt at a White Wolf video game was terrible. However, Bloodlines has all the 
 makings of a great game. It's made by Troika, it uses the HL2 engine, and the folks at White Wolf 
 put more into Bloodlines. This all sounds like it's going to be great. But, I just can't give this 
 game the review I would have liked to.
  
  First off, it runs like a nightmare. Keep in mind I have well over the recommended specs for it. 
 I'm not going into specifics, because I find it lame to brag about ones PC specs. Anyway, it runs 
 extremely jumpy and buggy. At some points, it appears the game is about to crash, the sound effects 
 and music begin skipping, but then it corrects itself. Almost like an old car about to die, but 
 finds the "will" to keep going. It's boarder-line almost unplayable at times. Aside from that, 
 the graphics and sound are very good. The lighting and background noise create a very believable 
 Vampire setting. The facial expressions and great voice acting of the NPCs add so much to the overall 
 role playing experience.
  
  Troika makes some rather rookie mistakes in the game play area. One of the mistakes that gets on 
 my nerves is the fact that a vampire with high Strength and Potence to boot can't break down locked 
 doors or chain link fence gates. You can't even move large objects, only small boxes and chairs. 
 In table-top (commonly called pen and paper by noobs to the role playing genre) this would not 
 be an issue. It shouldn't be in a video game at this point in time, either. In the age of NES role 
 playing games, yes, but not now. Think of some other way to make me find a key. Another thing that 
 is hard to get past are the amount of doors that don't open. Why can't I buy a flashlight from 
 someone? I guess flashlights aren't gothic enough. Haven't we moved past that type of thing yet? 
 I think in the long run, hardcore RPG fans can get over these problems and focus more on the story. 
 I know I did.
  
  The story in Bloodlines is pure White Wolf. It is possibly one of the best RPG stories I have seen 
 lately. I don't want to give away the details, but they have put together a dark tale of suspense 
 and vampire politics that will keep you immersed the whole time. The story is absolutely the best 
 part of the game and the reason you should be playing it.
  
  I have heard mixed reactions about the combat. I'm not sure what the problem is, but the combat 
 system is great. It mixes first person shooter and adventure style melee fighting. When using firearms, 
 you fight from first person. When using melee or brawl, it's in third person. I think it's an awesome 
 system. I'm not sure what the Gamespot reviewer was looking for, but I think Troika did a fine 
 job. I am also impressed with the great way they adapted the disciplines from the books to the 
 game. The way they are set up balances the clans nicely.
  
  The bottom line is the game could have been made to run better, but the story is still there. It 
 needs a patch badly and I am looking forward to an expansion, there is room and demand for one. 
 Anyone who has played World of Darkness table-top or LARP really should check this game out. Other 
 RPG fans will get into, as well after playing it for a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2004 8:32 am PT
Review:  Vampire: The masquerade - Bloodlines is a great game, it has some flaws, but there easy to look 
 past, or ignore. Some bugs I seen were flickering textures, flickering sky, choppy animations, 
 opening a door and running into it before fully opened makes it open and close. Lots of reviews 
 have been saying the combat is rather cheap... I'd say its fair, melee is great, well guns aren't 
 to fun, but melee is GREAT! So are the disciplines. If you played both of the Deus Ex games on 
 the PC and loved them, then you will find the common genre and may love this game just as much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2004 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure how many other people bough the original Vampire game for PC, Redemption, but for 
 those of you who played it, you know how horrible it was. It had a great concept, stemming from 
 the same pen and paper RPG that Bloodlines comes from, and as such, should have been a total success. 
 Unfortunately, it was poorly executed and turned into nothing more then a cheap every day 3rd person 
 computer adventure RPG, with little originality and few innovations, plus, it had bugs out the 
 wazoo.
  
  In Troika's attempt at the franchise, however, we finally get 'redemtion' from the terrible game 
 the Vampire franchise originally allowed us to waste our money on. Using the Half-Life 2 Source 
 engine, it is a gorgeous game - playable in 3rd or 1st person. As Troika is known for their RPGs, 
 its no suprise that this is one of the most immersive games i have ever played - i find myself 
 actually feeling emotions through the game, something i only ever felt while playing Deus Ex.
 
  
  It is obvious, however, that this is Troika's first first person perspective game, as there are 
 numerous doors you just cant use, and several places where you can get stuck because of silly little 
 glitches. That's another one of the few flaws i found in the game, the abundance of glitches - 
 and Troika is also known for them too, unfortunately. Im sure most of them will be cleaned up in 
 future patches, but there are some audio glitches where an environment sound might just stop playing 
 for a few seconds, or while someone is talking it skips for a fraction of a second. The bugs that 
 i found in the game were all ones i could easily shrug off, even the fact that occasionally the 
 engine slowed down more then it really should have considering my cutting-edge hardware. As i said 
 before, im sure this won't be much of a problem in the near future, Troika also has a reputation 
 to patch their games well.
  
  The gameplay, and all the elements that come together to create it, is top notch, and in my opinion 
 worthy of Game Of The Year consideration.
  
  First off, there are hundreds of NPCs who all have excellent voice actors backing them up. The 
 only problem with such great voice acting, is sometimes the character cant animate enough to show 
 the emotions that are clearly being displayed through his or her voice. But since this is the Source 
 engine at work here, you do get to see lots of awesome facial expressions.
  
  The game also really gets you into being a vampire. I actually feel as though i am one while i 
 play it. You have a small apartment where you live, and regardless of what tasks your trying to 
 accomplish, you'll have to go hunt the night and feed. The game world also looks stupendous. You 
 can really feel as though your walking down a back alley of downtown LA. If your observant, you 
 might even get to watch some punk praying his tag on a wall, an old bum ranbling about her tin 
 cans, some guy taking a leak, or perhaps a woman trying to get some privacy while she talks on 
 her cell phone. Plus, when your inside various buildings, like your apartment, you can listen to 
 the radio or watch tv, both of which have an extensive program to watch that changes fairly often.
 
  
  The combat system is admittedly a bit clunky - at first. Once you get used to it, or have invested 
 proper skill points into your combat areas, it becomes much easier. If you dont put any skill into 
 using guns, how could you expect to get a headshot with an old revolver at 30 yards from your target? 
 And without proper knowledge of how to effectively use a knife, i dont think you can adequetely 
 disembowl someone, either. When you think about it, it adds to the realism that pulls you into 
 the game. Untill you add some experience to your skills, they're all useless, just like in the 
 real world. But once you do level those skills up, watch out.
  
  In adding to the combat system, there is also a variety of both guns and melee weapons, including 
 baseball bats, knives, swords, .38 specials, glocks, Mac-10s, and of course the ever powerful shotgun 
 - which has a tendancy to blow vampire brains all over the place. The other part of combat, your 
 armor, seems to be a little lacking. Though i havnt completed the game, i am fairly far into it, 
 and have yet to see more than 4 types of clothes, and none of them, might i add, is a trenchoat. 
 (which seems like a requirement for a vampire game, does it?)
  
  Speaking of the skill system, it makes a lot of sense. Its probably one of the best systems i've 
 seen, as you cant directly level up your skills (Called "Feats" in the game) . Instead, you level 
 up attributes and other stats that then modify your skills. For example, adding to your dexteriety 
 improves your stealth moving skill.
  
  VTMB lets you play as any group of vampires you ever heard about, taking them of course directly 
 from the pen and paper game. You can be a manipulative Toreador, or the ugly and feared Nosferatu. 
 If you choose the latter, you'll want to stick to the sewers, as your appearance tends to make 
 people run for the hills.
  
  On top of all that, the veteren RPS developers at Troika have also put a lot of effort into making 
 you feel like your decisions actually effect things in the world. That they do, and you have plenty 
 of them to make. (Think Deus Ex, on an even broader scale) You can pretty much kill anyone you 
 want to, but there will be repurcussions. Random things you do to NPCs, like helping them out when 
 they're in a bad place, will effect later gameplay as that NPC will remember how you helped them 
 out. Or, if your the malicious type, they'll remember how you made fun of them and kicked them 
 while they were down. I was really suprised of the level of this type of choice driven immersion, 
 as i was actually able to obtain my own ghoul (a human that i feed my blood to to make more powerful 
 and essentially my slave) who then stayed at my apartment, let me suck her blood whenever, and 
 who randomly did things for me - like getting me a pretty ring, and once she even brough me dinner 
 (yeah, there was a guy in my bathroom free for the sucking) .
  
  And yet again, on top of that, there is even more immersion fueled by the inclusion of lots of 
 humor taken both from real world current goings-on, and the inclusion of a horde of real world 
 licensed bands performing at the clubs and video games that you'll see in the arcade, curtesy of 
 activision. (like the Call Of Duty pinball machine) I'd also like to point out that while many 
 people claim that Half-Life 2 takes more advantage of the source engine, i would argue that Vampire 
 just uses it in a different way. Go the the Vesuvious stripclub in hollywood to see what i mean. 
 Hot jesus, those strippers are modelled perfectly, and the physics that are applied to them are 
 just as good! 
  
  If you can overlook the bugs that are present in VTMB, and have a system capable of running it 
 with virtually no slow downs, this is going to be your best gaming experience for a while, especially 
 if your into RPGs. Sure, Half-Life 2 might be the best FPS of the year, but Vampire: The Masquerade 
 - Bloodlines is the best RPG of the decade. If it doesnt win any awards this year, id be really 
 suprised.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremycfoster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2004 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Vampire: Bloodlines is without a doubt one of the best RPGs of the past several years. With a strong 
 character generation system that has significant impact on game-play, it goes beyond being a first-person 
 shooter with a storyline. Your selection of clan defines the disciplines from which you can choose. 
 These disciplines, coupled with attributes and skills, dictate not only what combat and dialogue 
 options you have available, but also how effective you are at each. 
  
  As an example, a vampire that specializes in ranged weapons might choose to become a member of 
 the Toreador clan, which has access to celerity (a speed buff) , auspice (a wits & perception buff 
 that improves ranged combat prowess and lets you detect auras) , and presence (a short-duration, 
 point-blank area of effect debuff that has a chance of instilling a mesmerizing fear into those 
 around you) . These disciplines work together with your weapon choices to directly affect combat. 
 In the background, your attributes and skills impact the effectiveness with which you use your 
 weapons in both obvious and subtle ways. Ranged combat doesn't just affect the damage you do - 
 it affects the amount of time it takes for your cross-hairs to become centered on a foe.
  
  Troika has coupled all of this with a very detailed backdrop environment and characters that come 
 alive. The Half-life 2 engine allows a significant amount of interaction with that environment, 
 which leads to a game that feels like a blend of RPG, action, and sneaker. The open-ended feel 
 of the game is also truly amazing. As an example, if you're attempting to get past a certain guarded 
 location, you have a variety of choices: talk your way in; break your way in with a weapon of your 
 choice; dominate or mesmerize the guard; snipe at him from long range; turn invisible; or simply 
 pick up a plate, throw it down the alley, and slip in while the guard is distracted. 
  
  The attention to detail is amazing - when you first appear at your safehouse, a well-scripted, 
 well-acted radio show is playing in the background. You can turn on the TV for the news, but you'll 
 find it difficult to hear unless you turn off the radio that's still blaring in the background. 
 
  
  Voice acting is excellent, graphics are phenomenal and the ambience is impressive. I can see myself 
 playing through this several times to try a number of different character builds. Value would have 
 been significantly enhanced with the ability to take your vamp on multi-player, instanced missions 
 or team-based combat with your friends, but we can always hope for mods. In the meantime, the original 
 story is incredibly well done. Most RPGs that have attempted to implement action features either 
 end up being RPGs with a "swing the mouse to the left and right as fast as you can" interface or 
 being action games that casually wave at the depth of an RPG. Vampire manages to implement both 
 quite nicely. 
  
  If you're an RPG fan who either enjoys, or at least doesn't mind, a bit of action to go along with 
 the story, or if you're an action fan that wants a bit more depth than your average frag-fest, 
 pick up Vampire: Bloodlines. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corpand
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2004 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the best RPG to have come out this whole year! I wont explain the features that 
 the game has and just go to the good (and bad) parts.
  
  First, its worth to mention how the world gets affected because of the choises you make during 
 your gameplay. The choises you are given are so vast and unique that they are sometimes even better 
 than KOTOR's selections. 
  
  Also, the use of the source engine makes all the characters come alive and feel like you are actually 
 talking to them. All the facial expressions are amazing and are defenately not dissapointing.
 
  
  Basically everything is amazing about the game exept a few things like glitches and bugs in some 
 places (mostly characters walking through walls and characters moving very awkwardly) and there 
 are some sound glitches too.
  
  Also, the combat feature of the game feels like its some sort of useless option. It just doesnt 
 feel exactly right. You will understand what I mean when you buy the game and yes, you should REALLY 
 buy this game. Tons of replay value and a great RPG feel will keep you busy for months!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
