-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/vampirethemasquerader/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  9, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,283 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Nihilistic
Genre: Computer Role-Playing
Date:     Jun 7, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's got a great premise and an ambitious design, but the game is mired by its repetitive and often 
 frustrating combat, ill-fated design decisions, and forgettable characters and story. 

 Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption is a great-looking action-packed role-playing game based on 
 the White Wolf pen-and-paper RPG. It's got a great premise and an ambitious design, but the game 
 is mired by its repetitive and often frustrating combat, ill-fated design decisions, and forgettable 
 characters and story.   

  The graphics in Vampire are unmatched by those in any other computer role-playing game. You play 
 the game from a third-person perspective, which is zoomed in fairly close and raised slightly above 
 your main character. Up to three other characters will join you and follow as you travel around 
 on foot across medieval Europe and beyond, and you can choose to directly control a different member 
 of your party at any time. Vampire's fully 3D environments look remarkably realistic because of 
 their stunning detail and moody, subtle lighting effects, which remain consistently impressive 
 through all the game's many varied and interesting settings. As crusader-turned-vampire Christof, 
 you'll travel through Prague and Venice and into fearsome catacombs or thereabouts. Later in the 
 game, you'll find yourself in modern-day London and New York. All these cities, as well as all 
 the outlying corridors and hallways you'll explore, are uniquely rendered to an extraordinary level 
 of quality. Although you'll sometimes travel through such typical settings as abandoned mines and 
 sewers over the course of Vampire, even these overused set pieces look good in the game. Some of 
 the best of Vampire's environs include a hollowed-out, magical tree that's home to an ancient vampire 
 clan; the decadent, gilded mansion of a vicious vampire lord; and the rain-soaked, neon-lit streets 
 of London.   

  The characters in Vampire look equally good. They're stylized to move with an exaggerated gait, 
 and can brandish a wide variety of great-looking deadly weapons, which they'll use in the game's 
 frequent combat sequences. Switching weapons and armor will affect your character's appearance, 
 and even his 3D animated portrait at the bottom of the screen. Yet although Vampire's characters 
 are lavishly detailed compared with those in virtually any other computer game to date, you'll 
 still find that they could have looked a little better. Specifically, some of the texture mapping 
 on the characters looks too flat, particularly Christof's own flowing cape - otherwise, the vampires' 
 animated faces are offset by their perfectly still posture during the game's dialogue sequences. 
 The in-game cinematics lack any sort of dramatic tension, as your characters will merely stand 
 still and deliver their lines - and often poorly, on account of the game's almost uniformly bad 
 voice acting. If any action occurs during the cinematics, it's marred by stilted animation and 
 bad camerawork. As such, it's surprisingly disappointing how weak a lot of Vampire's presentation 
 is, in light of the overall quality of the game's appearance.   

  The weak cinematics and voice acting might begin to explain why the game has comparatively little 
 dialogue overall, and why it has almost no character interaction whatsoever. You'll occasionally 
 be faced with choosing from two different options during the dialogue, but in hindsight - or in 
 replaying to test the other alternative - you'll realize that most of these decisions are trivial. 
 Though the game's script uses a lot of fancy language and generally reads well, you'll likely find 
 yourself growing weary of the game's typically static, drawn-out monologues. Thus, you'll find 
 that you'll meet very few interesting characters through the course of the game. Even Christof 
 himself fails to develop into a strong protagonist, despite the fact that he's got a perfectly 
 good dilemma to work with as he struggles with his vampiric existence in the wake of his devout 
 religious upbringing. But by much later in the game, Christof merely comes across as having grown 
 used to being a vampire rather than discovering anything about himself, which is disappointing. 
 Therefore, just as Vampire's dialogue sequences are largely clumsy and forgettable, its plot is 
 basically boring. And that's a shame - especially considering the scope of the game's source material, 
 which along with the fact that the game is entirely linear, should have allowed for a more interesting 
 story.   

  But because there isn't much of a story in Vampire anyway, what ought to have saved the game was 
 its near-constant action sequences - but unfortunately, they're every bit as weak as the plot. 
 Vampire's real-time combat is simplistic and often chaotic. The game's point-and-click interface 
 requires you to merely keep clicking on your target until it dies. If you have one to three other 
 members in your party, they'll join the fray and attack with you. Unfortunately, since the game's 
 characters take up so much space onscreen, your companions will have a bad habit of stepping right 
 in front of your mouse cursor, causing you to halt your attack against your intended target. Similarly, 
 you'll have to navigate through fairly narrow corridors a great percentage of the game, and in 
 such cases your party members will have a lot of trouble getting past you to face your enemies. 
 In later portions of Vampire when your group is armed with guns and such, you'll witness your companions 
 wasting plenty of ammunition while foolishly trying to shoot their enemies through walls - and 
 the guns themselves are awkward, underpowered, and slow. The game's transition from the Dark Ages 
 into contemporary times is certainly its best moment, but you'll find that a lot of the modern-day 
 gadgets and weapons aren't as well designed as they could've been.    

 But perhaps the biggest problem with the combat in Vampire is the game's collision detection - it 
 can be very difficult to tell whether you're hitting your target, because your weapons will pass 
 through the enemies' bodies in just the same way, regardless. The action happens quickly, and keeping 
 track of four different characters ends up being nearly impossible, especially when the three characters 
 you're not directly controlling keep making mistakes.   

  That's not to say combat is especially difficult in Vampire. Nine times out of ten, you'll see 
 your enemies standing 50 feet away, and they'll never approach you until you walk within a particular 
 range. So you'll frequently find yourself luring one or two foes at a time and dispatching them 
 easily. It's a time-consuming and repetitive process that's necessary for playing through what's 
 otherwise a rather short game. What's worse is that you'll face only about two types of enemies 
 in each area, so whatever specific tactics you learn, you'll apply repeatedly.   

  It's true that there's some nuance to fighting in Vampire. Each of your characters commands a number 
 of different disciplines - effectively, magic spells - that you can use to bolster your strength 
 or to weaken your enemies. Some of the powers cause you to move at faster speeds and to hit harder, 
 while others let you change shape, summon creatures to your aid, wither and burn your foes, or 
 increase your perception. However, you'll find that many of these powers are redundant and basically 
 useless within the game, as they're all holdovers from the pen-and-paper version of Vampire and 
 thus not all practical for what's essentially an action game. You'll use certain disciplines over 
 and over, while your experiments with many others will usually fail. In Vampire, you'll get to 
 do battle with a host of different vampire clans and other sinister foes, but that's the only appeal 
 of the near-constant combat. Meanwhile, you'll find that the game's seemingly interesting character-building 
 system is actually rather limited, as it's ultimately useful only for letting you upgrade the few 
 disciplines you'll keep using. And you'll also eventually become annoyed with the game's simplistic 
 inventory management, and with the game's various oversights, like how it's perfectly permissible 
 to walk past London police officers while brandishing firearms. Even Vampire's save-game feature 
 is cumbersome, because you're permitted to save only in certain specific areas - but the game also 
 automatically saves between level transitions, so you'll learn to abuse the auto-save function 
 by returning to a scene exit whenever you think you're in for trouble.   

  Vampire's ambitious storyteller mode is the only way to play the game with other players, and it 
 effectively lets one player manipulate the game world on the fly for the other players by granting 
 them rewards, giving them quests and surprise encounters, and so on. It's a great idea that doesn't 
 seem effective within the game itself, as Vampire's single-player mode's own inferior storytelling 
 is suggestive of the shortcomings of the storyteller mode. For one thing, there are few character 
 models and settings for you to choose from, and for another, effectively manipulating the storyteller 
 tools is difficult, especially compared with the basic challenges you'll face throughout the single-player 
 game. Vampire includes a couple of prefabricated multiplayer scenarios, but it would've been much 
 better had the single-player game been playable with up to four people; that way, at least, a lot 
 of the bad pathfinding and micromanagement problems would have been resolved. Some players, especially 
 fans of the White Wolf source material, will doubtless struggle to create scenarios using the available 
 scripting tools and the forthcoming editor, but as it stands, multiplayer Vampire is much more 
 appealing in principle than in practice.   

  It's unfortunate that such a great-looking, ambitious game falls so short of its potential. Vampire 
 seems to have a lot going for itself, and its graphics are second to none. But its gameplay will 
 be disappointingly familiar to virtually anyone who's played an action role-playing hybrid, while 
 the game's numerous problems are just barely offset by the quality of its presentation. Similarly, 
 Vampire's thin plot will likely frustrate those expecting the game to take fuller advantage of 
 the fiction that inspired the game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MichaelMorbid
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  yeah yeah yeah. we know everyone loves this game. they love it for its license, the vampire masquerade 
 theme makes this game. if it weren't for the vampire deal and the story, this game wouldn't receive 
 a perfect rating. not a decade ago and certainly not now.
  
  we can't be too critical of the graphics and sound. that was just the way it was pre-pre-last generation. 
 yeah... there's maybe a dozen or so models total, but we're forgiving.
  
  the point and click thing is just annoying. christof fights his way through legions of the undead 
 for centuries. he and your party get caught on corners, lost in mazes, stuck picking up useless 
 loot and just generally doing the straight forward damsel in distress game objective... only this 
 time it's not a princess.
  
  we played this game for the story, because there was really nothing fun about mowing down undead 
 fiend after undead fiend. absolutely nothing satisfying about having to swing over and over again 
 at someone and missing each time. most of the powers available to your characters are useless. 
 the best strategy is level up the feral claws and strength and just go to town, because the game 
 doesn't reward you for anything else. 
  
  what about the charisma attribute? no... that's not worth anything, although we suspect many of 
 the undead antagonists were taken by christof's charm and grace right before they realized that 
 they needed to attack him.
  
  the loot... is pointless. you'll reach a point where you just won't bother picking it up anymore. 
 "another braclet and cash clip? yeah, do me a favor torpored corpse of my nameless inconsequental 
 fallen adversary, how about you keep that for me? thanks."
  
  the ol' english is a tad annoying too... there's only one character in the game that's really likable.
 
  
  eh... the story is the best part and it's a decent enough story. a little drawn out, but it's alright 
 we guess. at the end christof gets a fork decision with a corresponding cutscene. it's based on 
 some attribute or humanity or something... doesn't even matter.
  
  we keep hearing how great multiplayer was. it's dead now. from what we can gather... it couldn't 
 have been *that* fun. it's essentially a chat room that'll only hold 4 people with 3D avatars that 
 can hit each other. amazing.
  
  might have been good for its time, but it hasn't held up well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ayame1182
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  While the graphics are not top shelf they were really good at the time the game was made (and they 
 really aren't that bad imo) . If you want to buy a particular item at a store SOMETIMES it won't 
 be available from one saved game to the next (if this happens you can save then simply reload and 
 the inventory will change slightly, you can keep doing this until you get what you want) . There 
 are a few spots that you can get stuck in. So in other words there are some bugs but the game is 
 still very enjoyable.
  
  I thought the game should have been longer or have more content, which could be called a bad thing 
 but maybe they made it just right and I just was left wanting more? :) 
  
  You start off as Christof a crusador of old who is turned one fateful night and who then lives 
 out his days as a vampire of clan Brujah who is... still in love with a human who just so happens 
 to be a nun who later dissappears but what happened to her? Without saying too much it had a great 
 story that was well developed. While some of the dialogue/lines can be viewed as comical at times 
 I found it to be so in a refreshing sort of way. 
  
  Of course it is an old game but if that doesn't bother you then you could find much enjoyment from 
 it imo or if you love the idea of vampires AT ALL and/or hold good story telling over great graphics 
 this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  When Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption came out I was working at a local technical support center. 
 Many of my co-workers were into the live action role-playing game and quite frankly they were an 
 odd group of social misfits. I was hesitant to pick-up the game because I felt it would contain 
 too much drama and not enough of the CRPG goodness that veterans like me crave. What I picked up 
 was nothing more then a poorly done Diablo clone with enough gameplay problems to make even Ultima 
 IX play better.
  
  This game was in production for a long time and there was no excuse for the problems that plague 
 it. The combat and character inventory tries to play out as a Diablo clone, but instead feels more 
 like a failed attempt at the sort. Combat is often times clunky, and after killing monsters you 
 sometimes have to wait for their corpses to vanish before reaching the loot. At first this doesn't 
 seem that bad, but wait until you have to do this every... single... battle. Camera controls are 
 horrible and often times you will find objects getting in the way of the action as you pan. The 
 developers failed to insert an option for you to map most of the keyboard commands, which is a 
 major no-no for a modern game. The AI is nothing to write home about as most times your party members 
 will do nothing but get in the way, often resulting in unnecessary deaths and reloads.
  
  The graphics and sound are what you would come to expect from a game released in 2000. Voice acting 
 is done well at times while at other times it becomes quite annoying. Character animation is average, 
 but what gets me is when you are walking in town and have your sword drawn, ready to swing. It 
 would have been nice if the developers placed some passive animations for the main character making 
 him look less likely to slay the local blacksmith. This kills any sort of immersion at all and 
 dare I say it makes the game feel like an Asian MMO. The town and city streets are vague and often 
 times I found their static objects to be overused. The game does however have some creepy dungeons 
 and often times these will keep you interested if only to explore their contents. 
  
  Vampire also provides multiplayer support and a type of gameplay known as "story mode". This allows 
 players to meet up, letting one take the reigns of a dungeon master to control all actions in the 
 world. You will want to make sure you are on good terms with the DM or they can make your experience 
 a living hell. The game provides next to nothing in the form of multiplayer maps, often times reusing 
 the same maps that were present in the single player campaign. This did however spring forth other 
 games who did it better such as Neverwinter Nights.
  
  Redemption is a hit and miss when it comes to the overall picture of the game. The story is mediocre 
 at best, providing a campaign that can last you 25+ hours of play. Being that the Vampire live 
 action game is strongly rooted in politics, it would of been nice to see some type of system implemented 
 that takes advantage of the concept. Instead you will find that most of the game is nothing more 
 then poorly done hack n' slash with little replay value. Only if you can find this game for dirt 
 cheap would I suggest buying it,. Just don't expect to get the same experience of watching freaky 
 goth kids playing the live action game down at the local community center.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nic4games
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I'm interested knowing how a vampire live from medieval era up to this time from his/her story. 
 Worry not because this game will surely give you the power and relive the life of a vampire. as 
 as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as 
 as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as 
 as as as as as as as as as as as a a as as as as as as as as as as as as as as 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenEmu
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 30, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up back when it came out, mainly because I was into the table top game and I 
 wanted to see how they would transfer the powers and storytelling world of darkness into a video 
 game. Well, I can say I was mixed. After playing it all the way through, I can honestly say I feel 
 like it was an enjoyable waste of time, with huge flaws.
  
  Graphically, it's a joy. It looked amazing (even when I had to play it on low-res, due to my low-powered 
 PC at the time) . Movements were solid, action acted exactly as you would expect in a game, and 
 mastering your newly acquired vampire skills was a challenge. New problems like drinking blood 
 and not getting lynched also was probably unintentionally funny. Sound quality was good, and the 
 voice work was solid. The music was well-executed, filling out the mood where the graphics and 
 gameplay could not. The story also held great promise, and it allowed me to overlook the fact that 
 no matter what I did - save cheating outright - the game was stacked impossibly against me (this 
 is before I found out they released a patch which apparently leveled the playing field a bit) .
 
  
  Where everything fell off the tracks was in your coterie (team) . Never before have I seen AI this 
 bad. When they weren't busy attacking enemies by themselves that they didn't have a hope in winning 
 against, they would get stuck in corners, and attack bad guys THROUGH the rest of the team (and 
 God help you if you even think of giving one of these idiots a flamethrower or grenade launcher) . 
 And the bosses of each level got so incredibly powerful that by the time I reached the final boss, 
 there was no way in hell I could beat him, no matter what weapons or powers I or the stupid AI 
 used. This just became exausting and I admit I cheated to see if it was possible at all. The answer 
 was no: he STILL was too powerful to overcome. Let me tell you, when you have maxed every power 
 and gotten every weapon and made yourself godlike, and you still can't beat the boss, then something 
 is very, very wrong with the design.
  
  I never even bothered trying to play this online - what was the point in that?
  
  So what held 
 great promise ended up being terrible. Oh well, at least it was pretty to look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 6, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Review
  Vampire the masquerade, redemption
  Released 2000, patch 1.1
  
  System:
  Statistics AMD 2600, 1 GB 233, GeForce FE 5200 256 MB, Mouse &amp; Keyboard Played: Early 2007
 
  Review: May 2007 Summary
  Redemption has a promising storyline, still good graphics and some very fitting music, but it is 
 marred by weak game features like a lame ai and many bugs and an undeveloped storyline. The story 
 line of redemption certainly makes a great start. Our hero, the French crusader Christoff Romuald 
 faces an epic dilemma. As a true Christian knight he is on a mission of God to fight evil in the 
 Holy Land. But his desire is forestalled by being wounded in battle near Prague. While recovering 
 he falls in (a forbidden) love with Anezka, a nun, and crossing the parth of a powerful vampire 
 he finally becomes evil itself: 'a childe of caine', a vampire.
  Christoffs hopes lie with the rumour that there is a way that vampirism can be undone: to find 
 redemption. Tied in with this is his search for Anezka because she, in love with Christoff, sets 
 out on a journey to find for him that redemption. Unfortunately the story dissolves into a dull 
 action story. The redemption part is dropped early in the game and the search for Anezka ends up 
 in  story. The evil vampire having added Anezka 
 to his flock of sheep.
  What storyline still exist is tainted by odd turn's. For example after having massacred the vampires 
 of one clan, the surviving clan leader thanks you by giving one of the survivors as a follower, 
 because you found a traitor among the dead!
  
  But the true source of weak game features is the mixing different features: a real time action 
 part, a role play part and a party based game. And by wanting everything not one thing is properly 
 done. A real time action game is a challenge on it's own, but when you want one for a party it 
 becomes very challenging. The reason is obvious: a player needs to manage up to four party-members 
 in combat and the enemy is not going to wait around while you issue your commands. There are two 
 ways to solve this, either split the action up into manageable chunks or implement an AI that takes 
 care of the actions of your allies. Redemption tries to go for the second option and fails in this: 
 your companions require constant attention otherwise they might get stuck, killed or getting you 
 killed by doing something foolish. The role-play bit is also not develop. There are three sets 
 of three statistics: physical, mental and social. But with the exception of manipulation, used 
 to influence the price of goods you buy or sell, none of them make a noticeable impact. What these 
 abilities seem to do is to enable the use of weapons and powers: so for example the great axe requires 
 a strength of 50 to be used. But boasting strength doesnt seem to add more damage nor add to the 
 change of hitting and even the most powerful weapons only require a strength of 65 to work. And 
 strength is the only ability that you need for close combat, so you can have it all very quickly.
 
  Questing in Redemption is basic: the game is a series of successive quests: there is one quest 
 you are currently on and there are no optional or side quests, nor will there be two quests active 
 at the same time and there are no alternative routes or endings. These quests follow in general 
 the same path: you enter a dungeon consisting of 3 or 4 levels with just one way to move through 
 and at the end you will find a main villain which needs to be defeated and then it is of to the 
 next quest and the next dungeon.
  Conversations are kept to a minimum. What conversation there is, is scripted and runs at the proper 
 time with no option to influence it. Sometimes you can give two answers, but it doesnt matter 
 which one you choose because there is only conclusion to the conversation regardless of the choice.
 
  It is also a great pity that there is so little to explore. Basically there are four areas, each 
 having a weapon store and a magic shop. And that is all there is to discover.
  
  The combat system itself offers three ways to fight: with close combat, ranged weapons or blood 
 powers, but only close combat works fine from start to finish. But close combat looks kind of silly 
 because the game has no collision detecting, so it looks like if you are swinging weapons in mid 
 air.
  Ranged weaponry is expensive, has a ridiculous short range and is underpowered. And because most 
 of the time you are traversing narrow corridors and small chambers you will be quickly in close 
 combat range, defeating the purpose of having ranged weaponry anyway.
  But the mix of modern times with the middle ages causes its own unique problems. Modern times mean 
 fire fights and they are dependent on cover. But the game lacks the entire concept of cover and 
 fire fights means empting a clip of ammo into someone standing erect in the open, barely two feet 
 away ( and missing in the process) .
  Blood powers are a mixed blessing. At the start it cost a lot of blood points to power a spell 
 and you need a lot of experience to acquire a powerful one but even then it only gets worthwhile 
 after you have gathered enough items that reduce the amount of blood points needed to tolerable 
 levels. But then when you have them blood powers get so powerful that you can kill everything with 
 impunity. As a last observation you notice that most blood powers are useless so you find yourself 
 choosing the same time after time. Another weak point are the many bugs: things that don't work 
 properly. For instance each vampire can use powers. At the start of the game these powers cost 
 quite a lot and therefore you want to use it sparingly. The game offers you the option that your 
 companions don't use powers but they will use them anyway, despite this setting. More examples 
 are the buggy items like the neckguard. The neckguard is supposed to protect you from being bitten 
 by a vampire (yes even vampires can be sucked) . Well it doesn't work. Another thing is frenzy. When 
 a vampires frenzies he will run amok and randomly attack mostly by trying to bite. For some reason 
 your characters frenzy a lot and three out of four times they will attack their allies and what 
 is more, when enemies frenzy they will attack most of the time you or your allies too. The game 
 had its charms, enough to make it last for one go. But there is nothing which makes it attractive 
 enough to try it out a second time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHyde
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  Being an avid fan of the Masquerade (and Requiem) line of the White Wolf series I was hoping for 
 a bit more when I played this game. While the premise is somewhat solid and the source material, 
 while apparently not canon, holds pretty close to the books, I found the game to be severely lacking 
 in spots.
  
  The game centers around Christof and his crusade to rid the land of evil. Inevitably, Christof 
 is embraced, becoming a vampire due to his valor and the belief that he might change things for 
 the better. The game will take Christof over a time period of nearly 1,000 years. If that doesn't 
 sound like the beginning of a great action-adventure game, then I don't know what it is. The problem 
 is it's supposed to be a roleplaying game. Some of the flaws I feel in the gameplay come from the 
 deviation from the rules of the books themselves and the blatant disregard for any real attention 
 to the characteristics of the vampire clans themselves. Christof has the ability to learn so many 
 different vampire disciplines in the game that it's almost unbelievable that he would even have 
 the time considering his sole focus on the quest to save his precious Nun. In fact, once you play 
 the game long enough you'll realize that the game is more like an action-adventure game than an 
 action-RPG. Christof being from Clan Brujah, but being able to learn powers such as Thaumaturgy 
 is a joke to anyone who knows even the least about the Vampire: The Masquerade series. Still, if 
 you don't know anything about the series, you'll likely find Christof's arsenal of powers to be 
 one of the game's strong points.
  
  For people who've actually played the tabletop game, you'll find that the powers are, at least, 
 decently implemented. However, there's really no realism or connection to the tabletop game aside 
 from powers. Christof can never actually fall to the Beast within himself, so aside from a different 
 ending you don't have any incentive to not kill everyone you see. You and your coterie members 
 can be resurrected, so aside from not having the proper scroll, there's no reason to care about 
 their well-being outside of needing them for boss fights.
  
  The game is very hack-and-slash too. Buying guns in the game is pretty pointless considering the 
 sword that Christof carries will practically kill everyone. Aside from some minor puzzles, there's 
 really not any outside of killing the monsters.
  
  There's nothing special about the graphics, at least viewing it from today's standards. The character 
 models do look decent and the environments are pretty large. However, it's unlikely for you to 
 be absolutely wowed by the game.
  
  Sound is good point in the game. It has a dark, driving score and some pretty decent voice acting. 
 It's a little better than the average game, but nothing to give rewards to.
  
  There are multiple endings and improving your character can be fun so the value of the game isn't 
 completely lost. You'll likely spend somewhere around 10 to 12 hours working to beat the game the 
 first time and can return for the additional endings. There's an online mode, but it appears as 
 though little has been done with it ever.
  
  There's not much I can say about this game. You can definitely see the source material even if 
 it is hollow. Fans of the pen and paper game are likely to play this and leave feeling unfulfilled, 
 but people playing this game with no knowledge of the former will more than likely enjoy it. In 
 the end, I was somewhat disappointed, but at least enjoyed the game enough to get through it.
 
  
  The good: Implementation of the powers is good, sound is decent, multiple endings raise value some.
 
  
  The bad: Deviates quite a bit from source material, might be considered short, graphics and gameplay 
 are so-so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xebaris
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Being an old Diablo fan, I was impressed with this game, and very happy I bought it. It had all 
 the right elements I would hope for in a similar game: hack n' slash dungeon crawls, exp earning/spending 
 on stats/disciplines, companions, inventory, vendors, etc, and it all fit together in a satisfying 
 way to me, unlike the praised NWN.
  
  The (3d) graphics are pretty good, and some of the equipment is hilarious. The towns and surrounding 
 environments and dungeons aren't allt that large, but I don't consider it a bad thing that you're 
 not overwhelmed with openness; instead you have a pretty good clue of where you're supposed to 
 be going.
  
  The game got some poor reviews (and yet it seems to have its fans) , and yes, there are some issues, 
 but I think they were pretty minor, and I don't think they had too much of an impact on my gameplay. 
 Here are some examples of what people typically complain about:
  
  The dialogs are too long, boring, and the language exceptionally dry with the archaic thou didst 
 give it me constructions. Solution - press space. Companions are getting you stuck in narrow passages. 
 Solution - Take control of the character which is the most advanced in the particular direction 
 you're going. Companions die in sunlight. Solution - Ungroup characters with 'G'. Guns are too 
 weak in modern world. - Solution - Use another weapon. Some skills are too weak. Solution - Use 
 other skills and/or a weapon. Can only save in certain areas. Solution - patch it.
  
  All in all, a great game if you like the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  I think I was 6 or 7 when I played this game and I just went... WOW!!! I had been playing other 
 games at that time such as Baldur's Gate which blew my mind away. But I thought that there was 
 something special abou this game. The Characters, The Plot And The Setting. They were all fantastic. 
 This is a must have game for all vampire fans, even though the combat system is a little clunky 
 the game still rox!!! Don't listen to all those reviews which say this game is a load of dog poo. 
 This game is an instant classic and even if you do hate it. You must have a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  I never got the impression from any professional review site that this was the greatest game ever, 
 but even so, I'd heard a lot about it.
  
  Dude, crazy vampire game. 
  
  To all you who told me to check it out. I want those precious hours of my life back, and I'm taking 
 it away from you in blood. No, you won't become a vampire.
  
  Seriously, this may have been the most unpleasant control scheme I've ever touched. Almost non-existent 
 keyboard shortcuts. You just can't move the mouse that fast in real time and not die.
  
  Well, you can apparently. If you are patient, and stick with it, and all that. And that would be 
 totally worth it, because, like, I just can't wait to hear more grandiose poop-honey dripping from 
 another mouth. Come on, people don't talk like that. I'm not really sure they ever did. Shakespeare 
 did it better. The story and dialog was so overinflated with BS style it was like tiny rabid gerbils 
 crawling through my ear into my intestines every time there was a cut scene.
  
  Rich game, yadda yadda. Oh yeah, it was great. So many powers I don't even have an interest in 
 using them. Well, maybe I do, but I can't seem to get my mouse to move fast enough. And even if 
 I did, the d$#kwad AI used all his blood power conjuring more bad dialogue. Sorry, your dude is 
 way super pissed because he just realized that long speech is bull%$#it for this game sucks . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  There's a lot things to see: beautiful Prague city, those tiny streets roaming with ghosts and 
 innocent people.. When dark comes, everybody rushes to their homes to protect themselves from evil.
 
  Really good storyline, that takes you from the old times to the new millennum, where you can use 
 firing arms (which are not that good anyway :) ) . You can use magic in the game, that is REALLY 
 helpful. When you need to restore your health, just pick any person in the street, take it to the 
 darkest alley and suck out so much blood out of him, that it would be enough for you and not be 
 fatal for the victim.
  There is so many strange people to meet, that may try to abuse you, sign your death sentence with 
 making appointment with frenzy bosses...
  There is possibility to walk in a goup of people, but it will be more difficult to control everyone 
 - create a srategy, make an attack and use magic. The bloodthirsty vampire-enemies will block your 
 every way just to have a piece of your honourable blood.
  Take heed when walking in dark places - there might be headhunters waiting for you around the corner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  After recently finishing this game I find my sentiments summed up more or less by the GS review. 
 Redemption is a great achievement in creating a beautiful and competent game that oozes with atmosphere 
 and personality. Much of the environments remain esthetically pleasing to this day, and the often 
 haunting soundtrack sets the mood perfectly. The development team cannot take credit for inventing 
 the Vampire universe of course, but have done a great job in transforming a lot of the concepts 
 into the game.
  
  Alas, all is not well in the World of Darkness. In spite of a suitably long campaign that spans 
 a good thousand years the gameplay remains frustratingly so-so. Unlike addictive clickfests such 
 as Diablo, too many of Vampire's locales feel like uninspired dragged out trawls through mazelike 
 factories, sewers and castles. The actual combat itself feels lackluster at best, since your party 
 will spread out in chaos and there is little time to juggle the many special abilities they have. 
 I found myself going back to melee weapons most of the time since they offered the least hassles. 
 Moreover, your characters will get stuck in doorways, behind trashcans, in stairwells, behind pillars 
 and any other potential chokepoint.
  
  Combat is the make or break factor of this game, and if you are easily frustrated when your micromanaging 
 skills fail to produce the desired effect you may want to think twice before going in; it's going 
 to get messy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imyoon28
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  What the hell was I thinking when I bought this game? See kids, this is why you stay away from 
 mommy and daddy's medicine cabinet. I don't remember when and why I bought this game. I guess "Hm... this 
 might be fun, I'll give it a try" rolled around in my head when I picked it up. After all, I had 
 spare change on my Gift Card at Best Buy. So I got it home, put it on the computer... and waited. 
 After an incredibly long load time, I expected a good, long game... no. Sure, it was interesting 
 to play a vampire, suck blood, lose your humanity, gain it, whatever. But what I didn't enjoy was 
 all of the load screens, the limited weapons, your AI buddies in the game who couldn't figure out 
 to stay the **** out of the sunlight! Interface was interesting and quite pleasant. They had some 
 interesting feats and spells you could use, but over all, I was quite disappointed in the is game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowcloud21
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Meet Christof, a crusader who has been damned to the life as a vampire, but when in this game, 
 he is considered blessed. Vampire the Masquerade: Redemption's storyline is well done. The story 
 is filled with love, betrayal, and vengeance. The game works all like a game board. You have control 
 over every character in your party, who each are given their own strengths and weaknesses. For 
 a game of its time, it has great graphics and surprisingly good voice acting. The music is a little 
 off though and sometimes combat can get really frustrating. Since you are a vampire, you are forced 
 to hide from humanity, or at least not reveal what you are to humans, and Christof is taken from 
 his true love in the process of becoming a vampire which is actually has a sad aura to the game. 
 The controls are alright, but not the best, yet everything else about this game make it a much-have 
 for any Anne Rice or just plain vampires fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gettalife185
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption was a great game when it was first released in 2000, though 
 unfortunately it required you to have stupidly powerful machine to be able to run it well. By today's 
 hardware standards though, anyone with a half decent system will be able to run it at maximum settings. 
 Therefore it is an excellent game for anyone to pick up.
  
  You play as Christof, a medieval Crusader who quests to destroy a vampire lord in Prague. Unfortunately 
 this leads him to become embroiled in vampire politics and ultimately transformed into one of the 
 creatures he loathes. The story is epic, with Christof journeying through four cities and hundreds 
 of years in order to destroy his nemesis and rescue the woman that he loves (a Catholic nun he 
 met in Prague) . Along the way Christof meets a variety of interesting characters, some of whom 
 will join up with him in his personal quest for redemption. 
  
  The characters that will fight alongside you all have different powers, and while you will find 
 some a little weak, others are strong either in terms of physical strength or with vampiric special 
 powers. You can alternate between members of your party and so will be able to find someone who's 
 powers are ideally suited to combating a certain enemy, thus meaning that you are unlikely to become 
 stuck for too long at any given point.
  
  In terms of graphics, V: tM - Redemption was mightily impressive in its day, and stands up well 
 to the test of time. It still looks incredibly good. While it wasn't the first game to feature 
 fully immersive 3D environments, it was the first to make them look this good. It's blown out of 
 the water by its sequel V: tM - Bloodlines, but then that is my all time favourite game, so there 
 is no disrespect to Redemption in saying that.
  
  The sound is also good, with satisfactory voice acting complimenting an atmospheric soundtrack. 
 The music is varied and adds tension to levels. The sound effects are realistic, and on the whole 
 the sound cannot be criticised.
  
  As mentioned, the story is engaging, if somewhat linear. There are no side quests to take on, you 
 simply have to progress through from A to B to C and so on. It would be nice if there were side 
 quests, but the story is enjoyable enough in its own right to keep you interested. There are not 
 really any puzzles of note to complete in the game, it is more of a Diablo-esque case of just clicking 
 frantically on enemies until they die. The different strengths and weaknesses of particular enemies 
 means that it is important to utilise the different characters in your party rather than simply 
 playing as Christof, if you are to have success though. 
  
  There are no bugs with the game, unlike the sequel (but even they couldn't stop me giving it 10/10!) , 
 and the game will run on any half decent machine.
  
  So on the whole I would definitely recommend this RPG, especially to fans of vampires/horror. The 
 plot is engaging, the graphics are wonderful, the sound is decent, and it is bug free. There is 
 little that I can do to criticise the game. As mentioned, the sequel is better; being possibly 
 the greatest game that I have ever played, however if you are new to the series then I suggest 
 that you start with Redemption, as it will give you better insight into the world of V: tM. Plus 
 its a damn good game in its own right! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption was a great game when it was first released in 2000, though 
 unfortunately it required you to have stupidly powerful machine to be able to run it well. By today's 
 hardware standards though, anyone with a half decent system will be able to run it at maximum settings. 
 Therefore it is an excellent game for anyone to pick up.
  
  You play as Christof, a medieval Crusader who quests to destroy a vampire lord in Prague. Unfortunately 
 this leads him to become embroiled in vampire politics and ultimately transformed into one of the 
 creatures he loathes. The story is epic, with Christof journeying through four cities and hundreds 
 of years in order to destroy his nemesis and rescue the woman that he loves (a Catholic nun he 
 met in Prague) . Along the way Christof meets a variety of interesting characters, some of whom 
 will join up with him in his personal quest for redemption. 
  
  The characters that will fight alongside you all have different powers, and while you will find 
 some a little weak, others are strong either in terms of physical strength or with vampiric special 
 powers. You can alternate between members of your party and so will be able to find someone who's 
 powers are ideally suited to combating a certain enemy, thus meaning that you are unlikely to become 
 stuck for too long at any given point.
  
  In terms of graphics, V: tM - Redemption was mightily impressive in its day, and stands up well 
 to the test of time. It still looks incredibly good. While it wasn't the first game to feature 
 fully immersive 3D environments, it was the first to make them look this good. It's blown out of 
 the water by its sequel V: tM - Bloodlines, but then that is my all time favourite game, so there 
 is no disrespect to Redemption in saying that.
  
  The sound is also good, with satisfactory voice acting complimenting an atmospheric soundtrack. 
 The music is varied and adds tension to levels. The sound effects are realistic, and on the whole 
 the sound cannot be criticised.
  
  As mentioned, the story is engaging, if somewhat linear. There are no side quests to take on, you 
 simply have to progress through from A to B to C and so on. It would be nice if there were side 
 quests, but the story is enjoyable enough in its own right to keep you interested. There are not 
 really any puzzles of note to complete in the game, it is more of a Diablo-esque case of just clicking 
 frantically on enemies until they die. The different strengths and weaknesses of particular enemies 
 means that it is important to utilise the different characters in your party rather than simply 
 playing as Christof, if you are to have success though. 
  
  There are no bugs with the game, unlike the sequel (but even they couldn't stop me giving it 10/10!) , 
 and the game will run on any half decent machine.
  
  So on the whole I would definitely recommend this RPG, especially to fans of vampires/horror. The 
 plot is engaging, the graphics are wonderful, the sound is decent, and it is bug free. There is 
 little that I can do to criticise the game. As mentioned, the sequel is better; being possibly 
 the greatest game that I have ever played, however if you are new to the series then I suggest 
 that you start with Redemption, as it will give you better insight into the world of V: tM. Plus 
 its a damn good game in its own right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bramaputra
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:24 am PT
Review:  Although the game lacks the smoothness you would expect from a game made on a (I suppose expensive) 
 licence for the White Wolf RPG. It is still worth to play. Unfortunately you can acquire all the 
 disciplines like Auspex, Celerity and Potence which makes it easy to max out your character in 
 the worthwhile ones. You stop feeding and uses blood magic instead, and the only interesting disciplines 
 tends to be potence, celerity and fortitude while hacking away with your best melee weapon. 
  
  The rest of your group are more like amusing sidekicks than anything else, since you get som 
 much xp that you are the an unstoppable killing machine all by your self. The AI is also so bad 
 for them that they tend to get in the way more often than actually help...
  
  But even if there are severe drawbacks with implementation of the original rules and bad AI - the 
 mood makes up for everything. Just imagine being a vampire born in the dark ages who fights his 
 way through time for his one true love. Can it be any better? 
  
  If you care about clipping, AI and mouse control more than story, theme and mood. Don't play the 
 game. Otherwise indulge in the good parts and overlook the bad ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sew015
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  The best game for PC I have ever played. The story is very interesting and the game play is one 
 of a kind. It is full of action, drama, and betrayals. Its great for anyone you likes horror games 
 especially vampires. I have played and beaten the games at least four times in three years. The 
 story takes you through unique enviroments filled with all kind of monster to fight or align your 
 self with. There is a huge inventory of modern and dark weapons like: shot guns, crossbows, holywater, 
 pistols, and wooden stakes. Fighting in the game is simple too just click on your enemy to hit 
 them most enimies turn into piles of dust after they die which is prettry cool too. Also your computer 
 doesn't need to be a top of the line computer the requirements are pretty reasonalble. There are 
 many forums as well to discuss the game so you don't feel alone while playing it plus the forum 
 members give great adive if you get stuck on one of the many levels.
  
  Hope you like it as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsu
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  ....... this is the best game in the world!!!!!! great story, great action, great characters, great 
 game. =) and the monsters are kind of clumsy but the are still seriusly cool and scary in a way 
 of not scary. the batles are in some times kind of gay but if you play it a litle while all the 
 bugs dont bother ass in the start and the story just makes you all most forget the time and some 
 times you can play like 5 hours. but the people an the moster look clumsy an odd still it is a 
 great game!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  Redemption showed great promise, but unfortunately it didn't deliver due to numerous problems with 
 both plot and gameplay. In Vampire: The Masquerade - Redemption you assume the role of Christof 
 Romuled a French Christian Crusader who is wounded in a battle against Barbarians and brought to 
 Prague where he is cared for by a local nun called Anezka. After several quests and a few awkward 
 romance dialogues between Christof and Anezka Christof decides to wander the streets alone at night 
 and that is when he gets "Embraced" by an elder Vampire.
  
  The story is an important aspect of an RPG; at least in my opinion. Sadly, Redemption doesn't offer 
 a story that is gripping and it rarely makes any bit of sense, and often it seems like the writers 
 didn't even know where they were going with it themselves. The one interesting part of the plot 
 is the jump between medieval times and modern day, but this also creates some of its own problems. 
 Throughout the plot which is essentially Christof coping with now being a Vampire and his unhealthy 
 obsession with Anezka; key characters come, and just disappear with no mention of them again. Also 
 there are plot twists that don't seem to click into what happened prior. Redemption's storyline 
 is a mess.
  
  Redemption's gameplay also falls flat; it's basically Diablo in 3D. Throughout the game you click 
 to order your party to go from point a to point b and click on enemies to attack them to get unidentified 
 items and gain experience to use on stats and disciplines. In Redemption you are not allowed to 
 level up whenever you like; indeed you do not level up at all. You get experience for killing enemies 
 and you either return to your Haven and rest by using the coffin, or you wait until you finish 
 an important quest and your character stats pages will pop up allowing you to spend EXP. The multiplayer 
 aspect of Redemption is interesting; it works a little like Neverwinter Nights except you have 
 to do everything from in the game and it only supports a handful of players. 
  
  The graphics in Redemption were decent for their time. They're of course dated by today's standards, 
 but the game has decent enough mouth movement and the animations are fluid. The textures may not 
 be high resolution, but they look very nice.
  
  The audio is a mixed bag, you have a decent ambient score which tends to fit the mood, and then 
 you have the voice acting. The voice acting is bad; especially secondary and minor characters who 
 sound like they were just people dragged off of the street. The sound effects are okay, and everything 
 in that area seems to work.
  
  Redemption could have been great; the plot shows great promise, but is unfortunately badly written 
 and tied together with horribly designed dungeons and repetitive gameplay. If you want a good Vampire 
 RPG; try Redemption's successor Bloodlines. If you absolutely must play Redemption; give it a shot. 
 Some liked the game, but personally I found it to be a rather dull experience and playing it through 
 again hasn't changed my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concealedview
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  I wrote a review for this game on gamefaqs, but I decided to give my feedback on this game for 
 gamespot too.
  
  Gameplay - This game is actually good when you play in the middle ages. The combat is a little 
 broken but the enemies aren't as tough as they are later on in the game so the bad group A. I. won't 
 bother you as much. But once you get to the modern times this game goes crazy.
  Like I said before the combat is a little broken in the middle ages because you might miss frequently 
 with your sword, which isn't such a bad thing. Now think of missing frequently with a gun in the 
 modern times while you have to carry all that ammo that you're missing with. The guns literally 
 make the combat system way worse than what it was. I had to resort to giving everybody chainsaws 
 since that was the only decent modern weapon. There were some decent guns but they were too expensive 
 and ran out within 3 minutes.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are great. Even looking at it now from the year 2005 I think 
 the graphics are beautiful. Everything looked the way it should have.
  
  Sound- There was nothing wrong with the sound in this game really. It was all very good. Of course 
 there was some stuff that wasn't so there but nothing noticeable.
  
  Value- I never want to play this game again. I'm sure I'll get the urge to play a vampire RPG sooner 
 or later but I still wouldn't play this. It felt too much like a chore.
  
  All in all this is a fair game with nothing but being annoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 2, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  When Activision optioned the Vampire the Masquerade property, you figured that they could not go 
 wrong. We have Vampires. We have a pen and paper game rich with volumes of backstory. And you have 
 great environments that these vampires care interact with. You figure with all of this, that you 
 have printable money on your hands. But somehow from the design document to the actual execution, 
 something was lost and it was not for the better.
  
  Vampire the Masquerade puts you in the game as Christof, a fighter for the church during the Crusades. 
 You are injured in battle and have to recoup at a church under the care of Sister Aneska, a nun 
 who you become quite attracted to during your stay. During your recuperation, the church is attacked 
 by demons and you are charged with finding out where they are coming from and to rid Prague of 
 the villainy. Shortly after this, you are "embraced", aka turned into a vampire, which starts your 
 journey into the meaty storyline that takes you to Prague, Vienna, and other cities and then shifts 
 you forward to 1999 in London and New York. Of course there are puzzles to be solved, quests to 
 be completed and skill points to be awarded on your way to stopping the end of the world.
  
  The story is the main thing that captured me with VTM: Redemption. The writing for this game 
 is phenomenal. Whoever they got to write this game should be doing much more work. The story shows 
 that someone took the time to research the pen and paper history of the VTM series and wove all 
 of those elements into the story. This is easily one of the ten best written storylines in PC gaming. 
 The dialog is realistic, emotion and attitude abound while delivering a stunning plot that becomes 
 a little generic towards the end. Unfortunately the gameplay and combat engine kill what the story 
 brings to the game.
  
  Gameplay is a rather click and go affair, but the mechanics are a bit clumsy and just don't seem 
 to feel right. The inventory screens while detailed seem to be a little too much for the casual 
 eye. Also, the combat turned into a Diablo like experience for me. I did not buy this game with 
 the expectation of clicking on someone the entire battle to kill them. Also the balance of the 
 Vampire powers, is off, and is detrimental to the game experience. I found that the Feed power 
 became far too powerful to the end. I could use that to take out whole armies towards the end.
 
  
  Graphically, the game looks good, but seems a bit blocky when compared to games that were released 
 around the same time. The in-game cutscenes were well done, but the details for the characters 
 seem generic. There never seems to be a show of emotion on the faces of the characters. Clipping 
 also abounds in this game. I was attacked through walls several times throughout the game.
  
  Voice acting was surprisingly good. I think that all the voiceovers should get a pat on the 
 back for bringing a lot of emotion to their roles. I honestly thought that Christopher Lambert 
 voiced the lead role, but it was not. Just really sounded like him. No one seemed to phone it in 
 at any point. Also, the ambient sounds and music are nice. The weapons however seemed a bit weak 
 sounding and did not give me the feedback that I would of expected.
  
  I did not play the multiplayer story mode basically because I could find no one to play the game 
 with me. Servers are a bit sparse at this point in time.
  
  Overall, the game was rather disappointing to me. You have this great story and voice acting that 
 you want to finish, but at the same time, you just get frustrated by all the sub par gameplay. 
 I can only recommend this to the patient and fans of the VTM pen and paper game that want to make 
 their library complete with all things VTM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisc99
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 13, 2004 11:05 pm PT
Review:  The game had some great potential,, but it has some major flops, that hurt the game play so much 
 that some times it's frustrating.
  
  This game has the stupidest friendly AI I have ever seen. This is one of the biggest flops of the 
 game. 
  The genre of the game is RPG, you collect point's for killing enemies, and then upgrade you character, 
 and that which you control.
  You can have max 4 characters in your party. But as I said, party members are so stupid, that in 
 some game parts it's better to play alone.
  Here are some of the problems:
  - Your party members just stand when they are attacked, or they do nothing when 
  you attack 
 because you can't control them, unless you click on that character.
  - They can shoot each other so it's not uncommon that you are killed by your own buddy.
  - They 
 rarely use their special powers to your benefit.
  
  Second problem is a bit problematic camera and character movement, so sometimes you can't see anything, 
 which is annoying in battle.
  
  If you get pass all that, the game is rather good. Graphic and music are great, so you can easy 
 get in that spooky and mystic vampiric ambient. This is first game i played which you can play 
 in middle ages and in present. Game is strictly linear so you will not have problems with solving 
 puzzles, you mainly have to go there and there and kill this and that. Finally this is hack and 
 slash game. With lot of blood and gore. :-) ) . Characters are very vell animated and you can see 
 many details which improves atmosphere. Speech segments are also great.
  
  Game is strictly linear so you will not have problems with solving puzzles, you mainly have to 
 go there and there and kill this and that. Finally this is hack and slash game. With lot of blood 
 and gore. :-) ) . Characters are very well animated and you can see many details which improves atmosphere. 
 Speech segments are also great.
  
  Saving is somehow awkward for this type of game, because you can just save in one place. You have 
 autosave, every time you go from one section to another, but thats not enough. The game is medium 
 hard, mainly because saving and your stupid partners. If you use some specific sorts of spell you 
 can make your life easier.
  
  This game had some great potential, like 3D RPG, with solid story, great ambiance, but because 
 of some major flops, unfortunately the game turned up to be mediocre. But whe you get used to camera 
 it's fun to play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudieMurphy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 10, 2004 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Never having play the White wolf table top game. Ive rated the game solely on how i feel about 
 the game not comparing it to tabel top. With that said...
  Vampire The Masquerade Redemption i feel as got a bum rap by gamespot. Redemption is one of the 
 best role playing games ive ever had. From starting off as a Crusader fighting off the evils of 
 the world. Till your "embrace" which by the way i felt was the greatest sceen of the game. When 
 you get to live the life of a vampire. A pawn to your clan you set off to fighting bigger evils. 
 
  The online aspect while its was what i expected was still fun. All in all its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 20, 2003 8:35 am PT
Review:  I KNOW.... THIS GAME IS OLD.. BUT I JUST COULDN'T ACCEPT GAMESPOT GIVING THIS GAME A WEAK SCORE.... I 
 HAVE ALMOST EVERY PC GAME THAT HAS COME OUT SINCE THIS GAME WAS RELEASED.... I REALLY DO..... AND 
 I CAN TELL YOU.... WITH THE LATEST PATCH.... THIS GAME IS NOTHING LESS THAN AN 8 AVERAGE....... THE 
 GRAPHICS ARE AMAZING.... THE GAME HAS AMAZING ENVIRONMENTS AND DETAIL..... ONLINE SUPPORT... AND SAD 
 THAT IT'S BEEN BASHED SO MUCH.... IF YOU DO BUY THIS GAME.... PLEASE MAKE SURE YOU UPDATE IT FIRST.... IT 
 IS VERY BUGGY.... AND HARD.... FIRST BOSS WAS THE HARDEST WITHOUT PATCH.... AGAINST THE RPG COMPETITION... THIS 
 GAME SUCKS THE LIFE OUT OF ALL IT'S COMPETITORS... TILL THIS DAY... AND THE FACT BLOODLINES WONT 
 LOOK AT THIS GAME.... PLEASE.... WE'LL SEE WHO HAS THE LAST LAUGH 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
