-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Vanguard: Saga of Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/vanguard/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lively combat makes for fun group questing.
 Diplomacy gameplay is an enjoyable way to involve players in NPC dialogue.
 The complex crafting is interesting and rewarding.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bugs, bugs, and more bugs.
 Forced grouping will leave solo players cold.
 Stiff death penalty and lack of instanced dungeons are as frustrating now as they were in EverQuest's early days.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 1,476 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sony Online Entertainment
Developer: Sigil Games Online
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Jan 30, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Experienced role players will enjoy the engaging combat and diplomatic gameplay, in spite of Vanguard's 
 litany of bugs and singular focus on group adventuring. 

  Since the release of Blizzard's monumentally popular World of Warcraft and its expansion, it's 
 been impossible for new massively multiplayer online role-playing games to avoid the inevitable 
 comparisons. That's probably for the best in the case of Vanguard: Saga of Heroes, for while the 
 aforementioned games have some superficial similarities to this one, their core designs are far 
 different. Vanguard, for better or for worse, hearkens back to the days of EverQuest, when in-game 
 death was more than just a slight annoyance and groups camped for bosses that rarely spawned. But 
 by doing its own thing, Azeroth be damned, Vanguard sets itself apart, thanks to complex crafting 
 and a wholly unique take on non-player character communication. It's also rough around the edges, 
 exhibiting all the bugs and glitches of a game not quite ready for release. Yet while Vanguard 
 is not outwardly friendly to genre newcomers, it's got enough rewarding gameplay to please experienced 
 adventurers willing to overlook its technical hitches.  

          This quest is called Taint of the Yukionna. That's right, 'taint.'     

  In Vanguard, 
 home is the world of Telon, which features three main continents, 19 races, and 15 classes. While 
 many of the choices seem fascinating, most of them boil down to archetypes and group roles familiar 
 to anyone who's played an MMORPG before. There are a good number of ways to modify your avatar's 
 physical appearance, so you could easily spend quite some time deciding on the look and purpose 
 of your character. Once in the game, a system of pop-up messages guides you through the beginning 
 steps, and you're off to explore, quest, and level. The starting quests are genre standards familiar 
 to anyone who's played an MMORPG before, but once you've gained a few levels, you'll find just 
 how daunting Telon can get.  

  The first and obvious challenge once you are around level seven is that, like it or not, Vanguard 
 isn't for the solo player. That isn't to say it's devoid of content for the lone adventurer, but 
 consistent soloing is a good way to get quickly frustrated. Most quests are obviously designed 
 for groups, even if they're not necessarily identified as such in your quest log, and soloing what 
 should seem like a simple mission can result in quick death if you aren't careful. Even with a 
 full group, some areas and dungeons can be a time-consuming challenge, particularly because Vanguard 
 doesn't feature any instanced quests. As a result, you might need to wait a while before the boss 
 you need to vanquish reappears after the last group's battle. Multipart group quests may take three 
 or four hours to get through, and even with a good party, a simple mistake can cost you your character's 
 life.  

  That cost can be pretty high, since resurrection entails experience loss and a trip back to your 
 corpse, assuming you want to regain some of that XP. You may summon your tombstone at an altar, 
 but at higher levels, the amount of time you need to put into regaining all the lost XP is intimidating. 
 In any MMO, returning to your corpse in a monster-infested dungeon may be next to impossible, and 
 the additional loss of experience often makes the penalty even more frustrating in Vanguard. There's 
 no experience loss by falling to the sword of another player on the free-for-all player-versus-player 
 server, which eliminates the need to retrieve your corpse but means your killer can loot up to 
 15 percent of the coin you're carrying. Conversely, a second PVP server groups races into two separate 
 teams. Along with the usual duels common to the genre, that's the only PVP content Vanguard offers 
 on US servers.  

  But if exploring Telon is riskier business than we're used to seeing in MMOs over the last few 
 years, the combat itself is satisfying and fun. Much of this is related to the reaction system, 
 which grants you multiple spells and abilities that can be triggered only if certain criteria are 
 met. For example, a successful parry may open up a counterattack not normally available. Because 
 those attacks can be powerful, managing your skills and available energy adds some welcome strategy 
 to your choice of spells at any given time. Chain attacks and bard songs, among other class abilities, 
 make battles feel dynamic, especially considering your avatar doesn't need to stand still to perform 
 most skills.  

          Convincing these soldiers to speak against their leader is harder than it looks.     

 
  Vanguard's most fascinating feature is diplomacy, which lets you earn favor with various factions, 
 area-wide buffs, and more by engaging NPCs in conversation. Parleying is a simplified strategy 
 card game in which you play five cards that represent different types of statements, such as flattery 
 and inspiration. A game board with an influence marker keeps track of how you are doing, and as 
 long as you keep the marker on your side for the specified number of turns, you win the parley. 
 As your skills improve, you earn new cards -- and even gain the use of temporary cards when visiting 
 certain areas. Parleying itself is pretty simple, although as you gain skill, winning a high-level 
 conversation gets to be quite a challenge.     

   

  Even with three distinct continents, Telon doesn't feel very unique compared with any other fantasy 
 world, nor do your adventuring quests make you feel all that involved with the scattershot lore. 
 However, the addition of diplomacy not only rescues the splintered backstory, but makes it feel 
 more personal than it otherwise would, because each statement hinges on your performance within 
 the parley. Keeping the marker on your side of the board is key not just to winning the conversation, 
 but to uncovering the next bit of information. By giving you an active role in your exchange with 
 the NPC, Vanguard makes you look forward to what the NPC has to say. And because the dialogue is 
 written well, diplomacy never feels like pointless busywork in a quest to raise your standing in 
 one faction or another.  

          One weakened board, coming right up sir!     

  There's also plenty of crafting and harvesting to do, and making a finalized and useful product 
 is a complex and lengthy task compared with crafting in other MMOs. Creating a single item requires 
 a recipe, multiple tools and components, and a particular workbench. When you begin the session, 
 you have a number of action points to spend and multiple steps to work through, and each step spends 
 points while contributing to either the progress or the quality of your product. Additionally, 
 crafting complications that need additional components or tools can crop up. For example, if your 
 character is injured while working, he may need to mend his wounds, which requires bandages and 
 uses up skill points. You can also earn coin and skills by doing work orders, which are crafting 
 missions that have you creating and returning various goods. It's an involved process to be sure, 
 but producing a high-quality product is appropriately rewarding.  

  Vanguard's most unfriendly characteristic is its instability. To its credit, it launched without 
 a hitch, and server disconnects are relatively uncommon. Unfortunately, a number of other bugs 
 infest the game. Respawning at an altar or teleporting to another continent may result in your 
 character appearing inside the world geometry, underwater, or in midair. Lost quest items, random 
 appearance changes to avatars, and other frustrating issues have popped up frequently in the weeks 
 since release. Even turning on antialiasing functions on your graphics card can cause your screen 
 to go black, flicker, or hide the character names over avatars. Lag spikes will hold up combat 
 for several seconds, or even cause an action in progress to stop while still costing you the time 
 or energy the skill requires.  

  Many of the visual bugs result from Vanguard's lack of support for full-screen antialiasing. Surprisingly, 
 though, this missing feature doesn't have much of an impact on the beauty of the visuals. Many 
 of Telon's vistas are stunning, from both an artistic and technological standpoint. The lush foliage 
 and colorful Asian architecture of Kojan is one notable example, but exploration on all three continents 
 reveals plenty of dramatic landmarks. The splendor doesn't translate evenly, though. The native, 
 barren environments of Qalia are inconsistent, and many of the dungeons and enemies are graphically 
 uninspired. But as pretty as most of it is, the game engine has difficulty keeping up. A top-notch 
 system is required to see Telon in all its glory. Even on a high-performance PC, Vanguard is a 
 system hog, requiring a lot of muscle and some adjustments to the graphics settings to run at a 
 stable frame rate.  

          The vistas of Kojan are particularly stunning. Just be prepared to turn down the game settings. 
     

  The soundtrack is attractive and often evocative. Musical tracks like the vocal elven swooning 
 in the city of Ca'ial Brael and the Arabic strings of Khal reflect the local environment perfectly. 
 The swooping harp glissandos and angry cello grumbles of diplomatic exchanges are also noteworthy. 
 The din of combat and ambient noises are what you would expect, although some enemies are eerily 
 silent when attacked. Just don't expect the pleasant NPC chatter from EverQuest 2, or witty WOW-ish 
 quips; NPCs in Vanguard mutter a small number of short phrases, and most of them are delivered 
 without a hint of enthusiasm.  

  Features like player housing and boats for travel extend Vanguard's shelf life for players approaching 
 the top level of 50, and even with plenty of room for future questing content, there's plenty to 
 see and do. But Vanguard is undoubtedly not for everyone. Multiple bugs, forced grouping, and a 
 vocal player community sensitive to criticism currently keep players looking for an easygoing adventuring 
 experience at arm's length. But Vanguard gets a lot right, and the engaging combat and nifty diplomacy 
 are more than enough reason for genre enthusiasts to give it a shot.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (222 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Parabellum_Loh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Having played Everquest 1 for almost 5 years, before moving on to try out World of Warcraft just 
 like almost everyone else and their grandmother, I dabbled a bit with Warhammer Online as well. 
 
  
  However the more I played any other MMO-RPG other than Everquest 1 the more I longed for the good 
 old days where nothing was handed to me on a platter and fighting mobs actually meant somewhat 
 more of a challenge than clicking 2-3 keys.
  
  My brother spoke highly of Vanguard: Saga of Heroes around the time where it launched. He was an 
 old Everquest 1 veteran as well and had followed the development of Vanguard closely since it was 
 announced. Unfortunately (or fortunately) I convinced him out of it and got him into World of Warcraft 
 with me. 
  
  Why fortunately? Vanguard launched very buggy and I think I saved us both a very bad experience 
 back then.
  Why unfortunately? Vanguard has the feel of Everquest 1, the anti-warcraft feeling that we of the 
 older generation of MMO-RPG players grew up to love and relish. I feel now I wasted a lot of time 
 on both World of Warcraft and Warhammer Online that I could have spent on Vanguard instead.
  
  The Vanguard as of today is nothing as it was back at launch, it still has some bugs like any 
 other game, but just to name one thing then the new addition of the trial island is still a work 
 of brilliance and sucks new players right in to the world, if only they get as far as trying it 
 out.
  Thats why I wrote this review, to hopefully just convince 1 person to try Vanguard out, you will 
 not live to regret it.
  
  In short, and to sum it up, Vanguard offers you:
  *compelling PVE which has a very anti-WoW feel
  *innovative mechanics such as diplomacy
  *a 
 highly detailed crafting & gathering system
  *a growing and mature playerbase
  *a return to how MMO-RPG's used to be before the WoW age kicked in
  *a beautiful game engine 
 optimized to run more smoothly now
  *a huge and detailed world to pour the future years of your life into
  
  Vanguard: Saga of 
 Heroes .. set yourself free, better today than tomorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhavas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  There are so many "reviews" posted by people who constantly flame every other MMO saying that it 
 is a rip-off of WoW (i actually saw someone call EQ1 that) .
  Every MMO has skills, talents, levelling, experience, and specialization, combined with a large 
 game world to explore. What distinguishes Vanguard is simply the quality.
  
  Over a year after release, they have fixed most of the bugs in the game, so now it is very stable 
 and enjoyable. The graphics are absolutely stunning if your PC can handle it, and it actually looks 
 somewhat pleasing to the eye even on lowest settings. The music is top-notch and always appropriate, 
 and there are small geeky jokes hidden inside the game world (aka, glitteractica's cookie, Harry 
 Harbl, etc) . The combat is what they call "reactionary", standard point and click attacks, but 
 depending on what set of moves you pull, reactive attacks flare up and you can deal combo damage, 
 so you're never just idly sitting there and mashing numbers on your keyboard.
  Crafting, another joy of Vanguard, is so in-depth that you can actually spend the entire game levelling 
 your crafting skills. There are crafting dungeons, crafting guilds, and crafting quests to complete 
 if you choose to go down that path. Simply put, everything is immersive.
  
  So, in referral to the title, i must state one thing about Vanguard. If you are tired of WoW's 
 simplicity, of EQ2's yet ANOTHER expansion pack coming out, of having played every single instance 
 in everquest, or anything else relating to the MMO genre, come to Vanguard for a completely new 
 challenge.
  This game is hard, and i dont mean "oh i'll just try again and again" hard, i mean impossible at 
 times. 
  The game world is also massive. So large in fact that you are able to get a horse at level 10 (out 
 of 50) , since most dungeons are far far away. 
  Basically, this game was developped by the original MMO geniuses behind EQ1, and as such was meant 
 to be A) a new spin on the MMO genre, B) a tribute in some form to past works, and C) an improvement 
 of them therein. The developpers knew what they were doing, and now that the game has been more 
 or less completely fixed, Vanguard: Saga Of Heroes is the epic tale it was meant to be.
  
  So, drop those old games, maxed out characters, and overly-colorful armor, and become a real hero 
 in the MMO world. 
  The world of Telon is brutal, the land is vast, but if you are up to the challenge, survive, fight, 
 kill, and live in this new world, and prove to everyone that you truly are a god amongst heroes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cybertori
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Vanguard is SO much better now than at launch - when the GS review was written. I've played a lot 
 of MMORPG's, and this is currently my favorite. Not perfect, but the classes are great, the gameworld 
 is engaging and fun, and both the graphics and sound are beautiful . As others have said, a mature, 
 friendly, and helpful community. Been easy to find groups, lots of quality guilds around, and worthwhile 
 quests for advancing. If you're looking for a new MMO, don't miss Vanguard.
  
  It would be a serious shame if a bad launch prevented this game from getting the audience it deserves. 
 The population is looking good to me, at least on the PVE servers, and there's a new free trial 
 promotion coming next month. But grab the game from Amazon - the trial limits you to a "newbie 
 island". Its easy enough to level, even solo (any class) , so get to lvl 20 and see what your class 
 can do. Another WoW/AoC refugee whose found a new home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecilam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Having picked up a copy of the game for only $3 on eBay, I thought I'd give this game a try, having 
 heard a lot about it but not really knowing what it really had to offer.
  
  I've played EQ1 for 3 years, EQ2 for 4, Age of Conan, Tabula Rasa, Hellgate: London, and LOTRO, 
 to name a few. I've been playing Vanguard for about 5 days now, and thought I'd share some new-player 
 impressions from July of 2008.
  
  Vanguard has a lot going for it, and I found myself agreeing with the Gamespot reviewer for almost 
 every point he made. The first few levels really don't do Vanguard justice. There is a lot more 
 to this game than you'll ever realize in the first 10 levels. Here are just a few tidbits.
  
  Players can make their own boats, summon them anywhere there's water, and pilot them around. 
 It is, in fact, a great way to travel, as it is tons faster than overland (though they take a fair 
 amount of resources to build) . There are of course horses to increase your travel time over foot 
 too. 
  
  The diplomacy "sphere" (as VG players like to call them) is actually pretty neat, but takes some 
 getting used to, and a lot of players from MMO's skip it at first because it is complicated. But 
 it is worth the effort spending time in.
  
  The world is gargantuan. You really don't know how big it is at first. But it is beyond enormous. 
 And there are no zones, though you do get the occasional hiccup when you pass from one area to 
 the next. 
  
  Most races have vastly different beginnings and quest lines.
  
  Character customization is very well done, and there are an enormous amount of class/race combinations. 
 Some races can't play certain classes, which I actually like. 
  
  Racial abilities range from useful (ignore all damage for 11 sec) to utterly cool (dark elves get 
 to summon a dragon, which boosts their spell damage by 10% for 30min) .
  
  The death penalty is not as severe as it was at launch, I'm told, but it is still nastier than 
 most other MMORPG's. However, I'm one of the few people who still believes this is a good thing. 
 It forces players to play carefully, and learn their abilities to the fullest. It also adds an 
 element of danger to areas full of aggressive npc's, which is simply not there when there is no 
 death penalty (in EQ2 we let ourselves get killed to get a quick teleport back to the start of 
 the zone, that's how lame the death penalty is there now)
  
  The combat system is well thought out, and different classes really have vastly different playstyles. 
 The reactions you can use in response to a successful parry (for example) are awesome, and really 
 make you want to pay attention to combat. For example my 8th level rogue has two abilities she 
 can use in response to a successful parry... one is a massive DoT (at least 5x more powerful than 
 her regular one) , the other is called Deep Pockets which gives you a better chance at loot drops 
 from the mob. The fact that it is not tedious for an auto-attack system is pretty darn amazing.
 
  
  The main difference between Vanguard and other MMORPG's (except perhaps EQ1) is that nothing is 
 given to you on a platter. You really do earn your keep with this game. You have to train at a 
 trainer to get your abilities (which you get every two levels) (and you can find trainers easily 
 by talking to guards) . You have to repair your equipement. Your equipment stays on your corpse 
 when you die, unless it is soulbound (which means you can't trade it either) . I LIKE this in an 
 MMORPG, though others have proven that making the game less painful (ie. WoW, EQ2) will garner 
 you a larger audience.
  
  The player base appears to be very helpful for the most part. Flaming and Chuck Norris quips appear 
 to be minimal, though like the reviewer said, Vanguard lovers REALLY love Vanguard. Don't insult 
 the game over /ooc unless you want to get blasted. :)
  
  Vanguard's main flaws remain similar to launch, however there are a lot less bugs. In 5 days I 
 only experienced one hang of the game (which happened when I was trying to launch it) , one system 
 reboot (which may have been due to the overclock settings I use) , but no client crashes. The most 
 annoying thing is that I constantly have to /flush in order to clear out some graphical anomalies, 
 but after reading the boards I have some hope that I can reduce the number of times /flush is needed.
 
  
  My main complaints are:
  1) Very heavy system requirements (I have a 2.4GHz C2Duo, 7800 GT OC video card, 2GB ram, WinXP 
 SP3, DirectX 9.0c, etc) , and I can only barely get decent framerates at medium settings.
  
  2) It doesn't feel any different from other MMORPG's when you first login and play a couple of 
 levels.
  
  3) There is no free trial, HOWEVER, supposedly one is in development and soon to be released (August 
 08) . But again, the first few levels don't really give you a feel for VG, so I don't know if that 
 will help or hurt VG's appeal. It will depend on how its done.
  
  It really is a shame that Vanguard didn't do better at launch, because I feel this game has far 
 more potential than any other MMORPG I've played so far. But the steep system requirements will 
 keep most of the PC gamer population at bay, and those that do try probably won't stick with the 
 game until level 10 which is when Vavguard really starts to shine. 
  
  But the game has survived this long, and has a very dedicated playerbase and developer crew. 
 
  
  My recommendation: Give it a try if you're looking for a new MMORPG, but don't give up before level 
 15. You really won't know what you're missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattbell69
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Vanguard from release and back then is was buggy and had problems, but like all 
 games at birth. They call come with problems. And for each one there is only the way up and forward.
 
  
  The SOE team have done a great job and I think a lot of that has come from listening to their community. 
 The community is made up of a lot of experienced players, but a lot of mature players that help 
 to build the game and not just run it down.
  
  It's currently on Game Update (GU) #5 and looking stronger than ever. With racial mounts, flying 
 mounts and so many quests that just once character will not let you see it all. I've have to create 
 a number of ALT's just to get to see the additional content.
  
  I know this is brief, but I do think the offical Review on this site needs to be updated as it's 
 not as bad as they make it sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andymemm
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I usually don t write Reviews but in this case my impression about this game is totally different 
 to the User and GS Ratings so I took the time to write this. 
  I ve played pretty much all MMOs that are out there and the only one that was able to capture my 
 attention for more than a month was EQ2 . After playing EQ2 since launch it got also old and I 
 started my quest to find a new World.
  After hours of wasted time in pretty much all actual MMos I decided to give Vanguard another chance 
 , and took advantage of the 1 month free gametime promotion launched in July.
  I was blown away by the performance improvement . The same computer that barely could load vanguard 
 a year ago can now play it on medium detail level which looks better than 90% of the MMOs out there 
 . To get the full eye candy you will need a high end rig though. 
  So far I ve tried 3 classes up to level 10 and it was pure fun.
  All 3 classes I played so far 
 are very unique (as far as I can tell at lvl 10)
  The cities and the architecture is incredible, I haven t seen anything similar in other games. 
 You can t wait to see the next city or you will just stand in the city center and be awed by the 
 view.
  Combat is pretty much as you would expect it to be at least at the levels I ve played. 
  The 
 crafting system seems very elaborate and the diplomacy cardgame gives it a spin other games don 
 t have.
  The starter quests guide you very well through the world.
  
  I can t judge any higher level content yet , but I m sure I will spend several months exploring 
 all the starter cities and all classes and trades just because there s so much to do and explore.
 
  
  Looks like I ve found my new world.
  
  For me (not a raider/grinder, loving immersive worlds and questing) it s the best MMO out there 
 at the moment. 
  
  With the next Game update there will be a Free Vanguard trial available also I believe.
  
  
 If you re someone who was looking forward to Vanguard at launch like myself and got disappointed 
 now is the time to give it another chance I assure you, you won t regret it.
  For me it s a solid 9.0 at the moment I will rate it 10 though because the game in its actual state 
 is totally underrated.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrayTW
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  You know that MMORPG you have been looking for? You're sick of the one you're playing now and have 
 been looking for the one to draw you away, yet are unable to find it? Perhaps you have heard of 
 Vanguard, and how horrible it was. Well.. thats not the case anymore.
  
  Yes, this game was released with a rocky start. There were bugs everywhere and some people couldn't 
 even play! It gave the game a bad reputation and now people are unwilling to give it another chance. 
 If you are like this, please rethink it. You can pick the game up for a cheap price anyways now, 
 so you might as well take advantage of it and try out the free month.
  
  
  
  World - The world, Telon, in VG: SOH is huge. Absolutely, unbelievably huge. The world is ALSO seamless. 
 It is comprised of 'chunks', and if your computer is decent enough it will barely notice when you 
 cross a chunk. Lower end computers may notice it, however they are constantly increasing new patches 
 and bug fixes, along with hitching fixes.
  
  Lore - This game has a lot of lore, however it isn't apparent on the surface. You must read the 
 quest logs, and most importantly, take part in Diplomacy. You can change the world with diplomacy, 
 which brings me to the next point.
  
  Separate "Spheres" - There are different areas of the game, classified as "spheres". Adventuring, 
 Crafting, Gathering, and Diplomacy. Each sphere is completely separate from the other, such as 
 if you want, you can level Smithing to 50 and be level 1 in Diplomacy or Adventuring, or vice versa. 
 
  
  Diplomacy - It is basically a minigame within a game that serves a purpose. You can use it to make 
 money, get gear, mounts etc. Its a lot of fun too.
  Adventuring - Just like any MMO, choose a class and level it up. Raid and stuff.
  Crafting/Gathering 
 - Level up a trade to make armor/weapons, ships, houses etc. Gathering by cutting down trees (they 
 actually fall and shake the ground) , mining etc.
  
  Transportation -
  Sailing - Build/buy ships and sail the world. A form of transportation.
  Flying Mounts - Just 
 as it sounds, rent one at any level for 5 minutes or be a high level and get your own.
  Horse - Level 10 you get your first horse. It is upgradeable/trainable.
  Racial mount - at 30 
 get your racial mount.
  Riftway - Instant teleport to certain locations in the world for a fee. 
  
  There is much much 
 more to this game, so be sure to check out http://www. vgwalkthroughs. com/page/guides/4 video. It 
 is really good. Also check out http://www. youtube. com/GTVolition for some videos of certain locations.
 
  
  Please give the game a try, it is definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marinesneverun
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start?
  
  Was there anything new that this MMORPG brought to the genre? -Nope.
  
  Are the graphics nice? 
 -Yes.
  
  Is it addicting? -For a couple weeks, sure.
  
  Is the new release that much better? -I don't think so.
  
  Will I re-subscribe? -No, it's not 
 fun enough.
  
  What would make it better? -Where can I start? There is nothing that makes this game any different 
 than the rest. Maybe if it had blood, more pkill, and was adult orientated I might come back.
 
  
  For whatever reason, after years of Dark Age of Camelot, MUDS, WOW, and all the rest; all I feel 
 is like I'm running on a hamster wheel. You got your tanks, healers, spellcasters, rah rah rah... 
 But is the combat different? Do your characters get broken arms and legs? Can you sever limbs? 
 Can you use something other than HP? Come on, this is 2008 and we should be far more advanced by 
 now!
  
  This game is good if this is your first MMORPG, nuff said...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  In short :
  
  Positive :
  
  - Even with the Riftway system, the world is still massive
  - Griffons/Wyverns. A definetely 
 a plus for travelling, and cheap too
  - Due to the massive world and many starting cities and areas, you may not have to play through 
 the same areas all over again on your alts
  - Combat system is a bit deeper than generally. It doesn't provide anything totally new (like Conan 
 is trying to do) , but it's very complex system, far more complex than it seems at the first glance
 
  - Lot of classes, I'm fairly sure everyone will find one or two classes they adore
  - Lot of new quests, and far more guided quest lines towards different places you should visit
 
  - While colours are bit depressing at times, it still looks pretty good
  - New Social -window (s) are excellent, has some ideas I've personally never seen before
  - Gear 
 looks the best I've seen, and there's loads of variation in graphic models generally
  - Continents and places look different and have somewhat good variation
  
  Negative :
  
 
  - Still a bit heavy for your machine, if it ain't reasonably well equipped
  - While it's good the place is huge, it still takes a lot of time to travel around, even with Riftway's 
 and flying mounts. It's good, but it can be boring sometimes
  - Due to the bad launch a year ago (and the since-published and oncoming games) , isn't having nearly 
 enough people for constant grouping with random people
  - Supposedly the world becomes a bit smaller when you get to the top level, in a way that the options 
 where to go diminish greatly
  - Still some bugs and glitches, albeit far less than a year ago
  
  Due to a bad launch, Vanguard 
 took off badly, but has since made itself a pretty good game... but a bit too late I guess.
  
  
  Longer version :
  
  About a year ago I quit Vanguard, mainly because of CTD's, lack 
 of people and because it was just generally a bit heavy working on my computer. And, well, a real 
 life friend going to LotRO didn't help, either. But when LotRO grew boring, I took a peek back 
 into Vanguard, and I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised.
  
  Just to get a feeling to my "old" lvl 29 rogue's skills, I made a new one and took him for a test 
 drive. It didn't take long to get back to the saddle, and soon I was poking my blades in the back's 
 of everything like I hadn't been away for a day.
  But while gameplay itself felt the same (as in, great as it was before) , I noticed that I was seemingly 
 getting more exp, or the killing was far more easier. Or both, I'm not sure. But it seemed like 
 the monsters were going down way much faster than I remembered. I still wasn't able to take down 
 3-dot's (as in, 2-dot's are the normal difficulty, 3-dot's are slightly tougher, 4-dot's are generally 
 group monsters, 5-dot's are tough group monsters and so on) very well, but killing the normal 2-dot's 
 was a pure greatness again, being much harder about a year ago.
  And while I made a new shaman for myself, and leveled him to 20, I recognized a bunch of new quest 
 lines along with the old one's. Usually the new one's were better than the old one's, boasting 
 far superior gear, but still not making the old one's obsolete. There's some fine new armor-quest 
 lines, expanding for many levels that'll keep you busy for a while.
  
  Most of the bugs and glitches seem to be gone. I do loose the Spam -window's output at times, some 
 helmets float in the air, monsters get to ''can't see target'' -position on a not-even-ground sometimes, 
 but generally it's good. In the 72-or-so hours I've played it, I recall crashing only twice, and 
 other of those times was due a zone crash, which lasted about a minute. So tech-stuff seems relatively 
 ok, and I wish this would have been the state the game would have had when it came out on Jan 2007.
 
  
  All these updates and new stuff in mind, it's such a great pitty that it still hasn't won the popularity 
 of the massess for itself, which greatly affects the population. During the year servers got emerged, 
 but that still didn't seem to save Vanguard, and most likely, it's only heading down from here 
 on out.
  
  It does not have the roleplaying appeal and lore of Lord of the Rings Online, it doesn't have a 
 new fighting system and gore (and lore) as Conan is supposedly going to have, and it can't even 
 begin to think about competing against WoW in popularity, so sadly this level of greatness was 
 achieved way too late for the sake of the game. Which is a great pitty, since the combat system 
 is excellent, there's loads of skills to use that work in different situations, there's lot of 
 different looking gear (so you most likely won't see many wearing same stuff, like in so many other 
 MMORPG's) , so many places to be that you won't have time to check out all the places thoroughly 
 if you wish to keep gaining exp in'em, and so many places that look so great even on my sub-par 
 machine. And now it won't take an hour to go across the continent to next place, but it still isn't 
 too fast in my opinion.
  
  To sum it up, Vanguard can offer great fun, but it's still not an easy game. But the lack of players 
 is a serious problem, albeit it could be a bit less serious than I make it sound right now (I like 
 playing a rogue, who's skills are mostly group-oriented. I can easily solo with my shaman, since 
 he isn't so group-reliant) . Keeping that in mind, I would openly recommend Vanguard for a group 
 of friends, that are able to play together like 80% of time, to try it out. I still think Vanguard 
 as the best MMORPG experience I've had in the past eight years, and now it's even better than originally. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prate20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  After trying WoW, LOTRO, EQ2, FFXI, Tabula Rasa, and POTBS I found this game's collector's edition 
 on Ebay for only $17 brand new. Surely this game must really suck if it's collectors edition is 
 going for that. Truth be told that couldn't be further from the truth. 
  The low gamespot rating for this game is probably due to the fact that when this game first came 
 out it was quite buggy, lucky for me I joined in the fray about a year after the launch (january 
 2007) and I am very impressed with this game. It has the best crafting system of any game I have 
 ever seen (yes out of all the above) and the diplomacy system gives the game a whole new side that 
 you cannot experience elsewhere. The adventuring (questing) side of the game is also very well 
 done and player friendly, similar to WoW I would say, but somehow better. Also, gamespot says this 
 game has a SINGULAR FOCUS on grouping, that is crap you can solo most of it if you are hardcore 
 into avoiding groups or if you just don't like to be bothered when you play. Mounts are achieved 
 at low levels (and can be equipped with barding, horseshoes, and tack) because of the massive world 
 and you can even obtain flying mounts (such as gryphons, pegasus, and wyverns) or just rent one 
 for 5 minutes. Crafting is amazing, not only is it deep it is its whole own leveling system (thats 
 right, no more grinding to hit 20 so you can use a crafting skill) so you could in theory be a 
 level 50 crafter and still level 1 adventurer and level 1 diplomat. Also you can craft SHIPS and 
 HOUSES, c'mon now, where else do you get that type of depth? Seriously, how is this game so badly 
 overlooked? It doesn't have the LOTRO or WoW hype and breaking into a market dominated by the two 
 isn't easy. I can happily say that I will never ever touch either of those games again and be more 
 satisfied with this game. I just wish I could have back all that wasted time and just stick it 
 into this game. I hope this review encourages just one person to try this game, you won't be disapointed 
 if you give it a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bugtrip
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  First, a little about me. I may have easily been the most hardcore, blindly enthusiastic fanboy 
 of Vanguard during its rough and controversial production. I developed the once booming Gamespot 
 Vanguard Union, a haven from all the WoW craze, focusing on all the great ideas just barely breaking 
 into the game. For a guy like me to endure Vanguard soon after its release, regardless of all the 
 admitted problems and my high esteem for its potential, to painfully give up all hope and cancel 
 my account, leaving the great guild I had created and the union which so diligently relied on my 
 prompt, inspiring updates, is something that anyone could admit to being pivotal in the underlying 
 integrity of Vanguard's future. 
  
  Truth is, the game was horrible, unbalanced, bugged to all hell; fun in the least bit, pretty, 
 but down-right bad overall. I was surprised to view Gamespot's merciful review! However, when it 
 seemed like I had been another casualty to the world by the wrath of World of Warcraft's cartoony 
 addictiveness, it wasn't long before I realized how venomous it was to intellectualism, even on 
 a less than moderate mind. Dragging me down deeper and deeper into a sense of wasting away all 
 the high standards I once had for games like Vanguard. 
  
  So I guess Vanguard pulled me back in, simply due to my craving for a more adult mmo. Where levels 
 mean something, the mobs are handled with meticulousness. The macro-picky strategist could find 
 honorable baring in a PvP world like Sartok. That much has never changed. What did was all that 
 needed to be.
  
  I jumped back into the game, not expecting much. Figuring I would play until I couldn't stand it 
 again. I would soak up the world around me, have fun with it for about a week, spam the bug report 
 button and quit. Frustrated, tired, and helpless. I couldn't have been more surprised! The game 
 was clean, polished to a shine! Graphical optimizations were well implemented, now running everything 
 on max, I can't help but be truly amazed at the artistic beauty! Oh man is this something to be 
 seen! The bugs were worked out, quests are more intricate and error free, the classes have wondered 
 well into balanced state, of course not yet perfect if ever they will be. I really can't help but 
 dream about the lore at night, and anticipate in distress the end of my work day, to hurry home 
 and log in! It really has become the amazing game it was destined to be, and it has been the best 
 $14.99 I have ever spent. The only thing it's lacking, is you. We need players, more people means 
 more content! 
  
  The developers, or what remains of the original bunch, really did hold true to their promise of 
 making sure Vanguard became what it was meant to be. I see now that they have been hard at work, 
 while I griped in the corner, missing out on all the fun. I'm here now, and I'm happy to promote 
 the game the way it should be. Check it out! You won't be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austin9992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  SOE went right with this project. For years me and a select few friends have been cruising through 
 the vast MMO market playing games including Everquest, Guild Wars, World of Warcraft, Everquest 
 2, Star Wars Galaxies, RF Online, City of Heroes/Villains, The Matrix Online, Planetside, and EVE 
 Online. In each one of these there has been the same problem, 1 or 2 of the people out of all of 
 us have leveld up way faster than the others because some of us were hardcore, some werent.
  
  THE BREAKDOWN
  
  There is no denying that the world of Telon is a beautiful sight. The 
 graphics of this game is truely amazing. Unfortunatly for most of us, our graphics cards are going 
 to limit us from seeing alot of what this game has to offer. The mobility of Vanguard reminds me 
 alot of World of Warcraft. If you've played games like Guild Wars, you'll understand how frustrating 
 it is to have very restricting gameplay. In Vanguard, if you are at the peak of a mountain and 
 can look down and see all that is under you, you can venture down the mountain and actually get 
 to the spot that you saw on the mountaintop.
  
  Vanguard will NOT have you grinding. This game is abundant in things to do, whether its sitting 
 in the city doing crafting work orders while gaining Bonus XP, or firing up some conversations 
 to level up in Diplomacy, or going out in the forest to chop down some lumber for your next big 
 crafting project, your never going to log on and think "Is there anything I can actually do?" because 
 the answer of "Yes" will hold true whether your level 1 or level 50.
  
  This game has ALOT of tips that will pop up when your starting something you've never done before. 
 If you read all of these, this game is very easy to learn and your never going to be stuck thinking 
 "What do I do now?".
  
  The game has something called Brotherhoods. Brotherhoods are kinda like forming a group. Only you 
 need 2 people for a brotherhood. Even if 1 of the people in the Brotherhood is offline, they still 
 equal XP whenever someone in the Brotherhood kills something or turns in a quest. So if you have 
 some close friends like I do, you can all level up at the exact same time, no one gets left behind.
 
  
  
  THE BAD STUFF
  
  I heard before I bought the game that there were bugs, but honestly, I havent found much of any. 
 There will be spots where something wierd happens and I'm like "WTF just happend?", but its nothing 
 that has effected anything in the game whatsoever for me.
  
  This game is huge world, the problem with this is, I dont think SOE's online servers are build 
 to handle some parts of it. I'm running a high quality graphics card with 512mb Vmemory, 2GB ram, 
 Windows XP (cuz Vista would be hell on this game) , and I run lagless in adventuring areas. But 
 when you step in cities, its LagFest. I would have no problem if it were 10 seconds of complete 
 locking up, but I've had it freeze for over a minute.
  
  The Vanguard Development Team has said they are working on fixing alot of performance issues in 
 Vanguard, and they are. These will, without a doubt, be fixed over time. And this game is stable 
 enough to buy and enjoy for a very long time, and it will only get better as time goes by.
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  
  The game is great. Everything about it is wonderful. You should buy it, 
 you wont regret it. The community is alive, the economy is kicking, and the players are all mature 
 and helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Vanguard is a MMORPG with more scope and depth then any other game. Featuring 4 game systems in 
 one world. Adventuring, crafting, diplomacy, and harvesting. While harvesting is really associated 
 with Adventuring it has unique equipment and skills. Crafting & Diplomacy are complete game systems 
 unlike any other MMORPG on the market. They have quests, tasks, equipment, rewards and their own 
 loots. You can play as any one of these spheres, adventurer, crafter, diplomat and you level up 
 independent of the other spheres. 
  
  Vanguards world is huge and doesn't make use of instancing. The game features many forms of mounts 
 and transportation, horses you get at lvl 10, boats that players make, flying mounts you can rent 
 and will soon be able to own, and a rift system that teleports you around the world. 
  
  The game also has an auctionhouse, bank, ingame email, and player housing, including large guild 
 housing. 
  
  The graphics and the world in vanguard are also without peer. The world is build without zones 
 or boundries. You can travel as far as you can see and in any direction with no artificial boxing 
 as found in many games. In vanguard you can see for miles and pick a spot in the distance hop on 
 your horse and travel to that location. 
  
  Adventuring combat is pretty standard far with attacks, starters, finishing moves. In addition 
 there are reaction oriented moves like blocking or counterspelling that are done in response to 
 events that occur during combat. Also there is a system or weakness creation and exploitation that 
 enables a group of players to compliment each other creating weaknesses that other players can 
 exploit to do additional damage. 
  
  The crafting system is rather deep and involved. You have a process oriented system where you do 
 various actions to progress the quality or completeness of an item while dealing with complications 
 that occur and making sure you don't run out of action points. The crafting system also has many 
 recipes and various ways to customize recipes with various items found from adventuring of disassembling 
 items. 
  
  The diplomacy system is a card game system where you interact with npcs to gain lore and various 
 items that can be traded for cards, clothing or other equipment. Diplomacy system can effect general 
 area's creating bufs for things like adventuring, crafting or diplomacy. Diplomacy can also be 
 used in some dungeon areas to effect the difficulty of the dungeon or certain enemies.
  
  The noticeable strengths:
  Vanguards biggest strength is the broadness of the game. No other 
 game has as much variety of activities players can choose from or the shear depth. 
  
  The world is huge, graphically pleasing, and immersive. 
  
  Vanguard also has a multitude of 
 unique classes and races with numerous starting areas. You can start the game in different areas 
 and have a unique game experience in each area.
  
  BUT:
  Vanguard was released too early. The developers ran out of money and had to ship the game before 
 it was finished, fully debugged and polished. 
  
  At launch the system requirements were very high only the best computer systems could handle the 
 game requirements. Even worse the graphics system performance and tuning were very poor. Graphical 
 lag, hitching and pauses are commonplace. This is especially bad when going into a town or in an 
 area with many people. And even on the lowest settings it can be a problem. 
  
  The high lvl game was thrown in quickly and the general story and quality of the quests is worse 
 then the lower levels. There is a rushed feel to it and it has many bugs. Some quests are broken, 
 some quests are very dull kill x of mob y. In an area you might find 20 quests all of this type. 
 
  
  The high lvl game has no raids. 
  
  Crafting and Diplomacy are also lacking polish or completeness. Crafting has numerous bugs and 
 is not very polished. 
  
  Overall vanguards biggest problem is it was not complete. 
  
  Now several months later many of these problems have been addressed. Performance is significantly 
 better and many bugs have been squashed. Raid content is being added in the next couple weeks and 
 many quests are being revamped even some areas. overall the game has improved significantly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  Granting a second chance to games that did not live up to launch day potential is not easy. The 
 old clich goes, "you only get one chance to make a first impression". Call the statement trivial 
 but this is still true to it's word. Vanguard: Saga of Heroes, has failed long time fans of Brad 
 McQuaid and now rests with a skeleton crew of developers. Here is my second look of the game and 
 my review of it's contents since launch day.
  
  Keeping a constant flow of resources needed to improve a MMORPG is always important, especially 
 when so many bugs need to be fixed. This is not what SOE has given V: SOH since they took over from 
 Sigil. Instead of giving V: SOH developers much needed funding and staff, they vouched to keep a 
 skeleton crew of developers on the project. I must give credit to this limited team as they have 
 been working extremely hard to fix the problems that plagued the game since launch. The game has 
 come a long way in one year and many of the bugs and crash issues have been resolved. Unfortunately, 
 many problems still remain and due to the lack of resources invested in V: SOH, these fixes come 
 in quite slow. If you possess the patience to wait for each patch, then this game is for you. Many 
 people will not stick around to pay $15 a month to become beta testers.
  
  Most MMORPGs have two important forms of gameplay in their products, combat and crafting. The combat 
 of Vanguard is what you come to expect from a MMO. Your character has functions to auto-attack, 
 hotkeys for spells and skills, and different tiers/levels of monsters which determine the difficulty 
 of engagements. The different tiers that a monster can be are represented by a system of dots, 
 1 being the weakest and 6 being the most powerful. Anything over 3 dots was designed to be tackled 
 by a group of players, but this is not the case in the current form of gameplay. I am finding and 
 witnessing reports of some classes able to solo encounters of 5 dots or more, making these alpha 
 classes the FOTM. I would hope that in future patches this will be fixed to encourage more group 
 play as it was intended, but then again the game has a skeleton crew.
  
  Diplomacy and crafting are two other major forms of gameplay in V: SOH. The diplomatic systems brings 
 out some new and refreshing gameplay in the form of a mini-game. Players parlay NPCs in the form 
 of a card game, where the winner is rewarded loot, faction and diplomatic experience. There are 
 many quests that involve diplomacy and some of the storylines for them are done well. There is 
 also a civic diplomacy system in place which provides buffs to players based on which faction is 
 in control. To make this system work effectively, players must cooperate with each other to work 
 towards a common goal. There is also a crafting system, which has allot of depth. Players are in 
 full control of their products on a range of quality and progress. A plus side to crafting in V: SOH 
 is that one player is able to level crafting without having to pick up combat at all. Final products 
 can make for some decent profit due to the inflation of low level items. You can thank your friendly 
 neighborhood gold farmer for this.
  
  Vanguard also hosts player housing and player controlled boats. In order to get ethier of these, 
 you will want to make friends with a few other crafters. The different modules needed to create 
 them are done by different crafting arch-types. There are only a handful of reasons why anyone 
 would need a house in the game right now. Extra storage is always nice but couldn't we of just 
 had an option for extra bank storage if that was the main focus of player housing? The second advantage 
 is that you are able to recall to your housing spot, adding for an extra yet expensive shortcut 
 in the large game world. Boats work as a form of fast travel across sea. The largest vessel can 
 take you out to 600m of deep ocean, but that is it. Other typical forms of transportation that 
 we have come to expect in MMORPGs are here. The world of Vanguard is huge, but you may buy a mount 
 starting at level 10. These mounts can be customized with different "parts", such as horseshoes 
 for extra speed and a saddle bag for storage. 
  
  Indeed, the world of Vanguard is quite large and there are tons of ways to get lost. Thankfully 
 the map system works well and you are able to locate your position via the world map and an optional 
 mini-map. The beauty of Telon comes across as a blessing and a farce. If you have a powerful PC 
 like me, you are able to turn your draw distance up high for some impressive backgrounds. I found 
 myself pointing at my screen and wondering what might be over "that mountain" or what might be 
 in "that forest". The problem comes when you realize how far you must travel in order to see these 
 locations, and when getting there you find are in the same stale landscape resembling your point 
 of origin. Adding impressive and interesting POIs are a challenge in MMORPGs, as you don't want 
 to over do it and make the player feel as if they are in a theme park. Again, not going to be a 
 major issues for a skeleton crew.
  
  After a year we have seen some changes that have been positive for V: SOH, but is it enough? The 
 answer is no, as we still yet to see an increase in world population of active players. Many folks 
 I have spoken with who stuck through Vanguard's troubled times play just for the simple reason 
 that the game is fun. Fun is a great term and one of the reasons why we play interactive products 
 in the first place, but it doesn't pay the bills. In order for Vanguard to become it's initial 
 vision of a massive online game able to lock horns with such giants as WoW, it will need more work. 
 Coming in the next few months players will be able to download a trial version for the "re-launch" 
 of V: SOH. I feel that SOE knows if they screw up this time, this "vision" is nothing but a pipedream. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: endril03
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  The story line is the worst part of this game, and that's saying a lot. In fact, I'm not sure there 
 is one. It's so boring, unbelievabily boring. The graphics are alright, but there's something weird 
 about it. It's hard to explain, but it doesn't seem realistic. I mean it's hard to feel like the 
 world it real. More like a picture moving around a background. 
  
  I played it with the best possible computer and pvp still skipped a little. PVP is like fighting 
 with paper dolls. Completely unrealistic. I'm not a WOW fan, but WOW has something this game doesn't. 
 PVP in WOW feels like you're actually fighting someone. In Vanguard it's more like your playing 
 a bad game and fighting someone. I don't know, just really unrealistic.
  
  You ever play old school UO? With the 2 frame paper doll horses when you run? I get that same feeling 
 in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  I have a feeling that there are two types of MMO players among a large portion of the total MMO 
 playerbase: Those who began the genre with Everquest, and those who entered the genre with World 
 of Warcraft (aka WoW) . 
  
  I see Vanguard as more in the "hardcore" MMO vein following the Everquest tradition, than many 
 other games which follow in the "easier", and thus more marketable, tradition of WoW.
  
  Since in some ways the release of Vanguard has been a train wreck, I have deeply mixed feelings 
 about the game. However, I still really admire Sigil for attempting to release a "hardcore" MMO 
 and kind of give the World (of Warcraft) the middle finger. 
  
  Therefore it deserves a "10" in my book. 
  
  Here are a few points of comparison between WoW 
 and Vanguard:
  
  Performance: WoW plays like a dream. Vanguard is not as smooth. Few loading screens, which is nice, 
 however framerates come to a grinding halt sometimes as the game loads the objects around you. 
 Also, cities and other crowded areas also cause the FPS to take a nose dive. This is my biggest 
 complaint about Vanguard. 
  
  Combat: WoW offers pretty calm and some would say boring combat, however it can get intense. Vanguard 
 offers a some counter-attack/chain attack moves that require a person to really pay attention and 
 group combat is also very intense. 
  
  Travel Times: WoW has a large gameworld that can take some time to traverse, while Vanguard has 
 a large gameworld that can take literally HOURS to traverse. EDIT: The travel time in Vanguard 
 is getting better with the Rift System, also, you can rent FLYING MOUNTS.
  
  Dying: WoW involves a tedious corpse run, or, some rez sickness... while Vanguard offers a loss 
 of experience (if you get your corpse back) , a LARGER loss of experience (if you don't) , and the 
 possibility of losing equipment. 
  
  Leveling: In WoW, and I've heard they have even sped this up recently, levels fly by kind of fast 
 up to a point. In Vanguard, at least when I first started playing around launch, levels could take 
 a really long time, therefore they felt like a really big accomplishment. EDIT: I just started 
 playing Vanguard again and the leveling still takes a lot of time compared to WoW, however, a resting 
 bonus has been added
  
  Crafting: In WoW, you pretty much gather mats and click a button. In Vanguard, crafting is more 
 involved, like EQ2, with random problems that can arise and cause you to lose mats. 
  
  Population: WoW, across all it's servers, is massive indeed. Vanguard had to consolidate servers 
 to keep the game from feeling empty. However, now that the servers are consolidated, it feels pretty 
 alive. 
  
  Grouping: In WoW, you can solo large stretches in the game. This is possible in Vanguard, but it 
 would take you a really long time. Around launch time for Vanguard, grouping was pretty much necessary 
 at relatively low player levels. And the groups are fun! See Community below and Combat above.
 
  
  Community: Around launch, many Vanguard players were Everquest veterans. From what I could tell 
 of Everquest, at least in it's early days, it was a "hardcore" game indeed. Basically, it seems 
 like most of the Vanguard players are pretty experienced at MMOs/grouping and strike me as being 
 more competent than average.
  
  In conclusion, both games are addictive and great amounts of fun for different reasons. I haven't 
 played either too much in recent months, but I've heard WoW has gotten easier to level in because 
 the developers want people to get higher level characters for the expansions. I hope Vanguard sticks 
 to it's niche as the "hardcore" MMO and never does a thing like that. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stealthbr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  System Used: 8800GTX, 680i SLi, E6600, 3GB Dominator 800Mhz. RAM.
  
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  Although Vanguard's landscapes are terrific to look at, you can't say the same about the character 
 models. Many things make you go Wow! like seeing a big and beautiful ship. Vanguard is probably 
 to prettiest MMO in the market now. A lot of the animations are done poorly. Also, items in general 
 are done poorly. There are some graphical bugs also. 
  
  Sound 7.0 
  
  Sound in Vanguard is good, but could be improved. Some songs get stuck on your head while others 
 make you feel like turning your mp3 player on. Also, animation sounds aren't really well made.
 
  
  Gameplay 7.5
  
  Vanguard has a lot of things to keep you interested even though there are some serious problems. 
 It has boats, housing, a huge explorable world, mounts, and challenging things that make you keep 
 playing the game. The problem with housing and boats though is that they are extremelly useless 
 and serve no point other than looks. Crafting is also a fun part of the game where the process 
 is much more dynamic than other games like EQ2. It can get pretty frustrating though like failing 
 an item when its 99% complete. Another bad thing about crafting is that its a complete grind. Can't 
 say the same thing about diplomacy since it is bad on several aspects. Combat in Vanguard isn't 
 so bad even though its auto-attack while using skills. Quests could be much better since most of 
 them are your typical: Go there and kill X mobs or Gather X resources.
  
  Overall, Vanguard is a cool game but lacks in several areas that could make it an excellent MMO. 
 Character models, diplomacy, boats, houses, technical issues, crafting frustrations, typical MMO 
 quests, animations, and bad music bring the overall quality of this game down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeb23
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I know this game started out horribly bad! I played the beta and was very disappointed just like 
 many others were as well.
  
  If you are thinking about getting this game I would suggest either find it on sale.. or wait a 
 month or two. They are going to be having a trial version out very soon. 
  
  I am playing it right now as a lvl 15 warrior. I do like the different things you can do in this 
 game... first most being diplomacy. Its very different and fun/challenging. 
  
  The graphics are great in this game. I would even say they were ahead of their time. The bad thing 
 is now that the game is finally starting to be playable (via patches) more MMORPGs are about to 
 come out that rival this game in graphics/sound. I sadly believe this game will become lost in 
 the mix unless a relaunch and trial version can revive the game. I do hope it will revive so the 
 player base can grow... all to be seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lead_healer
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much what I expected. Graphics were nice. Game play was similar to EQ1. I liked the fact 
 that you could run and cast spells but the absolute lack of solo content sucks. I used to play 
 Everquest 1 religiously all the way to 65 (when that was the cap) and this game is an upgraded 
 mirror of it.
  
  This is a GROUP orientated MMO. Don't expect to find much to do without one. Like camping mobs 
 for hours? Here you go. Everything that made me quit EQ1 made me quit this game after a month. 
 I hoped it would've included some solo content to occupy my time while searching for groups. Stick 
 with WoW or EQ2 unless you are unemployed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowolf_12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Well even though I havent gotten to play this game as much as other people I am writing this review 
 because people say this game is tottaly broken. Well look at the dates written, those where written 
 when it came out. I have been playing for about 3-4weeks off and on due to me upgrading my computer. 
 This game is NOT filled with teens who dont have lives, but with the older adult crowd, at least 
 the people I've seen. Many times im playing with a group and some of our members of our group are 
 husband and wife. Also many times they have to leave to pick up thier kids from school. So you 
 can see this is not filled with kids, even though there will always be some. I have noticed how 
 this game offers unique-ness hrough out the game. This is shown in many ways but one that stood 
 out to me was the items. Every once in a while you will be the first to discover an item. Even 
 though this is becoming more and more uncommon due to length of game being out, there are TON of 
 diffrent items all with diffrent names and upgrades. Like some games like runescape have virtually 
 7 kinds of armor, while in Vangaurd there is probley 1000 diffrent kinds for just the breast plate.
 
  
  Also this game makes you want to get to a higher levels by putting new attacks every 2 levels and 
 new items you can aquire even further along. (houses, exotic mounts, boats etc.) But in order to 
 get to a higher level often times you will have to group with a variety of diffrent players to 
 take on the difficult eniemys. This brings me to my next point, classes.
  
  There is I belive like 20 diffrent classes you can be, which fit in 4 groups: Defence fighters 
 ( tanks ) , offencive fighters, healers (super usefull in a group) , and casters. Each subclass for 
 these groups is unique with diffrent attacks and way they are viewed in the world.
  
  Crafting is also a very diffrent experience in this game. It isn't just stick in the materials, 
 then out comes a item. This is a complex puzzel where the player tries to make the best item he 
 can without running out of action points destroying all materials put into it. Note: The world 
 is HUGE!!!! Three continets, with diverse cultures for each and on these continents there is a 
 variety of regions and civilizations.
  
  Some problems I had with the game:
  -There isnt always enough people around to start a group so you end up waisting time trying to 
 start one.
  -There wasn't much of a global story line. alot of the time there where a few quests that linked 
 together, but nothing like there is a storyline for the world.
  
  But all in all I am glad i got this game and I would recomend this to a person who can spend so 
 major time playing this, because it is no easy task leveling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delius
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 16, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  I got VG: SoH the day it came out. I found it to be exactly what I would expect from the original 
 Everquest team: Good game play but very buggy and lag filled.
  
  I actually upgraded my computer to play Vanguard back then. Even after the $800 upgrade, (which 
 allowed me to run Oblivion on the highest settings smoothly) I could only run the game on medium 
 settings and it didn't look anywhere near as good as Oblivion. Now that I could play the game with 
 decent graphics, I found that I enjoyed the game play a great deal despite the multitude of bugs. 
 There are three spheres to the game. The adventuring sphere was about what you would expect from 
 a high fantasy mmo, but with an above average and fun combat system. Solo combat is par, but group 
 combat is where Vanguard shines. In groups you gain combat bonus' if you use strong tactics while 
 fighting. For instance, there is a ranger skill that gives bonus damage if your flanking your opponent.
 
  
  The crafting sphere is also solid, deep, and unlike other mmo's very self contained. You could 
 level a crafter to maximum level without ever leaving town.
  
  The diplomacy sphere is a new idea - and the only real innovation - in VG. It's a system of manipulating 
 npcs through verbal wordplay, that plays out like a card game. You can use diplomacy to gain bonus' 
 for a multitude of things including the other spheres. Easy to learn, hard to master.
  
  The world is very large, but was incomplete at the time. There was little to no high end content 
 at the time of release. There are all sorts of methods of travel, including your first mount when 
 you hit level 10... which is a good thing, because other then a basic recall spell you have no 
 method of fast travel. I found the quest content to be sufficient until about level 15, when I 
 suddenly ran out of quests at my level range within the continent. Fortunately there are missives 
 (repeatable quests) that you can grind till you hit that next plateau, unfortunately the experience 
 in Vanguard comes slower then in other mmo's, so the limited number of missives you can complete 
 start to get old quickly.
  
  All that being said, in the end I ended up quiting the game after about a month of play due to 
 the frequent bugs, and generally poor graphic/network performance of the game.
  
  7 and a half months Later...
  
  I thought I would come back and see how the game is progressing. 
 I wasn't impressed. Other then the fact that there seemed to be more quest and high end content 
 added to the game, the problems that plagued the game are still there and in some cases seem to 
 be worse then ever before! If the game engine ran like LotR: Online, and they did something about 
 the bugs, the game would easily be a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikolon234
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Wouldn't it be nice to have a game rated mature that was able to actually check and make sure everyone 
 was at least age 21? What happened to the old EQ crowd? Economics is going to make it difficult 
 to have that type of crowd but my feeling is if you build it they will come. Last couple weeks 
 I played the game it was not just one or two idiots a night it was ten to fifteen. Even started 
 playing late into the night and they were still there. As for the game large, beautiful, but empty. 
 Art, character creation, and game feel was great. Almost hope this game gets bought out and the 
 right team gets it's hands on this to finish it off. This can still be a killer game. Fill in the 
 gameplay gaps with good story lines and meaningfull quests and I for one will come back. Finally 
 way to many bugs to be released when it did. This game was still in beta at release and I think 
 it drove many off. The game was getting better as time went on of course but trying to make a quick 
 buck may have killed the game or made it not live up to it's potential. This boils down to poor 
 team leadership so Brad dropped the ball on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DazKurupt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Ive played alot of mmos , from Everquest 1 and 2. To Guild Wars , World of Warcraft, LotR SoA, 
 etc. Vanguard is the most visually stunning and its clear the variety of weapon and armor graphics 
 is superior to any mmo comparitively (VSOH has no expansions yet and still has better variety then 
 alota mmos with expansions) . There are some things missing like helm graphics . Some things arent 
 missing that should be like alota various bugs. None of the bugs ive seen hinder the gameplay drasticaly 
 but they can be annoying. I suspect these problems will be fixed over time. Its a huge world but 
 you get mounts early and there are ways of getting around. boats and riftways mounts and flying 
 mounts or a bard heh.
  
  There are many classes to chose from. the pvp isnt as great as WoW or GW's . Needs work . I would 
 like to see more character customization options.
  
  I really like the housing and ships they can really do some interesting things in the future with 
 these features the way the implemented them. The community is cool when servers merge there will 
 be a healthy population. As it is now its fine by me but alot of people would like more players.
 
  
  Do not play with a pc that barely meets requirements you will just be frustrated by poor performance.
 
  
  Vanguard Saga of Heroes has an excellent framework and will only get better as time goes on and 
 patches come and fix the above listed issues. I Excpect some killer expansions to come as well 
 8) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  The game reminds me of EQ1 and Darkage Of Camelot. But to many people are putting the game down 
 when it is way better then they say cause they probally havent played since beta or release. So 
 dont follow those reviews just play the game and try it for yourself. This game you need to actual 
 play it not just read about it!! Worst thing baout game: Population (but server merges soon) and 
 no helmet art : ( Graphics: Are Great very detailed.
  
  Quests: Most are enjoyable some get tedious.
  
  Value: Pretty good *there working on more high 
 lvl content.
  
  Combat: Fun Especialy when in a group.
  
  SO DONT JUST READ THE REVIEWS GO OUT AND GET IT AND TRY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xun_Jiaxian
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  About me:
  I've been playing this game since January 9, 2007. I have very mixed feelings about this game and 
 I stick around hoping it can live up to the potential I believe it has. I mainly bought this game 
 for the crafting system, but I belong to a large guild of adventurers who have abundant experience 
 with that part of that gameplay.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  A lot has happened to this game these past six months. Frequent patches have been brought live, 
 a considerable amount of content has been added like new looks for weapons and armor, new quests 
 for special mounts and various other features. The game also has more bugs than any other MMO I've 
 played that has been out for 6 months. Most of the major bugs have been fixed in the most recent 
 patch () such as the very frequent CTD (crash to desktop) that everyone has been experiencing. In 
 the past patches it seems they break something every time they fix something else, but this patch 
 has fixed a considerable amount of bugs without breaking anything else that I've noticed.
  
  The crafting system in Vanguard is the best crafting system that I have played. For the first 
 time ever my crafting level is higher than my adventuring level. crafting can be very repetitive 
 because the only way to level up is to do work orders, but once you start making Ultra-rare gear 
 it all seems to pay off. Unlike other games you don't need to spend much money to make money, work 
 orders cost a small amount of money for utilities which you will make back and profit when you 
 turn them in. High end crafting quests are very hard to come by other than tier quests, but you 
 will find plenty of crafting quest at lower to mid levels that give great rewards. The quest usually 
 consist of gathering stuff from other crafters or harvester and turning them into the NPC. Most 
 of the rewards are excellent if you do them at the required levels. You can craft your typical 
 items such as weapons and armor. You can also craft boats and housing materials. You can craft 
 2 sizes of boats in 2 different styles. The 3rd boat hasn't been added into the game yet and it's 
 the biggest one (funny how they show that one on the back of the box.) Sailing your boat can be 
 very fun but most of the time it's faster to just use the teleporters. I like to sail so I don't 
 use the teleporters unless I'm in a hurry. You can also craft materials to create house which come 
 in 3 sizes and 3 styles. One of my favorite parts of this game is how your house is actually apart 
 of the land, no instance that everyone shares. My house is up on a hill and you can see it from 
 pretty far away. I've only gotten to level 16 as an adventurer because I've spent most of my time 
 leveling up my crafting (currently 42 carpenter) . Many of my high level adventuring guildies always 
 go on about the amount of quests they've completed, I can't give an exact number of quest but from 
 what my guildmates say it's a great amount. Most of them seem to be quest lines that require you 
 to group up and kill a boss mob deep in a dungeon. To complete most quest lines you will need a 
 group so adventuring solo in Vanguard my not be easy. The gameplay can be very fun and enjoyable 
 if you can get pass all the bugs. I would suggest joining a guild to help you find people to group 
 with as the playerbase is very small right now and server merges are still being planned out.
 
  
  SOUND:
  I find most of the music annoying other than the Kojan music which has an Asian sound to it. I 
 turn off all the music off and run my own play list in itunes
  Combat sounds good, but nothing to jump up and down over.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are 
 very good IF you have a super high end PC. Anything less and you will need to turn the video setting 
 down. I run smooth on medium high settings which still looks very clear and sharp and I stay within 
 50-70 FPS.
  My current system: AMD X2 4600+ 2.4GHz
  4gig DDR2 RAM
  1 Geforce 8600 GT
  Windows Vista
  nothing is over-clocked.
  
  Final thoughts:
  
  Buy this game if you're 
 patient and willing to stick to a game still very incomplete. If not I recommend at least trying 
 it out in another 4-6 months 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sevryn45
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  It took 5 years to make this game, which confuses me mainly because if Brad Mcquaid wanted to end 
 up with the same steaming pile he could have saved himself some money and released it several years 
 earlier.
  
  This game is bugged beyoned belief, my massive rig wasent even able to run this Monster. The world 
 is large but it's empty, there's a ton of content missing; everything seems just incomplete. One 
 of the next generation features in this game is diplomacy which is a card game..... lol yep this 
 game was hyped up beyond belief prolly as bad as Dark and Light in terms of hype. The world is 
 so large that you will be lucky to come across another player, it can get boring. If I wanted a 
 single player game I could have picked up something ten times more fun from my local game store 
 at a bargain price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanuberman
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  The game from day one left me with an empty feeling as though I was playing in a BETA 1 phase and 
 still all these months later that hasn't changed. The graphics and sound are in my opinion the 
 best out there currently for MMORPG, so whats not to like? The game has almost zero solo content 
 after level 10. The combat in the game just plain sucks, I couldn't tell you the last time I played 
 an RPG and felt like the combat was so fake and unrewarding. The mobs are made harder then they 
 should be for their type and level to encourage grouping and the options should be left open. The 
 interface was glued together by a 3 year old and the side professions and guild system is the worst 
 i have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EQHammerkeg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  I played this game when it was released but quit due to poor performance. I have since resubscribed, 
 and I am very happy I did!
  
  SOLO FRIENDLY
  The game is solo friendly. You have many and varied Solo Quests and tasks. The task system is also 
 elaborate in which you can repeatedly complete missives that are apart of the game's lore in a 
 certain location. E. g., in Southwatch you complete tasks to defend the village from the Undead 
 invasion on each of its gates. After completing these tasks, you receive a ticket that can be exchange 
 for great gear. The more tickets you have, the more of a chance you have to obtain awesome gear. 
 GROUP FRIENDLY
  There are myriad small group and group Quests in the game. There are also numerous dungeons in 
 the game as well. Most of the Quests are fun.
  
  SOLO EPIC Quests
  The game contains epic quests that can be soloed, although a group would make it much more efficient. 
 You can obtain unique mounts. World
  The world is massive and fascinating. The many different cultures, continents, flaura and fauna 
 make it the most impressive world on the market today. The various civilizations are unique. You 
 can also voyage by your own ship. It is very fun. You also can get a house that exists in the world 
 and you obtain a gate ability if you buy a house. Content
  As I mentioned, tons of Solo, small group, and group content from tasks to Quests to dungeon crawls 
 to various caves. The world is massive so you will have to travel to things. However, you can discover 
 all sorts of caves and small group and solo dungeons and things throughout this world.
  
  Enjoyment
  I enjoy the game because of the many options. You can explore, adventure, craft, and 
 engage in diplomacy. If you are bored with adventuring, you can engage in crafting or diplomacy. 
 Or do what I do, explore this very impressive and huge world. The sound is also good in this game. 
 The game is very ambitious. Raid content exists but they are developing tons of this as I review 
 it. I do not care for raiding that much, though. Anyway, I played eq 1, eq 2, DAoC, Eve, WoW, et 
 al. and this is my favorite MMO since EQ 1. Good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arieles
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  I debated buying this game for a very long time due to the mixed reports about the bugs and graphics 
 lag and finally decided to about a month ago. I have no measly system: 2gb ram, Pentium dual core 
 3.0ghz processor and Nvidia Geforce 7800GTX with 256. With this in mind I must say indeed there 
 is quite a bit of lag. Graphics: I am not particularly fond of playing a game where I have to turn 
 the graphics down in order just to have it run smoothly. You can certainly run smoothly with my 
 system if you want it to look sub par or you can turn them up to a pleasant viewing level and experience 
 a great deal of chopping and lag at all times. This game is also not Wow graphically.. Wow has 
 more of a cartoonish appearance whereas Vanguard is more reality based. This of course is why the 
 performance suffers. I would have preferred more color than it has but detail wise it's top notch 
 (if you have a super computer) . With that said, I don't find that I can rate the graphics highly 
 (though certainly if it is maxed out is deserves it.. it's just that the normal person is never 
 going to see this quality when they play) .
  
  Gameplay: I also am a bit disappointed in a few aspects of the game in the questing department. 
 The group quests are worth no more experience than the single man quests are though they are far 
 more difficult in most cases.. but not more rewarding. The whole questing reward system seems imbalanced 
 in general. Travel is a bit on the tedious side for some of the quests as well at times as there 
 seems to be a lot of open landscape in this huge world that is unused. Leveling is very slow and 
 the ability to find dungeons and the like in the world is completely inobvious so it's easy to 
 bypass some variety of content for simple lack of awareness that it exists. There is not a large 
 amount of information available on the internet about this game either like there is for wow so 
 if you get stuck on a quest or are trying to find information about something, don't expect to 
 be able to go dig it up on the web somewhere, you generally aren't going to find it. The combat 
 system is nice though not very explanatory so you kind of just have to stumble into figuring out 
 how it works over time. Crafting: Tedious and takes a long time to level as well, but it's a nice 
 system setup. Again, not enough information available to assist you if you are having difficulties. 
 Overall: I like the game ok but I have become bored with it already as it seems entirely too tedious 
 to level for the amount of time I have to spend on it which is around 3-4 hours a night. The lag 
 gets really tiring as well so it kind of spoils the immersiveness factor and I refuse to turn my 
 graphics down to where everything is just a blur. I really wish they had tested and worked on this 
 game more. It is a shame that they released it this incompletely as it could have been a really 
 great game. Coulda, shoulda, woulda.. those cross my mind as words the developers probably say 
 every day when I played this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buglette
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I had been following Vanguard for quite some time prior to its release and from what I had read 
 it looked to be a promising game. The large amount of races and classes really interested me, I 
 enjoy a game with choices.
  
  Vanguard's world looked beautiful and the gameplay sounded unique. The developers aimed to challenge 
 players. So when the game came out to stores I bought it. From the minute I began to create my 
 character I knew this game wasn't what I had expected. I had known about the models to be unibody, 
 but I hadn't expected them to be ugly. The animation is terrible as well and it is hard to tell 
 one character from the next.
  
  The world is pretty and very large. So large that many areas seem lifeless. Leveling up in the 
 game felt very dull and I forced myself to get to level 10 so that I may get myself a horse. I 
 don't recommend soloing. The majority of my time playing was spent grinding endlessly - and dying 
 plenty.
  
  I did, however, enjoy the diplomacy aspect of the game. I'd wish more games allowed this kind of 
 interaction with NPCs.
  
  Vanguard also comes with a huge handful of annoying bugs which make the game nearly unplayable. 
 Of course, with progression and as the game gets worked on I could see Vanguard being a game worth 
 playing - but at the moment it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChief8
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Vanguard Saga of Heroes is basically EQ2 on crack. it takes the best of all of Sony's MMO's and 
 pop's em together in one beautiful package. despite a few bugs VSOH has some excelent gameplay 
 along with an unheard of amount of classes and races, a world probably six times the size of Everquest 
 2 and sweet new additions like Flying mounts and Boats (all player controlled) . Exploring the Massive 
 continents of Vanguard is really the bang for your buck, beautiful landscapes and massive cities 
 make Vanguard feel like a whole new world! Awsome additions such as Diplomacy actually affect the 
 game and what happens in this evolving world of Vanguard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRellic
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 23, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  In my opinion I believe Vanguard is Great! They do have a few small bugs, in-game to be corrected. 
 I think they did a nice job with graphics, sound, etc. However if you have an older computer or 
 a computer that barely makes the minimum requirements I highly suggest an upgrade. When your computer 
 does exceed the minimal requirements you will enjoy the game and see what detail and work really 
 was put into Vanguard. Looks to me they based the game on computers of todays technology and the 
 future, so it will be enjoyable later on as well. Leveling does take some time, and can be frustrating 
 at times like any other mmo-rpg. But they made it tougher then your normal kids game like WoW, 
 where you can hit 70 in a month if worked on at a decent rate. In my opinion this is why Vanguard 
 has allot less kids on it, and is mostly adults and mature people. Not to where you walk into a 
 town and the general chat is cursing, calling names, and who is putting who down. Therefor, allot 
 of the ratings that are bad on this game is almost 90% of people who are under the ages of 21 or 
 are looking for a extremely fast leveling process to hit max level asap. Where Vanguard is for 
 most people, not a fast leveling pace. In-game has allot of nice areas to explore and is enjoyable 
 solo or as a group. If you are looking to hit max level in a day or two, this may not be the game 
 for you. If you enjoy taking your time and exploring, crafting some nice stuff, or even working 
 up some diplomacy, maybe some pvp and what not on the way. Then Vanguard will fill your needs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reddington17
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 15, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard could have been a great next generation MMORPG if Sigil hadn't run out of money and released 
 it in a broken state. The game includes three spheres of gameplay, Adventuring, Crafting, and Diplomacy. 
 I have been playing Vanguard since it's release in January on the Faction vs. Faction Varking server.
 
  
  Adventuring: Like any other MMO this is the meat and potatoes of the game. This is also the only 
 sphere worth putting any time into IMO. Joining a group and going off to fight evil monsters is 
 always fun, except when you lose connection to your group because you're too far away or when you 
 can't join a group because the game claims you're already in a group when you're not. Once you 
 get a group going and start playing the game adventuring is quite fun. If you have a decent group 
 with a tank and healer and some damage dealers then you'll be able to quest through dungeons and 
 go on quests etc. If you don't have friends to play with then you're out of luck. While you could 
 solo in this game the xp would be much much slower than if you found a group. As I've heard from 
 other servers finding a group is easy but the PvP servers are scarcely populated. Crafting: Anyone 
 who likes playing roulette will probably like the crafting system in Vanguard. Once you choose 
 a crafting dicipline to follow you have to grind Work Orders for xp to level your crafting skill. 
 This would be fine but you need so much xp to go from level 20 to 21 that it will take hours and 
 hours of grinding work orders to gain a level. My main complaint with crafting in this game is 
 how its handeled. Rather than gathering X compnents and then putting them together you have to 
 play a crafting minigame to make items. You have a certain amount of Action Points to craft with 
 and everything you do costs action points. If you run out of action points before you finish an 
 item you lose all the components you used in trying to craft the item. This sounds simple and fun 
 but the inclusion of complications destroy any feeling of fun in crafting. While you craft an item 
 there are random chances on every step that a complication will arise that you will have to fix, 
 using extra action points. The real annoying comes in when you get the same complication on the 
 same step 2-3 times in a row. Or, when you fix a comp, use a crafting action, and get a new comp 
 you have to fix. To make matters worse, the items required to make decent crafted items are so 
 rare you need to charge lots of money for items you make, even if players can get better items 
 from easy quests. As of my writing this review there is very little advantage of crafting in Vanguard. 
 Even making boats and houses is worthless. Instead of paying massive amounts of gold and materials 
 to build a house, you can store all your extar items on mule characters. Boats are worthless because 
 you are so rarely in the water. Even when you need to travel across water you can find a character 
 with a levitation spell and run across the water. Diplomacy: This additional sphere is utterly 
 worthless. You play a card game with NPCs to gain diplomacy xp. You can also do quests for diplomacy 
 rewards such as pointless titles for your character or weaker versions of mounts that are easy 
 to get through adventuring. Unless they add real rewards for diplomacy there is no reason to even 
 use this minigame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XaineBD
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 12, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  When you first install the game, go through the initial patches, and finally get to the character 
 creation, the game is off to a great start. Highly customizable characters by race, class, and 
 even the color of their eyes.
  
  Once you tweak your new toon to perfection, the game launches you into your races newbie zone to 
 get you started on learning the interface and interacting with NPCs. The good thing is that most 
 races start in their own little area, which makes creating a toon of different race a fresh experience.
 
  
  After learning how to play and complete some initial quests, you soon learn that you've been on 
 an extremely small speck of land and you start to explore the enormous continents. However you 
 soon learn that doing so will result in getting extremely difficult quests that you have to get 
 a team together to accomplish. Usually not an issue in an MMO, but given that the game is four 
 months old, the initial players are now mostly in their 40s and you're left there staring at the 
 grass. So you're thinking, what should I do sense no one is around to group with right now? Well, 
 you can do diplomacy, harvesting, or crafting. Diplomacy is fairly difficult to learn, but gets 
 easy and enjoyable pretty quick. Harvesting is easy to learn and will get you out exploring the 
 low-level zones collecting resources. Great for passing time and getting needed resources for crafters. 
 Crafting however, is very hard to learn, and will make your eyes bleed from the extremely long 
 repetitive button clicking that you have to endure to complete one work order. Work orders give 
 you crafting experience, a bag filled with trash to sell, or equipment to enhance your character. 
 Unless you like extremely repetitive tasks that are not visually stunning what-so-ever, and take 
 you hours and hours and hours, then crafting is not for you. If you have mild carpal-tunnel syndrome, 
 crafting is definitely not for you.
  
  Once you get into a good group and start doing some of the higher level quest lines, the game is 
 pretty nice to explore and quest in. Many places to go, many environments to see, many things to 
 acquire.
  
  The game starts to break down pretty quickly when you reach level 40 or higher. Every quest needs 
 a group, which wouldn't be a problem if the consistent bugs and game hiccups didn't slaughter your 
 group from time to time. Nothing worse than digging into a dungeon for an hour or so, only to have 
 your group wiped by a game flaw. Most groups will dissolve when that happens due to having to dig 
 alll the way back to get your corpses. The worst part is that if you are in a dungeon that most 
 people don't go to, getting back in there with another group to finish whatever quest line you 
 are on will be next to impossible. Sometimes taking weeks to get another group formed... of which 
 will probably be wiped by a bug or hiccup causing the group to dissolve when that happens due to 
 -- well, you get the point.
  
  Also, being level 40+ has another issue. Being the level that you are, you've collected a good 
 pile of coin and want to spend it on high level items like boats, large houses, and gear. The major 
 flaw is that 90% of people get bored with crafting before reaching level 30. Which means that if 
 you, lets say, want a Thestran Caravel (boat) , there's probably three people on the server with 
 the skills to make all the components required for that particular caravel. It takes hours and 
 hours to create the materials for one boat... and everyone wants one. So it can take you weeks 
 of waiting to ever get a chance to get one built! The sad thing is that most high level crafters, 
 as rare as they are, get burned out from consistent tells and spending literally days making the 
 same thing over and over.
  
  In the end, the game is getting better with time. It looks fantastic, and the game is a blast in 
 the first 20 levels. You may want to wait for a couple more months for some critical bugs to be 
 squashed before leaping in head first though!
  
  ~Xaine~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doveea
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 11, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  Vanguard: Saga of Heroes is like I said, new. So do not be surprised to find a quest or two that 
 will not properly work. On the upside the economy on most servers is very balanced with a lack 
 of price gouging. NPCs drop nice loot. Crafters can make some pretty decent equipment that is both 
 effective and necessary. Augmenting the market economy. All four player spheres; Adventure, Crafting, 
 Harvesting, and Diplomacy make for a very interesting experience, and rewards for your efforts 
 are more then plentiful making it difficult to get bored with Vanguard: Saga of Heroes. Good luck 
 adventurer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwgober92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Oh god where to start... Well, i guess Ill do a little intro and then a bit on my own experience 
 =D
  
  Pros:
  *Very deep gameplay
  *The ability to approach any problem from multiple angles
  *The addition of player boats, housing, 
 shops, etc.
  *The great graphics
  *Incredible community
  
  Cons:
  *Takes a good computer to run (a $1000 modern day pc at least)
  *Low population
  *Stiff NPCs
 
  *Barren environments
  
  The game is amazing in itself. It has things no other MMO has and it is incredibly addicting. From 
 Diplomacy to Crafting and Harvesting the game is great and can be approached from any direction 
 and be experienced a new way every time you play. Also, the addition of player buildings and boats 
 is very nice and add alot to the already great game. Alot of people are being turned away due to 
 the fact that bugs are known to exist but believe me, they arent nearly as bad as they used to 
 be. The game has been fixed by a long shot and is very nice as of the writing of this review. People 
 who bash the game now are still referring to the beta testing and release date of the game.
  
  Now for my personal experience =D
  My first booting of the game I had to let the game install 
 some patches (which it did by itself) and though this is expected the patches where so long that 
 they took two hours to download... This sucked but since they make the game playable I can deal 
 with it.
  
  I entered the game and was prompted to create and avatar, and let me just say that this is amazing. 
 You use sliders (much like in oblivion) and make a completely unique character to play with... even 
 the beast races can be customized very nicely. After I made my Vulmane Ranger I started the game 
 and appeared in a small urban camp that offered a couple general shops, trainers for low levels, 
 and a few quests to start me off. I accepted the quests and though they where easy they felt great 
 as they where my first steps into the game. I had to pick some berries and kill some of the local 
 monsters and I was done and level 2 in no time. Next I had to go into a cave and help out some 
 'less fortunate' souls (NPCs) that where in need... they gave decent exp. and allowed me to meet 
 some friends along the way of questing.
  
  I was eventually out of starting quests so ventured out and found a nice settlement that offered 
 the basics of the game. I could start my diplomacy skills and such here which, by the way, are 
 extremely addicting and come in handy later in-game. You can also get some harvesting quests, though 
 you cant be a pure harvester until level 10. Anyways, I did some of the quests here, met some new 
 people and leveled a bit. Something great is that you are penalized for dying until level 7 so 
 dont worry about dying until then, as nothing really happens. After doing some local quests I decided 
 to go out and explore a bit more and stumbled upon some more players who I grouped with and leveled 
 to level 5 inside of a cave while doing some chain quests. Unfortunately it got late and I had 
 to log off for that night but it was a great first day in the world of Telon and I am very happy 
 with my time there.
  
  Bottom Line:
  *The game is great. It is very deep and very fun to play, not to mention the community is phenomenal. 
 The fighting is fun and the animations are smooth as well. The only big draw back is the trouble 
 of leveling. Though it is fun it takes a while and after playing for over 30 hrs (after the game's 
 official release) I am now only level 11 (though i did just run around for a while so really more 
 like 20 hrs) . This game is for the more hardcore crowd and if you only have an hour a day this 
 game isnt for you... on the other hand, if you love the gaming lifestyle and have 3+ hrs a day to 
 play then you need to pick this up asap and start your new life :)
  
  See you in Telon!
  
  My character (main) :
  Name: Avengash
  Server: FlameHammer (i believe...)
  Gender: Male
 
  Race: Vulmane
  Class: Ranger
  Current Level: 11 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  I have played just about ever top release for the last six years for pc games, why this scored 
 so low, I don't understand. The only thing I can think of is there are a lot of pc gamers on this 
 site that don't really have the updated hardware necessary to run the recently released games. 
 Vanguard is by far one of the best pc games released to date. The graphics are great, game play 
 is intense and for games of the genre is the best. There is loads of content with new content added 
 all the time. The character development is extremely flexible with loads of area to explore. I 
 have played all of the other games of this type and this is by far the best. There are some that 
 just can't come up with the resources to play it, plain and simple. Seeing the score that this 
 site gave to this game makes me laugh. After comming here for three years, I can say you wouldn't 
 know a pc game worth playing if it hit you in the head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 69sean
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Yes - the game launched with tons of bugs, performance issues, unfinished content, character classes 
 still need tweaking etc... but there have been significant improvements to the game since launch.
 
  
  You'll need a high-end vid card, dual-core cpu and minimum 2gig memory to enjoy this game. Even 
 with a high-end rig you'll experience some hitching and slow framerates as the game continues to 
 be optimized.
  
  This is a game for people who like grouping in MMO's. Similar to EQ1, this game is geared toward 
 grouping. There is some solo content but this is not a game you'll want to solo up to level 50. 
 If lots of solo content is your thing then WoW is a better choice for you. Raid content isn't really 
 in yet but will be for a max of 24 people (4 groups of 6) . The contrast to other MMO's here is 
 the smaller number of players compared to EQ or WoW style raiding. Instancing is being considered 
 from what we hear but it's more likely there will not be very much instancing if any.
  
  Fortunately, the devs recognized the difficulty in putting together 5-6 person groups all the time 
 and include significant amount of content suitable for 2-3 players.
  
  If you've played it and been disappointed don't microwave your game disks just yet. Unless the 
 game was totally not what you expected you'll want to come back and check this game out in a few 
 months.
  
  It's not going to be a WoW-killer but for players looking for a different challenge in a harsher 
 game environment should consider VSOH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  another mmorpg for the world. this one promises you a immersive world full of things to do! WOW! 
 dont they all promise that? the deal with vanguard is its a mmorpg that ran out of funding and 
 had such great promise to finally shatter World of Warcraft. Sadly the game falls on its face in 
 many of the fields that make a great mmorpg, and game for that matter
  
  Gamplay: BORING!! now i know for an mmorpg sometimes you do things you dont always want to do but 
 for the love of god when the whole game is based on walking around and killing a monstor then running 
 back to your quest giver then its just boring! OH! but maybe one time you will have to run across 
 a plain of nothing interesting and deliver a map to someone you dont care enough about to care! 
 The gameplay promises you an open world with things to do and explore, but if your wander away 
 from a town get ready to die....... alot! frequent mobs spawn super fast everywhere and its hard 
 to take on more then 2 people in this game. Also you dont get much reward from exploring any way. 
 The game is broken down into parts, adventuring, crafting, and diplomacy. adventuring i found to 
 be at least SOMEWHAT (cannot stress thit enough) entertaining. crafting is frustrating and takes 
 LOTS of time and PAITENCE to advance.  SO BORING FELL ASLEEP 
 ON KEY BOARD! i understand the concern of giving players options but oh my god not that kind of 
 option. The overall, is that your going to be bored out of your mind with stupid quests, repetative 
 gameplay , and frustrated from dying alot. Theres more to cover for gamplay, but who wants to read 
 that much anyway?
  
  Graphics: BEAUTIFUL! this was the only thing i found this game to have that was above the normal 
 level! that is........ if your video card can handle it. i crashed so many times that after one 
 week of play i just gave up and quit the game all together. If your have a up to date card, graphics 
 will make you drool, there that good
  
  Replay: no no no no just no...... so boring cant focus, lame and repetitive in all cases
  
 
  Difficulty: if your jumping into mmorpg's now, dont play this game, its complicated beyond all 
 belief. OVERALL: THe game had potential, lots of it..... it fell short and it shows. dont buy this 
 game, dont even touch this games..... its a god awful piece of junk hidden by pretty graphics. 
 Even though i hate to say it.. WoW is still king. Even though i dont play WoW any more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glaukus
Rating: 2.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Just download a trial before you buy this or at least check it at some poor friend that did...
 
  
  Unless ofc you have 50$ to throw away, in that case mail them to me and i'll send u out on an epic 
 quest to get an mmo worse than this... (Archlord maybe :P) Again if you really need to try something 
 new other than WoW, try LotR or just wait for Conan mates, even if it sucks, we'll love it :)
 
  
  Oh and as LotR is concerned i am still thinking of the 70$ of the DDO special edition plus 3months 
 i DIDNT WANT TO BE BILLED coz the game was cracky and uncooperative with very new pcs and some 
 internet connections. So i'd think twice bfr indulging my sweet green to Turbine and Codemasters. 
 Let alone that codemasters account system SUCKS, it is solely designed to be operative and useful 
 for the distinction between the making and the producing company and it's a drag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swr1ght
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  This is one of those MMO's that you play for a month or two, and you think to yourself the whole 
 time: I bet in six months this will be a pretty decent game . I could not start any crafting quests. 
 Clicking on an NPC that had crafting quests knocked me off the server every time. This happens 
 to a small percentage of the population, but after two months of routinely checking to see if it 
 would still crash me, and having it still crash me, and then sending in a bug report, I gave up 
 on this game.
  Also, certain cities don't like certain races. Which is fine. What is not fine is that the guards 
 appear non-aggressive, until you get right up on them, and then they go red, and proceed to kick 
 your but. So you never really know when you are approaching an outpost if you are about to die 
 or not. Compound this problem with STEEP death penalties and you have yourself a game that you 
 just don't want to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard has improved considerably since launch, but there is still much work to do as bugs still 
 abound. But there are also many good things that are unique to this game that others dont have. 
 There are three ways to advance in this game, adventuring, crafting or diplomacy, and they arent 
 dependant on each other, so in theory you could craft to max level without ever killing one monster. 
 and the armor that you can make is actually useful! Players can influence the cities through diplomacy 
 and earn not only status but other cool items. For adventuring, it seems to be a rough balance 
 between solo and group content, and the game world is massive. when a quest sends you to a town 
 you have never heard of, that is two hours away (on horseback) then you know the world is big. 
 All of this said, Vanguard is not an easy MMO that you can expect to grind up to maximum level 
 within a week. Leveling takes quite a long time. While there is still much performance tweaking 
 and bug fixing to be done, Vanguard still is a quality game. yes, things may take a lot longer 
 than some gamers are used to, but the rewards are well worth the effort.
  
  Gameplay 8- Some of the better gameplay for MMO's out there. Combat is complex and entertaining.
 
  Graphics 8- Nice graphics, but for what the game requires out of the machine running it, you would 
 think the graphics would be better.
  Sound 8- good music and sound effects. Pretty standard MMO fare
  Value 7- As more bugs get fixed, 
 the game can only improve over time, unless everything gets hit with the nerf bat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidzrock
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  The ideas, concept, and features behind this game are top notch but it doesn't quite hit the mark. 
 On top of the game being close to impossible to run without horrible lag even on the best PCs, 
 the game play falls short of what Sigil were aiming for. The battle system is clunky and slow, 
 sometimes leading to death. Death is also not so forgiving as getting back to your body can be 
 hard with the NPC guarding it. What really hurts this game is the numerous game killing bugs you 
 will encounter on your journey, one of which being NPCs killing you from unreachable areas like 
 underneath the geometry. The areas themselves also seem unpolished and sometimes downright nasty 
 to look at. The music score in this game is also horrible, with undesirable opera type music playing 
 when you enter towns. Sound FX is decent on the other hand. This game has a lot of promise, and 
 perhaps in a year of patches it will be worth it. But unfortunately for now, this game is worth 
 avoiding, which might in turn bring its demise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: formul2
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Vanguard: Saga of Heroes, is an MMO RPG that wanted to give you all that you wanted in an MMO. 
 Beautiful graphics, engaging combat, interesting quests, new branch like diplomacy and option to 
 purely focus on crafting.
  The problem is that the money ran out and Sigil games was forces to push out Vanguard in an unfinished 
 state. With unfinished i don't mean just bugs that makes your game crash, but parts of the game 
 just wasn't there when the game launched, complete areas was void of life, that just lately have 
 been populated, and im sure there is still areas not yet done . Another bad thing about trying 
 to push the graphical limits with such a game is wanting it to look great using an old engine, 
 Sigil pushed for the impossible. They succeeded with making the games scenery look great, but at 
 a terribly cost. The game lags terribly for even the most advanced gaming rigs.
  
  If you have a world of patience and can stand the lag, the game can give you alot of fun gameplay. 
 The grouping dynamic is really engaging and demands alot from the different player classes. Even 
 in earlier levels you cant just point and click and autoattack a monster to death. You will have 
 to make use of all your skills and you want atleast a couple of friends along side you for most 
 quests. If you die, Vanguard punishes you with a death penalty that will remove some of your earned 
 xp. While the death penalty makes the gaming more interesting and keep you on your toes in tougher 
 battles, it can also ruin your motivation to play, since the amount of bugs is often the cause 
 of your death. So in other words Vanguard punishes you for the flaws the game has.
  
  Crafting and Diplomacy are separated from the normal adventuring by giving them a seperate leveling 
 tree. Diplomacy is basically a card game with wich you can affect different bonuses in different 
 areas. Crafting is totally seperated from adventuring and in theory you can be an level 1 adventurer 
 but a high level blacksmith. The problem with crafting is that in order to advance you will have 
 to do mundane work orders, over and over again. You see making the real intersting stuff like armour 
 and weapons only give you XP the first time you make them. So left is those pesky work orders that 
 in a while feels more like a day job than entertainment. But if you have the time crafting can 
 be really rewarding since not many people will have the time or the patience to really make the 
 good stuff. If you are interested in playing Vanguard I would recommend that you wait another 6 
 month, when Sigil hopefully have completed the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lampmanshane
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is difficult. If you like being babied and being led by the hand through difficulties 
 do not by this game - go for WoW instead. However, if you like a challenge and are bored with the 
 simplicity of WoW, you might just love this game. I spent the first 10 levels grumbling and trying 
 to figure out the game. There was so much to learn that I almost quit. Then I realized that I was 
 having fun overcoming the difficulties. The learning curve is huge but if you stick with it the 
 game gets better. This is not a broken game, as it may seem at first, but it is a very sophisticated 
 game that takes a lot of practice. Another positive is that the diffuculty level is definitely 
 keeping the kiddies from playing. This is a game only an adult or child prodigy could handle.
 
  
  I have soloed 2 characters to level 20. I dont know what people are talking about when they say 
 you cannot solo. If you learn your character and practice you can solo just about anything. Again, 
 if you are used to the easy mobs of WoW and simple gameplay you might get frustrated. Also, I found 
 Kojan to be memorable... but the other continents seemed a bit generic. I would recommend to anyone 
 starting the game to begin in Kojan.
  
  Upgrade your computer. Do not try to play this on less than a dual core and 7600 series card or 
 better.
  
  The only downside for me is the crafting system. I will never craft in this game because it is 
 so hard and time consuming that it feels like work. The developers seemed to have designed the 
 crafting system to maximize the number of clicks that a player must use in order to make even the 
 most basic items. Truly boring and repetiive.
  
  This game reminds me of Everquest 1 with updated graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snugglecakes13
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Okay to start out you need a very good computer to run this game because on low settings the graphics 
 are horrible but on all high it looks very nice. That is about the only good thing with this game. 
 When you first start out it seems like a pretty decent game and there are A LOT of races and classes 
 but if you play them all you can tell most of them are the same. After you get to maybe like level 
 5-7 you will start to tell you will need a group for about EVERY quest because they get increasingly 
 difficult. This may be a good thing for some players but for most this is very annoying. THIS GAME 
 IS NOT FOR CASUAL PLAYERS! Also, to mention, there aren't any instanced dungeons so you may be 
 waiting for a bit for a boss to spawn back if another group just killed him. The gameplay gets 
 repetative after about 5-10 hours and the crafting system is poor. If you are looking for a good 
 MMORPG, get World of Warcraft. I stopped playing it because I bought a guitar but it is a very 
 good game. STAY AWAY FROM THIS! Do yourself a favor! Gameplay-Poor.
  
  Graphics-Decent, but on high settings very nice, but a lot of lag.
  
  Sound-Pretty bad, a lot 
 of sound problems that take away from this already bad experience.
  
  Value-VERY LOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenowns
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Hello everyone. I was very excited when Vanguard game out as I am sure many of you were. Everything 
 that was said about the game before launch sounded so great and teased my mmo sweet tooth leaving 
 me salivating. Well, is Vangaurd as good as they made it out to be? Here is my humple opinion.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Wow! So huge! The enviroments are just massive. Some may think they are to large but I actually 
 think it's ok and will be much easier when you have a mount. The crafting system is much to involved. 
 It is quite cool though that you can actually make a boat! I believe a perfect crafting system 
 would be something inbetween WOW and Vanguard.
  
  I enjoyed the different types of mobs I fought. Nicely varied.
  
  Some say that the game is 
 group based but I had NO PROBLEM soloing with a shaman and found it VERY EASY to solo with a necro.
 
  
  I loved the varied classes. Finally we have classes, spells and skills that I have never seen in 
 any other mmo.
  
  Graphics:
  If you have a high end machine the graphics are GREAT! If you don't they are still good but you 
 might be in for some lag. Spell and skill animations look quite nice.
  
  Sound:
  Been there, heard that.
  
  Value:
  Nice value for the money. Would be better if the game 
 could run better on medium end machines and once they fix all the bugs it will be quite a bit better.
 
  
  Overall:
  I believe that Vangaurd MIGHT be able to beat out WOW IF they fix the bugs among a few other things. 
 It is a game with much more depth but I believe it is geared towards the hard core mmo player and 
 not the casual player which may be its downfall against WOW. You still owe it to yourself to give 
 it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubalu0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Not since Everquest has a game come closer to achieving the right level of risk vs gain. I feel 
 disheartened that everyone is so down on the death penalties and work involved to do things in 
 this game. Bugs aside this is a wonderful game. You are required to work for what you get. No Wow 
 free rides. I enjoy the fact that aside from the bugs this game is more difficult than WOW. I love 
 the fact that there are corpse runs and that the world seems populated instead of 5 people in my 
 instance. I want there to be Contested mobs. I want to walk into a city and see many people. I 
 want real travel. I have not been happy since POP in EQ1 and since then I have spent years in WOW, 
 EQ2, DDO, and SWG (which came close before they destroyed it) . Vanguard touches the point real power 
 players need. The art is superb, the missions thought out, and the penalties just right. I love 
 the diplomacy system which is an incredibly cool idea and a great way to kill time. The crafting 
 system does very well at preventing macroing and is fun.
  
  If you want a game that offers a challenge and can handle a few launch bugs Vanguard is your game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outriderx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Experience loss was changed about a month ago. This article might have been written before the 
 change. As of today you only lose experience if you summon your tombstone. You do not take any 
 experience lost if you go back to your tombstone or have a friend drag it closer to you out of 
 harms way.
  
  Soloing is possible. As for a someone using weapons upgrade your weapons, armor and raise the right 
 stats.
  
  The game still has bugs. In the long run I believe this game is going to turn out very nicely. 
 It reminds me a lot of EverQuest.
  
  Mabuhay Cleric on Varking Server 36 LvL and counting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaghuru
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what happened to Vanguard. I was following this game for about 2 years. I got into 
 the beta (which I barely played) and it looked mediocre. When it released I got it and played it. 
 I was EXTREMELY disappointed in the game.
  
  Gameplay - Nothing special at all, just your average mmorpg in terms of gameplay. Crafting was 
 complete crap (massive repetition) and diplomacy got boring after a couple of parlays.
  
  Graphics - I thought it was oh, not bad (2 years ago) . By now you would think the graphics would 
 change. In other words, the graphics suck. Heck does this game even have bloom effect? Not only 
 do the graphics suck, but II have a 3.2 ghz processor, 1 gig of ram and a Nvidia GeForce 7600 GT 
 and I can barely play this game on Medium-Low settings without it chunking every second minute! 
 LAGS LIKE CRAZY and gets me irritated quick, especially when you die over and over because of stupid 
 chunk lines (and trust me death is not fun in this game) . Compare this games to the ones releasing 
 soon like Lord of the Rings online (which is coming out in around a month) . Makes vanguard graphics 
 look completely outdated... Not only that but lord of the rings has a lower specs requirement. 
 Sound - The one good thing about vanguard, the sound. The music in vanguard is beautiful. I gave 
 it an 8 however because combat music sucks, background music definitely is one of the best factors 
 of the game.
  
  Value - Totally not worth my money, complete waste of time, wish I never bought it.
  
  To sum 
 it up, Vanguard was a total disappointment to me and did not meet my requirements. Farewell Vanguard 
 and hello Lord of the Rings Online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingb33
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Had really high hopes for this one. Turned out to be a huge dissappointment. The game just isn't 
 finished. Period. I think its a crime game developers / publishers are legally allowed to put a 
 product out that isn't finished and in addition they ask you to pay a monthly fee. Ridiculous. 
 This game will die the same death EQ2 is in the middle of. Too many other MMO's coming out with 
 too much potential. To survive and thrive in today's MMO market your product needs to shine right 
 off the bat. Hence WOW. Hopefully LOTRO will be better than this. I really had faith that Brad 
 and the crew wouldn't let us down but economically they had no choice. And the sad part is MMO 
 gamerz have changedsomuch since EQ1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard should have been a great game. It had it all, ships, houses, huge world, many classes, 
 and an indepth crafting and diplomacy system, yet it still fell short of its mark.
  
  Vanguard falls short in a few major areas, the first is performance. This game requires a computer 
 like no other, if you don't have a dual core processor with two gigs of ram and a top of the line 
 Graphics card, you should just put the box down and walk away. If you don't have those requirements 
 than your going to be playing a game that looks worse than EQ1 back on launch day. Sure your character 
 models will look better, but at the same time the world will look so plane and drab that it will 
 make you wish you were on EQ1.
  
  The next big failure is the gameplay. It has lots to do don't get me wrong but, at the same time 
 it can all be taken away by harsh death penalties. Now we all know Sigil stated they wanted to 
 make the next gen EQ1 game, but in the end we have to look at it like this: The next gen of EQ1 
 was EQ2, and they got rid of all that harsh death penalty stuff, so in reality all they've done 
 is made a EQ1 with better graphics and no zones.
  
  Zones would have helped this game, as it would have droped the system requirements a bit. In the 
 end though you could pickup a differnt MMO and have more fun, and higher end graphics. Now if your 
 a hardcore PC gamer and you've got the rig and the patcients for the game, you should give it a 
 try (if you want an EQ1ish experiance) . Normal game players should stay away from Vanguard and 
 spend the money on somthing more mainstream . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playboyx225x
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Overall the game looks nice. I sometimes just look around at the environment just to see how nice 
 it looks. This look comes at a price. I have a 2.3ghz AMD processor, 2gig of HyperX Kingston Ram. 
 512PCIe ATI 1800xt.
  
  On balanced the game looks good but runs glitchy. Constantly lagging with image freezes when you 
 turn or more people come into the screen in your group.
  
  The game shut down on me once when I was in a full group, probably because people were moving around 
 and a graphical error arised. My drivers are all up to date and there should be no reason why I 
 can not play the game on a higher setting. Also there should be no reason why the game has such 
 hang time when playing. Even at outposts it has to load people and items around the camps and that 
 causes some short freezing.
  
  The spells are graphically quick unlike those in everquest 2. That puts more of a effect of the 
 spell rather than the beauty of the casting. The sound is great but back again to the graphics, 
 it lags too much and the design of the almost no zoning and loading items as you get closer puts 
 a damper on the game because those texture loads lowers the fun factor and visual factor of the 
 game.
  
  If you are a Everquest 2 player then don't play this game. It will leave you going back to EQ2 
 and feeling more appreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AG-Vuk
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Has some annoying bugs , (ahem ) server borders. I really think they gave no consideration to character 
 build balance because this is still a major issue if you play any combat role other than Bard. 
 Who by the way are amazing damage dealers. Missions are good , but progress is at times painfully 
 slow . Mission rewards sometimes don't cover the repair bill on your equipment and the economy 
 is stagnant. I'm not sure if this is due to a low player base , or just people being stupid when 
 pricing items. It's a beautiful game with a great deal of fore thought and descent execution. Seems 
 like server population are getting lighter ? An unfortunate think that they did was dividing PvE 
 and PvP servers. Something along the lines of SWG would have been great in this game . Basically 
 this is a work in progress . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: compnerd3018
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  first of all i would like to say that i have been folowing this game around for about 3 years, 
 and i played alot in beta. i probaly know more about this game then alot of you here. what makes 
 me sad is seeing alot of people giving this a bad reveiw. so i've come to set u all stright....
 
  
  MOST of those people who are bagging on the game is because of the many bugs it had when the game 
 first released. well come on, what MMO was EVER released perfect and without no bugs? also, this 
 game is so in-depth and deep that yeah, there's also ALOT of things to bug, unlike World of Warcraft 
 which has so little content, what is there to bug? so i reach to another issue people are having, 
 there saying the gameplay is crap. well, how about you play more then 20 hours of the game before 
 saying stuff like that.. World of Warcraft's gameplay doesn't even get fun till lvl 60 so shut 
 up. yeah at first the game is easy, of corse.. you are still learnign the ropes. even at lvl 30 
 u still get new stuff that you have to learn and incorperate into your mode of play.
  
  one thing i was a little disapointed in was the enviroments, mostly the dessert areas. but then 
 as i traveled to different areas, i relized that the desseret was only about 10% of the game and 
 really, everything else is beautfull.
  
  one shred of advice i would give to anyone who wants to play this, or gave up on it, is wailt a 
 little while longer. if your going to be so crital of a few bugs, or piss about some little thing 
 that's messed up, then just wailt till about April, even though right now 90% of teh bugs are worked 
 out, which they wasted no time on fixing in the first place, but most of you didn't stick around 
 because it made it to hard and u need WoW to comfort you with it's 1-60 in 4 days, and easy no 
 brain gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_50
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  ive read alot of the reviews about the broken portions of the game, and im not here to say that 
 they are lies, im just saying that its something that comes with a new mmo, even wow was broken 
 at first. with that being said, point 2 is that the game is impossible to solo. i dont find that 
 true at all, i have a level 25 shaman and a level 22 psionisist and a level 18 dread knight, and 
 with all of them ive rarely had the need to group, but when ive needed a group ive always easily 
 found one (on flamehammer server at least, where my toons are.) i feel the ability to solo is there 
 for a good to great player because you really have to be on your toes at all times because respawn 
 is pretty fast, but if you are still getting used to your class, ive found that if you are in any 
 city with a good amount of quests in it, you will find a group.
  
  the mechanics of alot of the classes are just plain out of this world with what you can do with 
 them, im always bumping into people that see me fight that are very impressed with my class, and 
 i do the same ( ranger dps is unbelievable) and there is near limitless customization. between 
 the enormous amount of points you can distribute in your skills (str, con, dex, etc...) , and the 
 fact that you can have a crafter custom make a set of armor for you with exactly the buffs you 
 want its not out of the question that you could have a sorceror tank or a shaman nuke, in this 
 game, the classes defineitely have a specific role, but you arent bound to it so that your character 
 cant be exactly what you want. then theres the crafting and player housing and fashion clothes 
 (who wants to wear armor all the time?) , the buildable player ships and the different mounts, etc.....
 
  
  guess i could sum up with if you like WoW then keep playing WoW, vanguard is not the same kind 
 of game. but if you're looking for something different then maybe vanguard is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menduke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok, i have played the game for 2 weeks now, the game itself is a bit buggy, but is and will be 
 one of the best games of our time
  
  The reason is simpel: Many classes, spells and abilites, large and colorfull world.
  
  Many 
 will compare vanguard with world of warcraft, but vanguard will be better and IS because of the 
 classes in the game, and the world.
  
  --------------------------
  
  For those who have played world of warcraft, im sure you have notice that the world is ALL THE 
 SAME, they have copyed the houses, dungoens and landscape over and over again, only with snow and 
 hight/depth.
  
  That and they use 2 years not making new classes, but simply adding paladin to horde, and shaman 
 to allience.. if i meet a player in pvp i know exacly what he will do to me because of the few 
 classes and because you get all your spells without questing hardley
  
  To make a long story short. Vanguard is for experiensed players who want a challange in both player 
 vs player and raiding... both kids and adults can play wow. but vanguard is Hard game to play. 
 just Imagen.. with all those classes how the end game raiding will be? or that it can actually 
 be fun starting a new class because you dont really know that much about the class at all? :) i 
 have played all massiv mulitplayers games there is, everquest1, everquesy 2, dark age of camelot, 
 city of villiant and so on.
  
  Best game is everquest1 because of the challanging raiding experiense, lots of new classes added, 
 you lose experiense. ++++
  
  Only reason players really play world of warcraft is because of the millions players around the 
 world playing the game, friends and they have found perhaps a nice high end guild they enjoy raiding 
 with.. But what about the peoples that doest have a guild? its booring to /sit in ironforge huh? 
 or trading all day for what?
  
  Think about these things, if you gonne enjoy a game i promise you, sigil games online know what 
 they are doing, and this game WILL be bettter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czaoth
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Do you wish to play a game for it's potential or for what it actually delivers on?
  
  Vanguard has huge potential but in it's current state it falls well short of being polished, refined 
 and balanced.
  While branded as a 3rd gen MMO, this game does not revolutionize the genre and does little in the 
 form of innovation. Yes, they game has alot of depth and tries to deliver a complete package but 
 it's hardly innovative.
  
  Gameplay: This is where Vanguard shines the most. Sigil put alot of effort into their game systems 
 and it shows. Adventuring sphere - Gameplay is complex and intricate. Combat is tremendously fun 
 and fast paced. Unfortunately, game difficulty is currently predicated by tedium and not skill. 
 Harvesting sphere - Pleasurable, much like harvesting in UO. Unfortunately, selling non-rare harvested 
 goods is very hard since crafters do not actually need materials to level up their skill. It really 
 places a downwards pressure on the value of non-rare harvested goods
  
  Diplomacy sphere - While innovative and fresh at the beginning, it is easily forgettable. Crafting 
 sphere - I have barely skimmed but it is the most complex crafting system seen in an MMO since 
 SWG, without doubt.
  
  
  Graphics: Unparalelled level of graphical detail for an MMO. Landscape is breathtaking and you 
 can see for miles. Unfortunately, this same landscape eventually becomes dull as moving from area 
 to area on a given continent rarely gives you a new look and feel. More rocks, less trees or more 
 trees and less rocks. As a result the landscape ends up being too generic as one zone feels much 
 like the next. Anti-aliasing is not currently working, introducing jaggies which in the end lowers 
 the overall quality of the graphics. This is most noticable during the day. At night, you cannot 
 see the jaggies as they blend in well with the darkness. As a result, the game looks it's best 
 at night. Too many models are re-used, while the graphics are breathtaking, they are very generic 
 at the same time.
  
  All in all, the graphics engine is good and shines but the artwork has a long way to go before 
 it becomes creatively pleasant.
  
  
  Sound: Sound effects are top notch. Some very annoying sounds are to be found and the music is 
 hit and miss. Overall they did a really nice job here.
  
  Value: Almost two months into the game, XP rates, item attributes and classes are still being balanced. 
 (no surprise on classes, class balancing should never end in an MMO) . Questing is bland as the 
 content is mediocre. Premier dungeons don't quit feel 'premier'. Basically, the window dressing 
 around the huge grind isn't really all that enticing. Areas feel too often like the previous one 
 you were in unless you change continents. Reviewer's tilt: The game is under constant balancing 
 (XP rates, gear, classes you name it) , they haven't gotten it to where they want it to be yet. 
 The world feels empty and hollow as NPCs feel like cardboard cutouts. The lack of instancing means 
 you get killed by trains made by other groups and you mostly stumble upon nameds mobs by chance 
 with no guarantee of even coming across one in many cases. Client performance has been drastically 
 improved since launch and the game runs very smooth on good systems. All in all, i had fun for 
 a month learning the game but this game couldn't hold me and i gave it every chance. It's just 
 not that fun to play. The dev team has alot of work head of them and i hope they succeed. The quality 
 of the content needs to scale up dramatically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to make this my next year long game.
  
  But despite the potential, I can't right now, as I feel this game is honestly lacking severely 
 in 2 key areas:
  
  1) Group dynamics. It's just too hard to feel connected to your fellow party members. From being 
 unable to see their buffs, through to being unable to get their location on the minimap - it's 
 almost disfunctional. Even the weaknesses aspect - a potentially promising one, whereby you can 
 chain abilities between players, is so poorly implemented that often you have no idea that an enemy 
 is vulnerable, and even if you do happen to notice, you spend ages trying to find the ability to 
 use out of 20 buttons on your toolbar.
  
  2) Soloable content. Unless you constantly play with buddies at the same stage as you, be prepared 
 to be in a constant state of frustration either looking for other players in the massive unerpopulated 
 world, or be content to kill 2-dot or 3-dot simple overland creatures infinitely. In addition, 
 if you DO manage to be one of the lucky ones who can group regularly, see point 1 above - the group 
 dynamics are quite underdone.
  
  For me these are game breakers. Everything else in the game, although sometimes buggy (not anywhere 
 near as many bugs as you may think reading these reviews) - is of genuine high quality and the 
 world really is a masterpiece. Combat is sensational, but again the group dynamics mute that aspect 
 once you run a few dungeons.
  
  This game will get better over time, no doubt, but the 2 game breakers for me that I outlined above 
 will probably prevent me from ever really getting into it.
  
  If you don't play an MMO, it might be something worth pursuing, although with the options soon 
 available in that genre, I would suspect you should research elsewhere before making the time and 
 money commitment.
  
  Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkhinman
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game spent years in development. It spent it's time under Microsoft and then it went independent 
 with Sigil entirely.
  
  Vanguard promised the current MMO players everything that players sorely longed for. A diverse 
 game play, good graphics, great mounts, player housing, etc.
  
  Well, they sorta delivered and, at the same time, they blew it. Everything is bugged to high heaven. 
 The development coding is shoddy at best and the game is so taxing, not even a Quad core 4 gig 
 of RAM rig can even play it beautifully with great frame rates. The world is huge but there are 
 about a dozen and a half starter cities so everyone is spread out everywhere. This makes the world 
 a very lonely place unless you pick the popular of the three human races.
  
  Character customizations in very bad. Four hairstyles per race and a customizable slider bar that 
 really does nothing because no matter how much you mess with the configuration you'll always end 
 up looking the same as everyone else.
  
  See for yourself. Get a buddy pass and try it out. But please dont spend 50 bucks on this yet. 
 They need at least a year to fix all this mess out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornej
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  There is a lot of reviews saying the game is buggy or it crashes or any host of other things. I 
 have two machines running it now and theyre both nice machines that I built. I dont have these 
 problems on either machine. My wife and I both play this game together right now and have enjoyed 
 every minute of it. The graphics are absolutely stunning! I am SOOOOOOOOOOO glad I can finally 
 play an MMORPG that the graphics arent dumbed down crap for the simple reason of appealing to 
 more of the masses who have sad crappy machines and barely know how to turn them on. I am a gamer 
 and I like my games to look really good. I havent seen any MMO's that looked all that good before 
 this one. This games graphics looks like what you would expect to see in a single player RPG instead 
 of an MMO and thats saying a lot. Any real gamers out there will know what I am talking about 
 here. The characters in this game are really nice. The further you get the more complex and fun 
 your character becomes. I have a dread knight (original character that you wont find in any other 
 MMO to date) a rogue (which has some really neat extras I havent seen anywhere else) a sorcerer 
 (basic nuker class but has a nice variety of spells) and a shaman (very nice hybrid class) and 
 theyre all very fun to play. I can tell the classes were well thought out. This isnt the basic 
 4 - 5 moves/spells/abilities that get more powerful as you gain levels template. Your character 
 really changes a lot as you level and they become very interesting and entertaining to play. There 
 is also probably the best crafting system yet in any MMO (better than Horizons even) . Some will 
 call it a mini game but I think thats selling it short. The thing I like about crafting is you 
 absolutely take part in the crafting of an item. Its not the old click tool, click resource, wait 
 for mysterious chance calculation to take place and get pass / fail result. In this crafting system, 
 if you fail, you are mostly to blame as its something you did or didnt react to correctly. Very 
 cool....
  
  Diplomacy is a new concept and I would be interested to see where it goes in the future but not 
 that into it now. Its a sort of a card game and I have never been a card game guy. Other reviewers 
 will cover that better than I could. This game also features flying mounts (I did ride one in beta 
 and it was totally incredible) and 100% customizable ships and housing which are very cool. You 
 can pack up and relocate your house when needed and when you place it back down, all your decor 
 will be as you left it. There are also future plans to have great stuff like mounted combat, flying 
 mounted combat, ship to ship combat, and epic style PVP. This stuff has never been done in a 3d 
 MMO and I personally cant wait to see it. Bottom line...
  
  If you have an older PC and do not know how to tweak the graphics in a game or on your card, you 
 probably do not have what is necessary to run this game. You need a pretty nice PC that is well 
 maintained and you need to be moderately proficient at tweaking games or just have enough motivation 
 to follow some of the many tweaking guides available. If you are high on lazy and whiny and low 
 on motivation and technical knowledge, youll just buy this game, complain that it doesnt run, 
 and assume doing nothing was everything you could possibly do to get it running just right , and 
 quit (but not until after you come here and give it a bad review) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnjaha99
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  It looks like the new trend in RPGs or MMOs are ridiculous system requirements for subpar graphics. 
 Lets face it here Sigil bit off more than it can chew in an attempt to create a MMO game which 
 combines the best of WOW and Everquest. It has a few nice features like crafting and customization 
 but falls on its face elsewhare. No instances, just a flat out horrible idea. No non-group quests? 
 Should have seen how D&amp; D online lost favor due to that. Shameless rip of WoW's interface. Well 
 the good news is most of those problems can be corrected but will take alot of development money. 
 More than likely the project will be a casualty of war like Wow has done to so many others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhyrs
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  i experience no bugs. if you do, your comp is not quite good enough. turn down environmental mapping 
 to 20%, and if u experience choppy gameplay, turn normal mapping to 0%. my comp can handle it fine. 
 i hav 2GB of ram, and an ATI Radeon X1600 pro. and i get 20fps MAX. so if you have bugs or choppy 
 gameplay, get upgrades, or turn down your settings.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c c 
::::::

::::::
UserName: survey77
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I played this from launch day .. crash crash crash crash crash .. lost exp from disappearing tombstone 
 ... z axis has no bearing when fighting mobs .... absolutely ZERO SUPPORT ... i still had 9 tickets 
 waiting for a response for ... didnt matter much .. folks copied the tech response .. sorry friend 
 heh.
  
  soe has made it there way to totally ruin/destroy games. I guess from what i hear Sigil ran out 
 of money in beta .. so they had to release .. and basically you pay 50 bucks + tax for a game that 
 will not work the majority of the time for more than 2hours ... unless you cross many chunks .. then 
 its 15 minutes ... and then you are again paying to test a game.
  
  I think its bologna ... soe has much to do with the games they host ... and they did sigil no favor 
 here.
  
  2 thumbs and 2 big toes down.
  
  fx60
  4 gigs ram
  2 150 gig 10000rpm raptor hd's
  2 8800gts's
  24 LCD
  
  I even took the game back to gamestop 
 .. which they happily took back... and they had a large stack of them ... which people had returned 
 .. for the same reasons i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cymbol
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  It is embarrassing to admit that I have spent so much time playing this game before I realized 
 it was simply not fun.
  
  The game failed for me in 4 ways:
  
  1. bugs
  2. lack of story
  3. tedium
  4. bad performance
  
  Bugs:
  
  The developers of vanguard 
 apparently never heard of the phrase the simplicity of beauty and have designed a monster that 
 is unnecessarily complex. This complexity was intended to serve as a tool to raise challenge and 
 simulate realism, but it has done quite the opposite: it introduced a huge number of bugs and coated 
 every interaction in vanguard with a rather artificial feel.
  
  These bugs range from simply graphical glitches that render the entire screen blank (and would 
 require a client restart to fix ~5 min) to the various exp loss bugs that would take up to two 
 weeks to resolve. And by resolve , I mean you get a tell from a GM saying that you are SOL, and 
 urging you to write another /bug.
  
  This game is still in beta. You have heard it; you have read it; and short of experiencing it yourself, 
 I will also chime in on its verity. If you'd like to pay for a washer and watch the workers assemble 
 it piece by piece in your garage over the next 3~6 months, be my guest.
  
  Story:
  
  While it is nothing at all like DDO, only recently I realized that there is a central weakness 
 to both games: they both lack a central story, no matter how cliche, lame, or cheesy, that serves 
 to propel the character through the world.
  
  Like DDO, Vanguard is made up of many disjoint areas of interests that are only superficially related 
 to one another, and yet it lacked the hand-crafted feel that DDO had. For all its content , Vanguard 
 is something like DDO with lots of overland mobs, and worse dungeons.
  
  After a month of playing, I have yet to see a single cut-scene, and am still wondering if there 
 is a goal. With the tag-line being set yourself free , I sometimes wonder the devs and story-writers 
 have also set themselves free.
  
  Content indeed.
  
  Tedium:
  
  The game is very grindy. I really don't have anything clever to say about this. Coupled with the 
 amount of exp loss bugs and the lack of story, vanguard can be a lifeless button smash. Though 
 if you are a well trained mmo-hamster, it is only slightly below par-for-the-course .
  
  Bad performance:
  
  You may have noticed that I gave a low score for the sound. The music for 
 the game is easy-listening, from memory; after one of the lethal patches, sound started crashing 
 my game left and right. Might as well, since turning off sound dramatically increased my fps from 
 lag-fest to tolerable.
  
  Those of you not having top-end machines should consider an upgrade before picking up this game: 
 the recommended specs are the minimum.
  
  ... canceled. See you in next review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkslaye336
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I played this.... And I found it very annoying at times. But behind the annoyance I found a amazing 
 game. I give it a high score due to how refreshing it is but also because I have never played EQ2. 
 It is preety hard at places so I advise if you have the game. Play through alot of quests before 
 moving on OR get in a group of people around or higher then your level. It has preety ok graphics 
 but the lag in the game isn't the graphics. Its the code. SOE sent it out before it was even done 
 so they added alot in the early days. They also have a preety ok mailing system, at least it is 
 better then no mail, am I right am I right?. It has preety high value to people like me due to 
 after you make a HIGH level, ya can start a new with one of the other classes (around 15-25 classes!) . 
 Anyways Vanguard is a great game but highly underrated due to the bugs all out there. Give em time 
 and please don't hassle them. They are trying their best with SOE breathing down their necks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green-Day1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Yes it does have bugs but really not enough to put you off. Apart from that its a GREAT game, a huge 
 world and the travelling is a joy with the stunning graphics. What i love about this game is your 
 completely free, you could be on one side of the map and teleport 3 continents and you'll find a 
 place for you level and bang your in a different area with different monsters and different quests. I 
 love this game and i don't know why people don't like it and my computer isn't that fantastic and 
 it runs very smoothly so don't let the bugs put you off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekon
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This sorry excuse for a game offers nothing new. You can do the usual quests that you would expect 
 (kill this, collect that, deliver this etc) . Its standard stuff except that the combat looks stupid 
 due to pathetic character models and terrible animations. Your character constantly looks like 
 it has pooed its pants or has some physical disability. How am I supposed to like my character 
 when it looks like a retarded simpleton?!
  
  You can also craft things which is an incredibly longwinded and slow process. This would be fine 
 as I like games to have depth and lots of details. Unfortunately everything you can buy or make 
 in this game looks like crap! Most of the items I equipped in game actually dont have graphics 
 for them and instead just change the colour of your beginning clothes (eg some new gloves I found 
 simply turned my hands purple!) . What a joke!
  
  Then there is diplomacy. Yeah right! Basicly it boils down to this: You click on an npc to start 
 a VERY simplistic card game with them. As you progress through and beat your opponent, it reveals 
 paragraphs of text. Once you win you can read all the text and then you move onto the next npc 
 and repeat it all over again. So your reward is that you get to read a pre-prepared conversation 
 between your character and the npc. Big deal!! You cant effect the conversation in any way or have 
 any effect on the game world at all except that by winning card games with some npcs can allow 
 you to cause large area effect buffs to effect players. Not exactly world changing is it. I thought 
 the point of being a diplomat would be to make things happen but in this game you simply get told 
 a story and have no participation in it whatsoever, so why bother?
  
  The game has a LOT of races....... AND THEY ARE ALL THE SAME! Every race has an identical torso 
 but the head looks different on each one. So a goblin, an elf and a dwarf all look the same as 
 each other and even have identical starting clothes..... which look dreadful by the way. Yes your 
 goblin or even your bestail wolfman will be running around in a pair of plain trousers and a t-shirt!!! 
 Stupid!!! Also every player model is actually shiny and reflective so they genuinely look like 
 they are made out of plastic!
  
  Finally as everyone has already said, this game is not complete. I know this is a common trend 
 with mmo's but Vanguard goes too far to the point where quests are broken, graphics do not exist 
 for most items and of course there are endless bugs. Also the world is patchy. In some places the 
 scenery looks great and is really atmospheric and in other places (eg Dwarven starting city) it 
 looks like the designers just couldnt be bothered. I should also mention that the world is empty. 
 There are vast tracts of land with nothing in them and the cities are totally lifeless with static 
 statues representing npcs and vendors.
  
  Many deluded fan-boys are telling you to wait for 6 months and then this game will be good. Ignore 
 them because (a) this game will always be bland and devoid of life and (b) by the time this game 
 resembles a finished product there will be other much better and far more advanced online games 
 available. Sorry guys but the world isnt going to wait around for this old-age-pensioner of a game 
 to get itself together. There are plenty of very promising online games in the pipe-works so why 
 wait around for this garbage? Are you really that sad &amp; desperate to like this piece of crap?
 
  
  I have canceled my subscription to this failed product as I cannot justify spending any more money 
 or wasting any more time on it. I am also disgusted with Gamespots insane review of this game. 
 It defies belief that a completely unfinished and faulty product that is also charging full price 
 and a monthly fee can manage to get an above average rating!!! Sorry Gamespot but you guys have 
 really lost the plot!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindflayerwarlo
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  The game has some promise to start, but i believe the game falls apart later on. The landscape 
 of the cities and dungeons is not layed out to well. You will find yourself traveling long distances 
 through a lot of mobs just to get to your original objective and then have to go all the way back. 
 The traveling system needs work. Often even with a mount you regret going out because of the long 
 travel back just to get to the vendor, ah or trainer.
  
  If you die you have to go through a bunch of mobs to get your corpse while you are vulnerable to 
 attack. In WOW, you are in ghost form and can get to your corpse with ease. I feel there is a lack 
 of fun to the game. I did not feel I was accomplishing anything in the game. The game was more 
 difficult than fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The highly anticipate MMO from the geniuses from the original Everquest promises to bring an unparalleled 
 experience to the world of MMORPG's. However, some of these promises seem broken, and the game 
 can't help but feel a bit rushed.
  The unique and extensive race and class systems that only promises to grow is only shaped by the 
 vast continent to explore. The game casts off the small world feeling of WoW or Everquest II and 
 forces users to travel, by land or air, if they want to get a true feel of the breathtaking environment. 
 And indeed the graphics are breathtaking, but they are going to cost you a pretty penny to bring 
 to true life, as any good MMO should do on its launch.
  Not to mention the inclusion of player housing (a la Star Wars Galaxies -- there are plots and 
 your house actually shows up on the land) and the use of flying mounts that can actually FLY above 
 land and reach different land platforms, Vanguard is pretty close to being a must buy.
  In the end, however, it's the obese amount of bugs that scares away several gamers. Whether its 
 the constantly disbanding groups or the invisible mobs, the game suffers from some more-than-just-aesthetic 
 letdowns. Now for true gamers, its nothing to overlook these, but they do present problems for 
 fringe interest gamers. Not to mention the uninspired PvP system, that seems to be a major hot 
 topic for the competitive -- Vanguard is certainly not for everyone.
  But Sigil isn't offering Vanguard for everyone, and if you are looking for a Massive-ly inspired 
 MMORPG, then look no further than Vanguard. Sure it's got a couple of bugs, but Sigil is commited 
 to making the game appeal to those who want more out of an MMO than the current generation of games 
 offers. You won't be the maximum level in a week, and with a detailed crafting and diplomacy class 
 -- I don't expect that you would want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokejr
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  My first review here on gamespot, been playing since
  release, I started as an Orc on Martok, this is also
  my first MMORPG I have ever played, so 
 coming
  from a freshman mmo player.
  The game has 3 main things to do, adventure,
  craft and diplomacy, you might throw harvesting in there to. They start you out learning adventuring 
 and
  diplomacy, the diplomacy is alot of fun, and seems to
  work real well, but figuring out all the lvls of required
  to engage different parties is tough.
 
  I have not done much crafting yet, but seems like
  alot of different options to play with, the crafting process itself has a few head scratching moments.
 
  The adventuring is pretty fun, although the mini-map
  seems pretty worthless, and the aggro is kind of a mystery to me still. I think some the animations 
 are
  lacking, but are going to updated soon, like hitting someone with your sword and you are 6 feet 
 from them?? But my biggest problem is dieing and running
  to your tombstone, this is very tough, and needs to be reworked, you can soulbind extra equipment 
 and pack it along but then you are using inventory space up, and fighting your way back to your 
 tombstone 3 hours up a one-way path is frustrating.
  The game has alot of bugs, lag and crashes, but they are getting fixed and the game is running 
 alot smoother now. But unless you have alot of time to
  play you are going to be lvling up very slowly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidr0ck6964
Rating: 2.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  so your probably wondering wat i mean. well as you probably read in other reviews this game has 
 forced grouping atm which means if your lucky enough to find a good enough group the chances are 
 youll have bout 10mins of play cause youve been lookin for a group for 3hours. the world is huge. 
 well thats great. but the population of the worlds are tiny. its not like wow where you would see 
 at least one person everywhere. sometimes in 4hours of palyin i dont see anyone.
  
  another thing the PVP. i dunno if they have sorted this yet but before youe enemies wouldnt show 
 up red. so if your not really payin attention and you finally see someone chances are they will 
 kill you in the time you realise they are your enemy. the lag... well i played swg on a v. slow pc 
 and i thought that lag on that was bad but this is a hole new level. i have since upgraded my pc 
 and can run swg and wow high graphics and be fine part from a bit of loading lag wen i walk into 
 the citys. in the middle of no where on vanguard i get the worse lag ive ever got and its a killer. 
 i had a lvl 5 kill me cause it was still loading the dam surrounding,
  
  i know you probably think all teh EU players where moaning about everything. but the customer service 
 to EU customers (dunno about US customers) is awful. it took them 2weeks to reply to my email and 
 i recieved a automated email sayin thank you for your email blah blah blah. why couldnt they send 
 that to me on the day i sent it! i wasnt exactly asking for much was i?! another to lead on for 
 the customer service is how the hell do they forget to turn on the EU subscription page? i thought 
 they needed our money and they forgot to turn it on and we didnt even get a sorry we are having 
 technical differculties. we just had to guess on the forums wat exactly was going on.
  
  overal i think this game could be good if you A) have the money to buy a uber PC that would be 
 able to run this game with no lag
  B) Devs would get the worlds more populated so i mite see someone once in a while
  C) take subscription 
 charge off or lower it cause i refuse to pay any more for this ****
  D) get rid of SOE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radicalrasberry
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  vanguard is a great game focusing on the future of gaming, im sorry but thous reviews saying to 
 buggy 1/10 well i garentee your one of the many who run a computer that doesnt meet the requirments, 
 great game for a PC that can run it, all the bugs are visual and gameplay bugs due to **** computers 
 heh sorry to offend. im running a 3.3ghz penitum, 1gig ram and a 256ddr3 ram video card, game plays 
 great get over 40fps on med settings and really the concept is WoW with more, a better craft system 
 and combat that doesnt involce click a button and wait like wow.. okay lets craft a sword *click 
 click* DONE! oh yay i did nothing to make this.. vanguard involves heads on and hands on work and 
 i only recomend for people with a PC that can run it because i am SICK of hearing all these reviews 
 from people with computers that arnt ment for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vitamin_f
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard tries its best to be a competent MMORPG but fails to compete against the king of MMOs 
 at this time, which is WoW.
  
  Vanguard is simply not ready for its commercial release. It seems unfair that people should be 
 paying full price for this game and then continue feeding them a $15 monthly fee to play a game 
 that is far from finished.
  
  Game play wise, its pretty much the same as any other MMO youve played out there. You have a 
 vast amount of races to choose from and interesting classes to boot. It is fun, but youre fun 
 can quickly turn to frustration due to the utterly insane amount of bugs that plague this game. 
 The only unique feature in this game is the diplomacy features. But even that is just iffy at 
 best.
  
  Vanguard does excel in the graphics dept to a degree in which characters look nice and the atmosphere 
 mimics the origin of the lands but underwater graphics are dismal. You can see clear into the distance 
 underwater with no distortion whatsoever. Also, youll find no interesting things under the sea 
 in this adventure, the ocean floors are just that An ocean floor texture. No sunken ships, coral 
 reefs, or other interesting entitys beneath the waters making you feel theres just something 
 missing.
  
  What also upsets me is the lack of character customization. Vanguard promised that everyone could 
 look unique because there would be so many options to choose from. Not so. Every race has only 
 4 hair styles (And usually everyone picks the best one) to choose from and hair color is grounded 
 to realistic colors only (black, brown, blond, red, white) . Only some races have the ability to 
 add facial hair, but there are no tattoos piercings, or any other unique trinkets to add to your 
 characters.
  
  The sound is quite good. The music is truly the best audible feature youll hear in this game as 
 opposed to the simplistic greetings you get with NPC voiceovers. Battle noises are ok, but why 
 they havent added any jangles to bard instruments is beyond me.
  
  When it comes to the value of this game. I cant really say Id recommend this game to anyone at 
 this time, for the games stability would probably turn most people off right away. Altaholics will 
 get shafted as well, seeing as how you only get 8 characters per account (thats right, they are 
 doing the same character limitation deal they did with EQ2) . But for that extra fee .. (Station 
 pass  You get 4 more character slots) .
  
  In closing, this game can be fun, but wait at least 6 more months before purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weas
Rating: 1.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy paying to wait in a video game, then maybe this game is for you. Personally, waiting 
 around for a mob to maybe spawn in the hopes you get to tag it before someone else does, then hope 
 some more that it drops that one item you want that just so happens to have something like a .0001% 
 drop rate isn't fun or worth paying a monthly fee. Did I mention bugs , stability issues or mediocre 
 character models?? While having tremendous potential, this game miserably fails to live up to it, 
 or the hype it has received. Maybe check it out in 6-18 months to see if they fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracos9000
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing the game and decided to finally give my two cents.
  
  Gameplay: The combat system is fun for the classes that have finishing attacks and counter attacks. 
 This keeps us from just doing auto attack and spamming like one or two ability buttons. With my 
 mnk I press about 12 different buttons per fight. The quests are pretty much like every other MMO 
 out there but there are some unique quests out there. For instance I did a quest where I had to 
 place the bodies of a dwarf, halfling, and high elf into a bag then I had to dispose of them into 
 the river and then fight their undead counterparts. It was a weird quest but was fun in its own 
 way. PVP is the game is badly unbalanced and the disciple and cleric are considered the god mode 
 classes. I have a disciple and I dueled my friend who is 3 lvls above me and I completely destroyed 
 him with my disciple. I have a main mnk which is probably the weakest pvp class in the entire game, 
 but Im hoping that with updates and such the mnk will become better. Leveling in the game is pretty 
 slow after lvl 10 and you level alot faster if you group more often than soloing. The game allows 
 you to solo but you have to look for the solo quests or solo the group ones at a higher lvl.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good but sometimes there are some hiccups that take away from the 
 sheer beauty of them. The mobs sometimes vanish or do not move at all and are still causing damage 
 to you. This does'nt happen too often though but is annoying when it does.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are average but sometimes the music is ok.
  
  Value: The death penalty 
 may seem annoying to some players but it does add some flavor to the game as you really care about 
 dying and sometimes it can be fun getting to your gravestone while its littered with enemies. Thank 
 goodness for mnk fake death.
  
  Conclusion: Well the game is not for everyone and many people who have gotten used to WOW gameplay 
 will feel frustrated but if you give it a chance and have a friend to play with after a few hours 
 you will learn to appreciate the game and enjoy it. Its not impossible since WOW was my very first 
 MMORPG then I went to FFXI and never once did I ever play EQ series. If I find the game entertaining 
 then Im sure even the less hardcore players will find it interesting. Im not a causal player but 
 neither am I a hardcore gamer; I guess Im about right in the middle. If you are looking for something 
 new besides WOW and want to use most or all of the ability buttons you have then give this game 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frickinkid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I think Its one of the best MMO's ive played in a long time... buggy but hey.. u learn to get around 
 it.. and the game is new and they will fix them over time.. the only fall is .. that if u dont have 
 a 512 graphics card with a vertex and pixel shaders with atleast 6.0 and a 3.6 processor and u 
 need about 2 GB of memory then u can play on the minimum which i think is lame.. but hey.. if u 
 got the money upgrade ( if u dont have these specs ) i mean i have a 768 nvidia 8900 with my vertex 
 and pixel shaders 9.0 and my processor spd is 3.9 and i have 3.5 GB memory and i run on the top 
 graphics and the game is amazing!!!!! ( not bragging) i mean ive played Lineage II since beta an 
 i think the game still is awesome ( CANT WAIT TILL L3) but iv played WoW and EQ2 and i still think 
 VSOH is amazing.. (l2 always better in my heart) but the point always comes down to the game play 
 because we all know that .. if u need to spend this much on a game just to play .. the graphics 
 are above awesome.. but game play i think is alot like EQ2 because the makers are Sigil Games and 
 they did work with EQ developers on this one.. and i think the game play is nice.. i still dont 
 like the jumping thing.. cuz in WoW its completely stupid.. because for example they jump 10x way 
 to high.. and jumping ( i know its realistic but just takes away fomr the game when noobs jumping 
 around u and laughing.. its comepletely dumb) but back to my point .. the spells are nice and the 
 fighting is nice.. but im still used to L2 .. but all together its a great game and i think we 
 should all give Sigil a pat on the back.. because there hard workers ( all game development teams 
 are) but they did an awesome job.. ** congratz guys ** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  The only Pro's:
  
  - Flying mounts
  - Player housing
  - Future player cities
  - Crafting
  - future player economy
  
  Being over ambitious with a game leads to a unfinished 
 product, take PM for example and his games.
  
  Less = more - You should set yourself a realistic goal to releasing a polsihed title and then add 
 to it, not tried to do it all at once and fail...
  
  Now people do not give games or things a second chance in life, you make a bad first impression 
 and it'll follow you usually to your grave. Vanguard originally was Sigil + Microsoft but their 
 ideas clashed when Miceosoft wanted it to be Vista only and for the 360. Microsoft also planned 
 for it to be released even earlyer! Brad came crawling back to SOE and they saved the game and 
 gave them a extra year.
  
  However theres no sign of the 4/5 development time on this game, it's bug after bug after bug and 
 then half finished features everywhere! On top of that theres no content and the worlds empty.... 
 Where has all the time gone? It's the 2nd most expensive mmorpg developed and will it get it's 
 money back? I don't think so, IMO SOE will stop funding like they did with Planetside and it'll 
 become a dead game.
  
  The quest system is basically what you have with WOW and the UI is a carbon copy of WOW too. It's 
 obvious where alot of their inspirations came from. The Servers lag quite alot aswel and it really 
 ruins your gameplay experience. Theres really nothing to do in the game but have a boring grind 
 upto end level or craft....
  
  Crafting is probally the best thing about the game it's actually quite good but again it's unfinished 
 and buggy, the nearest thing i can pin it to is SWG/EQ2. It does become tedious and boring however 
 and you'll soon be getting fed up with alot of the unfinished features of the game and the low 
 populations.
  
  Diplomacy is just a complete waste of time, it's basically a card game where you can't lose.... 
 i don't see the point in not being able to lose, if you fail the first time then try try and try 
 again till you win. It's also very tedious and once you've done it the first time it'll be the 
 same the next and the next and the next.... quite pointless really.
  
  Grouping is also very poor, your team mates will often disconnect due to the poor servers and turn 
 invisible. Quite often this happens with NPC's turning invisible but when it happens to your group 
 members it can cause you to all die as a result. Normally it happens when you walk through door 
 ways and makes grouping unplayable.
  
  PVP is another feature unfinished, it's pretty piss poor and lacks anything. Caster classes are 
 very overpowered against anything else and it's just not fun. Theres no reward for PVP and only 
 risk of being camped on lol.
  
  In the end the gameplay is nothing special and very underpar and buggy. It was released far tooo 
 early and will become more annoying than fun.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I thought were very bland and boring, the art style was generic and did not make use of the technical 
 power of the Unreal 2.5 engine. I also find trees very odd looking and outta place and sway abit 
 too much for my liking. You need a very powerful machine aswel and is the most demanding game on 
 the market right now, however it isnt justified seeing as the graphics look poor. IF you don't 
 have 2gb ram the forget playing because the game needs 2gb ram to run smoothly and looks horrible 
 on medium to low. The animations are very pants aswel and horrible and the world seems lifeless 
 and characters have no facial expressions. I hate how saggy peoples butts are aswel.
  
  Overall the performance is horrible the graphics are generic and it's pretty poor IMO.
  
  Sounds:
 
  
  The music is quite ok but the sounds are repetitive and annoying, everything you hit sounds like 
 tin. I can say no more about this really, the quality is horrible.
  
  Value:
  
  Your paying $50 for a game thats still in beta or about $30 if your in the EU and then $15 monthly 
 fee or $18 in the EU. I would say its basic fees but considering the game isn't finished it's not 
 worth it.
  
  Overall its a game that had alot of good ideas but failed at everything. The game is not good at 
 the end of the day and will take years at this rate to bring it upto standard. A worse launch than 
 SWG or EQ2 put together lol.
  
  Don't buy it, simple and if you want the original EQ experience then go play progression servers 
 on EQ, this game isn't it. I believe the game will have about 50k subscribers within a year and 
 constantly decrease until it dies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zinkow
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  If you are an old school EQer, well then more than likely you are like me and have waited years 
 for this games release. FINALLY a game I am proud to claim and can see myself investing countless 
 hours to. Beware; this game is not for the weak at heart. lvling is slow at best compared to other 
 current MMOs on the market and death penalties are an unspeakable fear, but if you enjoy playing 
 a game where you actually get a sense of accomplishment out of a night of grouping with friends 
 I highly recommend Vanguard. Every other MMO since EQ1 to me has been like playing poker with no 
 money involved, VG has stopped that trend and opened a world with endless possibilities. Vanguard 
 is truly a site to see and to a veteran gamer a wonderful place to call home online. Note : Low 
 reviews you see are a result of people with out of date PC rigs, members of the WoW generation 
 who want everything given to them, or people who spent all of 1 hour trying to figure out the game, 
 got frustrated, and gave up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xole1000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Here's the deal, from someone with 44 hours of gameplay. It is indeed very buggy. But personally, 
 i'd rather bite my tounge and play through the bugs. Because, as we've seen with AOC, you either 
 play it with bugs or you wait another 8 MONTHS for the damn game to come out. For the people who 
 complain that it runs slowly, give them a break! if it had come out looking like WoW you'd all 
 have been **** about how crummy it looked. Its kind of rediculous that you should hold it against 
 a game that your computer doesn't have the balls to run it. I've had the same computer for 4 years 
 that i built myself for 1600 dollars and it runs this game at a comfortable 30 fps in a city. The 
 actual game is very deep, very imersive, and jam packed with all the features you've probably ever 
 dreamed about having in an MMO. leveling is slow, I'll agree with that one, but anyone who plays 
 this game for less than 10 hours and writes a bad review on it.. psh. that's like test driving 
 a car, but never leaving the parking lot, you never saw it's potential. So for those of you who 
 just want to play an MMO to get bad-ass stuff... fast... then go back to WoW. and for those of 
 you who want depth and content, i urge you to try vanguard. i firmly believe that there are two 
 kinds of MMO players nowadays, and there's not anyone who doesn't recall asking for help in WoW's 
 general chat, and getting 5 your mom s in response. here's to vanguard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyntimmy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Having been accepted into the beta in Dec. and not being able to run it efficiently, I didn't really 
 begin playing until the 1st week of January (a new vid. card does wonders for this game) . With 
 that being said, I have put an extensive amount of time into the game and have a full understanding 
 of what I like, dislike, and what needs to be in order for this to be the top-tier MMO it claims 
 it is.
  
  Let's get all the dislikes out of the way. Currently I have 3 (and a potential fourth) and those 
 are lack of support, easily running into a dead end in diplomacy, performance issues, and (potentially) 
 lack of high end content. The support needs work in both the petition area and patches. In it's 
 current form, petitions take hours to get a response and in many cases if you log out your position 
 in line is lost (however I had one experience of reporting a eBay seller and got a response stating 
 they were investigating after I logged out and came back on) . As for the patches, one thing that 
 was nice in beta was there was a patch almost daily (I think excluding weekends, there was maybe 
 5 days max. in Jan. without a patch) and Brad had promised in his interview that although the game 
 was being released with bugs, the patches would keep on coming. Well the game has launched and 
 so far patches have been pretty much bi-weekly. Normally, this wouldn't be a problem, BUT, the 
 Unreal 3 Engine is very complex from what I understand (especially using it in an MMO) and for 
 every bug they fix, another 2 are added. Brad claimed in the interview there is a team of about 
 100 working on patches and content. It felt that way in Jan. but with the patches being fewer and 
 farther between, I'm beginning to doubt it. Mind you I'm capable of overlooking these, but some 
 are not. Even times the patch notes claim to change or add things like disappearing enemies problem 
 has been fixed or you can no longer summon mounts while moving . Well you can still summon mounts 
 while moving, and as for the disappearing enemies, they listed that as fixed twice in beta and 
 a third time during release in the patch notes. The third time added more of a band-aid than a 
 fix. Now when the enemy would normally disappear randomly while in battle, he tweaks out, walks 
 backwards about 15 ft. and then charges back at you. Something I can easily overlook except when 
 by moving back 15ft. he pulls in 2 more mobs that causes me to die. That kind of stuff pisses me 
 off. As for additional content, there have been additional quests added since launch, but not one 
 single new area has been listed in patch notes since launch.
  
  Which leads to the potential problem. Many people in beta I talked to and some in retail are complaining 
 of lack of high end content. I can't comment since I'm not high enough yet, but many of the areas 
 added in beta were for low lvl, small groups for lvls 12-18 and a couple 22-26 dungeons. Beyond 
 that, I haven't seen nor heard anything in regards to quests, so that's something you should be 
 aware of at this time.
  
  The performance issues in the game also are bothersome. My game meets the recommended requirements 
 in every category (except processor, but I beat the minimum required one handily) and I get approximately 
 30-38 FPS outside with enemies present and fighting by myself. At the character select screen I 
 get 56.7-58 and in town I get about 12-18 FPS. Now considering I meet or exceed the recommended 
 requirements, I'm perplexed as to why I do not get 60FPS or close to it except in the menu. I originally 
 had an onboard x200 along with 1GB of ram and it got about 3 FPS at character select. I added the 
 x1650pro to my system and got much better performance. Before adding the 2nd gig of ram, load times 
 between chunks was up to 15 seconds. The problem with that is when your loading, your character 
 doesn't stop at the border of the load zone. The game has it registered as your character still 
 running. So when you come back, your character who kept running straight while you were loading 
 may have picked up aggro. I've never been killed after a load instantly, but many times I've been 
 dropped in whilst in a fight and had about 1/4 health left. Sometimes I died, sometimes I didn't. 
 So again, if you don't have the vid. card, don't expect any FPS. And if you don't have 2GB of RAM, 
 don't expect to have quick load times or being able to easily run through town without lag (without 
 2GB, expect about 6FPS in town if you meet the recommended in the other areas) .
  
  Last but not least is diplomacy. I got to about lvl 42 diplomacy and the quest lines I was on just 
 ended. So where do you got next? Well don't expect any direction. The buzz on the forums reveals 
 once you reach lvl 50 you get it up higher by talking to people in town who have min. requirment 
 of lvl 50 diplomacy to engage. Well that's great, except I can't get up to lvl 50 cause the quest 
 line just stopped. So for now, I can't do any further diplomacy unless I find another diplomacy 
 line.
  
  However, despite all that time I spent discussing the negatives, I still enjoy Vanguard immensely. 
 People rip on the games graphics too much. It looks phenomenal, the dynamic lighting makes the 
 armor look really shiny and realistic. Enemy variety is also very good. Excluding the ksaravi, 
 for the most part, all enemies have some sort of variation and look different. Character animations 
 are also fluid and quite nice. Some of the shout attacks (bellow for bard and the fear shout for 
 warriors) have some pretty lousy voice acting but otherwise all abilities are nice looking. One 
 cool thing about attack abilities is that if you use an ability it has up to 6 different looks. 
 The normal one, the critical hit, and the epic hit. Not only do they do different damage, but they 
 have different animations which is very cool. You also get 3 different ones when in the crouched 
 position, though they aren't that much different. Another knock I hear is quests suck. I don't 
 know what game everyone is playing, but the quests I have been on involve killing named mobs, retrieving 
 items, and going through dungeons with groups. In some cases these quest lines start with killing 
 6-20 of a particular enemy type, but for the most part it doesn't follow the WoW formula. The best 
 element though is how each class plays a role. Vanguard divides clases into Protective Fighter, 
 Offensive Fighter, Defensive Caster, and Offensive Caster and then sub divided them (dread knight 
 and warrior fall under Protective Fighter while Bard and Rogue under offensive fighter, so on and 
 so forth) . So what's the big deal? Well just because they fall under certain categories, unlike 
 other MMO's, they are not interchangeable, meaning they all serve a purpose. Having two tanks (protective 
 fighters) isn't bad because if one is a Dread Knight, his armor and lower dmg. buffs help out the 
 Warrior along with all the other classes. A Psionist can mezz (freeze) and enemy and take him out 
 of combat indefinitely until he is attacked while a Sorcerer can cast a wide area damage spell. 
 So what I'm saying is everything complements each other whereas in other MMO's (especially FFXI) , 
 you can have two of the same DPS caster or tanks, it really doesn't matter.
  
  Overall, it's a fun game, and it definitely needs some work, but for now, I'm having immense fun 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercubedude64
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  In brief, this game is uninspired in every sense of the word. Every single thing in this game EVERY 
 SINGLE ONE has been done to death in every MMO released over the last few years, and even following 
 those precedents, it manages to get a fair number of them wrong. This game's only redeeming value 
 is its top-notch graphics, but graphics don't make an MMO good. If you get this game, you won't 
 be paying any attention to the graphics, however, instead you'll be constantly pissed off by the 
 vast number of bugs in this game. Nothing in the game works completely correctly. Take a pass on 
 this game. You're much better off with whatever MMO you're playing now. Vanguard is CRAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game lags alot exspecially if you want it look decent. I have a High-mid range comp 
 and it runs pretty bad. There are some cool things like player housing and flying mounts. But the 
 game just dousent have enough other things. Leveling is slightly more difficult than other games 
 but its not too hard. Getting a mount is easy, there cheap and you get them very quick at only 
 level 10. Altho there are some bugs they will probly fix later but it feels rushed to the max. 
 7
  
  Graphics: If you can have the game on balanced settings the game looks gorgeouse. Any lower and 
 it looks crap tastic. There good but hogs your comp. 8
  
  Sound: The music is pretty good not the best. Ambiance is nice but some times the sound breaks 
 and tears and sounds really bad. 6
  
  Value: I played it for awile but Lord of The Rings Online is just around the corner and should 
 be great. Vanguard just tryes to hard but got rushed and theres so many bugs and graphical problems. 
 6
  
  Tilt: Its a good game but got rushed, and LOTRO is coming soon. 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I will be the first to admit I was among the throng of people screaming for people to give Vanguard: 
 Saga of Heroes a chance. Its premise, and the world that they PLANNED on building promised to be 
 one of the most immersive and fun since Everquest was first released. Why shouldn't it be, as it 
 is being helmed by EQ's brainchild.
  
  The potential runs high, with three seperate paths to pursue in adventuring, crafting, and diplomacy 
 (a new concept that has intriguing potential) , and the ability to pursue each of these without 
 having to sacrifice progress in the other is a great idea.
  
  The good in Vanguard stops right about there. Being a part of the closed beta, you would expect 
 bugs that were reported months before release (and i'm speaking of showstoppers and experience 
 ruining bugs) to have been fixed. Some of which are STILL not, and these include the infamous 'falling 
 through the world', attacking a mob only to have it suddenly disappear, still be able to hit you, 
 reappear about 15 meters away, STILL able to hit you, and you unable to damage it until it is back 
 in range.
  
  The game also feels terribly unbalanced when it comes to the races and their starting quest experiences 
 that get you into the game. Some are fleshed out and fun (like Kojan humans for example) , and some 
 flat out suck and literally drop you into a starting area, if you can call it that... with two 
 tents, and you're there because you just... are.
  
  I know there are a throng of people that will scream its an MMO, its going to be bugged, its not 
 going to ever be complete, especially at the start. I have been playing nearly every MMO that has 
 come out in the US since the Realm, and I'm sorry but there is no excuse for the state that Vanguard 
 is in at Release. Release means ready for consumption, ready for people to play and enjoy. Vanguard 
 simply is not, and for those that are blinded by fervor for the game, Brad McQuaid himself ADMITTED 
 this game is nowhere near finished but they had no choice. With the case of Vanguard, if SOE didn't 
 want to dish out more cash on it being finished (and as I see it there had every reason not to) , 
 find another investor. Do not release this product, using your consumers as a middle man to support 
 your beta to further finish the game.
  
  The engine is terrible, and completely counter-intuitive. I have an absolute top of the line system 
 at this point, and Vanguard runs TERRIBLY. There is no excuse for it but half assed, rushed design. 
 Want to see how an engine SHOULD be? look at LOTRO, but that is beside the point.
  
  Again, Vanguard HAD a lot of potential. But what should be an immersive and engaging world is completely 
 empty for miles in areas. There is no introduction movie whatsoever, while that's not everything, 
 it gives you an idea as to the production values behind this game. As much as people like this 
 game, its honestly more a desire to see it reach its full potential, which should it ever, it will 
 be awesome. But the question is will it survive that long? I doubt it. Few games can survive such 
 a horrid release, and the only reason they do is because the publisher is behind it and supporting 
 it, SOE (again for good reason) simply does not seem to be behind Vanguard as they are other franchises. 
 If I'm sounding overly bitter or too much on the hatorade as many of the Vanguard community will 
 point out, I am. I as a gamer, a supporter and believer in Vanguard and what it should be, am outright 
 pissed off. Anyone who buys this game in its current state SHOULD be pissed off. No one should 
 be charged $60 (in the collector edition $100) plus their monthly fee to support their continued 
 beta testing, because their investors have given up. As much as I loved the idea of Vanguard and 
 what it could have been, this will (and should) be the game that illustrates to the industry what 
 terrible practices are going on in MMO design. If you can say that you're having fun with Vanguard 
 in its current state, you're either way too used to broken releases, or literally too proud to 
 admit that Vanguard is not what you expected, or you haven't played a character to level 20 yet.
 
  
  If you are considering buying Vanguard, I'd say wait six months. It needs the time, and needs it 
 BADLY. By then (hopefully) things will be fixed and the game will be on its way to being fun. But 
 the developers, the management, and the vision behind this could-have-been-great game should be 
 flat out ashamed. As a designer myself, I'd have risked it not being released at all and looking 
 for another investor, then release my brainchild so to speak, in the state that Vanguard is in. 
 Again... six months minimum and it should be playable...
  
  That's even assuming its still there by summer. If things do not get fixed fast, I would not be 
 surprised in the least to see Vanguard, unfortunately, not even last a year.
  
  There's so much potential here, but a terribly sluggish engine, a hives population full of bugs 
 that are over 4 months old, and flat out nothing being 'fun', drags Vanguard: SOH into the mire 
 of one of the worst released MMOs to date. Only time will determine what will happen here, and 
 hopefully, it can survive and become what it has the potential to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkstar13372
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Many of you are wondering how can this game be so bad? Why is it 20gb? Why do the reviewers claim 
 low content? Well, if you want a review from a player whos been with Vanguard for 3 weeks of intense 
 play, then read here.
  
  At first, I was very sceptical. Sure, spend an extra 50 bucks for a new game. I saw the box lined 
 up next to 2 shelves of Burning Crusades, which I just couldnt afford to bother with. Vanguard 
 looked exciting, and the box promised me content and freedom .
  
  Well, I got just that. This game DOES NOT hold your hand. This game brings you into a starting 
 area at level one with beutiful graphics and as well as you being on one of THREE huge continents. 
 Before I logged in, I had a choice of 19 Races and 15 unique classes. Talk about variety! And yes, 
 Ive played 9 classes before I wrote this- variation is beutiful, and kept my interest.
  
  After 3 hours of walking around, right clicking on monsters and casting a spirit smash spell repetively, 
 I got to level 4! Wow, I sure had accomplished A LOT, considering I didnt know how to interact 
 with the in game NPC's until I accidently talked to one- somehow. Arriving at a NPC with a yellow 
 shield above their head, I talked to them. No, I didn't just talk, I got a quest. My first quest, 
 it was exciting. The adventure promised me 40 Copper/Brown coins, and that was hard to pass by, 
 considering I had no money. And so, I ventured out into the field of wisps and fairys. No, this 
 is not the Hello Kitty Super Adventure, it's Vanguard time.
  
  Gameplay is one element of the game I hated. It was just like every other MMO, or so I thought. 
 This is what pisses me of in the now after 3 weeks of play, seeing game reviewers whove played 
 for 3-15hours giving final scores on the low level portion of the game mixed with crappy, outdated 
 machines. The gameplay at first was basic, but then I started to pay attention. WASD keys were 
 used to move around, and rushing into mobs of enemies turned out to be a horrid idea. Perception 
 is one thing this world requires- the small details you pass by will end up kicking you in the 
 ass. The enemy detected, precieved, overlooked, all sorts of things that made combat fascinating. 
 Planning out how I used my few spells was a challenge, but as I fought my skills increased, and 
 so did my ability to recognize the spells my enemies were using. Also, enemies were, well, agressive! 
 They cast spells, ran when they were weak, and kept at me if I was low on health. Fighting an enemy 
 that uses spells according to the situation and even fighting multiple mobs or high leveled bosses 
 always ended up with a happy ending.
  
  No, not that happy ending, but the rewarding feeling of accomplishment.
  
  Graphics. They are 
 very, very good. The absence of cartoonish details, replaced by natural, beutiful, realistic scenes 
 and objects was astonishing. ( Mind you, I have a GeForce 7900 Card and 2gb of RAM ) For all you 
 gamers out there, if you meet the minimum requirements, well no **** it wont look good. Heck, this 
 is one high end game- I'm running it on BALANCED ( Graphic quality 3/5 ) . Minimum requirements 
 are NOT recommended by any Vanguard player. Seriously, use your head.
  
  One of the most rewarding things about the graphics- you look out into the world, and you see it. 
 They are spell bounding, and I can't even begin to share the many details Ive come across.
  
  To finish of this review, Ive decided to go over the bugs. Yes, there are cases of slowness, 
 choppyness, etc.. I can't help that, but I have friends and I have my own personal experience I 
 would like to share with you. Them and I simply defraged out HArd Drives after installing. We didnt 
 max out settings, and tweaked the setting. After that, we all enjoyed the game and have never regretted 
 buying it since. Minor bugs come in this game, and they are being fixed constantly- many performance 
 issues are serious, but very rare and are addressed in each patch.
  
  When you simply consider the size and amount of content of this game, it's hard for me to imagine 
 why people give it such poor and even cruel ratings. Diplomacy, it's interaction with NPC's and 
 involved large scale and local game politics wich lead to money, items, and even special favors 
 later on. Crafting, is amazing. Instead of taking some metal and poofing it into an armor plate, 
 you detail peices of it and then craft it together. Boat making, furniture, etc. is also available. 
 Harvesting, it's an in depth system where you have the power to go anywhere, take those resources, 
 and then create whatever you want. Armor, Weapons, Boats, Furniture, and soon- Seige weapons, cannons, 
 the list goes on. But let's not forget Adventuring.
  
  This game, it's hard core. The battles you face will rarely be of ease. Grouping with people and 
 going into a large dungeon to face of enemies- well, let's say a good 2 hours can even stretch 
 to 4. This games size, the content, the potential is so great. You might not feel conforatable 
 with all the negatives about this game, but then again- this is just the beginning.
  
  I hope my review has been helpful. Remember, this game is not for the weak. You will spend hours 
 if not dozens of hours just peaking to level 20. If you arent willing to explore, learn, and put 
 in epic effort to fight off a whole world- then go away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanOh1951
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I was really disappointed the Vanguard SOH. For the enormous amount of space it takes up on my 
 hard drive I would have expected stunning graphics. Instead the graphics are mediocre at best. 
 The buildings are flat, lacking texture. The water effects are very poor. As my character walks 
 through streams and swims there is no wake or indication that it is disturbing the water at all. 
 Trees have exaggerated movements. Swaying so hard they appear to be in a typhoon while the sound 
 of wind is just a breeze. Ground cover such as grass is sparse. Despite this the lag time can be 
 considerable when you enter a new area. The graphics in the Guild Wars series are much better. 
 The game play in regard to the quests can be summed up to kill a certain number of monsters and 
 return or get something (requiring you to kill a certain number of monsters) and return. One example 
 stands out as my character has been rescued from a life of murder under the Emperor. The teacher 
 scolds me for my deeds of killing under the Emperor and tells me it will take some time to clear 
 the stains of my past life of murder. To make amends he orders me to go out and (you guessed it) 
 kill a certain number of monsters or bandits and return. I guess it really depends who you are 
 killing for rather than the deeds. Overall very disappointing. Hold out for Lord of the Rings On-line 
 whose graphics and gameplay are much better even with over a month to go before launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredred7825
Rating: 4.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  Vanguard is a stab at the nostalgic everquest format. Everquest vets will find this fermiller and 
 may think this is what everquest 2 should of been.
  
  Instancing, quick leveling and fast travel which has removed a sence of adventure in other mmorpgs 
 are not present in this game.
  However whats in this game are all the things that caused problems in the hay days of everquest's 
 exploration of the genre. Such as groups camping or farming of mobs in in-world dungeons, everquest 
 style level grind, lack of worded directions in quests and sometimes word activated quests rose 
 rose! Rose ROSE 
  
  Leveling your character is very slow doing it solo and more effiecant completing harder quests 
 with groups. Which isnt a bad thing untill you realise a dungeon run doesnt net a good progression 
 in experiance points before you hit your next level.
  The leveling curve is quite hellish with harsh XP dedt and mearger XP gain making your level progression 
 frustrating at times.
  
  Bugs. GS reviewer detailed these already
  
  Graphics are super but sometimes grinds to a halt or stutters in some areas on medium settings. 
 Not to confuse this with chunking however which is a term for vanguard when the game freezes for 
 a few seconds (maybe more) as you enter a section of the map that needs to be loaded.
  
  Most of the quests are just kill X mobs or deliver this to X which makes the game evently feel 
 two dimentional While taking some inspiration from other games in this gerne, vanguard fails to 
 understand the keys of making a fun game. In this time of well made, fun packed like guild wars 
 and world of warcraft in hard to recommend this game to anyone. *Minutes of your life wasted reading 
 this poor grammer work is non refundable* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Etrigan
Rating: 1.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  After all the hype, a mediocre game that for many people is utterly unplayable due to poor coding. 
 Some people can play, but many like myself can't despite having good PCs with high spec graphics 
 cards. Whether you can play or not seems to be some sort of hardware lottery, with the technical 
 support boards being in constant denial and suggesting endless bizarre system tweaks that have 
 no effect. Sigil should be ashamed, and I can only assume that SOE got fed up waiting for the return 
 on their investment. Ignoring the bugs, the gameplay looks dull and I doubt it will last the year! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wesker888
Rating: 2.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  This game is a total disasterpiece, beyond abysmal.
  Random crashes, misplaced items, lost items, insane lag even with a mid-end pc, bugged quests, 
 unfinished quests, bugged items... the list could go on FOREVER.
  
  Oh and did i mention that they always manage to **** something up after every patch? Dupes, more 
 bugged items... oh and have you ever seen missplaced bodyparts like having your head sticking out 
 of your shoulder? Play this game after a patch and you will see some for sure!
  
  But on the other hand this game has some good potential so if they could stop ****ing stuff up 
 all the time maybe, just MAYBE, it would work out better. Oh and the in-game support? its FUBAR. 
 They are canceling all the petitions that has to do with gameplay/crafting/adventuring bugs, what 
 the hell do we need GMs for besides that anyways? To summon our disappeared corpses and give lost 
 items back? This stuff shouldn't even happen in the first place.
  
  If you want to play this game i would suggest that you wait a couple of months until they fix EVERYTHING 
 and play something else meanwhile unless you want to be annoyed and frustrated by broken in-game 
 mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgeoffrion
Rating: 1.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  this game could have been great if it was released when ready but SIGIL ran out of money and were 
 forced to release early. Some people will say that it is hard and that it is not for the wow generation, 
 the thing is that the game as very little solo content and your game experience always depends 
 on other people availlability past level 12-14. interface is pretty much the same as wow and combat 
 is not very challenging, it is just like beating on elite mobs in wow all the time but with very 
 poor animation and very little variations betweens mobs. quest are mostly the standard fedex / 
 kill / body part harvester with a few original one in there.
  
  Diplomacy sounded fun but ends up being a pretty much useless timesink, there are better card games. 
 crafting os great but not for everyone as it could be seend as a mindless clikc fest...
  
  anyway, i am playing it right now for my 30 days but the number of bugs and annoyance outnumbers 
 the benefits with this one...
  
  when is WAR coming out ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattcov
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  All the promise inherent in the design of Vanguard is let down by poor execution. The game is ridden 
 with bugs in all aspects of game play, making the stiff death penalty something you'll encounter 
 early and often. Solo play after level 15 is almost impossible, and this seems to be according 
 to the designers intentions. Unless you're a hardcore gamer with hours on end to dedicate to grouping, 
 don't bother with Vanguard. In fact, even if you are such a hardcore gamer, don't bother with Vanguard. 
 The bugs in the grouping system, added to the bugs in the combat system, mean you'll spend more 
 time trying to get a group together and doing corpse runs (which often end up being impossible 
 to complete) that you will actually fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corolex
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  After playing WoW for 2 years i found Vanguard to be similar although not as polished. The game 
 currently is full of bugs that need to be cleared especially with the graphics and frame rates. 
 However, you can still be hooked with the game play.
  
  I hated the game in the beginning but got completly hooked by the time i reached level 5. The reason 
 for that is i started feeling more comfortable with the UI and not attempting to compare it to 
 how WoW UI's and mods work out
  
  I would have rated this game higher if the graphics were smoother and functioning properly. The 
 soundtrack is superb. update
  After playing the game for more than a month now, the bugs have still not been fixed and not only 
 that, i had to call long distance to cancel my subscription. im afraid i have to look for something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazanarkand
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard Saga of Heroes is one of the greatest mmo's I have played if not the greatest in gameplay. 
 The game brings to the genre what many have failed to do. Depth! Starting out you create your character 
 and make it look the way you want from hundreds of different properties such as weight, strength, 
 and so on. Once you do that you enter the world and you should be preparred to be immersed in the 
 world of Telon. Almost 95%+ of all quests actually mean something in the world unlike WoW which 
 has many quests such as kill 10 beavers... But with Vanguard, quests such as praying to the gods 
 to distract the enemy then going into a castle or fort to get a poison to prevent the poisoning 
 of your leader. As you progress you decide which area you will base your character in. The 3 are 
 Diplomacy which is one of the most addicting things I have ever done. It is a card game but once 
 you understand it, you will play till you drop! Another is crafting which I have not gone much 
 into depth but from what I have heard it is also addicting! The last is Adventuring which from 
 what I have experienced is extremely fun!
  
  Early on you receive a mount that is what all mmo's need! I always hated running from one area 
 to another and taking 20 min +which is just a waste of time. What Vanguard brings to the table 
 is less timesinks. Timesinks are things like you have to wait 15 minutes to wait for a boss and 
 so on. Everything is clean and you will never have nothing to do.
  
  Now the only problem with this game is bugs, bugs, bugs! Once they fix them this game will recieve 
 a perfect 10 on my watch. Pros: Extremely Fun! Graphics are the best to date for any mmo. Depth! 
 Character creation! Cons: Bugs! You need a good system to run the game. All in all, wait a few 
 months to get the game until the fix the bugs. This summer will be the summer of Vanguard!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lirolar
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Pros: Humorous Quests, Many Mounts, PC Owned Ships, Cooperative Resource Harvesting, Expansive 
 World, Diplomacy System (neat idea) , Defensive AND Offensive Targets (well done)
  
  Cons: LAG! (No matter your hardware or net speed you will lag at every intersection of people and 
 numerous NPCs, every town, outpost, city, dungeon Crafting System: Worst Ever in the history of 
 Electronic Games. More frustrating and tme consuming than EQ2 and the original Dark Ages combined. 
 Client Unstable: In fact it's statistically less stable than the original Windows 95 You lose connection 
 about 1 time per hor of playing on average. You Crash for no apparent reason, or for obvious lax 
 programming reasons. Your video will lock up and reboot your system, even with a decent video card, 
 but only from time to time. It is possible to get in a 30 minute non-dungeon game session with 
 no errors, but they are rare. In fact I have played it for 40 days and nights by this point and 
 haven't had a bug-free day yet.
  
  Heavy Group Slant: The ammount of non-soloable content far outweighs the number of soloable content. 
 They are working on relabelling some of this stuff as 'small group' now but it's not perfect. They 
 have a Dot system like EQ2 has a 'triangle' system. The more dots, the Fatter the MOB. This can 
 result in a creature of 3/4ths your level havin 5 times your hp and while it will be worth little 
 or no xp it will still kill you.
  
  Mobs That Camp Corpses: Vanguard brings back the dreaded Corpse Runs of EQ1 with the occasional 
 corpse camped by the Mob that whacked you. Some mobs don't have a 'home spot' so they stay near 
 the last place they did anything. If that was Kill you, they'll be there when you come back.
  
  Camping: Not every Mob drops a quest item for every character and sometimes they drop loot 
 for anyone so good mobs get Camped. (Remember Room Lists? &gt; Shudder&lt; )
  
  Bait and Switch: The Game's press and videos would lead you to believe that the Pathing is superior 
 and that Mobs can come at you from Walls and ceilings, but it doesn't happen. They Do occasionally 
 path Through Walls...
  
  No 'Encounter' Highlighting: EQ2 gave us 'encounters' which was a way to tell if a Mob was a BAF 
 or not. You never can tell if a mob will haul 8 of his friends with him or come by himself.
  
  XP Inadequecy: Killing isn't worth much at all in Vanguard, so your levelling is either a Long 
 arduous Grind every level or you do Quests and Missives (kill tasks by level in outposts) So killing 
 is reuired for everything buy only when and were they tell you. Problem is that they quests don't 
 always work and many of them are Full Group only.
  
  Food: They slowed down HP and Mana regen so that people would use the in game food. Mind you, there 
 are only 5 pieces of food, sectioned out by level. You need to be Level 10 to eat an apply, btw 
 and they don't sell level 1-9 food. You get some with your newbie gear and that had better last 
 you. Palyers don't cook so they basically put in a Nerf in the first week of the game desidned 
 to make you spend money. Death Penalties: No only do you take an xP Debt but you lose some along 
 with your Corpse which you might get back if you do the arduous corpse run. You Also take a Durability 
 hit on Everything You Carried, weather it was in a pack or not. You cannot Auction a piece of gear 
 that isn't repaired, so they get you in thepurse there too. Very Styngy on the Coin: Loot is terrible 
 in this game. Level 14 Mobs that do drop coins a dropping a few coppers. A rare drop weapon will 
 only fetch you 16 or 32 coppers from a vendor and many items are valueless completely.
  
  Quest Rewards: almost every quest reward I have seen is Way Below Level and usually useless to 
 a character of the level needed to complete it, plus the items are all soulbound so you cant Auction, 
 Sell to PCs, or Twink with them, you have to sell them to a vendor for chump change.
  
  MAP: The in game map is horrible, inaccurage and useless indoors or in cities. They don't let you 
 pin your own locations, your minimap doesn't show your surroundings but rather a zoom in of the 
 world map. So in the dwarf city you see the typical carat shpped mountains with a few location 
 dots... no halls, buildings, corridors etc... just line drawn mountains and dots. Joy.
  
  Chains: Some of your Actions and Reactions require 'set up' actions before you can use them... 
 it owuld be nice if they gaveyou a hint as to what they were in the descriptions... but on occasion 
 you can hear the rattling of chains to let you know you found it! :)
  
  Level Limited Items: If you can affor a horse, you ought to be able to ride on, no? But not in 
 Vanguard. Each tier of mount is strictly level regimented. No only that, but the Shoes, Bags, Tack 
 etc. are also level limited. why? Shrug
  
  Seamless and Zoneless: Hah! You run into Seams all ofver the world and zoning will often crash 
 you, cut your follow Tether, Knock you out of a group, Mark your companions Dead in the Group HUDs 
 etc. Diplomacy Cards: While the Diplomacy Minigame is neat it too has problems. You need Cards 
 to Play, like Magic The Gathering and your opponents are usually drawing from a larger and more 
 expensive collection. You only get cards for certain quests and the selection you start with is 
 always lacking. Furthermore your opponents will have access to Non PC Cards from time to time so 
 that you couldn't ever get that good anyhow. Itt's like trying to beat a Mr. Suitcase wiht a Starter 
 deck. That part can be terribly frustrating. So most Diplomacy contests are either an Easy Win 
 or Total Crushing Defeat. Very little middle-ground. But theat with there is has some promise for 
 the future.
  
  Grey Aggro: Mobs that go Grey, thus arn't worth XP can still aggro you and still kill you in groups 
 yet they aren't worth any reward. You can occasionally Lag into said groups of greys and die... 
 one of many peaves.
  
  While this is not a truly exhaustive list, it is typical of a Day on Telon the world of Vanguard 
 SOH the latest 'winner' from SOE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caladine
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Want a game that you acutally might get lost in?
  Want a game that will challenge you?
  Want a game that doesnt guide you though each zone like a single player game?
  Kicked yourself 
 in the butt for getting into EQ after PoP?
  Want to get a group other than just for raiding?
  
  This is it then. As a old school EQ player 
 this is it for me. I have played MMOs since UO and this is by far the best I have personally expierenced. 
 As one player put in logging into the game So this is what EQ was really supposed to be. The bad: 
 Crappy bugs, God bless there are some bugs. It is frustrating, slam your head on the wall type 
 frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 4, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I cant play a MMO that does not allow me to get things done or complete quests when I have about 
 1-2 hours to play. Sorry, but this game is for the die hard college frat boys that skip class and 
 the 50 year olds coming over from EQ1
  
  EQ1 was great in its time, but this model does not work out today. Waiting for spawns to repop 
 and having your boss KS'd by another group as you race to get the room is annoying, and give the 
 game time and soon the high levels will be spawn camping these rooms and solo KS'ing you like in 
 the old Sebilis days in EQ1. I'll give this game a 7 overall for group addicted online players, 
 but for casuals, steer clear
  
  I'll pass. You have been warned. You are not Prepared 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquidtech
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Wow where to begin with Vanguard. First of all I want to say that Im really impressed with the 
 game and I just cant understand why all these people are tearing it down so much. I mean give 
 me a break a 1.0 is like saying that this is the worst game ever produced, and believe me, its 
 not. I think that Blizzard Has been paying people off to write bad reviews or something. In fact 
 I cant believe that GS only gave it a 7.5, while they gave Guild Wars an 8.2. This game is so 
 full of content where GW was just empty, all you could do in that game was quest, and they limited 
 your abilities to 8 spells. I thought GW was terrible. Anyways this isnt a review about GW but 
 Vanguard. Ive been playing a couple of weeks now and Im totally addicted. The game I feel is 
 just as engaging as WoW, granted theres no PVP, which sucks, although there are PVP servers, they 
 need to put arenas in this game or something. The questing is top notch and fun, and the fighting 
 is rewarding like it should be. When youre in a group you have a job (tank, crowd control, nuker, 
 etc...) . Also its nice to be able to unlock new spells and armor as frequently as you can in this 
 game.
  The game itself is absolutely beautiful and detailed, nice smooth graphics, way better than WoW's 
 outdated sharp edged stuff. There are a few bugs but its really not as bad as people make it seem, 
 Ive actually only gotten stuck once in the few weeks Ive been playing, but the /stuck command 
 got me out of that in a hurry. All the /stuck commands are reporte too so they get fixed! All in 
 all Im impressed with the game, havent gotten to do much crafting or diplomacy yet because I've 
 been to busy adventuring, but what I have done has been pretty cool. I would heartily recommend 
 this game to someone who is a fan of MMORPGs and who wants to try something new, beautiful, and 
 immersive. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnar136
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard is basically a great all around game. Though it has its share of bugs since it was forced 
 to release early i don't mid paying them to fix them. Actually I'm not paying them at all thanks 
 to the 30 days free trial.
  
  Overall the gameplay is fun. Adventuring, crafting, and diplomacy are each addicting and always 
 leave you something to do whether you feel like going out and grouping with some guildies or hanging 
 around the city talking to people with diplomacy or completing work orders for profit with crafting.
 
  
  The Graphics are nice and often beautiful though the animations and some textures need some working 
 on.
  
  Sound is great and unique by area. Though it can feel repetitive at times it does in fact feel 
 oftentimes epic. Also, i have yet too have any bugs with the sound and it is pretty solid without 
 any breakup problems.
  
  Vanguard is one of those games that feels enormous. Though some areas might feel empty at the moment 
 there are always areas to go to to find other people to hang with so you never feel alone. There 
 is of course unlimited value since i keep finding myself making new characters and there will always 
 be new content coming out with patches.
  
  Overall Vanguard is a fun game at the moment if you don't have any performance issues. For those 
 of you who do i understand your pain especially with customer service backed up (i still have a 
 grudge against EA Games after unbearable problems and lackluster help with Battlefield 2) so if 
 you are having problems I'd recommend waiting a few patches before getting the game. Though it 
 will always be here as the community continues to grow and so far has been helpful and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HALFjap001
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is the most addicting game that i have EVER played... i began playing video games since 
 the NES console... final fantasy rpg's are a huge favorite of mine (haven't tried ff online cause 
 i heard it wasn't so good) ... the game is amazingly fun and addictive, everyone i have talked to 
 within the game says its way way way way better than WoW ... if you don't buy this game now you 
 are losing out! everytime i log on i have a rush through my fingertips because EVERYTHING is at 
 my disposal... so far i have created 4 characters each almost at lvl 10 (i have only had the game 
 for a few weeks) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson32
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  I have been playing MMORPGs since the MUD days and I gotta tell you, this is to MMORPGs in 2007 
 as UO was to MMORPGs when it came out. I have played just about every popular MMORPG out there 
 and this one is the most detailed and content oriented that I have seen (SWG started that way too) . 
 Hopefully they stay on the road that they started on and continue improving the game because it 
 is a very fun game! The graphics arent too bad and the sound is decent, but the quests are fun 
 and the world is fun to explore! It seems open and real not like that boxed in feeling you get 
 from playing something like EQ. The trade skills are a little overwhelming but I think I am getting 
 the hang of it and they have something for every level of tradesman. You can stick with harvesting 
 (skinning, mining, lumberjack, etc.) , or you can really dive in and make secondary and primary 
 components! They also have mounts you can ride which makes travel a lot faster. However, they don't 
 just give them away, you have to earn enough money and experience to ride them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pietror_se
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  have done the main quest line until lvl 10, then wanted to move - it is a big word and i wanted 
 to explore! suddently there was no quest to be found!
  
  the main city (new tarrogh or something) is completely empty except some dolls who do nothing.
 
  
  mobs pop up 25 meters around you, sometime even in their aggaro range. when you stand at a border 
 of a zone , you can see weird things going on on the other zone - mobs appearing and disappearing, 
 repetitively....
  i say not even beta - its aplha. with all that time they have been developing it, i doubt it will 
 some to any good end ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoden
Rating: 2.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  Not much to say than it is still in beta phase. And it reminds me of EverQuest 2.
  
  Also after I created my character and playing for around 2 days I logged in with my character and 
 he was looking different.. the face and looks is changed. So why wasting time on something broken 
 and paying that amount of money for nothing.
  
  I played mostly all online games from the most crappy one to the best one. The game reminds me 
 of Everquest 1 which I really enjoy playing with my real life friend for over 2 and half years. 
 I'm currently playing WoW and I have level 70 character.. I'm enjoying the game to the max with 
 my friends and so. It's easy to level up in this game and good thing you can play at 60FPS with 
 very powerful graphics and effects unlike Vanguard. I have a very powerful PC (SLI Enabled) with 
 two Nvidia 7900 GTX 512MB and I can't even get 10FPS in crowded areas. (Graphics are not utilized)
 
  
  Conclusion: The game is still in beta and not really worth playing it now. Wait for a couple of 
 more months for them to finalize it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_chan13
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Played Vanguard and HATED IT not much to say about Vanguard since they basicly stole alot of stuff 
 from other MMORPG's. Like World of Warcraft Everquest 2 ect ect ect..... Didn't take long to say 
 this game was crap.
  
  Gameplay: Game was to easy, But Frusterating.
  
  Graphics: There ok but but WOW Graphics Beter.
  
  Sound: Didn't Hear anything different then 
 other games ive played.
  
  Value: The wasn't worth $50.00 and then playing other $15.00 to play should've make game free to 
 play.
  
  Tilt: I didn't find much to easy of a game and frusterating cause enemy's would respawn so dang 
 fast i wasted all my time dieing really.
  
  Efert: PATHETIC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Does anyone remember when Anarchy online went live??? It was the worst launch ever for an online 
 game. Well this one certainly beats it!!
  
  Since I bought the game I have not been able to play it, simple they forgot that there were other 
 video cards on the market besides ATI. I have Nvida 7300gs. I cant get passed the creation screen 
 for I dont know what the heck Im creating. They suggest to go back to an Older driver 84 and that 
 driver no longer reconizes my system : ( and I have windows xp pro 64. Well now 1 would think that 
 that when in BETA that you are suppose to test different systems etc after all thats what beta 
 is for right, well I guess that Siguil forgot that. After all its Brad McCaid idea everquest was 
 a better launch than this back in 99. What I am surpise with all the friggin bugs etc etc gamespot 
 seeem fit to give a 7.5!! come on this game is certainly one of the worst out there and losing 
 players rather quickly, sis you see the latest patch, My word that should have been there before 
 ;launch Anarchy anyone??
  
  Well I then read some of the player reviews where does 1 come up with anything over a 7??? Either 
 most players dont understand what quality is all about and dont go around and say well gaming companies 
 always put bugged games out! yes most do but not like this 1.
  
  comeon folks !!
  my difficulty : how should I know
  leraning curve: what curve??
  time spent play: How can I 
 !!
  classification: pitiful!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf_storm
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Just like star wars galaxies after the revamp = absolute trash.
  
  Yet again misleading minimum specs, &pound;30 wasted on this buggy beta pile of crud.
  
  Reward 
 for your PC beating the minimum specs. on ram and the graphics card, 5-10 fps
  
  It might run on a &pound;4500 PC but not everyone has them do they sony ?
  
  What more can 
 i say about this game, oh i already mentioned that i wasted &pound;30, i`ll talk about how bad 
 sonys customer service is, you send them a dozern emails complaining and they respond to ? - Have 
 a wild guess ? None of them. Even if your tired of WoW and dont like guild wars, dont waste your 
 money on this, for goodness sake, if you dont believe me, fine go ahead and waste your money, or 
 you could have a look at the vanguard forums, 100`s of people complaining how bad the performance 
 and servers are on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Create your character, spawn in a newbie area, get your first quest, start killing things, level 
 up, train, go get another quest, kill some more things. Run here, go talk to this person over there, 
 kill this, bring me this, etc....
  
  You've seen all of this before, nothing new. The crafting system is the best since Horizons, but 
 who cares? There is a unique diplomacy feature, ok. When it all comes down to it, Vanguard is nothing 
 new, nothing unique. It could have been called the real EQ2, so if you want to revisit your EQ 
 days you may have a few fun hours here, for some it is enough to remind you why you quit playing 
 EQ. The level grind is slow, you need a group to do most things when you get to the teens, death 
 sucks. If you like a challenge you will appreciate this, but why? If you played one MMORPG you 
 have played them all these days, nothing original anymore, same old grind. Not only is there little 
 new, but Vanguard takes you back to the days when you had to camp a boss for hours on end, fun 
 stuff! Graphics are pretty, lots of bugs which of course will be fixed. If you know what you are 
 getting into and are up for it then you will like this game, if you are looking for something new 
 in an MMORPG, you are going to have to wait on that one, maybe a long time. So for the same old 
 thing I give gameplay a low score, and my tilt is low to put this game where it belongs. I am sure 
 those who enjoy this revisit to EQ will disagree, I am judging this game on originality more than 
 anything. Give us something new! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacklodus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I have played Vanguard beta and live and have the game now and my current pc is below
  
  Intel Duo Core 2 6600 2.4 @ at 3.83
  2 gig of ddr2 6400 800 speed ram
  Evga Super clocked 8800 
 gtx 768 ram
  Windows Vista 32 bit
  
  I can hit between 70 and 110 FPS in this game and at times it drops to 5 FPS now thats a problem 
 with coding l have 3 mb DSL and can play other online games with ease . I personaly think this 
 game is good now sure there are bugs . l would give it 7.5 rating now and a 8.5 to 9 when they 
 finish it in the next 6 months . l have a guild and a lvl 12 dread knight as far as the game being 
 hard nah its not my son and l have done everyquest up to lvl 12 with just the two of us . I have 
 worked on Diplomcy , Blacksmithing , and they both are fun to do and you get a sense of pride that 
 reminds me of old school EQ . My online experince.
  
  EQ 1 75 War
  70 Rog
  65 monk
  60 bst
  
  heck like 20 more toons up to lvl 60 in EQ 1
  
  EQ2
  
  Various lvls and classes 
 up to high 30's
  
  Shadowbane 2 max lvls
  
  Daoc
  
  2 max lvls Horizon
  took the game back it sucked so bad lol
  
  Dungeons and dragons online
  lvl 15 rog
  
 
  Lotr online
  beta
  
  Current collection of PC and console games well over 300 I suggest waiting on this game up to 6 
 months unless you want to see it grow.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrsr5599
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I like the crafting / adventuring being so seperate. Some days I just craft, other days just adventure. 
 Both are pretty complex, which is interesing. I think the graphics are little less than I expected. 
 Being how WOW is two years older than Vanguard, WOW has better graphics and that shouldn't happen. 
 Maybe with more patches and upgrades, Vanguard will capture my attention like WOW did. If something 
 doesn't happen soon, I'll will be playing Burning Crusade and waiting for the Lord of the Rings 
 Online. Vanguard had a lot of hype and when you do that in today's day and age, you better had 
 deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeroRathe
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard: Saga of Heroes The Review
  
  To begin, no review of a MMORPG just two weeks after release can do a game justice, because there 
 is no way all content available can be evaluated. Despite that, I feel that there are parts of 
 a game that are worth reviewing for players, and potential players. Designed by parts of the original 
 Everquest team, Brad McQuaid and Jeff Butler, Sigil has been in development for near five years, 
 and had an amazing 30+ million dollar budget during that time.
  
  The Hardware:
  
  Vanguard has a beefier system requirement than most MMORPGs do at this time. Ive played the game 
 on three separate systems, from AMD Dual Core 3800 with an ATI 1950 video card and 2 gigs of RAM, 
 and at the low end, AMD 2800 with a gig of RAM, and an ATI 9800 Pro video card. In early January 
 the game went to Beta 5, or its open beta, and there was an outcry from people who had beefy specs, 
 but their performance suffered to the point where they game was near unplayable due to hitching 
 and lag. Sigil suggested that there would be a 10% increase in performance at release due to debug 
 code being eliminated among other things. On all three systems, Ive done combat, exploring, and 
 tested different areas in the game, and am happy to report that I seem to have few, if any graphical 
 issues. The clipping and lag that I experienced during beta was gradually eliminated and at release, 
 I rarely if ever suffer from those problems. If I do see clipping, its in the largest and most 
 detailed cities, and its night and day different than it was just more than a month ago. The single 
 biggest helper Ive seen personally, and from talking to people on the forums and in game is RAM, 
 2 gigs seems to be optimal. There is what appears to be a memory leak in game, which has required 
 people to flush their engine cache from time to time, or to log out and log back in. This isnt 
 a game breaker for me, and I find it a fairly typical item at release.
  
  Telon:
  
  The world of Vanguard is Telon. This is a massive, and I do mean massive world in which you live. 
 There are three distinct continents with a different theme. Thestra, the northernmost continent 
 has a typical fantasy theme, with the world having a central European theme. The continent of Kojan 
 has an Asiatic theme to it, with thatch homes, and a very unique theme to it. It is not so much 
 a continent as an archipelago of islands. Qalia the southernmost continent has an Arabian theme, 
 and is distinct for its deserts. Each style is different, and the world reflects this. Even simple 
 items bear a flavor from whence they came. A sword from Qalia may look like a scimitar, from Kojan 
 a katana, and Thestra a longsword. The ability to see this continental flavor help define a characters 
 look, helps toward the ability to feel unique. Sigil took this one step further, as a crafter who 
 learns recipes in Qalia, will learn Qalian crafting, and his items may have the same stat as someone 
 crafting in Thestra, but his item will have a unique look. Granted you can learn in different places, 
 but this helps the world seem bigger.
  
  Game Spheres:
  Sigil created Vanguard with the concept that they would have three distinct spheres for players 
 to enjoy. They wanted someone to have the ability to enjoy adventuring, crafting, and diplomacy. 
 While some games have multiple spheres, it often seems that one sphere or another lacks use, content, 
 or value. Adventuring:
  
  This is the typical sphere that most MMO veterans know about. Current max level is set at 50, and 
 at one time it was suggested it could take up to 1200 hours of play to reach max level. I dont 
 know how accurate that will be, only time will tell. What I feel comfortable saying, is that Vanguard 
 leveling wont be fast, and there could be points where you will feel that you are grinding to level. 
 There is plenty of content for the early to mid levels, but as many MMOs, there could be less 
 content available for high levels. While I dont think 1200 hours will be accurate, this will definitely 
 be a process, and unlike other MMOs, where the game does not begin until max level, Vanguard truly 
 begins at level one.
  
  Vanguard is also not utilizing instanced areas. So instead of having a dungeon to yourself, and 
 your group, you are once again, as in days past, sharing it with other groups. Sigil has tried 
 to code in some ways to insure that if you do something to trigger an event, or NPC, that will 
 belong to your group exclusively. This can be both a positive and a negative, but as people have 
 to leave groups, it does allow groups to merge, and for adventuring to continue.
  
  Crafting:
  
  Crafting has always been an interest of mine. The concept of making your own weapons, 
 armor, or other items has been fun to me. Other MMOs have struggled though to find a balance, 
 I feel, either crafting was a grind and even as you reached max level, you found that unless you 
 got lucky, you rarely had any items that you could craft and sell for any kind of profit. In Vanguard, 
 what Ive been seeing is that crafting truly is useful. I choose to become an Artificer, and then 
 a Carpenter with an eye on building ships one day. The side benefit was the ability to make bows, 
 and staves as well. As a level fifteen carpenter, Im able to make a level 25 bow. The items arent 
 easy to find, and you find yourself paying quite a bit of attention to crafting grade (A, B, C 
 or D) . According to developers, crafting will be important, and its shown to be so far. However, 
 all is not roses with crafting, as there are some fairly large issues. At this time, most people 
 are making average items ( C-grade ) and finding that truly, average is average. To make better 
 than average items, youll need to be of a higher level than the recipe you are trying to make. 
 Youll also have to deal with complications as you craft, and how you deal with them will impact 
 your item. Without a doubt, this system is potentially enjoyable for those who like crafting, it 
 needs some more polish, but is truly a great second leg to this game.
  
  Diplomacy:
  
  I was admittedly not very interested in diplomacy when I first heard about it, but as time went 
 on, my curiosity began to grow. Imagine taking a quest where you need to see a King, but as a common 
 citizen, how are you going to complete it, after all, how can you get in to see a King? Well, in 
 Vanguard, you have faction with nobles, soldiers and others. As it turns out that diplomacy is 
 in essence a mini-card game. The idea is that each person has a set amount of dialog points, and 
 thru the use of cards, you try to eliminate your opponents. There is actually excellent back-story 
 to the game told via diplomacy, it allows you to gain access to different items, and so on. This 
 idea is fairly well fleshed out, and I have to admit, I spent 3 hours doing it one night, and never 
 had any idea I was at it for that long. While this will probably not prove a central selling point 
 for most people, it does certainly capture the attention of people, and add something to the game. 
 Ive got guild mates who are addicted.
  
  Races/Character Creation:
  
  There are currently 19 different choices for race, although that number does include some duplicates. 
 For instance humans appear on all 3 continents, but each one has different looks, as you might 
 expect based upon their regionalisms. Each race has a different back-story and there are plenty 
 of starting areas, although some races do share starting areas. Sigil has boasted that they wanted 
 to give people more choices than any other MMORPG has before them. In practice there are plenty 
 of things that you can change, but there still needs to be more done, in some cases there are as 
 few as four hairstyles for a given race, and that does little to help make you feel unique in the 
 world. Classes:
  
  Sigil went back to some roots from the pen and paper RPGs, but still managed to put their own 
 stamp on classes. In general, every class breaks down into one of the four main templates, protective 
 fighters, offensive fighters, healers, and ranged casters. From the Orwell lesson, some pigs are 
 more equal than other pigs, however in this case the idea was to allow all protective fighters 
 to tank, even if they all went about it slightly differently. Its early in the game, and the ever 
 dreaded balancing is still going around, but this was an ambitious goal that seems to working out 
 fairly well.
  
  Protective Fighters: Warriors, Paladins, and Dread Knights. These are the tank class of Vanguard, 
 and each one seems quite able to fulfill their main role. They may each have a niche, and an ability 
 to tank certain things better than others, but all three can fill the role of a tank.
  
  Offensive Fighters: Monk, Bard, Rogue, Ranger. These are the melee DPS of Vanguard, and they do 
 their jobs very differently. For instance a Ranger can go ranged, does some of his best DPS melee, 
 and also has a small heal, and poison cure making him a jack of all trades. DPS is put out by all 
 three, but just in different ways.
  
  Healers: Cleric, Blood Mage, Shaman, Disciple. These are the primary healers in Vanguard. A cleric 
 with his/her plate armor and shield has fabulous buffs, can stay in the fray, and toss of great 
 heals. A Disciple stands in, and uses his Jin points to heal, which is very different. Healers 
 are not healbots as Ive found in Vanguard, each of them able to output a reasonable amount of 
 offense as needed.
  
  Ranged Casters: Sorcerer, Druid, Psionicist, and Necromancer. With a different method to their 
 madness these are the ranged casters of Vanguard. A sorcerer uses the traditional fire and ice, 
 the druid the weather, and so on, and so on, but each tries to serve the same need.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Expect an oil painting, not a cartoon and you wont be disappointed. The defaults 
 set you up with a fairly long draw radius, so you can see an awful long way, and it looks good, 
 but again, this is going to be up to personal taste. The combat animations also are a matter of 
 taste as Ive seen them slammed for being simplistic to complimented. Positives and Negatives:
 
  
  Has Sigil released a truly evolutionary game? Well, it had the benefit of learning from the successes 
 of the first and second gen games, so Sigil is truly a third generation game. There may not be 
 anything totally revolutionary here, but what Sigil has in essence done, is take some of the most 
 successful ideas from past MMORPGs, and incorporated all of them together in Vanguard. From non-instanced 
 player housing, to a deep and rich crafting system, with a simple UI that just about anyone who 
 has played an MMO in the last 5 years with would feel a certain level of comfort with right off 
 the bat. Grouping and questing seems to be the larger goal, and the best way to get experience, 
 and Sigils concession to the soloer is about 20% of the content. Theyve promised epic quests 
 in the end game, that can net the soloer gear that would be on a par with the raider, or the epic 
 crafter. What those quests are, how long they take (McQuaid suggested they might be a chain that 
 could take up to 20 hours in the formerly posted FAQ) were not really sure, since we have not 
 seen them. Sigil made a curious choice to not have official forums, but to have their devs join 
 the communities of affiliate sites. This has made communication difficult, made it harder to see 
 a community form, and for someone looking for information, much harder, as youll find yourself 
 searching four, five or even six different sites. Contact post release with Devs has been a little 
 more limited than most people would like, however the developer interaction over the past few days 
 is much increased, and that is to be expected as immediately after release they were focused on 
 bugs, and other fixes for patches.
  
  This in some ways reminds me of my early days in Ultima Online, because nobody really knew how 
 to do anything, we had to learn things as we went. Vanguard however is many times more complex, 
 and knowledge on how to do things is equally hard to find. Right now in some cases it can be a 
 toss up of what takes more time, getting to the NPC in game to talk to, or searching the message 
 boards looking to find out who the NPC is you need to begin with.
  
  In a New York Times Interview, Brad McQuaid stated that People ask me, are you releasing a finished 
 game? And the answer is no, were releasing a game that is good enough to launch, but its not 
 finished. With that being said, Ive seen better releases, and worse releases from other MMORPGs. 
 There is class balancing, quest fixes, and other bugs that still have an effect on the game. With 
 most releases there is work to be done, but with the size, scope, and massive world, it becomes 
 evident that Vanguard needs more of this work.
  
  The 800 lb Gorilla:
  I debated this section, but in truth, I think because of its impact in the genre of MMORPGs, 
 no review is complete with out a least some talk about World of Warcraft. Reason being, before 
 World of Warcraft we can estimate that between 7-8 million people were playing this type of MMO, 
 and Warcraft has doubled that. Its expanded the existing MMO playerbase.
  
  Its my personal opinion, that Vanguard wont ever be a threat to WoW in terms of subscriptions. 
 What WoW has done right, is create a cartoony but good to look at world, filled it with content, 
 and made rewards come fairly fast and easily. It also did all of this with fairly low computer 
 specs, which allows even more people to enjoy it.
  
  All that being said, Vanguard is most certainly not World of Warcraft. There is a steeper learning 
 curve in Vanguard, it feels infinitely more complex, and also feels to be a much deeper game. There 
 is much less simplicity, and there is much less in the way of hand holding that the game does. 
 Once you hit level 10, you definitely feel like you are out on your own in the world, and youll 
 have to figure out what to do. There is pro and con to that approach, but it will simply come down 
 to preference.
  
  Vanguard will not be the game for everyone for this reason, and while it may appeal to some who 
 are tired of WoW, for those very same reasons, it will alienate an entire group of players who 
 are used to the fairly fast, and easy reward system that WoW has in comparison.
  
  My Tilt:
  
  Ive done my best to try to explain the game, and illustrate that all is not 100% 
 perfect in the world of Telon. There are things that need to be addressed, and Sigil has its work 
 cut out for them. The future of this title very much will hinge on how Sigil continues to clean 
 up bugs, work any hardware issues out so its easily playable for most people who at least have 
 the basic specs, and adds content. Ive had an absolute blast with the game so far, I havent experienced 
 the hardware issues, despite playing on systems that appear to be far lesser than some people who 
 claim to have had issues. The game looks to be deep, although it has plenty of its own time sinks 
 in place.
  
  Updated: 8/2/07
  
  After playing for several months, I've definitely changed my tune about VG. Sigil ended up selling 
 out to SOE, but from a player point of view, the game's bugs and issues just eventually ended up 
 being overwhelming. Sigil definitely modeled this game after EQ, but they missed the boat in seeing 
 that the genre had changed.
  
  Non-instanced dungeons turned into fights between groups, and the inability for people to complete 
 quests. Too many open and empty areas. Too many crash to desktops. Lore told in a funky manner.
 
  
  I hate saying it, but while I enjoyed the game for some time, the inability ot fix bugs, and the 
 problems were manifested even more with time spent in game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimson_axe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 15, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so I think it's time for a Review that is neither disappointed nor satisfied.
  
  Note:: I would just like to state before this review that WoW is overrated. However, I have played 
 it, and since it seems to be Top Dog right now (why, I have no idea) , I figured it would be okay 
 to compare the two. Also, SWG and EQ2 will be compared to.
  
  8.0 Gameplay - If you played EQ2 or WoW, then you've been here before.
  
  Alright, so the biggest 
 thing to say here is this game plays exactly like WoW, only I will say it seems to be a bit faster. 
 This isn't necessarily a good thing, since there is absolutely nothing new here - at all. But, 
 it serves its purpose, so I suppose it's good enough for a decent score.
  
  I will give it brownie points though, because the combat actually looks pretty cool at times. Your 
 character will perform flourishes every now and again, and actually change battle stances periodically, 
 as if revving up for a fatal swipe of the blade, but loses it's luster since it's only flash - 
 no substance. Smoke and mirrors man...
  
  Crafting.... in short, I hated crafting before I came to this game, and nothing about it made me 
 change my mind. To be perfectly honest, I am sick and tired of Developers making the Crafting game 
 cater to the hardcore crafters while they streamline the rest of the game. Combat keeps getting 
 dumber, and crafting keeps getting more and more complex, and this game is no different. Comat 
 is almost a carbon cpy of WoW, but the crafting is like EQ2 (which is pretty deep) , except it's 
 turn based. I went through the tutorial, and at the end of it, was even more lost in the process 
 than when I started. Then, when I actually strted trying to skill up... I realised how incredibly 
 boring it was - fit for only the diehard. At least EQ2 kept it original enough where you could 
 actually die by crafting. That was pretty neat if you ask me.
  
  Diplomacy is nothing but a card game. This is actually kind of neat, but also borderline retarded. 
 They try and be coy by explaining how this card game is really just you trying to quip your way 
 through conversation. But this is nothing more than the Developers making their players out to 
 be complete morons. No one beleives it's a conversation - hell they probably don't even read the 
 diologue. This is a card game, and card games suck! However, it is at least something to do when 
 you don't feel like grinding crafting anymore, or you're waiting on your group to get ready for 
 battle.
  
  7.0 Graphics - I still think SWG has some of the best graphics in an MMO.
  
  So, okay. This was supposed to be a big deal. At least, the Developers made it out to be a big 
 deal. Plainly put, these graphics are okay . The problem is, the world is so big, that it is a 
 serious resource hog, so you need a hefty PC to play it on high settings. Normally, this wouldn't 
 be a big deal, except the highest settings aren't really all that great. Some of the textures and 
 general feel of the world objects are downright hilarious to see.
  
  Given that, I will move onto Art Style. I'm in a huge process right now on deciding whether or 
 not this Art direction is groovey or not. On the one hand, it goes for a more authentic feel, but 
 an EQ2 authentic feel.... which sucks. On the plus side, it's not overly retarded animation wise 
 like EQ2 - I think you know what I mean where every motion is way over the top.
  
  Actually, the Art Direction reminds me a lot of SWG in some ways, but there is a certain depth 
 that just doesn't exist in VG. Anyhoo, it serves it's purpose just the same and will likely be 
 a world better once they convert to the Unreal Engine 3.0, using DX10. As it stands, it's just 
 a big puddle of mess, that looks good enough in the parts that really count.
  
  8.0 Sound - Pretty good stuff here actually, as good as SWG anyway.
  
  Now, here's the cold 
 hard truth of the matter - SWG had some of the best sound of any game ever. Clearly, it had an 
 unfair advantage back in the day.. but still - you can't blame them for using the stuff they're 
 supposed to be using. That being said, it's not so much what you're hearing, as it is the quality 
 of what you're hearing.
  
  The Music in this game is borderline retarded in some cases. It's almost as bad as EQ2. Other times, 
 it has some seriously cool music - like Lineage 2 (only cooler and less over the top) .
  
  The Sound Effects are what really stands out though. Unlike WoW, the SFX are actually generated 
 at 44khz. WoW is generated at like... 22 or something - in other words, it sounds muffled. Not 
 in VG. A sword swipes at it's target, and instantly you here the sharp chain of steel hitting flesh. 
 I must say, I was satisfied in this department, though that is hardly enough to make me love the 
 game.
  
  7.0 Value - Meh....
  
  Dungeons and Dragons has about as much value as this game, although that game blew all credibility 
 with being associated with DnD. VG is one of those games that I personally could care less about, 
 but play it for no other reason than it's about as good as anything else, and at least has some 
 kind of a production value.
  
  10.0 Reviewer's Tilt - Giving it a good score for no other reason than I want to.
  
  Okay, 
 so basically, I'm rating this high for one reason only. This game offers everything WoW offers, 
 only more so. By no means does that make either one a good game. They are decent games. WoW is 
 successful for the same reason that Zha Zha Gabore is famous - she's a celebrity, who is a celebrity, 
 because she's a celebrity.
  
  So, what's the deal? I basically find both of these games to be on equal ground, except VG hasn't 
 had the time to improve in quality. In fact, I'll be extremely pissed if Gamespot gives VG anything 
 less than an equal score to what they gave WoW - proving once again that they grade on a skewed 
 scale. WoW isn't a 9.5, and I don't care what anyone says. It was in no better conditon than VG 
 is right now when it launched.
  
  So, because I would like to see credit given, to where credit is due, I am skewing this grade as 
 I see fit.
  
  TOTAL - 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I've been in this game since open beta, and this is a game that I'm going to play for a long time. 
 This is NOT for people who want WoW 2. The graphics are realistic and continue to get better, but 
 require a good machine. The leveling is slow and provides a sense of accomplishment, unlike WoW. 
 This game has a lot of bugs. Most notably are the numerous memory leaks and random crashes to desktop. 
 They are working on this, and it is and will get better. They are doing a lot to improve and tweak 
 the mechanics of this game. That, in my opinion, is one of the best parts of an MMORPG: it's always 
 getting better. I am definately willing to forgive the numerous quest, graphics, programming, etc. 
 bugs if I know they are only temporary. There is certainly enough to do if you want to bypass something. 
 Crafting, harvesting, adventuring, and diplomacy are all interesting, new, and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sy3aaa
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 15, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  First a Thank you!
  
  Thank you Sigil for bucking the spoon-fed trend us gamers have had to endure for far too long! 
 Kudos and Thank you from all us real gamers out there, just when we thought we would never see 
 a gamers game again you drop this in our laps and we can't thank you enough.
  
  THANK YOU FOR OUR FREEDOM!!!!
  
  OK, get grip for all you out there knocking this game with 
 ludicrous low scores. Just because this game isn't spoon-fed to you there is no reason to be here 
 bashing it, and for that instead of the 9.8 I was going to give this game I'm giving it a 9.9. 
 Unfortunately working for something eludes allot of people.
  
  Everyone else giving this game high scores, obviously you know how good this is and I'm certainly 
 glad to see I'm not the only last real gamer out there. WOOHOO!
  
  If you want a challenging, deep, immersing mmo that makes you think and work a little and brings 
 back the complete meaning of MMO then run, don't walk to pick up vanguard it's all things an MMO 
 should be and more.
  
  Vanguard is about your journey not about how fast you can level. Finally a real game thats is worthy 
 of the Title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 001Bigt
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Those that knock on this game either didn't give the game a chance and only played up to level 
 10, or simply don't have the patience to play such a game. There are some bugs, but the massive 
 potenial of this game and very very fun game play gets a 10plus from me. This game is sooo going 
 places. I truely seen the massive size of this game when they handed out griffons during the last 
 phases of beta and 99% of the people posting here really don't know what they are talking about 
 and missing out on. Yes, this game can be hard at times, but shouldn't a game be hard? I like a 
 challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonahzg
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  this game is awful, if you happen to have a super computer lying around your house you might... 
 MIGHT be able to play it. It takes about 3 days to patch, and it is incredibly unbalanced. I had 
 high hopes for this game, but i was very much disapointed in what we got. I knew this game would 
 be crap though as soon as SOE put their names anywhere near this game, i wish they would quit ruining 
 my stuff, like swg.... and i know i know they didn't have anything to do with the programming, 
 but i still believe it's there fault &gt;_&lt; other than those things, it's just a generic, good 
 graphics rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tek3n
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  After reading review from a large amount of players I've decided to give this game a try, and what 
 do you know? This game is a blast, I was able to run below minimum the requirement, yet the graphic 
 and performance was awesome. Some players may disagree with this but it's true that I was able 
 to run this with 768 Ram, AMD 64 3400, and 9800 ATI Graphic Card. All you need is a little bit 
 of tweaking in the ini file which can be found if you search the web for it. Now to the game, Vanguard 
 is by far has the fewest bug out there upon its release, I was able to play without any interruption. 
 Upon starting the game you will find out that the world is in a lush-ful world. Some may start 
 in a cave, some may start at a farm, but wherever you start you will find that you will be hooked 
 into the game right at start due to the non repetive melody of the game. The music is so great 
 it set your gaming mood to a different level.
  
  Gameplay is also perfect, you are able to ride mount as soon as level 10 which is a relief on getting 
 to places, but that doesn't mean you will be able to travel to all three continent any sooner, 
 because the game is huge, I spent over a week just to cover a small area of Qualia.
  
  This game is a mustbuy, go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternaldj
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  You can't really judge this game just yet... it's just been released and yes there are many bugs 
 and the game is incomplete. I remember when Everquest 2 and World of Warcraft came out, they both 
 were also a let down and had many problems, but look at them now! Both of the games have their 
 own style and are successful. It may be a little to early to even review this game, but it has 
 been pretty fun. It brings back the old style MMOs seeing that it came from some of the creators 
 of the original Everquest which was a HUGE success. So far this game has been pretty fun, it is 
 something a bit more challenging then some other MMOs and takes awhile to get use to, but despite 
 that it is pretty fun and enjoyable... just the bugs that can sometimes keep you from continuing 
 some quests, but hey give it some time to work it's problems out and you never know... it could 
 be the next big game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ikthog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard should feel refreshingly familiar to anyone whose interest in MMOs predates the dawn of 
 the millennium. Sure, it features an expansive world, a wide range of races and classes to choose 
 from, and a considerable number of directions to take your character. But its most defining characteristic 
 is developer Sigil's stubborn refusal to dumb down (or streamline, if you prefer) the traditional 
 MMO experience.
  
  As comparisons to World of Warcraft are inevitable when any new MMO emerges from its impressive 
 shadow, let's get those out of the way up front. WoW brought a much-needed level of polish and 
 humor to the MMO category; it can also seem at times like an amusement park ride version of the 
 games that came before it. In that regard, Vanguard will feel like something of a throwback, in 
 ways many longtime MMO players are sure to appreciate. In short, Vanguard brings hardship back 
 to online gaming. Bucking the trend of virtually every MMO since Everquest to attempt to remove 
 tedium from the experience, Vanguard proudly makes your life something of a pain. Character advancement 
 takes time, patience and at least a modicum of skill. Finding your way isn't always easy, given 
 the game's rudimentary map system. Death is actually inconvenient again -- say hello to your old 
 friend (and cursed enemy) , the corpse run. So you died way down at the bottom of that nasty dungeon, 
 in the middle of a pack of hungry beasties? You're going to have a great time getting it back, 
 since your gear is down there with it.
  
  How on Telon could that be considered a good thing? For some, of course, it won't be... but for 
 those who miss the exhilaration and challenge of early MMOs, and the accompanying feeling of accomplishment 
 from thriving in a harsh world, Vanguard will provide a bracing good time.
  
  Were that the whole story, well, you could just as easily go back and play Everquest. Vanguard 
 also brings a number of significant innovations to the table, including respectably evolved combat 
 mechanics, a deep crafting system and arguably the best graphics ever to grace an MMO. For me, 
 though, its crowning achievement is the diplomacy system, a game-within-the-game that is not only 
 a fully-realized sphere of challenging gameplay, but a method by which the developers have tied 
 the lore closely into the game. I haven't felt more involved in the storyline of any online game 
 world than I have so far in this one.
  
  One potential criticism is a relative lack of quests, compared to some other games; once you've 
 run out of scripted missions, you may well find yourself grinding in order to bridge the gap to 
 the next main content area. However, that lack of guided tour, cradle-to-grave quests, combined 
 with the game's simple map system, rewards exploration and helps create a greater feeling of discovery. 
 You often have to make your own way in Vanguard's world, but as a result, the things you find often 
 have more meaning and relevance than they would as the latest stop on the quest train.
  
  It would be irreponsible to discuss Vanguard without also mentioning its current, somewhat rough 
 state. Performance-wise, the game is still finding its legs, and you will need both a recent machine 
 and a bit of patience to get the most out of it. Bugs are still common, as are crashes, and a number 
 of features have yet to materialize. A few key elements, such as spell effects and the type used 
 for entity names and quest descriptions, lack polish. But if you're willing to overlook its relatively 
 minor flaws (and you can get it to run acceptably) , Vanguard provides a bold new frontier to explore 
 that will get even better with time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caligulug
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 13, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total joke. When will we learn not to be dupped into buying hlaf a game and paying 
 monthly so a Co. can finish thier product. Cant play this game for more than 5 mins without finding 
 a bug. A voracious fanboy community that just tells you to go back to wow if you dont like the 
 bugs lol. way to go sigil on ruining what could have been a decent game. They are banning ppl left 
 and right for having more than 3 gold on thier person. Obviously this is a attempt to control gold 
 farmers but common just ban and dont even warn ya that should please the tiny community you have 
 eh? Sigh no game forums, no support, no story line to speak of. Dead end quests, broken quests, 
 broken crafting, broken broken broken broken broken broken.
  
  SM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dri6115
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Being a MMORPG veteran, i have awaited Vanguard's release for a long time. It seemed that my prayers 
 had been granted, when the guys at Sigil announced Vanguard, which would not be another: Lets get 
 to level 60 in a week game .
  
  Unfortunately, Vanguard has been released (be that too early or not) as a somewhat generic world 
 regarding content. The graphics are excellent and the views from atop the mountains are astounding, 
 but the world is just about the only thing that seems to have been finished in time. And even that 
 is a truth with modifications as the world becomes utterly barren, the second you venture beneath 
 the waves. If you find a fish or perhaps a generic snake (just change name and level) consider 
 yourself lucky .
  The game has nothing of the beautiful underwater landscape as seen in World of Warcraft and that 
 is bordering a crime, since the graphics Engine would allow spectacular underwater environments. 
 Like Everquest 2, it seems as if the designers has chosen to keep the underwater world nearly empty.
 
  Furthermore, as soon as you leave the starter areas, you will rarely encounter anything exciting 
 to do. As i mentioned the architecture and the landscape in general is gorgeous, but when all you 
 meet are generic spiders, snakes, boars, glowing things and a few other critters, the novelty of 
 the landscape quickly wears off.
  
  When in comes to quests, the game takes of as any other MMO out there, with a bunch of easy quests 
 of the go there and kill x of those kind. Unfortunately, this never changes (at least not the first 
 15-20 levels) . Generally it must be said, that the standard adventuring part of Vanguard is just 
 about as generic as it gets. It seems as if the designers didn't go to any kind of trouble imagining 
 new quests, but choose to stick with the formula that have been used since the time of Everquest 
 I personally don't see the difference between choosing to kill 20 spiders of my own free will or 
 doing it as a part of a quest, but you will of course earn more experience, if you do a quest and 
 that again shows the utter lack of imagination regarding quest design, that Vanguard suffers under.
 
  
  The crafting part is perhaps an even bigger disappointment. If you have played Everquest 2, you 
 will instantly be at home with the crafting system, as it seems as if the code has been taken directly 
 from this game. There is nothing that sets this crafting apart from Everquest 2, unless you look 
 at the fact that you have all the time in the world to correct the random happenings that occurs 
 to disrupt you crafting. In Everquest 2, this was on a timer, and you had to at least be semi-awake 
 to complete the individual crafting sessions. Furthermore, nothing has been done, to make the crafting 
 interesting. It is simply just a tedious move the cursor to the next little icon and .... click 
 it session.
  
  The newest addition to the MMO genre and the one that i was looking forward to the most, is the 
 Diplomacy part. Instead of bashing away at monsters all day long, you can now talk to nearly any 
 NPC and by using various cards with different values, you can win a conversation and gain faction, 
 complete quest or the like. It all sounds very nice, but after you complete the initial Diplomacy 
 quest, which is individual for all the races and very well designed, you enter the Vanguard world 
 of lacking content again. There are frustratingly few Diplomacy quests in the game and those that 
 are available, usually has Diplomacy requirements set so high (Diplomacy uses a term called Presence 
 which roughly corresponds to levelling) , that you must grind away at the same conversations over 
 and over and over... So if you thought that you, by exploring the Diplomacy line, could avoid the 
 tedious xp grind, think again. Basically, it is exactly the same treadmill, just wrapped in another 
 way.
  
  As final thing, it is very hard on the immersion factor , when many of the quest lines are broken 
 at some point or another. At some point 9 out of 20 quests in my log was broken...
  
  All in all, Vanguard is a very nice looking but basically generic shell, that seems to be waiting 
 for the developers to complete it. I would suggest anyone to wait at least 3 months before starting 
 to play and then check out to boards to see if anything new has happened. As it is now, you will 
 just be paying for Sigil to actually finish the game and when it is finished, you will have earned 
 the right to continue paying the for playing...
  
  Just not good enough... yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChipSet
Rating: 3.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Vanguard looks promising when i decided to give a try. It still has some nice feature and all, 
 but sadly this game is unfinished. Theres way too many bug and each new patch, change little to 
 nothing, but bring is share of new issues. Another example of that, 1 class is not available yet, 
 Inquisitor. It will be release at some point in the future... but we don't even know when. . In 
 other word, if you buy this game; youre going pay to play a beta.
  
  On the graphic department, you need a pc on steroid to be able to really enjoy this game. The requirements, 
 written on the box, are not really accurate, dont expect good graphic and smooth frame rate with 
 a mid range pc (read: recommended specification) and to me, the graphic of this game, dont justify 
 the hardware requirement. On many area EQ2 look better and more alive, and it doesnt require 1500$ 
 + investment on a new pc to enjoy some graphic goodies. The environments look good, they are well 
 rendered and all, but the character are ugly. They have this plastic doll' feel, its almost like 
 you were playing with Ken or Barbie. Also the animations are lacking to say the least. The combat 
 animations are ok, I guess, but everything else looks like crap. On that note you character doesnt 
 have any facial animation even in combat, like I said they look like a plastic doll.
  
  The music sound good, but other then that, theres nothing special in the sound department. The 
 combat and levelling system doesnt bring anything new to the table. Unlike Wow, the dungeon are 
 no instanced and can bring their fair amount of fun on the first attempt, but considering the length 
 of those and the time you will need to spend there , not sure if its still gonna be fun after 
 youve done it 2-3 times. Like every mmo, the best way to get more level is to complete some quest 
 and kill some mob. Like I said, not only it doesnt bring anything new to the table, it fell a 
 like a carbon copy of wow. The quest system is the same, kill X number of Y mob; collect Z number 
 of that thing etc etc, rinse repeat. On top of that, Vanguard introduces some death penalty. So 
 after a couple of unexpected add and death, the grind becomes old very very quickly.
  
  
  Vanguard brings a new crafting system and its nicely done. But, sadly, like the rest of the game, 
 some bugs will prevent you from fully enjoying the it. Theres also a diplomacy system, its some 
 sort of a mini card game, but between the crash, bug and server restart, I didnt really had the 
 time to try. In the end, Vanguard feels like a average mmo to me. Its another EQ/wow clone with 
 some extra. The worst part is, I really feel like I have bought a beta. Every mmo got their share 
 of issue at release but I never see so many problems in any other game mmo or not, Vanguard is 
 really a unfinished and unpolished product. I would stay away from that game for a while. p. s.: 
 English is not my primary Language hope I have been clear enough =S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csward
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  If you play WoW or other MMOs and are looking for something new and challenging, Vanguard won't 
 whet your appetite. Many comparisons I draw are to WoW because that is the industry standard atm. 
 On a side note, I have played WoW, FF11, EQ 1 and 2, and RF online.
  
  Graphics: No style, need amazing machine to have decent setttings I have a very good machine and 
 had a lot of trouble with this game. I could run the game easily at balanced settings if the game 
 didn't lag to a near crash everytime you are around other players. First off, it is quite easy 
 to get stuck in the graphics, you actually have to look out for graphics traps because the only 
 way out is recalling or /stuck command, which is annoying because of the traveling system. Then 
 it seems like everyone (me included) had individual graphics card issues, like i had random things 
 show up completely white frequently. The spells/combat effects look fine and standard as any other 
 MMO. The UI is a carbon copy of WoW's as well. Overall, this game has no artistic style and for 
 me the game world was rather ho-hum because of it, however, the game does look decent.
  
  Gameplay: WoW + more tedium + irritating, old-school penalities
  
  Combat: been there, done 
 that
  
  Those familiar with WoW will see a blatant rip off right from lvl 1. Combat itself isn't too hard 
 depending on your class. I was a shaman and 90% of my skills were VERY similar to WoW (not just 
 shaman class skills, but others as well) . There is really no way of knowing what buffs your allies 
 have because that part of the UI is not in the game. As a shaman with 3 buffs this is annoying. 
 The pacing of combat is similar to WoW's, in that it's quick with little downtime and you use food 
 and water to speed up your hp/mana regen. Combat consists of hotbar button clicking or pressing 
 keyboard hotkeys and, just like WoW, gets old because you've done it 1,000 times before. Oh, and 
 don't die because you lose exp no matter what and have to run back naked to your corpse unless 
 you soulbind armor. If you get your corpse the exp loss is slight, however, should you recall your 
 corpse be prepared for a pretty stiff exp penalty. As if that weren't enough, you can go into negative 
 exp! No, the devs would hate for you to lose a level, but instead more or less extending your exp 
 bar is better? Nah, that's just hiding a timesink under a guise. I THOUGHT devs would leave this 
 crap back in the 90's, it does not add challenge as some would claim, just time and little fun, 
 fun which is a word i said quite little of while i did the adventuring sphere of the game. At the 
 very least the combat system works, but most people have done it all before.
  
  Community: Nice people - obnoxious people found in WoW channels
  
  I have to say the community 
 is one of the better parts of Vanguard. They are usually nice and will answer your questions. It 
 was very easy to get in a guild or a party and do things together. It may be that the game is new 
 and we are all in the same place, but either way finding someone to play with atm is quick and 
 easy. Like in any MMOG, there will be an occasional a-hole, but i never ran into one. The game 
 is definetly more addicting when you feel the need to play to keep up with you guildies.
  
  Travel: Press numlock and come back in an hour
  
  Seriously, this is one of the worst features 
 of the game. You may think, sweet I get a horse at level 10 and it's very affordable. That's because 
 without one you might want to kill yourself not because travel is slow really, it's just the world 
 is sooo big. I even had a buff for +5% mount speed, horseshoes (~+5%ms) , and a tack (~+4%ms) , for 
 a grand total of about +45% (30% from horse itself) movementspeed. There are no flightpaths or 
 anything from town to town, and the fellowships and caravans features that are supposed to help 
 make travel faster are not in the game yet. You may be in a lvl 12+ zone at an outpost with no 
 class trainers and have to recall to the town and trot your ass all the way back to the outpost, 
 which from some towns could take 30min, which is ridiculous.
  
  Crafting: Soo long and dull, similar to watching paint dry in fun factor
  
  You will find yourself 
 forcing yourself to continue to craft and craft and craft just so you can make something cool. 
 I got to level 11 crafting, where you get to pick your specialization and had enough. The new recipes 
 i got wern't very useful. Yes, by level 11 i was done with crafting because i invested more time 
 in leveling that than actually leveling my character. You heard right it WILL take you longer to 
 level your crafting than your character. They call the crafting system deep, but it is the same 
 more or less as EQ2's except the crafting isn't in real time and takes a ton more time. You will 
 do work orders untill you fall asleep and alos because the recipes they give you net far less exp 
 than work orders. I guess sigil forgot that games are supposed to be fun, and if this is their 
 idea of depth, than they have no idea what depth means.
  
  Diplomacy: A breathe of fresh air in the MMO genre
  
  This a card game of sorts and it can 
 be challenging, require planning, and has depth. As you duel someone, as storyline also unfolds 
 after evey turn or so. It takes a few games to learn the rules but once you do you will find it 
 immensly satisfing once you overcome a tough opponent. Their tactics can sometimes be cheap, but 
 that doesn't mean it's unbeatable by any means. Also, you can get cool rewards like a free horse 
 and bags to name a few. Still, the devs need to work out some issues with getting many cards that 
 do practically the same thing in the early game. Still this has huge potential for another diversion 
 in an MMO.
  
  PVP: No battlegrounds, 'nuff said
  
  I was on a PvE server, but there is no arena of any kind for the factions to duke it out. Also, 
 they need to make it more obvious who your allies are. It's far too easy to wander to a town marked 
 on the only to be cut down because it's not your faction's town and then have to recall your corpse 
 in an unfriendly zone.
  
  Sound: Great
  
  No, you'll want to listen to your favorite songs or TV while playing, but it is still as good or 
 better than any MMOG and fits the themes of each zone well. I wish there were more sound effects 
 for players and maybe it's time the NPC's and your character in MMO's actually talked (read quests 
 outload, talk in a conversation for diplomacy, ect.) for the money we put in. Unlike WoW, the music 
 will change when entering certian buildings in town and the combat music is well done too.
  
  Dungeons: Still indifferent to instanced/not instanced
  
  Most likely you and another or 
 serveral more groups may compete for a named mob that would be there just for your group in an 
 instance. This may seem like a drag, but it seems the drop rate for good gear is high off these 
 mobs and the dungeon is usually clear because other groups kill most of the mobs in the way. It 
 can be exciting running from named mob to named mob killing them because of the high drop rate 
 of good loot and your not fighting 2 or more hours worth of mobs with bad loot like in WoW. In 
 Vanguard you spend a lot more time fighting named enemies. The rolling for loot system is solid 
 and again, similar to WoW.
  
  All in all, I want my money back. Haha, but seriously wait 6 months to a year then pick this up 
 once all the lag is fixed, all the features have been implemented, and somemore challenge is added, 
 otherwise WoW is still the best of the MMOG's, but the genre as a whole needs a revolution in gameplay 
 to make grinding more fun and/or challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkhaine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  If your looking for an MMO that isnt just there, just to be there you need to get your hands on 
 this game. the graphics are extremely good for an MMO (Armor, Weapons, and Character Models look 
 very good, and the environments are pretty good also) , the gameplay is amazing, its got just the 
 right amount of difficulty (things are a little easy from lvl 1-10 but after that point it gets 
 a little more difficult) , crafting is fun and immersive not just, throw in some copper and a rock 
 and you come out with armor, you actually craft different parts to armor and weapons etc. (like 
 you have to craft the handle and a blade for a sword) its more of a realism thing some people might 
 be turned off by this but i think its innovative and fun. The amount of customization is looked 
 at by some people as unecessary but there really is not enough customization in games these days 
 so i think the customization is a very welcome aspect of this game. I like that they have the ship 
 building and house building incorporated it adds a bit of depth to the game making it seem more 
 like a real world that these characters are living in and not just a place that the characters 
 are just randomly there. The combat music could use a little work but besides that the sounds and 
 ambient music is pretty decent. If your ready to play an MMO that is not only fun but immersive 
 pick this game up now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kknostman
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Vanguard was originally billed as one of the most ambitious MMO's in the last several years. Lead 
 by the founders of Everquest, many of us had reason to hope.
  
  Then came beta and release.
  
  While we hoped that these founders had learned from their mistakes 
 of the past we've found we we're sadly mistaken. All of the things that made Everquest bad are 
 here, forced timesinks, single spawn boss mobs, woefully sparse world population, weak mob ai, 
 you name it.
  
  Sure, VG has a flashy graphics engine which allows for some beautiful textures (if your pc can 
 run them, odds are it can't) but what it doesn't have is anything close to the style of WoW.
  
  What it also has is a leveling curve only a masochist could love.
  
  Quests? Be ready to 
 get lost. Sure it has waypoints in some, but it doesn't have quest levels, quest giver region listings 
 or ANY sense of organizations for quests in your log. Whatever you do don't leave for a week and 
 come back expecting to find the quests you should be working for your area.
  
  As for combat, what started as a relatively cool engine in Beta has turned into a mismash of WoW 
 combat (without any of the dynamic feel) with poorly tuned mechanics.
  
  The only possible way to enjoy Vanguard is to have a group of friends/guildies who are dedicated 
 hardcore gamers. And if you fall behind be ready to feel like you have no choice to quit.
  
  Unless Sigil learns that the Everquest formula isn't a winning formula for today they will 
 continue to lose ground to more aware gaming companies like Blizzard and Turbine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacobc
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  - The graphics look a bit dated, but the music is wonderful
  - Intermittent lag even with low latency and topnotch hardware
  - inexplicable UI bugs including 
 database errors on attributes and blackening of toolbars
  - Sigil's strategy of making the game monkey-proof backfired. Instead of weeding out the so-called 
 'noobs' they created a community of elitist snobs that will rarely help you, perhaps because they 
 don't care, but more likely because they don't know.
  - Developer support via fansites was a poor choice, it only reinforces the idea nobody's listening.
 
  - Diplomacy is intriguing and promising but sudden game changes break quests
  - Haphazard feel of the world due to lack of coherent storyline
  
  The most positive thing 
 I can say is: try it out in 3 to 6 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  Vanguard is one of the most ambitious MMO's to come out in quite a while.
  
  The scale of the content is staggering and the amount of options open to players are what we expect 
 from a game 18 months old - not at launch. The story is good, crafting looks interesting, So why 
 isn't it rated AAA?
  
  Well there are a couple of points that do drag it down unfortunately.
  
  The first is the PvP 
 implementation. Vanguard has been designed from the ground up as a PvE game so the PvP isn't the 
 best thought out. If you are a hard core PvPer this game probably isn't for you. Wait for Warhammer 
 Online.
  
  The Second and only other bad point is the client performance. It is truely abysmal.
  
  I have 
 what consider to be an average pc : P4 3.4Mhz, 2Gb RAM, 256Mb ATI 9800XT card - but this game runs 
 like a **** I have all the settings on absolute minimum and it looks like a pig. There's no textures, 
 no detail, no bump mapping, colours are washed out and I'm still stuttering and getting max 20FPS.
 
  
  In a recent interview, Ryan Elam, Director of Technology stated that within 12 months they expect 
 an average pc to run it on max graphics. It's a shame that day is so far off.
  
  I would fully recommend checking back in 6 months (minimum) .
  
  There is stacks of potential 
 here but the fact is the game just isn't ready for retail yet due 100% to performance issues. It's 
 just not playable at the level it needs to be. Although in 6 months it will face stiff competetion 
 from Lord of the Rings and Age of Conan, it is still worth watching - it could be that good - when 
 they finish coding it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiftfallout
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  Vanguard, is a delve back into RPGs of old. It takes casual gaming and throws it out the window, 
 and by this i mean its made to be played at a pace in which many quick action addicted caffine 
 kiddies wont like.
  
  It becomes the real form of a rpg, and thats not to say role player game, rather, the old-school 
 definitions of the genre itself and not a literal translage of abreviations. When World of Warcraft, 
 Burning Crusade was released, i reactivated my WoW account after a year break. I wasnt sure what 
 i was expecting, but i was looking for a role playing game worth investing time into. Needless 
 to say within a short while i had already reached level 70. I thought to myself, this couldnt be 
 what i was hoping for, and it wasnt. It lacked the depth and immersion really needed for an alternate 
 world. This drove me to take a risk with Vanguard.
  
  I'm glad i did. Vanguard has blown me away. Immediately i was overwelmed with options, I felt like 
 i was just one in a huge world. The visuals are stunning, and the art direction was well concieved.
 
  
  The game had potential, and lots of it. I have read the skeptism, the attacking of this game. And 
 I now realise that people should give it a break. It was released early by the publisher, and with 
 that, the developers did an amazing job at making a product that is still playable and fun.
  
  From my laptop at high settings i get a good 30 fps easily, but there are lag hiccups. This 
 happens regaurdless of the settings i chose. So far, the initial first impression was good. The 
 crafting system is amazing and complex, frustrating at times when you are unskilled but thats expected. 
 The Collectable Card Game like diplomacy minigame is exceptionally entertaining and requires strategy 
 and thought. The world, detailed and beautiful. I recommend using the bloom effects, which creates 
 a glow around all lights, windows and objects that are tagged as light sorces. Combat, is fun. 
 Simply that. When casting spells or doing abilitys, you can move and do them at the same time, 
 some slow you to a walk, however it is a nice change from standing in one place all the time. Its 
 fluid and smooth. My only gripe with combat, and i know it will be fixed in an upcoming patch, 
 is that the range in which melee attackers npc/player can hit is about 10 yards away from your 
 character, which gives the look of them punching air. I have no doubt this will be fixed however 
 as its as easy as changing the melee radius. First person mode, what can i say. Its amazing. It 
 feels like your playing a fps, you see the hands, the feet if you look down, your weapons swing 
 out. A really nice touch. The music and sound effects? Ok they could use some help. The music is 
 limited but good, and some of the sounds are... well.. interesting. The deer for some reason sound 
 like an elephant in a vaccuum. And the crafters or when crafting, make these noises that sound 
 more akin to .. porn.. than crafting. But its more humorous than game breaking. There is an Auction 
 House function as well, in which players can sell their harvested resouces, magical loot, or any 
 sort of object. Money, is not easy to obtain at first, and really carries weight. Meaning, its 
 not an easy resource, so obtaining wealth is also one of the many challenges the game gives you.
 
  
  The game features are impressive as well, many forms of player housing, boats and ships (player 
 controlled) , mounts and flying mounts, many crafting options and a card game. Along with the promise 
 that more minigames, pvp cardgaming, options will be added. The game is plain out fun, and it carries 
 with it a lot of depth. Its not a shallow game, but its worth every penny. I recommend this game 
 to anyone who enjoys an rpg with depth. Its less of a grindfest than most rpgs out there. Lastly, 
 remember its still being patched to completion, its still a playable and fun game, which means 
 with added content and bug fixes, it can only get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica62890
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  This is a great game with few flaws. Sigil makes very good attempts and usually succeeds in patching 
 the game, and they do so quite often. The only real thing is that they might of released it a bit 
 early, but nevertheless, it is stable. The community is mature, not like WoW, where a bunch of 
 little kids just sayi n00b all the time. You will find yourself wanting to play due to its outstanding 
 gameplay. I am impressed with how clean the game is; bugs are at a minimum.. A few points: -Wonderful 
 environment -Great graphics -An epic score -Unsurpassed gameplay -Easily a slow WoW-killer =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cronjob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard has had one of the smoother MMORPG launches to day. While there have been some issues, 
 there have been no major problems that other MMORPGs have experienced. No login queues. No major 
 rollbacks. No lengthy outages. The game has been very playable from the first day.
  
  Sigil has been very public about the fact that this game was released at least three months earlier 
 than they would have preferred. This was a hand forced by their publisher who wanted to start generating 
 revenue on the game before the budget completely ran out.
  
  This game is ambitious and anyone familiar with other modern MMORPGs should have no problem engaging 
 in it. It is not a cakewalk. While it can be played and enjoyed by anyone, it harkens back to a 
 timer of less cartoonish, more difficult RPGs where you can't just start hacking and slashing anything 
 in your field of view.
  
  Because this game was released a bit early, there is a lot of work continuing to finish up some 
 broken quests, add content and more land to the ENORMOUS and beautiful world. The developers interact 
 with the gaming public on a frequent basis and make a habit of sharing their actions with the community.
 
  
  If you're looking for an immediately perfect game, you may want to look elsewhere. Then again, 
 no MMORPG has ever been perfect on release. This release has certain been smoother than World of 
 Warcraft was, which is what a lot of people will be familiar with. However, if you're looking for 
 a very enjoyable, very deep, very customizable, very playable game that will be constantly improving 
 in the near future, this is the game.
  
  Already, you can own plots of land. Engaging a fleet of crafters to build a house. Build a guild 
 house. Build shore-hugging and ocean-faring ships and ride your various mounts. In the coming year, 
 many more major aspects of the game will be injected such as large raids and sea-battles.
  
  A final point to note is that this game uses the Unreal engine and is rather intensive. The 
 level of graphical depth in this game is simply unbelievable and to get the best experience out 
 of it, you will want a modern machine. A machine from a year or two ago with a 7800 GTX GeForce 
 video card will be playable. A newly built box with the newest cards (8800 GTX GeForce) will be 
 stunning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slugman
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is its own worst enemy. It has so much potential like everyone else says, but it came 
 out too fast, and too broken. The depth of what you can do, places you can go, group combat might 
 be good if you can get a few people together that can actuallly run the game.
  
  Ok for each attribute that Gamespot has us choose a score for.
  
  Gameplay: Here is where the 
 game is its own enemy. There is so much to do/see and place to go, that it bogs itself down. You 
 cannot actually run more than 100 yards in any given direction without huge lag spikes, low framerates, 
 character getting stuck on a tiny rock sometimes, or in trees that you cannot see. You can tab 
 to target, but sometimes you target your own guards, NPCs in the city, who knows what youre going 
 to target doing this, and to point and click on something you might be clicking on the mob, but 
 the game thinks youre clicking on another one about 10 feet away.
  
  Graphics: Another one that is hard to say is GOOD . Yes I can see where some may say WOW that is 
 an amazing job, but for me, if I have to crank my graphics down SO MUCH that i can barely see that 
 a tree, is a tree, than there is something seriously wrong with the graphic engine. The character 
 models are too dark for my taste, I don't need flash, but it would be nice to SEE some of the mobs 
 in the game other than a dark blob of arms and legs coming at me. Also, the player character models 
 need a bit of tweaking. Again lighten some of the things up, maybe make the armor LOOK like armor 
 rather than im still wearing my pajamas.
  
  Sound: Mediocre at best for me as well. THere are songs in the game that do sound really good, 
 like in the elf areas, some of the music in areas, and battle music is good. That is where it ends. 
 Player characters make basiclly grunts, which would be ok by me, if when they grunted, there were 
 some action with it. Things like /cheer for example... i want to see my character actually CHEER 
 not just go... arg . Those two totally different ends of the spectrum make me give sound a 5.
 
  
  Value: This got a bit of a higher score for me, because i can really see how this game will outlast 
 many others (provided they fix the MANY problems soon) . Housing, boats, huge NON INSTANCED dungeons. 
 Things like that really help bring the community back (which was definately LOST when WOW came 
 out) . The crafting ( i have not tried this yet) and the diplomacy add another couple layers of 
 depth that many games are lacking. I dont mean Hey no game has crafting!!!! because they do. THe 
 depth of the crafting system is beyond what i want to experience. I am glad they made it hard so 
 that not everyone and their brother is doing it, flooding markets with items. And the diplomacy 
 is great, especially when youre waiting for your friends to come online and dont want to level 
 without them.
  
  Tilt gets a 4, basiclly because of the huge ammount of bugs, glitches, but also the potential. 
 Making the total score a 4.9 beacuse its NOT ALL BAD, nor is it worth anything higher because its 
 NOT ALL GOOD. All in all, i have cancelled my subscription, going to wait another couple months 
 before I try it again. Hope the graphical bugs at least are worked out, then, ill be back in the 
 game full swing. (and ditching a game with no depth whatsoever ... WoW)
  
  SIDE NOTE.... my Psi characters SIMULACRUM isnt working still...... other than that... decent enough 
 game... in about 5 months. But for now, wait on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acob101
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  okay people. ive allready reveiwed this once this is the secound. now everyone on here that is 
 giving tis game a bad rating (which is 1.5 out of 10) they all say the same thing. teary eyed child 
 i was playing and i couldnt figure it out it was hard and i played for like a whole day and i only 
 got to lvl 7. thats jsut stupid i could have been 25 in WoW. so sense they made me cry im leaving 
 a really over the top bad rating cause my brain has a boo boo. lol this is so what it is like. 
 ookay yes it has bugs but umm wait they have patches that come out every day. half the bugs ive 
 reported have been fixed. so wait am i saying we have teams in the gamne that car e what we say 
 and what we want ... we DO!!! well thats jsut incredable. so yeah im so sereous this game is awsome 
 yes there are some population problems that are being fixed. there are so serous lag issues sometimes 
 in populated areas bt they are being fixed. so thats it its being fixed its all being fixed. so 
 have jsuut wait this game has allready been out a little over a week and 4 patches have come out 
 plus tons of little patches. this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cirenosille
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best game out right now. I say this because it has everything you could want 
 out of an MMORPG.
  Do you want to just adventure and explore a massive world? This is the place. The world is so huge, 
 you will literaly have to create a couple of characters just to see what each level range has to 
 offer in respect to areas that level range can properly play. What I mean is, to see each area 
 that offers content for, lets say, level 20-24 you will have to have at least 2 characters because 
 there's just too many different areas (not that that is a bad thing) . The art of the game is wonderful 
 as well, taking on inspiration from timeless sources. The original visionary for this world's sights, 
 Keith Parkinson who has passed away (R. I. P.) , viewed a world of breath-taking eye candy.
  The first of the 3 spheres is adventuring of course. Any previous MMORPG'er will find familiarity 
 in this game. This is natural as well, things that have worked in previous games (ie Everquest, 
 World of Warcraft) will without a doubt show up in future games, its how the industry works, why 
 start from scratch if there's an already proven method which can be built upon. You have the usual 
 auto attack and special abilities at your disposal, but after that it becomes a bit more interesting. 
 They've now introduced reaction abilities. For example, I play a monk, and have two defensive reactions 
 that can occur depending on what I manage to do in combat. If I dodge a mobs attack, then I may 
 have the opportunity to send a backfist their way for their failed attempt at attacking and leaving 
 themselves open. Or maybe I block the mobs attack, again leaving them open, now I may have the 
 chance to send a nice counter attack that deals some damage and lowers their attack power by half 
 for about 8 seconds. 8 seconds doesn't seem like too long but in a battle its plenty of time. There 
 are also offensive reactions you can use as well called chains, but I think you got the idea. Now 
 on top of the reaction abilites, there's a new system of vulnerability states. Maybe you pull a 
 move off that leaves the mob staggered, your warrior friend may have a move that can take advantage 
 of the mobs staggered state and can do a lot more damage because of it. The nice thing about it 
 is that this system will bring people together because most of the time you will not be able to 
 take advantage of a state you can cause. Skill is now looked upon as well as level.
  Now, maybe you like to create things and have found previous crafting experiences in MMO's to be 
 a bit dull (personally i never liked crafting because it was a click fest) . This game changes that 
 by making the crafting process a matter of tactical skill. I have not gotten too far into it, but 
 I'm already addicted, wanting to make more. Previously it also seemed that crafting was only useful 
 to make money by selling things to lower levels than yourself. Well that seems to have changed 
 due to the fact that what you make can have some outstanding stat bonuses, making your home made 
 materials useful to yourself!
  Well, what if your looking for good lore in a game. The new diplomacy sphere is now giving you 
 this freedom of play. Why are the wood elves and the raki living together? As you progress through 
 the begining diplomacy quest line for the raki, you begin to find out that the fox-like people 
 have come from another world and have been stranded in Telon for some time. Why is it that they 
 can't get back to their original world? Is there something keeping them here? You can find out! 
 The sphere is quite simple to pick up, a tug-o-war of sorts that unveils conversation as you keep 
 control in this battle, or parley if you will. The parley uses cards from a premade deck of your 
 choosing to gain influence during conversation. There are certain pools that act as your method 
 of payment in using each card and a whole bunch of tactics with the various cards you can actually 
 use to gain your goals.
  Back to exploration. Because of the massive world you get horses at an early level of about 10. 
 Later on down the road you will be able to pick up flying mounts, allowing you to freely roam high 
 and low wherever you want, depending of course on how good your mount is. And let's not forget 
 about boats. Do you want a coast hugger so you can get from port to port on one continent, do it 
 up. Maybe you want to explore the vast seas (and I do mean vast) you can get a bunch of people 
 together to make a vessel. Then there's the massive guild boats that can be made to cart you and 
 your family anywhere you wish. With expansions expected about once a year from what I hear, there'll 
 be islands to be discovered for those high sea adventurous types.
  Now, back to crafting. Did I mention you'll be able to build your own houses? And for your family 
 you can create your own guild halls as well. Maybe you want a store to sell your wares from, or 
 just your home away from home, it will be possible.
  I could probably go on and on about how great I think this game is, but I suggest finding out for 
 yourself. Enjoy the freedom.
  
  Eric Ellison 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kouts1
Rating: 2.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Why? Why? i was hoping that this game was gonna be the one!! Unfortunately it Sucks with a capital 
 S!! Graphics look old. Especially when you create your character, the graphics reminded me of my 
 old Commodore 64. Seriously, the graphics are horrible. Please STOP with the rag doll character 
 models, they look stupid. Let's see something with a little more exaggeration and imagination!! 
 Hire some real designer who can give the graphics some flare, they look so static. The overall 
 feel is disgusting. I don't understand why some people gave this game a high review. This game 
 gets a 2 thumbs down. I hope that Warhammer or LOTR Online can make the WoW factor for me, no pun 
 intended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincois
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The game seems cool so far, but Arial has ran it's course for overhead names.
  I say it's more of an EQ2 killer then WOW killer. This game has some mechanics that EQ2 should 
 have had on day one. The Parlay game takes a bit to get used to. Will be interesting to see what 
 all that will hold in the higher levels. Putting a game into the market because you can't fund 
 anymore development is frustrating. From what I have seen some of these bugs are pretty blatant. 
 I do some some good improvement already in patches to date. I hope this comes into it's own. I 
 don't like the no instance part about the game. I hope that decision is reviewed and changed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EatU4Lunch
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  First of all, Vanguard is not finished - and not in the same sense that every MMO released to date 
 was not finished at release. (Yes, even WoW was missing much of the high end content and graphics 
 for most of the high lvl gear.)
  
  No, Vanguard is not finished in the sense that quests will tell you to go North East when the objective 
 is to the South East. Not finished in the sense that there are no official forums because if there 
 were official forums, they'd be full of whines. Not finished in the sense that classes are still 
 getting major changes in their abilities that change their role significantly. Not finished in 
 the sense that you get server wide messages telling you not to petition missing gear, lost xp and 
 death to bugs due to GMs being swamped with petitions.
  
  But, we already knew that Vanguard was not finished. Sigil stated that they needed another 6 months 
 to finish the game but were out of money. So the concept of paying for a Beta is far truer with 
 Vanguard than it has been with any other major MMO to date. But hey, at least you won't have to 
 sit in 4 hour queues.
  
  Despite its state Vanguard is an amazing game and given time will become one of the top MMOs on 
 the market. (No, it won't ever surpass WoW subscription wise - but that&amp;#8217; s not the goal.) 
 Game World:
  The game is quite atmospheric and the world is very well designed and seamless. But just like everything 
 else in the game, it too isn't finished. The areas have very good architecture but little actual 
 'life', yes there are patrols, there are shop keepers - but WoW cities had far more NPCs that were 
 there to add to the atmosphere and they were animated rather than nailed to the ground. Of course 
 it does not help that there are fairly few players which adds to the world looking empty.
  
  Quests:
  For the most part, quests are straight forward and enjoyable. To an extent, I would 
 say that the story behind most quests is somewhat better than WoW. That is to say they are more 
 immersive with the quests trying to tell you the back-story of the world rather than humor you 
 with RL references etc.
  Just like everything else, they are not finished, many give unclear directions, wrong directions, 
 do not provide a map marking, or all of the above - which is not fun when there are few people 
 around to ask for help.
  
  Combat:
  It's a step above Everquest's button mashing, and pretty much on par with WoW and to an extent 
 more involving - but really only because of the massive fear of death. Yes, death in Vanguard sucks, 
 not as much as in EQ, but far more than WoW. Which I think is fantastic, except when you die due 
 to bugs. In the end, the death penalty is fairly well adjusted and you won't be throwing your life 
 away pointlessly like you did in WoW.
  
  Gear:
  For the most part, the game spoon feeds you decent equipment early on and you will not be running 
 around in rags like you did in your early EQ career. What items you can and cannot equip depends 
 on your class, and sometimes your skill and level, but above all, all items uses a certain amount 
 of 'equipment %&amp;#8217; and no single item can use more than 20%. Thus it's a novel idea of 
 handling twinking.
  
  Inventory:
  The game goes out of its way to make inventory space a non issue. Items stack up to 99, harvested 
 recourses stack up to 99, and every 20 can be combined into 1 unit of higher quality and back. 
 Meaning you will not need to carry 3 bags full of copper ore. Yes, there is a mail system, yes 
 you can send items.
  
  Crafting:
  Sorry, no comment. Never tried it.
  
  Diplomacy:
  Yes. It's just a card game, but it's very well tied into the game, and it is fun and challenging 
 at times. I've probably spent about 25% of my time in Vanguard running around doing diplomacy instead 
 of leveling up.
  
  Level Progression:
  It's slow. Oh it's very slow. But it's not an issue. I've never felt an urge to level up in Vanguard 
 like I did in WoW. There are no quests rushing me on, no new zone to get to. The pacing seems more 
 relaxed and there is less focus on leveling in getting to 50. Expect it to take at least 3 months, 
 possibly closer to 6 to hit 50. But as long as you are kept entertained during those months, what&amp;#8217; s 
 the problem? Don't compare this to Lineage 2 as that game had no plot and nothing more than 24/7 
 grinds as means of progression. If 20-50 is anything like 1-20, then you will be kept busy all 
 along and will not be bothered by the pacing at all.
  Of course this assumes that people keep playing the game and getting groups will not become the 
 main roadblock.
  
  Graphics, Hardware and Bugs:
  The graphics are average by today&amp;#8217; s standards. The spell effects are passable, as are 
 the animations which are actually in the game. But really, they are nothing to brag about. I am 
 playing Vanguard on a laptop - yes a laptop, 2 gigs ram and 6800 at the default settings with no 
 performance issues past the initial slow area load. In fact, it really runs about the same as WoW 
 did. If there are crash bugs, I've yet to experience them. If there are memory leaks, then I don't 
 know how I could have had the game running for 10 hours without a restart. So while I'm sure that 
 Vanguard engine has plenty of bugs and leaks, I've simply not experienced them at all.
  
  Overall:
  If you are willing to give a game that has fantastic potential a shot despite the lack 
 of polish, go pick it up today. If it manages to stay alive for a year, it might very well become 
 a fantastic game - then again, it might not.
  
  If you expect a bug free, smooth ride with finished content and perfect class balance, then this 
 game is not for you - at least not for the next year. If you absolutely must hit the highest level 
 as fast as you can, don't try Vanguard, you'll burn yourself out in a week.
  
  I see this game going much like EVE Online, AO, and EQ2 did; horrific at release but fantastic 
 once they managed to fix most of the bugs. Of course for that to happen it has to survive long 
 enough... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pfasse
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  We've seen this game before, and we have seen it many times. New huge world to explore, point click 
 and wait game play, have to group to get anywhere worth while. Yes it's another MMORPG, but one 
 with promise nonetheless.
  
  Many MMOs that come out anymore feature a small twist on a game play mechanic and call that innovation 
 such as World of Warcraft's quest based system, or EQ2 new graphical interface, and subclass systems. 
 These are all small and do not take away from the fact that at the games very core, you have the 
 grind. That never ending level treadmill which keeps you playing for years, and buying all their 
 expansion packs.
  
  While Vanguard doesn't break this tried and true treadmill, it makes it so much more tolerable 
 by adding an addictive side game called Parley. It's a card game through which you debate and discuss 
 the goings on of Vanguard, and learn more about the rich history of the games setting and the people 
 who reside there. It's not just a distraction, but really a whole new game play element which is 
 surprisingly well done. The card game gives you an in depth look at politics in this world, and 
 makes the game play feel more like a single player campaign story line with it's rich and interesting 
 twists and turns. It's always an amazing feat for someone to make reading long lines of text fun, 
 but vanguard manages, and because of this it makes you feel like you have a great impact on the 
 world around you, and when you do finally get to do the adventuring quests, makes you feel like 
 the time spent killing creatures is for the betterment of your society.
  
  The enviroments are some of the best I have seen in both a single player, and mmo to date. And 
 the player models, armor, and creature models are top notch and very detailed, though some people 
 may at first be put off by the meager 4 hair styles per race in the game, the facial construction 
 tools make for a lot of diversity. The cities and landscapes are huge, and because of this, it 
 can sometimes be very hard to navigate, the elf city comes to mind firstly because of it's many 
 ramps and underpasses which just confuse the newcomer. To compound this problem I have found that 
 many quests do not have general waypoints for finding certain quest points and this can be hard 
 because the game sometimes gives no general hints to their locations. The Monk quests for the oriental 
 race for me were some of the most annoying.
  
  The adventuring quests are the generic, kill this many so and sos, take this to mr. whositwhats, 
 or click on this many thingymajigs. These are, as proven in WOW a good way to advance through the 
 game, and they are just as well planned out, and easily accessible as WoW's quests. Furthermore 
 there seems to be almost as many quests as WoW, and more diversity in that you can get crafting 
 quests, harvesting quests, adventuring, and diplomacy quests.
  
  Another good thing about this game is it doesn't really make you sit around and wait to get a mount 
 for 40 levels, you should be able to get a mount by the time you are level 10 and this is a great 
 boon because the world is gigantic and it seems like the developers wanted you to have a better 
 time playing the game rather then walking around in it, which is a refreshing change of course 
 for these types of games.
  
  The Bad:
  Well the bad list is rather short, the game play at it's core is still a grind. As of yet, the 
 harvesting, and crafting is just as boring as the combat grind, and short of adding another totally 
 different mini game for crafting can this improve in my opinion. The producers of vanguard promised 
 an indepth anf fun crafting system, when the reality is it's just like EQ2, and SWG in this regard.
 
  
  Voice acting is terrible not so much because of the voice actors themselves, but more due to effects 
 filters on the half giants, and animal like races making the voices sound awkward, though the music 
 is pretty standard fair for the setting type. Big sweeping epic like music, which does well to 
 hide itself while immersing you in the setting.
  
  All in all a really great MMO that I will loose many months of my life to before I uninstall and 
 cancel my account. Here's to hoping they add more mini games to harvesting, and crafting to make 
 that not feel like such a boring grind to attract new players, and old players who previously got 
 bored and left the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aidan100
Rating: 1.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a few days after release. Here is my opinion on each aspect of the game:
  
  Install This has to be the most painful install I have ever done or seen in my life it takes forever. 
 This games system requirements are awful for what you get i. e. the graphics and gameplay. Graphics
 
  
  The graphics in question are so in-consistent that its beyond a joke. For example the place called 
 Jalens Crossing is meant to be a symbolic bridge yet the floor looks like some nasty kitchen lyno 
 and has no texturing. When you get to the middle it looks like that game GOMAN from the Nitendo 
 64 its awful.
  
  Adventuring This game takes tedium to a whole new level. I thought the first few quests where bad 
 but I decided it was because it was a teaching area. But no i get off my island and my next 3 quests 
 are killing 20 creatures each thats each quest, and guess what their all the same. Goblins with 
 slighly different names. The combat system is pathetic and mostly doesnt work, the animations are 
 poor the spell damage to level ratio is quite frankly awful. It just louses my attention after 
 five kills. Just dont get me started on the mapping system dont go there.
  
  Crafting
  
  I enjoyed this for five minutes and then was sick of it. It seems that you need to be level 
 100,000,000 before you can make something slightly useful. For example you have to make around 
 30 planks individually to make 5 parts for a staff which is really quite crap and this may take 
 you well around three hours. This has to be possibly the dullest feature yet. Another thing I found 
 out today is that anything you make only sells for 1s 50b in the markey exchange and that amount 
 of money takes aroud 5 mins to get at lvl 8.
  
  Diplomacy
  
  Its card game for god sake, if i wanted to play a card game I would play Texas Holdem.
  
  Final 
 Words
  
  Basically only play this game if your blind, hard of hearing and cant speak. Thats all this game 
 is useful for.
  
  Oh and i almost forgot Boats hmm ohyea they dont exist yet and hmm houses dont work ohyea and all 
 the armour you make and buy is grey.
  
  Nice one Sigil you've made trailer trash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christopherbire
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  After investing over 102 played days into World of Warcraft, I took a break from it for about a 
 year. And when Burning Crusade came out around the same time Vanguard was launching, I decided 
 to try something new and fresh, which was hard because I loved Warcraft so much.
  
  Any who, I was extremely skeptical that anything could touch WoW, so I was holding off on buying 
 Vanguard till GameSpot came out with a review. That plan was spoiled when I came home the day after 
 it's release and my wife had it wrapped up in gift paper and a bow next to a six pack. God bless 
 her!
  
  So in I delved, and all I can say is.... DAMN!!! There are soooooo many things I wish World of 
 Warcraft had that this has it is amazing. First off I always was 'meh' on WoW's graphics. I liked 
 what they were trying to do with the art direction, and the blending of environments and the mass 
 variety of them. However, overall, the graphics were dated the day it was released in 2004. Poor, 
 terrible, bland lighting effects, low resolution textures, blocky polygons and so on. Great imagination, 
 great design, poor final visual results. Vanguard on the other had beautiful! I was pleasantly 
 surprised by the texture quality, sure I wish it had parallax mapping, but it was much better than 
 any screen shots gave it credit for. In fact the default textures are quite excellent overall with 
 great bump mapping. The HDR is pretty toned down, but I guess compared to Oblivion, anything is! 
 And I love the volumetric clouds.
  
  Second, customization is one hundred fold better. From the character creation you have TWICE the 
 races, TWICE the classes as WoW and then you have 60 different categories to customize your look, 
 even more than Oblivion had wow! And it doesnt stop there, there is the customization of your 
 character, and in my case, a vey customizable pet. There are houses! Boats! Get you Sims and WoW 
 fix in one. Cheers!
  
  Third, Combat plays very similar to WoW, but with new added combos, reactions, and tons of other 
 options to make it more immersive and enjoyable than WoW, which was awesome in the first place. 
 I also like the depth of the crafting, with tons of options, and yes quality ratings! And diplomacy 
 seems fun, but then again I have liked card games in the past aka Disciples 2.
  
  So do I like it BETTER than WoW? Hmmm jury is out. I know for sure that I so far like it AS MUCH 
 as WoW. But I do think the PVP needs some development, which WoW did when it first came out. I 
 am undecided on the non-Instance take on dungeons, but so far so good.
  
  Biggest bummer: As far as I can tell, there doesnt seem to be talent trees, I could be wrong though, 
 but havent seen/heard of them. BUMMER.
  
  As far as stability and performance? In all my playing I have only had 2 crashes... not bad! And 
 I play at almost max settings ( no HDR/Bloom ) @ 2560x1600 and get 25-40 FPS... Works for me!
 
  
  All in all, great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesperd
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This game has potential. Too bad it wasn&acute; t nearly finished when it was released. In it&acute; s 
 present state it&acute; s almost unplayable. And yes, I&acute; ve played other games like this one 
 and I know that one has to expect a few bugs in the beginning but this is absurd. My advice is 
 to wait a couple of months before considering buying it. But seriously, I don&acute; t know if they 
 will be able to fix this game. You can say what You want about WoW but it has style and personality 
 and Blizzard cares about details. In this game I encountered a barbarian camp with 30 barbarians 
 doing the exact same motions at the same time. That&acute; s really sloppy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  The concept is great, but so far the execution of the game leaves a lot to be desired. There are 
 some major bugs in this game still, like:
  1. Avatars changing looks randomly when you log in. They look like they should for the most part 
 on the startup screen, but then when you enter the game the avatar looks tootally different.
  2. Laggy servers. On each server I have been on there is severe lag. I'm talking having a character 
 in a city (any city) standing still with a frame rate of 35+ FPS and then as soon as another character 
 runs by the frames take a dump down to 3.5 or so. 3. UI keeps getting wacky! Have to type the command 
 /reloadui everytime I play and I have a GeForce FX6800 Ultra, which is one of the cards that the 
 devs say that they developed the game on.
  4. Mobs disappearing, but you still take damage and can't retaliate because you get a message that 
 they're out of range or can't be seen.
  
  There are plenty more bugs. If the developers can get a handle on these, though, this will be one 
 fantasic MMORPG. In the meantime, I'll stick with Elder Scrolls IV.
  
  Seems some of the bugs have been fixed, some haven't. I upgraded my score based on playability 
 as it ios now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hixzen1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  This game is great! Or at least it has the ability to be great. No crappy cartoons or bubbly building 
 like in wow. Everything about the game itself is awesome and I expect to be playing it for awhile. 
 The only bad thing about this game is like any other MMO that just comes out, it the bugs. I havent 
 seen any server crashes yet but as I said the game is still pretty buggy. But the development team 
 seems to be fixing them one right after the other! If you can be tolerant of the growing pains 
 you will really enjoy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calibanvov
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  I beta tested this game since beta 3 and I thought it was in trouble. But WOW did they polish things 
 up and are working hard to fix things up.
  
  Graphics= The models are pretty good but not great. But the ENVIRONMENTS, the clouds, grass, trees, 
 mountains, are the BEST ever in a MMOG! Sound=Combat sounds are normal, but the Soundtrack is the 
 BEST I've ever heard, truly unique feel and music for each area your in.
  
  Gameplay=Tons of variety. Controls are not clunky. Play with settings a few minutes and you'll 
 be comfortable with everything.
  
  Value=You'll get your moneys worth, if you play it of course. Its a complex game that you need 
 some time to play. You can get enjoyment out of it if your a casual player as well. I wish MMOs 
 were in the $10 range and not the $15.
  
  The game is fun if you just sit back and enjoy it. If your out to grind level to level, your going 
 to ruin this great experience. Getting the first horse is alot of fun.
  
  Some quest are normal, but there are ALOT of unique and cool quest. Like jumping off a bridge to 
 your doom, thousands of feet above ground. Like plundering a village, beating up your soldiers 
 and then get teleported by a powerful sorcerer to a new location finding you lost your armour and 
 weapons. Like going to a shoreline to find these ghostlike lizard creature attacking you and you 
 kill them with a spirit sword.... and your a mage. Other quests include Rock painting, burning enemy 
 supplys, fight a huge beast that gets summoned, drink poison to where your near death, free a prisoner, 
 convince a ghost to your way of thinking, etc etc. Not all your typical quests like some would 
 have you believe.
  
  This is getting long, but theres so many creative things they are trying to do, when you harvest 
 a tree, you actually chop it down and the screen shakes. You can add body parts to your necromancer 
 pet, healer classes get really involved in the fighting, boats, houses, and so much more!
  
  Check it out with a little patience because the learning curve is steep, keep an open mind 
 and you'll have a fun time for possibly years.
  
  7/30/07 upon further review I lowered the score abit. although people are too harsh on the game. 
 The crash to desktop was bad and finding things in quests are difficult. Dying and having your 
 corpse in an unatainable dungeon wiht extreme debt is annoying me. Im taking a break.
  
  SOE is working on it now, so will have to wait 4-6 months again to check out the improvements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  If I had to choose a genre to write reviews about, it would be mmorpgs, because that is where my 
 experience is. I've played many, since Ultima Online right on up to Vanguard. I'd like to think 
 I am somewhat of an authority . . .
  
  With that said, I will write an objective review of Vanguard. Sometimes it's hard when I truely 
 love the game to write negative things about it, but in the end, realizing weakness leads to improvement, 
 or in this case, may help some players decide if Vanguard is right for them.
  
  The main weakness in the game is it's performance. Despite its recommended system requirements, 
 the game is a resource hog and will push your system to its limits no matter what setting you choose 
 to play on. Even at its lowest visual setting, the game looks fine. I am convinced that coding 
 and programming is still not optimized, so there is hope for players that are struggling with framerates. 
 The improvements to performance are constant, but still not where they need to be so that the majority 
 of players can experience the game with a consistant, smooth framerate. Yes, there are many FAQs 
 about tips and suggestions to tweak your system to run Vanguard optimally, but I believe that in 
 the coming months, these will not be as important as Sigil nails those kinks in the game that are 
 causing the major hits to FPS, especially around cities.
  
  If the game ran smoothly, I would not really have much else that is negative to say about it. It 
 really has everything I ever wanted in a mmorpg, beside some extra details and fluff that a roleplayer 
 would appreciate. But being honest and realistic, mmorpgs are not made with the roleplayer in mind 
 anymore, sadly. And so Vanguard is your basic adventure, with a few twists and additions.
  
  There are 4 main spheres - Adventuring, Crafting, Diplomacy, and Harvesting. Diplomacy is the 
 most innovative feature I've seem in a mmorpg in years, and really adds a lot to the game in both 
 gameplay and personality. It is somewhat complicated, and difficult to learn at first, but essentially, 
 it is a card game that you play against NPCs in order to gain presence with various stations (Guards, 
 merchants, city leaders, etc.) . It can be done cooperatively, activating switches in a city that 
 determine benefits to everyone in that city. The switches refer to things such as a crafting bonus. 
 I told you it was confusing, but it is a lot of fun.
  
  Aventuring is standard. Combat is rather dull compared to some other mmos, especailly EQ2. There 
 are some nice additions though, like counters, and other abilities certain classes have that can 
 be used in certain situations in combat. Quests are also your standard collect, kill, etc.
  
  There is not much guidance in Vanguard, right from the start. I cannot say this is a negative, 
 because I think most Vanguard players have read about the idea of this game enough to know that 
 it is not a simple and easy mmo like most modern mmorpgs. I won't go into specifics about features, 
 gameplay, etc. Think back to Everquest except add many new features and a great Unreal 3 engine, 
 and thats Vanguard in a nutshell.
  
  Graphics are terrific. I try to keep visual setting at high or higest quality, with some customizations 
 both in-game and in the sysconfig. ini (recommended only for those comfortable with playing around 
 with such things) . Animations are mediocre. They can be much better, but they don't detract from 
 the look and feel of the game.
  
  Audio is good. The music of Vanguard is average. I love some of the themes, and I can do without 
 some of them. Since turning off sound completely boosts FPS a good 5-10 frames, I sometimes just 
 listen to my EQ2, Lineage II, or Guild Wars soundtrack while playing Vanguard . . .
  
  My rating for Value would be the lowest, since there are bugs in the game and it is not running 
 optimally at this point in time. If you purchase the regular boxed game, you get the standard 30 
 days free, and the limited edition supposedly offers 90 days, but this might be a confusion with 
 90 free of Vanguard Players (vgplayers. com) and not the subscription to the game, I have yet to 
 find the answer. The subscription costs is stanard at $14.99 per month, decreasing with extended 
 subs. Its a shame that Sigil and SOE couldn't be innovative in their subscription options as Turbine 
 has done with Lord of the Rings Online.
  
  I could really say a whole lot more about the game and go into specifics, but it is still very 
 early in the game's life. It just launched and things are changing constantly, and for the better. 
 I expect the game to really hit stride in a few months, when the majority of bugs are fixed and 
 performance is improved even more, but considering everything, the launch has been smooth and I 
 am enjoying Vanguard: Saga of Heroes very much. That seems to be what most players are saying in 
 the in-game chat.
  
  I rate the game slightly lower than what I should just because it really isn't complete, but in 
 a few months, things are going to really pick up in Vanguard, and with it's limitless potential, 
 this can be an excellent mmorpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shosougly
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  the world in vanguard is enormous and beautiful, you simply can't be bored since there are a lot 
 of things to do in this game with crafting, diplomacy etc, vanguard is kinda hard and very long 
 to level your character compared to WoW or other mmorpg but this only makes it more rewarding, 
 you also don't have to gain a lvl to have attribute point witch makes it less tedious.
  
  grouping is fun and the players are mature and always there to help you
  there are no instances 
 and its fine with me the world is enormous anyway the game has some bugs here and there but i think 
 this lunch is better than other mmorpg with less lag .... remember WoW the first week? :)
  
  for the system requirement i have a p4 3.2ghz with 1 gig and a x800 pro the game runs fine on high 
 quality but you really need to have 2 gig of ram or the game will sometime freeze.... reason why 
 i will buy more memory 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam28577
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  This will be short and to the point.
  
  Vanguard is an excellent game tha thas tons of content for both group and solo players. Groups 
 are encouraged and advance quicker than solo play as they should. Quests are mostly interesting 
 and plentiful although as you level up higher in your 20's most of your experience is gained from 
 dungeon crawls.
  
  The best part of Vanguard is the plethora of abundent dungeons which not only are amazing but huge. 
 Not having instancing is not an issue as the dugenons can accomodate several full groups easily 
 without running into eachother. Not too mention that there are so many different places to go you 
 rarely see more than another FG in any given area.
  
  The game does have some bugs which while not game stopping are annoying so be prepared to deal 
 with that. If not for the bugs I'd give the game a full 9.5 or so but the bugs bring the score 
 down to a 8.5.
  
  Great game, gorgeous graphics, simply outstanding class system and overall excellent experience. 
 Highly recommend it if you think WoW is a bit too easy but you don't want to hit your head against 
 the wall with FF11 or Lineage 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkewm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  A bit of backround... I have been playing MMOrpgs for around 8 years now. I played free ones when 
 i was younger such as runescape, and Helbreath. I upgraded to SWG and played that for about 4 months 
 untill i purchased WoW. Now we all know WoW is the big mmo on the market and brought thousands 
 if not millions into tryin out MMOrpgs. I have been in love with WoW for over two years and have 
 7 level 60s. No biggie in my opinion i got tons of 60s decked on with tier 2 on three of em, but 
 around last sept. i recieved information from a guy in VG beta. I know they had the closed beta 
 agreement but he spilled his guts out about the game over Vent one day. I started to research and 
 soon the same kid gave me access to his Beta...
  
  I started playing in Beta 3. I entered the world amazed by the graphics and was very impressed 
 the first 10 levels. After a few days of playing i quickly got bored... and didnt log on to much. 
 I continued though to have hopes for the game and follow it. After every patch i would log on see 
 what was up/ make a alt and play a bit. Still something was missing....
  
  Months later the devs put in so much work and produced to what i thought would of been a flop to 
 something amazing! I know there are bugs, and alot of things still being worked on, but it was 
 nothing near what the game was 3 months ago. This game only way more potential then i think any 
 mmorpg game out there. I bought the game after release iffy about what i would be paying for and 
 getting out of it, but hands down I am greatly proud to be playing VG. I still do play WoW, but 
 i feel if someone is looking for a more in depth, more content, and great future of a mmorpg Vanguard 
 has it. Expect the bugs now, and i know VG is still basically a paying beta.. but honestly if you 
 dont pick it up now, be sure to within the next 3-6 months. This game will slowly become one of 
 the best MMORPGS to date. For now, i am playing WoW still, and occasionally logging into VG, but 
 i wont get serious about VG until maybe a few months down the road. my last thoughts are... WoW 
 is a great day, if you havnt played a MMO surely pick it up, it will be fun, but most likly wont 
 last long game play wise.. even with the new XP i have friends already eatting up level 70 content.. 
 and it came out less then a month ago maybe? Surely people looking for a more in depth game with 
 alot of content and great expansion content pick up VG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbm003
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The world of Telon seems to encompass many other MMORPG's. It's the fantasy game that many have 
 been waiting for, as if developers from all of your favorite MMORPG's joined to make one, taking 
 the best each game had to offer.
  
  But it is not all good news in Vanguard. As the developers seem to have rushed the game for its 
 release, many bugs have appeared. Many players are complaining about the lag or stutters in the 
 game. This is mostly due to the high system requirements. Even on fast performance settings, the 
 game seems to stutter on low-end PC's.
  
  The other problem comes from the world's seamless strategy. There are no load times, the developers 
 said, but if you run past certain areas of the world, you'll notice a slight pause that could be 
 the rest of the world loading. I've encountered these a few times and have died when mobs chased 
 me into one of these mysterious spots.
  
  With these flaws, many might feel the game is not worth a great rating, but the future of the game 
 is what counts. From the few patches I've seen, the developers are very interested in fixing all 
 bugs and stutters. Without this, the game is incredible.
  
  You have mounts like some other MMORPG's, but now get the choice of flying ones that take you above 
 the world through limitless space. They give you ships you can control and take your friends along, 
 and without the load times, the ships feel even more real.
  
  The game doesn't offer many classes and most races are just variants of human, but if you can get 
 past that, this game hits a milestone that may take a long time for other games to reach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zafrod
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard is not for everyone. I'll say that right up front. If you loved World of Warcraft for 
 giving you a speedy run to the level cap and simplifying gameplay to emphasize balance over diversity, 
 then you shouldn't make the switch to Vanguard. But if you remember with fond nostalgia those original 
 days in EQ, where leveling was an accomplishment and the world felt like a vast expanse waiting 
 to be explored, not just exploited for XP, then Vanguard is definitely worth a look.
  
  I have had none of the technical issues some are complaining about, on what are definitely 2 middle-of-the-road 
 systems. I can't crank up settings all the way to maximum, but the game still looks as good as 
 Oblivion did on my system, and that's plenty good enough. Gameplay is smooth and responsive, and 
 despite what I've heard, a lot of it is fresh. Having 2 targets at a time, one offensive and one 
 defensive, is a great idea that streamlines the game, especially for tanks and healers. Tanks seem 
 to have more interaction than in any other MMO I've seen (rescue moves are a great idea... an active 
 way to protect weaker party members) . Offensive fighters get complex chains to master, healers 
 can be more involved because, with two targets, they're not constantly retargeting for healing 
 and attacking, and casters have a wide selection of spells and the ability to learn from observing. 
 Is it derivative? Absolutely, but EVERY game in this genre is derivative of games that came before 
 it. Does it evolve the genre? Absolutely it does. It certainly moves away from end-game focus seen 
 in games like World of Warcraft and Guild Wars, but frankly, I think that's a good thing. The journey 
 was always more interesting than the destination to me, and I'd rather enjoy what I'm doing now 
 than be thinking ahead to when I'm finally at the level cap.
  
  The little extra touches are great too. There are lots of jokes and fun conversations to be found. 
 The music is, not to overstate, absolutely beautiful. Diplomacy is emulated through a card game 
 that is a fresh, fun addition to MMO gameplay. The world is HUGE, and the various regions feel 
 very unique and very real. Weapons and armor from Asian-themed Kojan look very different from those 
 found in Europe-based Thestra or Middle-Eastern based Qalia, giving characters from those areas 
 a unique look.
  
  Vanguard has the unenviable task of entering the market when the World of Warcraft phenomenon is 
 still strong. Fans of that game, and there are still many of them, want Vanguard to fail simply 
 for having the audacity to enter the market in competition with their game. The truth is, however, 
 that the games are barely comparable. World of Warcraft, at this point, is about high-level raiding 
 and PvP. The level grind is simply a means to that end. Vanguard is much more an old-school MMORPG, 
 about exploring and overcoming the world and the obstacles it puts in front of you. It's harder, 
 and it's grittier, and at the end of the day, it's more satisfying. Vanguard is a great game that 
 I fear will be overlooked simply because the perceived competition is a monolith. Judged on its 
 own merits, Vanguard is a great game with a lot of room to grow and become even better. I plan 
 to spend a couple years roaming the vast, beautiful world of Telon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StephenKimbro
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I believe it will be the next Diablo 2, it will be the new standard for MMORPG. Although it might 
 be complex at first, once you get the feel and put in a little effort into gameplay, and you see 
 what you've worked for it will definitely be worth your time. Its been a while since I've had the 
 time to play any MMORPGS, therefore it took me a little while to get the controls down. However 
 I did play Diablo II for 4 years, and I know a good complex leveling or crafting game when I see 
 one, and I definitely see that in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 02WS6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Spite the bugs the game has and its early release the game has a lot to offer. A Massive world 
 lots of quests no instancing and a new area of advancement, Diplomacy. Sigle patch's the game almost 
 every day / every other day and fix's a lot of issues with the game.
  The crafting area of the game is great as well as the resource gathering by far the best since 
 SWG. You can craft weapons, armor, ships, houses, tools etc. and can harvest resources any where 
 from stone, metal, hide, trees, plants, gems and more. The game is boring and easy from 1-10 as 
 soon as the level 10+ area of the game is reached is when the game starts to show and becomes a 
 lot harder. You get your first mount and the first true quests and mobs start to show.
  It is possible to solo in this game if done right and there are areas of the game for it but, its 
 better to group with friends and have a great time then sitting in an area doing a boring grind 
 day after day.
  Having no instancing is another plus and is nothing new it dates back to the 90s with Asheron's 
 Call and other games. Not having instancing in game allows for faster group builds and less load 
 times and makes the world more seamless.
  This game does take a higher end PC to run and a lot of people complain about it but, the fact 
 is its 2007 and there has not been a highly graphiced MMO out in a long time that uses the latest 
 hardware. I run the game on 2GB DDR and a 7950 GT with an AMD FX-55 and get 40FPS in the wiled 
 and 14-20FPS in town on Mid-high settings. You just have to play around with the settings to get 
 the perfect match for your system. 8800 cards with DDR2 ram seem to run the game the best and get 
 40fps in towns.
  Great game IMO and wont be just another MMO on my shelf collecting dust for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torak101
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  I did the beta for 4 months, very disappointing. This game does not rank close to a 9 in any respect 
 based on technical issues alone. It was rushed and released incomplete.
  The general formula for MMO's is followed to the letter. Grind, simplistic kill task that a retarded 
 houseplant could do and raids at the end. If you have played ANY mmo in the past 5 years, you have 
 played Vanguard. If you long for the good old days of slow paced grind, play Vanguard. If you thought 
 Lineage II was a grind wait... this one makes L2 look like WoW. and it doesn't even have a worthwhile 
 endgame, just raids.
  If you want to drop 50 bucks on a game that hardly works so you can stand in a field killing bugs 
 and turtles and then run back to an NPC for a pat on the head, more power to you. You want something 
 with depth, immersion and entertainment, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylven1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  The graphics are on par with EverQuest 2, but not quite as good as Oblivion. The World is massive 
 and has more land area than any other game Ive played. Like Oblivion, anything you see in the 
 distance you can travel to, and unlike WoW, there are no artificial boundaries or zones. The spell 
 and ability animations are very well done. Exploring and adventuring in Vanguard is great fun.
 
  
  Sound
  Vanguard has one of the best soundtracks Ive heard in an MMO, but the combat sounds are only standard. 
 Combat
  Combat is enjoyable and there are many unique abilities, but typical of an MMO. Questing
  The 
 interface and questing structure is pretty much a WoW clone. The stories are fair and the objectives 
 are standard for MMOs. In the beginning, they are kill 10 of that and deliver this to them, but 
 eventually they get more elaborate and tie in with the world. Harvesting
  Harvesting is much like WoW and EQ2, but you have another paper doll that you can fully equip with 
 gear that improves your results. My favorite is chopping down trees in the game world. There are, 
 by far, more harvestable resources in Vanguard than any other game. Crafting
  Crafting is an elaborate mini game that gets quite complicated at later levels. Sigil boasts that 
 the amount of craftable items totals more than any other game. I got into it really quick and see 
 potential for many different variations of product between different crafters. Again, another paper 
 doll to fully equip. Diplomacy
  Diplomacy is a fun mini game, much like the old Magic collectable card game. I have no idea how 
 many cards are in the game world, or what purpose it servers at later levels. Ive been told certain 
 adventuring encounters can be avoided and different questing routes become available with diplomacy. 
 Theyve also said Diplomacy will be utilized to develop player cities.
  
  Grouping
  Vanguard has been creating content for:
  20% solo
  60% grouping
  20% raiding
  Im in favor 
 of this ratio because I enjoy smaller party tactical combat over mass chaotic raids. The raids 
 in WoW are fun, but created many headaches and required intense scheduling. To each his own, but 
 soloing to 60 and raiding for the next year was not my premier gaming experience. Classes
  In my opinion, the races and classes are more distinguishable from each other than ever, and the 
 amount of character customization at the beginning is quite varied. Ive played almost every class 
 and I still cant choose which is most enjoyable. Vanguard does follow the traditional Tank, CC, 
 Healer, Dps, Dps mold thou, but each subclass can fulfill the role equally well. There is a death 
 penalty and corpse runs, but each character has a save my %$# ability of some sort. Although 
 aggravating at its core, some of my favorite moments in the original AC was fighting to my gravestone. 
 PvP
  I havent done much PvP, but there will be pvp servers and rvr servers. There are 3 realms and 
 I can see the capability for some DAOC type warfare in the future. Mounts
  Mounts are equipable with its own paper doll as well, and can become quite the pets. The earlier 
 mounts are slow horses, eventually leading up to flying Griffons. I havent had a chance to test 
 the flying mounts yet, but I hear the sky is free roaming.
  
  Housing
  Housing is almost exactly like SWG, but a little more constructive as to not disturb the immersion 
 with chaotic building plots. There are many craftable items and trophies from adventuring to decorate 
 your house. Guilds can create guild halls and eventually become player run cities.
  
  Overall, Vanguard has the potential to rival WoW buried in there somewhere. It is also a more difficult 
 and a much longer journey to maximize your character. Many elements of an MMO are missing from 
 WoW, therefore, if youre up for some real unknown adventuring, unique crafting, housing, or just 
 need something different for a bit Vanguard is a good start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhamar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  First: This game is not for every type of RPG gamer. This game is for the more mature crowd that 
 endures leveling for months and playing the game years.
  Do not try to play/compare this game in hopes to relive WoW or EQ, you can read at the game official 
 web page the vision of the Developers.
  
  Pros:
  
  Game content:
  Navigation and movement is easy WASD system. Hundreds or perhaps even thousands of quests. Every 
 area have different unique monsters, not a clone of a monster in every continent. The World is 
 huge, you can easily travel anywhere, is a land without barriers meaning if you see it you can 
 go there. You can travel and own by boat, horse or air mounts (ex: Dragons) . Many choices to customize 
 character creation. Many jobs and races. You can own land, create guild halls, become a diplomat 
 , crafter or just adventurer. Graphics:
  The graphics go as far your videocard can handle, simply magnificent, with rain, snow, sandstorms, 
 etc.
  
  Sound: in game music is great, you do not get tired of it, great variety. The game sound is awesome 
 it goes as far as your sound card can take you.
  
  Cons:
  Like any new MMO the game have bugs and instability issues to be resolved but the developers are 
 constantly fixing and upgrading the game daily. This Game eats alot of RAM and most of the gameplay 
 issues are due to the fact that some people intent to play this game in 2-4 year old technology 
 computers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard gives me mixed reactions. Vanguard takes some of the great stuff from other MMORPG's and 
 also takes some of the - not so great stuff. For example, it seems there is alot of running or 
 horseback riding in this game. The running part reminds me a bit of asherons call. You will be 
 running trying to find your quest guy through barren parts of land with lions, snakes and other 
 vermin bunched up all together. Teleporters would have made things a bit easier. On the good side, 
 some quests will mark a spot on your compass in the direction you need to go. I would liked to 
 have seen instanced dungeons but I have not seen any up to this point. I currently play this game 
 on a athlon 3500+ 2 gigs memory 74 gig 10,000 rpm HD and a single Ge Force 7800gs video card. The 
 game runs fine. I cannot turn the setting to where I would like or the clip plane but the game 
 is very playable. Vanguard offers great secondary skills like diplomcy, weapon/armorsmith and many 
 others. Vanguard is a definite buy. I have been involved in MMORPGS since I was a beta tester for 
 ultima online. I cannot tell if this game will suceed or fail, but I will be a part of it either 
 way. Later.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 5, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  It has a lot of great ideas like player housing. Boats and other things. But its covered in so 
 many bugs and crashes. Tons of classes are broken. And there seems to be like no one to group with. 
 Its empty barren and if you do group with someone you die so much because of a bad tank or other 
 reasons. You have to corpse summon lose your experience and then wala your back to the beginning 
 of your level. What fun. Not fun at all. Theres a point when its so penalizing I just say F it. 
 In 6 months or so if your into this kind of stuff like EQ1 you will like it more. It is so buggy 
 and unfinished its just a released beta pretty much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Nick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I came into this game not knowing what to expect, Im not one of these people that have followed 
 the game through out its development cycle. In fact i only took up interest into this MMO over 
 the past 2 weeks or so. Ive come from games Like WoW and have alittle experiance in EQ2 also.
 
  
  The game is a Joy to play, minus the usual Launch batch of bugs, which Sigil have been consistantly 
 updating to remove them. Youll First Be presented with a charactor creation screen with many different 
 sliders remanisant of that seen in Star War Galaxies, This advance and more Freeversion of Toon 
 design allows users a much wider scope creating Unique Charactors. This is a deffenat plus to the 
 Game design compare to that of WoW with its limited Slot Machine style of charactot Creation, And 
 with more hairstyles and further customisation hinted down the line it cna only get better.
  
  Graphically the game is stunning even at balanced setting, I do have a couple of the fancy 
 graphically sets off to increase performance, is the game is quite spec heavy. But if you ave the 
 capability in your Rig you will be able to enjoy the stunnng volumetric coulds and various offer 
 nicegraphical effects. The GUI is extremly remanisant of WoW's which isnt a bad thing considering 
 how user friendly that interface proved to be.
  
  Gameplay is split into three different spheres each seperate from each other offering the charactor 
 a full level cap of 50 in both Crafting, Diplomacy And Finally Adventuring. User could easily focus 
 on just one of these sphere and be able to support them selves. Crafting is innovative requiring 
 the users to focus apon consumption of action points, whilst trying to increase the quality and 
 progress of the crafted item, Whilst watching out For Complications which can hinder the quality 
 of your produce. The Crafting system is a much more involving/engaging experiance than WoW's, allowing 
 multiple out come of the crafted item depending on the skill of the Crafter. With 3 different professions 
 in crafting (Artificer, Backsmith and Outfitter) eah with its own various trees to follow creates 
 a large range of options and different experiances to have.
  
  Adventuring is your standard MMO type scenary, Quests are interesting to read as well as participate 
 in. With a wide range of quests rather than just kill x amount, helps keep the game feeling fresh 
 whilst you level.
  
  Diplomacy is something ive quite gotten into yet, But it is deffently a well thought out and engaging 
 idea. That is worth keepign an eye on.
  
  Travelign appears to be a large point to the game which isnt a dull experiance ethier, with mounts 
 provided at a small fee at lvl 10 and with various upgrades along the line including flying mounts, 
 as well as mount customisation. Further adding to the joy of traverlign is the sheer amount of 
 fgun you can have exploring unknown areas.
  
  You will be able to purchase landing in the Game aswell as have a boat constructed ethier by your 
 self using your craftinf skills, or by another player. Houses are fully customisablewith all sorts 
 of items as are the boats.
  
  In various articles current ideas being prodcued by the devs for futre patches included Island 
 based PvP, Fighting for control of strategic points etc, Guild House, Halls And Mansions, Mounted 
 Combat Both on Sea and Land etc etc
  
  All in all i throughly recomend the game to you, especially if your lookign for something new in 
 the MMO market, or are Coming into the Genre. Despite its current faults with a few bugs Vanguard 
 certanly has avery bright future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jreenen
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  This is an A+ game it is very challanging looks great and has something to do for everyone in this 
 game. Unlike WoW it isnt an easy game but it also isnt that game for the hardcore MMORPG players 
 it has the best of both worlds and added to that a great lore, fantastic crafting system unique 
 system called diplomacy (best to compare with Magic the Gathering) which lets you parley with NPC's 
 to obtain armor/faction/items...
  You can build houses (owned by you or by guild) boats and ride on flying mounts.
  The game is 
 very well supported and since launch date which was filled with bugs we now have many improvements 
 and i would like to say its one of the best launches i have been through (yes even with crashes 
 and some minor pathing problems and broken quests) .
  If you want a game that will challange you and to have fun with while following the path (s) /sphere (s) 
 you have chosen this game is just for you, so rush to your local shop and buy it, would be happy 
 to see you in game!!!!
  
  PS: I am a European player and even after SOE messed up the European servers i can still honoustly 
 say all that i have written above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prk4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Choppy graphics at times, and I have a computer that exceeds the recomended setup. Sound could 
 use some work, but overall rich, deep and addictive gameplay.
  
  Definatly worth the investment and the monthly fee as it will only improve. There is definatly 
 a bright future for this game.
  
  The community seems to be more mature than WoW and the game is certainly more intricate.
  
 
  Be sure that you have a computer that can handle the game as it is pretty demanding to get decent 
 performance (I imagine this will come down as the game matures due to code optimization)
  
  There seems to be a good ecomomy (so far at least) and the 3 spheres of gameplay (adventuring, 
 crafting and diplomacy) ensure that you will never get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  First Impression:
  
  LAG LAG LAG. It's called optimization of source code sigil. Look it up. Whole crap this game plays 
 choppy when there are lots of players in one area, and when i say lots of players i mean like 20. 
 THATS BAD! I'm currently playing on the Suggested setup almost to a T (not the miminum) . And there 
 are SERIOUS Issues. After i played w/ it for a while
  
  After lots of tweaking i managed to get the graphics set up so that they render much more smoothly 
 on my machine. (3.0 ghz 4 gigs ram, 256mb vid (ati 9700 pro) ) . I'm now getting almost 30 fps when 
 there is only a couple of other players near me (10 or less) . The graphics take a huge hit turned 
 down, which is what most people are saying they like about the game. What i think now that i'm 
 level 10.
  
  I like this game. It's somewhere between SWG and EQ2. The community is pretty helpful and fun. 
 I like the grind it's more advanced and challenging then WOW. THERE SEEMS TO BE AN ECONOMY. step 
 back wow players i know you are thinking... what's economy??? LOL there seems to be one here. We'll 
 see how well balanced it is and how easily exploited it can be in days to come.
  
  Will i pay 15 dollars a month to beta test?
  I guess so, i'm not happy about it, but i caught 
 the bug (pun intended) . I'm interested to see more of the world and creatures i can slay.
  
  Overall Thoughts for players thinnking about buying this game:
  It's buggy, but fun. should 
 we pay 15 bucks for something that i would deem released way to early, probably not, but, i'm going 
 to for a bit longer to see how things shape up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqldbaman
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  ---&gt; 3/15/07 Update... been playing since this came out. I have four systems playing this game 
 easily. I did have to upgrade their video cards but that was it. My family loves this game! We 
 have made several more characters and are enjoying all the aspects. The patches that have come 
 out seemed to address alot of issues. In all honesty... this game is a must if you are tired of 
 the everyday mundane MMO... give Vanguard a try!
  
  Coming from SWG, WoW, AC2, DDO, this game has alot to over and truly a huge gameplay area to do 
 it in. It has a vast amount of things to do... from crafting to fighting... even diplomacy abilities 
 has been incorporated in a very unique card game. Basically... let me break it down to cons &amp; 
 pros.
  
  So here is the cons of going with this game:
  
  1) Huge 20GB footprint... used for loading the vast amounts of data from the game so that moving 
 from each area seems semi-seemless. You can tell when you hit a boundary... you actually see a 
 graphical line and you pause a brief sec... but then you are free to move again once past it.
 
  
  2) Video requirements are very steep... 128MB PCI Nivida Express card barely serves any purpose... 
 I had to upgrade to a nVida 6600 Overclocked 512MB PCI Express card... about $179... but works 
 great now.
  
  3) So many characters and with so many profs... what makes it bad is that they are split over 3 
 different areas of the world... not to mention the multiple geographical sub-areas which are huge. 
 Thus, if you do not plan correctly... you and your friends may make characters that cannot play 
 together for a long time... or one of you would have to embark on a perilous trek to get to the 
 other... leaving behind common trainers, etc. Example would be a Halfling and a Raki... both seem 
 like great partners... but they are geographically far, far apart. Good thing... who knows. Just 
 need to preplan.
  
  4) There are numerous areas where solo play can work out... but for higher lvls... groups are probably 
 needed. Yes you can help each other even if you are not in the same group. This is not instance 
 based dungeon playing... but an interactive world shared by many. Have everyone spread out helps 
 out alot I am sure (adding to a previous point) .
  
  Pros:
  
  1) Huge... positively huge area to explore and play. Running around brings back memories of SWG... 
 before speeders and such. Mounts are available for purchase after lvl 10 (Max char lvl is 50 atm) . 
 You can use diplomacy to get a free mount. ;-)
  
  2) There seems to be a balance on what you can do solo and in groups. It is somewhat twich based... 
 so positioning, etc makes a difference. The more skilled you are... the better you can fight, etc. 
 This will help out in solo and groups.
  
  3) Crafting... works fine. There are some bugs but nothing to scream about. The evidence is simple... 
 lots of stuff on the market selling at reasonable rates..
  
  4) Diplomacy - here is something different... for those of you that don't like to kill things... 
 ;-P Rewards can include a mount (nice pretty white horse) .
  
  5) Graphical beauty... it is very beautiful... with the right card. Earlier complaints and whines 
 are coming from individuals with sub-par cards. I know... from experience on video card issues... 
 thus I had to buy a new card to get this thing to run correctly. Once setup correctly with the 
 right hardware... the game is very, very lush and beautiful. Details are everything.
  
  6) For all the complexities... this game has had very little issues overall... granted there are 
 extremely annoying individual problems that everyone has... ranging from claim rewards vanishing 
 to certain types of video bugs... but overall... the game has come off quite well. I don't feel 
 I am playing a beta version. My wife and I have been playing alot since this game came out... averaging 
 probably 3-5hrs a day. Overall... it is a great game so far.
  
  7) Lots of baddies... lots of areas to explore... lots of kewl weapons, and stuff to loot. You 
 have a bank... you have email (as locations... not like in SWG... more like DDO) . You have merchants 
 pre-stocked with items. You have the ability to buy back items you might accidently sale... for 
 a reasonable price.
  
  Well, I could go on... but overall... this game will appeal to those that miss the old days of 
 SWG... or AC2 before they screwed it up. Granted... Sony has not had the greatest track record... 
 but this game was developed by Sigil and... I think they have done a great job.
  
  Again... don't believe the whiners and complainers. Trolls are common on Gamespot so beware. However... 
 remember, this game needs alot in the form of requirements... 256MB graphics card for sure... and 
 2GB memory would be nice too. CPU needs to be within the last year... or so. Watch those hardware 
 requirements. If you do take the plung... you won't regret it. ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_gab333
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Just another pay to play mmorpg.... just to be blunt... if you already playing a pay to play like 
 World of Warcraft or LineAge II stick to that.. and if not never try a pay to play... right now 
 i am playing LineAge and for 2 years thats a long and boring time spent there, i both the game 
 maybe to switch to that... big mistake... i both the game.... and i am still sticking to line age 
 even though its getting old... And if you still wanna buy a mmorpg buy GuildWars or Archolrd (even 
 if gamespot gave it 2.7 i played it and believe me its worth 40$) the only thing you have to do 
 at those 2 is to buy the game the rest is free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alextz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  I've been a MMORPGamer since the days of Ultima Online, The 4th Coming and Everquest. This alone 
 makes me one of the most demanding players around when it comes to MMORPGS. Vanguard Saga of Heroes 
 is a game that has it all. Excellent gameplay, breathtaking graphics, superb music and above all, 
 it is probably the most complete MMORPG out there. It combines Ultima Online's almost perfect skill 
 system with excellent wow-ish gameplay and adds up a couple of things such as the very well developed 
 crafting, harvesting and diplomacy mechanisms that make the game that much more worth the effort. 
 If only for the free month offered upon purchase, this game is definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricAllen0519
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I dont typically write reviews, but here it goes.
  
  I picked this game up at Best Buy because people had been raving about it like mad, and I thought 
 it would be a good purchase. Boy was I wrong.
  
  I played just about every class and every race. Some I played two hours, some I played 20 minutes. 
 I'll put this out there right now, almost no matter what class/race you pick, you're basically 
 feel like you doing the exact same thing over and over. I couldn't tell the difference between 
 rogues, bards, monks, warriors, pallys, dread knights, and rangers.
  
  The gameplay is empty. You kill NPCs with crappy animations and terrible sound effects. You can 
 barely kill an NPC a level above, and the few times that you do you're getting lucky. But all you 
 do is grind.
  
  The graphics are freakin amazing. Better than Oblivion in this department. But the animations are 
 lacking big time.
  
  Sound is terrible. The music itself is great but the sound effects that your guy and other NPCs 
 make is annoying and just outright bad.
  
  I don't know what it is, but the game is just empty. The graphics are great, but there is no way 
 SOE is getting $15 a month from me. I can honestly say that I wish I hadn't even bought this, or 
 that I could take it back.
  
  My reviews arent the best, but guys take my word for it. I love video games and especially MMOs, 
 but this just isn't worth it. It reminds me of Horizons. If you played WoW, stick with that. Or 
 wait a year until Warhammer comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redbedead
Rating: 2.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is very derivative, nothing really new. Diplomacy is novel and being able to move (at 
 half speed) while casting is nice. It's obvious at all levels it's been rushed, with some classes 
 almost entirely broken (Rogue, I'm looking at you) . 3 points and that's generous.
  
  Graphics are nice on very high, but not good for anything other than screenshots. To get it playable 
 even on a system that was top-of-the-line three months ago you have to tone down setting to the 
 point it literally looks worse than original Everquest sevenodd years ago. 3 points for the pretty 
 screenshots but it's inexcusable that even at the recommended specs on the box (about double the 
 minimum specs on the box) 15 FPS at low is lucky, and it doesn't load ANYTHING in the background 
 so even on a $5000 super rig you'll get hitches where it freezes up entirely here and there.
  
  Sound hitches a lot and the effects are pretty bad. The music is great though, and every area 
 seems to have several songs. Would have given sound a one (it's that bad) , but music is so good 
 it brings it up to a four.
  
  Value... maybe in a year when they finally have everything working. Right now it's paying $50+$15/month 
 for what is really an early alpha test.
  
  My tilt is an abysmal one because I am sick and tired of developers puking out something that's 
 barely ready for beta testing and calling it ready for release, because they want people to pay 
 to do the real testing. Sorry, that's just unprofessional.
  
  Sigil got hosed by their financing and I really feel sorry for them about it, but they aren't blameless. 
 They mismanaged things badly and really squandered the six years or whatever of development. There 
 were great strides throughout beta, but by listening to the fanboys that dominated the forums and 
 believing that nothing was really wrong they made a stuttering crashy derivative mess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinfernal
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  3.4 ghz processor
  4g ram
  512mb vid card
  
  And this game is still choppy enough to make me angry while playing. I understand building towards 
 the future, but something needs to be said about current playability.
  
  I've been in this game since Beta 2. You can read a more detailed review from various other sources 
 about why you should not get this game but let me simplify things.
  
  If your system cannot handle this game, the amount of money you would have to spend to upgrade 
 to one that would I think would be better spent on a console system (or two) . And if your system 
 is one of the less than 2% that can, you should be playing another MMO anyways because this mess 
 is riddled with bugs and stolen gameplay concepts that are better executed in the games they were 
 ripped from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: James_The_Fool
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 4, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  While many may argue this game is buggy, dull and unsatisfying, there is excellence here in abundance. 
 The game is very slow to start, and takes a while to get into. Performance isn't quite perfect 
 either.
  
  However, when Sigil said the only limits are you own , they wern't joking. 15 classes (two more 
 soon) , 19 races, more than a dozen cities, a game world that makes World of Warcraft look like 
 a small back garden.... the list goes on. This game has everything going for it, and with the crashing 
 in prices of gaming machines and the patches that will come out over the months, it can only get 
 better and better.
  
  Combat is tactical and satisfying. Crafting actually requires some thought and planning - unlike 
 so many other games. Diplomacy is the most unique, and interesting, idea in any MMO to date.
  
  This game takes the best elements from so many other games, and adds its own. The setting of 
 World of Warcraft. The tactical gameplay (although taken a lot further) and intense graphics from 
 Everquest 2. The community and social aspects from Star Wars Galaxies.
  
  Although this game is not for everyone, give it a go. You may just find yourself hooked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vindicatedfoul
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  First, my system specs that I'm playing with:
  AMD Athlon 64 3700+
  2GB, DDR 3200 RAM
  7200RPM SATAII 120gb HDD
  ATI x1950pro 512mb
  
  So it's really a bottom of the line bargain 
 bin PC (under $1k)
  
  As comes with running a poor man's PC, I get lower framerates than I would hope for. In the wild 
 (outside of town) I get anywhere from 40-80 FPS. In the cities however, I can range from 15-35. 
 This is with fully updated drivers, and a tweaked vgclient. ini. On that note GET A TWEAKED vgclient. ini! 
 You can get as much as a 20 FPS increase just from the ini. I know most sites don't look into this 
 before posting their reviews/previews, but miracles can be done.
  
  Gameplay:8/10
  The world is massive. There's no getting around that, but to compensate, Sigil makes mounts affordable 
 and fast. Higher mounts are rarer and more unique though, and include flying mounts of many varieties.
 
  
  The grind is back with Vanguard, it set aside the rediculously easy styles of EQ2 and especially 
 WoW for a more 'casual' approach. This isn't EQ's level of grind, in fact it's pretty quick leveling 
 all things considered. A week after launch and people are already 32+. (max level of 50)
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  The art direction in this game is wonderful. There are 3 islands, themed differently 
 with vastly changing landscapes. Personally most of my time has been spent on the Asian styled 
 Kojan, and the desert like Thestra. Everything is very shiny, and HDR is already in place. FSAA 
 is being added shortly, in the next few patches (as of Feb 4, 2007 it's not in) . The races are 
 unique, and spell effects are great and being improved upon constantly.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The sound track is well composed and has a very epic feel to it. One thing that is missing from 
 the sound though is NPC voices, which aren't even existent.
  
  Value: 10/10
  With three spheres of advancement, adventuring, crafting, and diplomacy, the game offers much greater 
 depth than most games around. The adventuring is well done, with many quests, raid mobs, and content. 
 Crafting is very deep, with multiple steps, and not the dumbed down crafting that haunts many modern 
 games (see: EQ2's new crafting system, or WoW's crafting) . Diplomacy is something very new, and 
 should be interesting. You earn zone wide buffs by making deals with NPC's, through a card game. 
 The game is similar to many card games around, like Magic The Gathering. As you win Diplomacy matches 
 you become a more important diplomat and get new cards to play with.
  
  Tilt: 10/10, I've had nothing but good experiences with this game once I got past the initial performance 
 problems via updating my drivers and using a custom .ini. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlmcgraw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  First of all. Reading a review is no solid way to grasp what you, as the player, really enjoys 
 playing. You can read a negative review that may tell you not to play the game, so you don't, or 
 you may read a positive review that makes you want to play the game, so you do. But, overall, it 
 is you that is going to utimately decide your own review. Someone who reads a bad review, tries 
 the game anyway, may love the game. Someone who reads a good review, tries the game, may hate it. 
 I'm telling you that in my opinion, this game is definitely 'Worth Playing' to create your own 
 review of the game from your own experiences. I've heard bad things about Performance, how is it?
 
  ========================================
  This game requires a pretty darn good system to play. If you are a hardcore gamer, this shouldn't 
 be a problem. But, if you're new, you've got some upgrading to do. I am running the game on Balanced 
 (between high detail and performance) , which really brings the world out in a great way. The sky 
 is amazing, the water is great, the detail of the lands are awsome. That said, here is my system: 
 AMD 2.0Ghz Processor, 2GB of PC3200 RAM, and a Nvidia 7800GT. How is it like being in the Adventure 
 sphere? Qalia Perspective.
  =================================================
  Amazing, to put it lightly. Though I spent time in Iraq and hated every moment in the desert, I 
 love the desert in a Fantasy sense. I really like Qalia and have spent around 28 levels of time 
 there as a Dark Elf Cleric in beta and am now a 17th level Dark Elf Cleric.
  
  The world, in general, is a pretty big place. Qalia is pretty darn big, but not as big as Thestra. 
 The good thing about Qalia is that you don't need to spend a lot of time dodging mountains. While 
 you are adventuring, you can easily go from your starting city, to camps outside of the city, to 
 other small villages, to large cities, etc. They have really utilized the space well on Qalia and 
 you hardly feel like you are running a marathon just to get to point A to point B.
  
  There are a ton of quests to complete. Before I hit level 13, I had about 100 quests under my belt. 
 What about the grind?
  ------------------------------
  Yes, it's there. But a grind is what you make of it. I mean, it doesn't feel like a grind to me 
 because I love adventuring to new places. I grab a group or I travel solo to a region to explore 
 it. That normally leads to a good amount of experience by just kills and the quests that are in 
 the region. So, if it is a grind to you, it'll take awhile to level up.
  
  Is combat really that difficult?
  ---------------------------------------
  Combat is what you 
 make of it. If you enjoy mashing your same Direct Damage spell, over and over again, then of course 
 it's not going to be that difficult. But, with that said, you're not likely to destroy anything 
 that is way above your level either. It does take some coordination and understanding of your spells 
 to fight effectively. Because of my understanding of my spell sets, I use 11 different spells during 
 a fight with a creature that is 2 - 4 levels higher then my level. So if you don't want that challenge 
 and you want to fight the same level, below your level, mob, that'd be on the easy side of the 
 house.
  
  Can I solo?
  ----------------
  Yes. Is it going to take you longer to level? Yes. Are there a lot of creatures to solo? Yes. I 
 played 14 levels so far as a cleric doing a lot of solo content. Soloable mobs are all over the 
 place and there are a lot of soloable quests that you can complete. If you understand your spells 
 and your abilities, you'll be able to solo around just fine. How is the Crafting Sphere?
  ======================
  I know a lot of people that have been sitting at those workbenches, working 
 their tails off as a crafter. Being a really good crafter takes time, patience and dedication to 
 what you're doing. The button mashing is remixed a little in Vanguard. They've put in what is called, 
 Action Points . These determine your ability to make a specific grade item and if you spend all 
 of your action points before your crafting session is over, your crafting session is done and you'll 
 need to start again.
  
  You'll never fully avoid the 'button mashing' theory, and it's in Vanguard. Some people say its 
 boring, some people like it. I think it's something you need to keep attention too and sometimes 
 it gets frustrating, but I'm still doing it. Come on, ships! Houses that arn't instanced? Sounds 
 awsome to me!
  
  How is the Diplomacy Sphere?
  ========================
  Same with crafting, I've seen a lot of people dedicate their time to Diplomacy and not even touch 
 the Adventure sphere yet. Diplomacy is pretty fun. You get to learn about your race and it's role 
 in Telon and you get to attempt to swaggle a lot of NPCs. You have your own special items that 
 are pretty sweet and in the later game, diplomats are going to be pretty interesting to have in 
 your groups. I can see this Diplomacy thing going really far.
  
  If you want to learn about Telon, your race and how to pursuade a guard to give you juicy information, 
 you just might like Diplomacy!
  
  How is the world? Does it feel alive?
  ============================
  Well, when I visited Aghram and found the Sutan and all eight of 
 his wives, I thought something was definitely alive. The world does feel alive to me, but it also 
 lacks in some areas. The sky looks amazing, the NPC's love to wonder around, there are several 
 types of creatures all over the place. You can sense the wind blowing by all of the trees swaying. 
 While you're harvesting, your screen shakes to simulate the cutting down of a tree. When it's done, 
 it falls!!! Or while your harvesting a rock, the rock shakes! The big area that it lacks is some 
 of the animations, but I don't take notice to it too often.
  
  Is this game for me?
  ================
  My Girlfriend is no hardcore mmo gamer, by any means. I gave her a trial key 
 and she was instantly hooked. If she liked it, i'm sure that you are likely to enjoy what you see 
 as well.
  
  If you still have any specific questions, jump onto AIM and messege me at aim marine. I'll be happy 
 to answer any questions. See you in Telon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icey6ch9
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  I think the game itself is attractive to allot of people because they are looking for a new mmo 
 to play. I say you may want to hold off. The Game play is what i was expecting, the basic mmo setup. 
 Although it did bring a new aspect to the combat which is the starting and finishing moves. This 
 means that you can only use some attacks in the beginning of a battle or after you crit on one 
 of your abilities. When i first saw a finishing move i thought it was going to be like an execute 
 or hammer of wrath but it is only activated after you crit. Instancing in the game is terrible 
 to say the least. First of all only one group can be in a instance at a time. If that isn't bad 
 enough the group that you want to do the instance with has to click this button at the same time 
 or else the whole group may not get in. Questing in the game is the same old story, go get 10 of 
 these go kill 5 of that, but i think that there isn't much to expand upon in any mmo. Leveling 
 in this game take a while..... Be prepared to spend over 1000 hours trying to hit the max lvl. 
 I feel that they may have made the leveling a bit to hard and that is definitely going to discourage 
 a lot of players from buying the game. The pvp in this game is lacking, from what i have seen there 
 are no battlegrounds and it is basically just world pvp. The visuals in this game aren't very good 
 lol. The particle effects are crappy plain and simple. The game has no anti aliasing and also has 
 no vertical sync so there is tearing and a lot of jagged lines. I was running the game on my comp 
 which has a 8800gts and 1gig of ram and the graphics where mediocre. I have herd rumors about patches 
 that will fix these graphical problems but i believe that these should have already been fixed 
 before the game even launched. Another thing is that the game has a lot of lag and this can be 
 really frustrating at times because when i play a game i expect it run smoothly and if it doesn't 
 i get rid of it. I bet there is a lot of people out there that disagree with what i have said but 
 they are just bored of wow, gw, eq, ect. Don't lie to yourself this game isn't worth playing just 
 hold off til war hammer or find some other type of game to play because if you are looking for 
 the next big mmo look somewheres else because this is not it. And even if they do come out with 
 these patches that make the game all better it is going to be to late to save it because most of 
 the players will have moved onto something better or back to their old mmo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migduvednok
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Vanguard is so broken it's not at all funny! (as of 4rd feb 07, played for 3 days, lvl 8 kurashasa 
 diciple, lvl 40 diplomat, lvl5 crafter on woefeather)
  
  NPC's that doesnt animate while moving,
  
  NPC's that doesnt move at all
  
  Broken quests 
 (with and without non-functioning accept quest buttons) , Throwing action that animates as if it 
 was shooting a bow, Crafting stations that are completely out of whack which furthermore only happens 
 to SOME players (including me) ,
  
  Lousyly written tutorials which are furthermore heavily textbased and thus unintuitive, Yes i love 
 the diplo-game and the spheres-aspect but when i can't PLAY the spheres correctly then what is 
 it all worth?
  
  I have uninstalled the game now - will return to it in a couple of months... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trjc
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This game could (should) have spent another six months in development. While I have found no game-breaking 
 bugs while playing, I have submitted numerous /bug reports (averaging several per hour of gameplay) 
 for the large number of glitches that are in, but should not have been in, the game at release. 
 The release quality of the game is indicative of software that has not yet gone through a full 
 QC process; that is, mid-to-late beta quality, not release quality.
  
  As promised by Sigil, the game is large and beautiful. However, many animations and particle effects 
 are not very well done -- they are clearly not at a reasonable release quality. Several animation 
 sequences are bugged; for instance, when using a bow, the target is hit and starts responding to 
 the attack (e. g., running towards the archer) before the archer has even completed the animation 
 sequence of aiming and firing. Similarly, crowd control spells that should immobilize a target 
 may depict the effect, but not take effect for 3-5 seconds.
  
  The game does tend to freeze to load graphic files from the hard disk at inopportune times; obviously 
 this can lead to player death and the ubiquitous corpse runs. Sigil has provided a /flush command 
 to assist players with flushing the engine's buffers; why players have to do this manually is, 
 of course, again related to the fact that the game has been released too early. Performance is 
 not yet optimized. Generally, game play is smooth, even with lots of NPC's (and associated AI) 
 in an area, until the chunk loading occurs. This isn't consistently a problem in the game (most 
 chunks load fine) ; but is repeatable in the areas where the problems occur (indicative of non-optimized 
 code) .
  
  Net code similarly has not been optimized; grouping with only 2-3 other players results in noticeable 
 reduction in PC responsiveness -- even on a very high speed Internet connection.
  
  Many of the large and beautiful areas of the game are -- quite frankly -- quite empty. With the 
 usual looking through a straw type of camera view, the value of all of these large and beautiful 
 empty areas is debatable. Design of some areas -- emphasizing the large and beautiful aspect of 
 the game -- is not enhanced by the size or graphic complexity. As an example, try navigating through 
 the Wood Elf city. Navigating through this tree city (with all its ramps and bridges) -- especially 
 without having a useful map in the game -- is a huge pain in the butt. The compass becomes useless 
 since the route into the tree may be nowhere near to where the compass points (if the quest even 
 has a marker, a very noticeable inconsistency in game presentation) ; to gain access to a particular 
 tree may require use of a ramp (inside or outside of a tree) several trees over . Very often, a 
 player goes around and around the tree, making relative directions of North, South, East, and West 
 quite useless. Players need to draw their own map of the treehouse connections in order to efficiently 
 navigate this city. The city is large and beautiful; but it can be very tedious to find NPC's and 
 move from one tree to another.
  
  The camera view does not provide sufficiently rapid panning of the area around a character or easy 
 look behind functionality; the end result is that players may be attacked from behind while fighting 
 some other opponent to the front, and never know it until it is too late. The sound effects from 
 fighting the opponent to the front are not complemented by sound effects from fighting the opponent 
 to the rear. Having no mini-map (contrary to the GUI description in the game manual -- note that 
 this comment is sarcasm; there is an optional mini-map in the game, but it is useless as implemented) 
 and no other cues means death by camera can easily occur.
  
  The music in the game is quite beautiful; other sounds are well done, although sound effects appear 
 to truncate with distance rather than fade. Sound, as such, does not become the sort of aural cue 
 to gameplay that it should be. The sound implementation also does not appear to be optimized; like 
 many suboptimal sound implementations in games, it leads to memory fragmentation and appears to 
 be a contributor to the gradual reduction in game responsiveness over time. I have found it benficial 
 to turn off all game music during gameplay to minimize this problem. Because of that, it is hard 
 to enjoy the music in the game.
  
  Much of the sound problem appears to be related to use of the OpenAL32. dll; this is part of Microsoft's 
 upgrade for the MSWindow's platform (as part of Vista) , similar in context to the OpenGL. dll. The 
 library used by Sigil -- due to licensing issues? -- is an early version of that code (if you check 
 properties on the file provided by Sigil, it is version 1. xxxxx) . From Creative Labs, the current 
 version of the library can be obtained (version 6. xxxxx) and installed. Running Vanguard with that 
 up-to-date library appears to resolve many of the sound issues. To do so requires deletion of the 
 file in the game's directory structure (don't do this if you are not savvy with PC's) ; however, 
 the SoE loader will overwrite any replacement or deletion of the OpenAL32. dll (file consistency 
 checks are actually a strength of the SoE loader, not a flaw; it just works against you in this 
 case) . If the up-to-date file is properly installed in the C:\Windows\System32 directory (where 
 it can be located during game execution as a default file ) , and the OpenAL32. dll in the game directory 
 is deleted AFTER the SoE loader has made its checks on files, the up-to-date file will be used 
 by default (as Windows automatically resolves the path to the file) . File deletion then has to 
 be done for every game session.
  
  This fix to a problem was submitted by a Vanguard player on one of the various community forums. 
 Again, it is unfathomable that a player must debug a problem with a released game to this extent; 
 to my knowledge, Sigil has not acknowledged this fix as even an interim solution to the problem.
 
  
  Spawn rates of mobs are an issue in some cases. In some areas, even with a group, mobs are respawning 
 faster than they can be safely cleared out to allow a group to traverse a span of the area to get 
 to a goal. It other cases, it appears as if respawn is keyed to both time of death and the number 
 of mobs remaining in a set of mobs in an area. If all the mobs in the set are killed, they all 
 instantly respawn. If the player is the unlucky sucker to have killed that last mob in the set, 
 he is guaranteed to have at least one of the set respawn on top of him. While the apparent methodology 
 used to govern respawning is in itself certainly questionable, again, it is the indication that 
 the game was released far too early without QC audit of the spawn rates that is bothersome. When 
 a game uses corpse runs and death penalties, a player should not have to worry about dieing to 
 a mob respawning right on top of him ... that was killed only a few moments before.
  
  The crafting system is not unique and sophisticated, contrary to the marketing hype; it is tedious 
 -- period. It consists of mashing a sequence of buttons; from one recipe to the next, the sequence 
 may differ slightly, but the buttons are the same. Complications may occur, but they similarly 
 result in mashing of buttons -- just different buttons. Crafting is little more than a mathematical 
 analysis of Do I have enough 'action points' to upgrade my product on the -- generally -- two buttons 
 to be mashed (out of five) that can affect product quality, accounting for the -- apparently totally 
 random -- likelihood of a complication appearing and eating up some of the action points? After 
 the first couple of hours of crafting, it becomes a mindless, repetitive exercise (practicing third 
 grade mathematics) . Can this tedious crafting system make items of use for the player or for the 
 marketplace? Yes; but other than bags made by tailors, what can be made (at lower levels) is easily 
 less useful than what can be obtained from drops while adventuring. To get to the point where crafting 
 can provide really good items, a player must first progress through all the tedium. Similarly, 
 the diplomacy system card game is both boring and tedious. Once a player has improved the deck 
 of available cards through participation in diplomacy quests, the cards actually used (and the 
 sequence in which they are used) for various types of conversation with an NPC don't vary. At that 
 point, the diplomacy game again becomes nothing more than mathematical analysis. If a player has 
 the right cards -- and the NPC doesn't have killer cards -- the NPC can be beaten in a conversation 
 every time using the same approach to play of the cards.
  
  Innovative? That's debatable. Few people play MMORPG's for tedium or boredom. The crafting and 
 diplomacy implementations appear to be time sinks; not true spheres of gameplay as stated by Sigil.
 
  
  Sigil's marketing hype of 20% solo play / 60% group play / 20% raid is probably related to levels 
 played vice time played . There are 50 levels in the game; the first ten levels can be mostly done 
 solo (10 out of 50 = 20%) . After that, forget it unless you enjoy an excruciatingly slow grind. 
 Relative to time commitment? The rate of leveling slows to a snails' pace after level 10. Gut feeling, 
 the game is 2% solo / 49% group / 49% raid with respect to the amount of time spent on adventuring 
 quests. Counting diplomacy or crafting as solo time played increases those solo percentages, of 
 course; however, the majority of people aren't looking at diplomacy and crafting as their main 
 source of fun. The marketing hype is accordingly a misrepresentation of gameplay (from a time perspective) .
 
  
  Having so many different races and classes might have appeared to be a good design feature, but 
 in implementation in means that friends and families that like to play together either cannot choose 
 the classes and races they want or must wait a significant amount of time before they can join 
 up. The races are dispersed to many different areas across three different continents for their 
 starting areas. Not all races can be all of the classes. Friends and families that want to play 
 together from the outset therefore have to limit themselves to races with co-located starting areas 
 and to the classes available to those races. This has also had a detrimental effect on guilds.
 
  
  Summary: (1) This game should not yet have been released. It is in a beta state of development. 
 (2) There have been some questionable design decisions that detract from the fun aspect of the 
 game. (3) It is much too easy to die to camera kills , lack of sound cue kills , game freeze on 
 chunk load kills , and respawn on top of you kills -- and never make a mistake in your own gameplay 
 decisions -- providing opportunity for corpse runs, experience loss, equipment damage, etc. Death 
 penalties should exist for player mistakes and excessive risk taking; not for game engine problems. 
 (4) While the game has potential, it currently leaves the impression of having been rushed at the 
 end -- that after 5 years of development -- and not adequately thought out during those 5 years 
 of development. Somebody did not make good use of time and investor's money.
  
  Additional Note: An additional peeve with the game is that Sigil shut down its own community forums 
 with release of the game, relying on third party fan boy forums for that purpose. [The prejorative 
 fan boy is deliberately used here to reflect the fact that these privately owned fan sites do NOT 
 present an objective view of the game to the community.] The motivation for Sigil's shut down of 
 the Vanguard game community's access to objective discussion can only be guessed at; perhaps it 
 is nothing more than lack of funding for community managers. Sigil did state some time ago that 
 the forums would close down at release. However, given the current state of the game, it is a disservice 
 to the community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiuKang456
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion it still needs a lot of work, if they put more effort into it maybe, just maybe, 
 it will start to be more enjoyable. The quests are too easy, the mobs are too easy. They just need 
 to put more of a challenge in the game. I can finish most quests without even blinking. The graphics 
 aren't half bad, but there are just way too many bugs in the game to fully appreciate it. Overall 
 they need to really push hard on this game, they need to fix all of the bugs, and they need to 
 make some harder mobs, or otherwise it will just be another mmo . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoonster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Though i will admit the game had issues in beta and still has issues now, i gotta say it didnt 
 turn out so bad.
  
  There are still some glitches going on and the performance still needs to be improved. The gameplay 
 i feel has been greatly improved since beta and its quite fun running around doing quests and killing 
 things
  
  For those of you that like PvP this probably isnt the game for you. There is room for but, but 
 duels is about as far i think it will go.
  
  Anyway its a solid game and for anyone that isnt so into WoW this is defiantley one to pick up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenstorey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  I was one of the one's lucky enough to beta test vanguard from five months prior to release and 
 I have watched it evolve into the game I had hoped it would be. Its an ambitious project with so 
 much depth that it keeps calling you back again and again. I have prevously played EQ/EQ2/WOW and 
 I have to say this is the step up in MMORPG evolution. I am epecially pleased with what they have 
 done with the diplomacy aspect of the game. Its a facinating take on character development that 
 really sucks you in and causes you to forget about the usual kill grind. Also the ability to build 
 your own boats is a fantastic means of exploring the world but as yet I've not stepped down that 
 path but intend to do so soon. As for the community, the other players in the game are friendly 
 and willing to help each other. This is one of the big advantages of any new game such as this 
 with lots of newbie characters who are just beginning the learn the world they are playing in.
 
  
  If you are looking for a new MMORPG to spend your time in I suggest this is the one you've been 
 waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeStarkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:12 am PT
Review:  I have tried many mmorpg (since UO) and I think that vanguard will be the best to date. The game 
 has a great potential due to there is many issues that should be fixed and some additional package 
 to be included, so it needs more time.
  
  Adventuring is based on a nice combat system, combined with new abilities, races and classes. The 
 world is also huge and beautiful visuals and revolutionary music system makes the game inmersive 
 as no other.
  
  Crafting is also amazing, as well as the harvesting system. There is a huge number of things and 
 habilities you can choose to crafting. New crafting interface looks nice.
  
  Diplomacy system is original and innovative and adds a new sphere not explored by other mmorpg.
 
  
  There is a lot of new content in this game to be discovered (new mounts, fellowships, exploring...) . 
 Try it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Imagine a game that takes its own story and fantasy universe. Add the interface and other handy 
 features like floating exclamation marks from World of Warcraft and its most popular user generated 
 interface enhancements. Then add a feeling of decency you might know from EverQuest and other old 
 massively multiplayer titles. The decency only, mind you, nothing else. Finally mix with a bit 
 of Baldur's Gate feeling and you got Vanguard: Saga of Heroes.
  
  Gameplay is working mainly the way World of Warcraft does. The typical fetch and return, seek and 
 kill quests are as simple and straight foreward but also as compelling as they are in Blizzard's 
 game. However, the game empathises the multiplayer experience. At level 10 and up most quests will 
 require a team to be done. Not much of a deal, compare it to being level 60 in World of Warcraft 
 where you need a team for mostly PVPing and instance crawling as well. Finding one is easy, the 
 game got its own interface just for finding teams. Somewhat reminds of the teaming window in Dungeons 
 and Dragons Online.
  
  Graphics are supreme. The engine requires a computer that hasn't even been invented yet. On normal 
 computers you need to tone down the settings because of that. Not much of a big deal. At the lowest 
 quality setting the graphics still look a lot better than EverQuest II. A lot of people complain 
 because of that since they can't run the game with maxed out graphics settings. On the other hand 
 this strategy will ensure the game will still take the most out of computers in 5 years and later.
 
  
  Sounds are somewhat of the game's weak point. There isn't much music ingame, and the voice acting 
 is - well, it isn't really bad, but it is not good either. Too few speakers try to lend their voice 
 to too many NPCs. Also the speakers don't really sound all too professional.
  
  Despite its complexity that will clearly adress online gaming veterans as well as hardcore gamers 
 the game is surprisingly accessible. Only expect a small learning curve of 30 to 60 minutes. And 
 yes, as said the game does not adress casual gamers. Sorry. Unless you are willing to undertake 
 most adventuring in a group and then spend a relatively large amount of time logged in to get stuff 
 done you needn't apply. The game aims to be a professional alternative to World of Warcraft and 
 doesn't even try to hide it.
  
  Last but not least let me warn you: Be careful with Vanguard. If you fell to the World of Warcraft 
 effect in a similar way people fall for alcohol and cigarettes (ahem!) stock up on food and drink 
 (and bottles to pee into) before you install it. You may be in for a similar effect with that game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinj55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is an infant MMORPG, so you must give it a little slack when it comes to the bugs. 
 But still, it is nearly as buggy (well, kinda) as any other game us PC players have to deal with 
 when a game is released, so come on! I read a few reviews complaining about the graphics. Well, 
 I don't have a crazy-fast high end system ( 3 GHz, 2G RAM, ATI Radeon X1950 256 mb card) and the 
 game is beautiful. The view distance far surpasses Oblivion (Yes, I was addicted to Oblivion b4 
 this) - and it feels like you are in a real world. I was hesitant to turn the view distance up 
 (farther) , but I have seen little to no affect on game performance and the view is spectacular. 
 The faces of the NPC's aren't as well done as Oblivion (Oblivion was incredible) , but you are in 
 a world with real people, the benefits of that far surpasses any graphical weakness to the new 
 Top Gun of faces. Even though I loved Oblivion, to be honest, the whole RPG genre to me has changed 
 since EQ. MMORPG's are so much more dynamic and interesting than normal RPG's. It was weird trying 
 to get used to Oblivion after EQ, EQ2, and WoW. You get to see REAL people running past you as 
 you run to your destination, and you get to help real people out. MMORPG's have ruined the prototypical 
 computer RPG for me, to be honest.
  
  Patches automatically do their thing, and the game becomes leaner, smoother, and better, ultimately. 
 I won't reiterate all the positive reviews on this game (crafting system, diplomacy, mounts, etc.) , 
 but I will say - losing yourself in another world (albeit with a few hiccups in it's early days) 
 is absolutely worth the price of admission. Unless you are demanding perfection (you will encounter 
 bugs) , don't let the naysayers turn you off - this is an amazing world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanderspeal
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Well despite the obvious new mmo problems this game delivers and then some. I am not going on and 
 on about it because I am shure there are more in depth reviews by other folks. First off MAKE SHURE 
 YOUR COMP CAN PLAY IT FIRST!!!. I cant stress this too much. So many new players get excited go out 
 buy the game and they have poor performance. Do your homework, try the tweaks ect. This has the best 
 graphics around. Of course again you need a strudy beast of a comp to fully apreciate them. However 
 you can run it on a med gaming machine you just might have to put a little effort into it. This 
 game is causing quit a stir. The wow fanbois have there paniteis in a bunch and are steadlily attacking 
 on the forums. Good. This game should scare them. Give this game some time to grow and develop and 
 you are looking at one of the best mmo's ever period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjdeforrest
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I try to shy away from writing too many earlier reviews on video games. Over the course of 30 days 
 or so... my score from Phantasy Star Universe went from a 9.0 to a 6.5. So, I'm going to write 
 a tenative early take on Vanguard: Saga of Heroes. After beta-testing the game on my Sempron 3100... 
 I was skeptical. I didn't think the game could possibly make it. That impacted with Sigil's decision 
 to release the game before it was ready... didn't really help matters any. However, in a couple 
 of weeks I went from burying the game to praising the game.
  
  I have not seen a lot different yet from other MMO's. However, what they've done.. they executed 
 flawlessly. However, that's only if you have a computer that can handle it. I basically built a 
 new computer to play the game. My new computer's specs look like this:
  
  Intel Pentium D 3.0 ghz
  Nvidia Geforce 8800 GTS
  2 Gigs of RAM
  300 Gig Hard Drive
  
 
  Even with all of that, the framerate still suffers a bit and it doesn't run perfectly. Hopefully, 
 they can fix this in the coming months. However, if you'r eon the brink of buying it... and aren't 
 sure. I would suggest it... if you have a beefy computer. If not, The Burning Crusade is still 
 a good option for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaborwaki22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  With everybody looking for the WOW killer, I will have to be the first to say this is not. But 
 I will say that right now, Vanguard: Saga of Heroes is the best MMORPG. There is tons of variations 
 of Race/Class combinations. The crafting system is so advanced that every WOW fanboy that plays 
 it will give it a bad rating. It is true that Vanguard is not for everybody, it is for the Elite 
 gamers. Those of you who want something different and who have a computer that could handle the 
 heavy graphical requirement of Vanguard should try the game. Do not believe these reviewers who 
 are giving the game a low score, because once the official rankings are out they are going to look 
 like a bunch of idiots. They are trying to sabatoge Vanguard because they spent 12 hours a day 
 for the last 2 years playing WOW and they dont want to see it have the competition that Vanguard 
 truly could give it. Play the game, and try it for yourself. There will never be another WOW, same 
 as there will never be another Everquest the reason is because they went were other MMO's did not. 
 Vanguard is a great game. Spectacular graphics, good sound, good gameplay, revolutionary crafting, 
 and fun combat mechanics. Dont let these WOW fanboys alter gamespot's you say score any longer. 
 Try it out, or find a friend who has it and use their 10 day guest pass.
  Vanguard does not deserve to be crushed with these false reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_Hakked_WoW
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This is really an AWESOME game for anyone that has a computer to run it. I can bet you a million 
 dollars that all of the people giving it bad reviews are people who tried to run it on their 5 
 year old systems. Anways, on to the reveiw!
  
  Gameplay: Overall much of the same, but WoW was much of the same and everyone liked it. Not much 
 really new here, but its fun nontheless, Could use a few bug fixes though, but it will improve 
 with time
  
  Graphics: Stunning. absolutely stunning. Most people fail to realize that this is a completely 
 SEAMLESS mmorpg. Its not an fps. Dont compare it to games like FEAR/BF2142. This game is bringing 
 a WHOLE lot to the table when it comes to graphics in an MMORPG. Good luck finding anything better 
 thats 100% seamless
  
  Sound: Ok, many looped and annoying tracks however. Some problems with low end graphic cards but 
 overall pretty nice
  
  Difficulty: If you played WoW you can learn this easily.
  
  Learning Curve: Easy for anyone whos played an mmo. ever. Including runsecape.
  
  Value: This 
 game is worth everything. Go buy the new 8800 if you have to. Take that chip and oc it as far as 
 you can go. Hit your computer with a sledgehammer if you fell that is fit to make your computer 
 work but just DO IT!!! this game is incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benbook
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Great game first of all. Vanguard plays best on nVidia cards. (not sure why but my friend has a 
 top of a line radeon and i got a nVidia 7900gt and mine plays on high performance yet he plays 
 on balanced) now that i got that performance outa the way the gameplay is like any other mmorpg, 
 but you can use these special senses to tell when your enemy is going to do a special attack or 
 your friend is going to heal you. (you wont find this on any other game unless it was modded) The 
 amount of races and classes is phenomenal and 2 more classes are being released sometime this month (from 
 what i've heard) called conquistador (anti mage tank) and berserker (no clue) making it 15 races 
 15 classes. The classes are all unique ive played each one (i played closed through open beta) and 
 my favorite would have to be disciple it is very, very interesting picture a fighting monk that 
 does special hit combos which u must pull of to heal your allies, and doing all this is prettttttty 
 amazing! the game is a load of fun. From going from having 2 lvl 60's in WoW I am never looking 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgwetherell
Rating: 1.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I expected the graphics of Oblivion and better quests than WOW. What I got was low frame rate with 
 graphics that cant compare to Oblivion or even Guild Wars. What is up with the broken quests? I 
 play to have fun not run around looking for npc's that dont exist. Where is the integrity in that? 
 I suppose one could just grind and not do quests because you will get some broken ones and waste 
 your time.
  
  I could go on about the grouping issues, controls, animations, balance, maps, and graphics, but 
 honestly I just feel jipped and manipulated. Stupid flying mounts.... lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineChampion
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say that this may be the best MMO for its graphics. I know that many people say 
 that its lacking some things and is slightly bugged. But its an MMO and wil obviously get better 
 over time. I used to play WoW, and when it came out, it was insanely bugged and kinda crappy. Now 
 since they patched it up really well (also got the expansion released) , nearly 7 million people 
 are playing it. All MMO's start out kinda coarse but with time they shine. Even though its has 
 been less than a month that the game has come out, its all pretty good. Also its excellent graphics 
 sort of drown your other minor concerns about the game's flaws. All in all, its good. Last thing, 
 leveling in Vanguard gets really tough when you get in your level 20's. Much tougher than WoW. 
 Leveling in WoW is pretty easy actually if you do a bunch of dungeons one after the other, (not 
 to mention raids) but Vanguard is pretty much a grind fest. Hopefully the Vanguard team will make 
 leveling easier. Or not. In conclusion, Vanguard : Saga of Heroes is a well done MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Throw in the old school of Ultima online, EQ1, and DAOC, mix it up with the UI, item variety of 
 Wow, and the complex crafting systems of Eq2, and you are just scratching the surface of what this 
 gem of a game contains! It is truly the mmo that Will dethrone wow! It will do this because the 
 game is just so damn fun to play! It has the visceral addiction that I used to feel playing games 
 like diablo 2, it has good looking and a strong variety of items and weapons, more then I've ever 
 seen! And you get to experience this from the beginning. Even in newb areas the quests seem interesting 
 and rewarding! The choice of 19 races spanning 3 continents and different starting cities and quest 
 lines makes this game highly replayable. One of the great things I really liked about this game 
 was the feeling you get about the world size! It truly is massive and you can tell! It makes you 
 want to explore! And the great thing is in this game you can. In Eq2 I hated the fact that you 
 had zones you were stuck at in what seemed like forever until you could go somewhere else, otherwise 
 you would die in moments. Vanguard avoids this because its seemless world is so spread out that 
 you can actually explore and the game encourages this. The mobs are not all so close togeather 
 so even solo you can have an incredible time! I hopped on a ship from Khal to Kojan then to thestra 
 and witnessed the ocean journey it was impressive, and when I got to the other continents I felt 
 like I was in a different world, and so very tiny in the grand scope of the game, it felt so real 
 and so right! The fact that you can cast spells on random people and help out others is great, 
 sorely missing in eq2, I was maybe level4 when someone cast levitate on me, I didn't realize it 
 and I thought the game had a bug because I was floating over everyone! It lasted a whole hour! 
 It was a lot of fun, and all the other noobs were staring at me in wonder. I still never found 
 out who enchanted me with levitation and a talisman, but that cued me into the fact that a druid 
 did it. There is complex crafting, harvesting, and diplomacy in this game, which you can raise 
 levels and skills and professions in each one, as well as equipment on separate paper dolls for 
 each one. The game is limitless and I am severely hooked! I can't wait to get home from work! My 
 girlfriend is so mad! If only I could get her into gaming. Do yourself a favor and give this one 
 a try! you wont regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I saw some of these other reviews here and feel like I must be playing a different game or these 
 are all developers writing reviews.
  
  So where to start.....
  
  First of all this game runs like a rock unless you have the latest Nasa grade computer. I have 
 a pretty fast computer. Runs other games just fine. 3ghz, 2gig ram, 256mb Radeon x700 pro..... 
 this game runs terrible. Even EQ2 ran great on my computer and this game supposedly uses some of 
 the same engine etc but EQ2 ran smooth on my system even at up to 1280 res.
  
  Vanguard on the other hand I turn down to 1024, turn 2/3 of the graphical settings off and it still 
 runs at about 10 fps. I saw someone in one of the other reviews say that just because it takes 
 a super powerful computer that doesn't make it bad....... ummm in a way it does. They are alienating 
 a ton of players for a return that is not worth it.
  
  Ok anyway beyond that the graphics at higher settings are not anything that far beyond EQ2 anyway. 
 Next there are all sorts of graphical problems besides performance. Weird clipping issues, mobs 
 disappearing and more. The UI is ancient as well. The windows are very crude and even the mouseovers 
 for abilities etc are not helpful. You open something liek your songbook on a Bard and there is 
 no explanation to help you on what it is or what to do.
  
  Sound is another issue. I tested the game on 2 computers. On both computers I had weird choppy 
 sound issues. Popping sounds and on top of that the sound is annoying. In the one starter area 
 a town is on fire with villagers fighting. They all make the same annoying sounds amplified because 
 of weird positional audio issues.
  
  Nothing feels fresh and nothing runs properly. Perhaps there is some good stuff if you get further 
 down the road. But with games like Wow and even Sony's own EQ2 out there that run better and have 
 much better content to get you going this is not worth the effort. If you just hate every other 
 mmo and have a nasa speed computer then maybe this is for you. If not stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MASTERCHIEFUSMA
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  First off when you first come into the game its met by minor performance issues, no big deal. And 
 there are still some bugs. But beyond that this is a well polished and well rounded game. Its innovative 
 with its diplomacy and more complicated crafting. And it brings back favorite stuff from game from 
 the past like SWG and EQ2, Many people think it looks like EQ2 which it does but it plays nothing 
 like it. The entire game is non instanced and there isnt a place you cannot explore. Overall this 
 game is great but id wait a month or two for the bugs to be worked out then take another look for 
 sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ride_yukon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  So, what did you expect from this game, you need a tank of a computer to run the game, this is 
 true and it doesnt make the game bad because of it. Trust me a i have a amd 3700 2 Gigs of ram 
 and right now a 5900 Cuz my 6800 tooks a digger. Im sick of everyone saying they ripped that off 
 from wow and so forth, every mmo takes somthing from other games its part of the industry, and 
 if you are going that route what about warhammer online you wanna talk about a total rip off of 
 wow then why dont you rip on that game, you dont you sit and praise it which would make you a total 
 hippocit. But who can say maybe wow stole ideas from warhammer, the game title has been around 
 just as long as blizzard so maybe they stole ideas from warhammer.... Now i have played wow for 
 2 yrs love the game but i also played eq and eq2 they are two total diff aspects of the game so 
 really you cant sit and compare the two, yea one is cartooney and the other is not, its just like 
 some like cell shading games and others dont. Last thing about Wow you sit and nit pick about Vanguard 
 about the grind and xp debt there are plenty of bad things about wow, what about after everypatch 
 the game doesnt work right for a week, or what about spending 4 hrs in zg and have the whole instance 
 repop.. oh yea i forgot i guess you prolly forgot about those minor problems that wow has NEVER 
 fixed
  
  Now so far vanguard has been good, yea not really into the whole xp debt but i can live with it 
 for now, the world if you have a very good video card is absoultly amazing, by far the best looking 
 world out there, but if you dont well it looks nice from close but bad from far. At times the game 
 is laggy especially when i get into a town with lots of people, hard to move and for me i dont 
 really care for the compas, which is kinda like wows mini map. The one thing this game is great 
 at is the crafting, very cool idea on strengthing the items you make by cleaning them and restitching 
 them, it is nice because you can add your own colors to the end product, which will be cool to 
 see all different colors of the armor running around, there is the tedius grinding, but seems the 
 quests are a little more indepth and have a little more story line to them. Weapons look cool armor 
 looks ok for now, hopefully once i get a little higher they will look cooler but for now there 
 ok, but like i said you will need a good computer to run this game smoothly its fun and i enjoy 
 it i have been away from wow for 4 months now and this is a nice change in pace, i dont have to 
 do a run for 5 hrs and get nothing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyFrost
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Unlike WoW, it isnt just skin and bones. There is meat to this game. There is soooooo much more 
 to do, not just conquer an instance and farm it till you have the next set of soon to be outdated 
 epics. In the breif time Ive had with the game, Ive been exposed to a plethera of the other things 
 to do other than grinding and questing. I especially enjoy the crafting system. Oh and by the way, 
 the game is beautiful to look at. The swaying trees and grass makes it feel alive. It has a steeper 
 learning curve, but it is well worth it. Come play it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakird
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  1st of all, let me say i play MMORPGs since UO Release, and i played nearly all that came out, 
 DAOC, EQ, WOW, Asherons Call, etc etc etc....
  
  Vanguard offers more than all the previous, it's noticeable that the game was made to fight WOW, 
 when you 1st start playing it seems a WOW clone, all the WOW features are there... after a while 
 you discover that you also have skill point like the old UO, and those points raise by using the 
 weapon not only by getting Exp., this is one of the 1st things to notice.
  
  the 2nd great improvment are the mounts, you can buy a mount has low as lvl 1, you just need to 
 have money for it, not nonsense 40 lvl to get a mount thing.
  
  Then comes the IMPRESSIVE crafting system, it&acute; s really detailed and very very fun to creat 
 the items, you need to play to check what 'im saying.
  
  The harvesting... lets say if you cut down a tree, the tree actually fall... and you get your wood 
 out of it, you also have mining and other harvesting skills.
  
  Diplomacy! Imagina a game where you can do quests and get to high level without using a weapon 
 not even once! Vanguard allows it... in the way of the diplomat, it's too complex to explain here 
 in detail, but lets say if you know Magic the Gathering, the system is similiar.
  
  Now.... What other game offers you: Player Housing, Boats, Flying Mounts, Player Vendors and some 
 other features? None... some offer some parts of it, but no other was able to join this all in 
 such harmony.
  
  Well, ill keep this simple, at last ill play a game where the pattern is not just: Kill the monster, 
 get good loot weapon, raise lvl, kill bigger monster, get better loot weapon, raise lvl, bla bla 
 bla
  
  Ahh... and a Free For All PVP server, that's what i call a game for the strong of heart! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiporder
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Vanguard Has alot going for it.
  It refines certain aspects from games like EQ classic, EQ2 and world of warcraft.
  The development 
 team has also brought a few new ideas such as their own to the table.
  However most of the systems in vanguard lack polish and are very unstable.
  For example during 
 combat you cannot target your tank and have the game automatically send your offensive abilities 
 toward his target.
  This particular issue is very stressful because its not always obvious what your tank is fighting.
 
  Also your mobs tend to vanish out of sight at what seems to be random intervals and your group 
 members usually do not witness this problem in sync with you.
  The result is your group is fighting a target you cannot see and thus cannot aid in the battle 
 of until your tank paces back a few steps.
  It is painfully obvious that the combat system is still in its infancy with regards to balancing.
 
  There is also a number of technical problems such as frequent memory leaks, zoning issues, character 
 saving and rendering performance.
  These are but a few of the very serious technical problems I have encountered.
  But even with 
 its faults vanguard is a rare gem. It just lacks polish and is in crude form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to give this game a great score. I was also thinking of waiting a longer before 
 I wrote this review, but that wouldn't be fair: the game has been released to the public, so it 
 gets reviewed just like any other. I have been playing since beta 2.
  
  This game has massive potential. It's all there: a massive world, and I mean massive! This is one 
 of the biggest MMO worlds I have stepped in. The game also has a TON of promises, that will soon 
 be realized, but unfortunately this game is riddled with bugs, and unfinished content. All the 
 classes aren't even in the game yet, nor are they properly balanced for combat.
  
  Despite its problems, in its current form, it is still a good game. Although the game has performance 
 issues (requires a high end computer to play) , it is already deeper and way more challenging than 
 WoW. Because of this, it offers a much better sense of community, and fellowship between players. 
 There is already so much to do. In Vanguard, you feel a real sense of community, and you are overwhelmed 
 by the world, and there is so much to do. The lore is rich, if you know where to look (although 
 it needs some improving, especially in the begging, you are just thrown into the world with no 
 background lore) .
  
  Vanguard is still rough, like an unfinished sculpture. I can see though, that when it's done, it 
 could be a work of art, greater than any other MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  When you create your first character in Vanguard, you will be confronted with a race/class selection. 
 You'll then be dropped in the game at one of 12 starting points (4 for each of the three continents 
 depending on what race you picked) that all have one thing in common: A quest-giving NPC that sets 
 you on a string of activities not unlike you've seen in any other modern MMORPG.
  
  It's an unfortunate first impression, because adventuring in Vanguard is just a third of the gameplay 
 options made available to you. By the time you reach your first major city (about level 3-8 depending 
 on the race you chose) , you'll have the option of being a full time Adventurer, Diplomat, Crafter, 
 or Harvester. (Personally, I play as a mixture of all four.) Eventually, you'll be able to own 
 ships, horses (or more exotic mounts yet such as flying dragons) and houses.
  
  In short: This is a game of giant scope. The adventuring is just an avoidable third of the game. 
 If you're sick of adventuring, try to play long enough to do Diplomacy or Crafting first. You may 
 find there's a game here you can enjoy. To those who can still stomach MMORPG-style adventuring, 
 they will be rewarded with what I found to be a pretty good take. The balance and abilities are 
 balanced in such a way that player influence matters more. The same could be said of crafting: 
 much more interactive than many MMORPGs. Another nice thing about adventuring is that the world 
 is huge and somewhat seamless. I've felt that there was very much a feeling of worldliness here, 
 although peoples' opinions tend to vary here.
  
  To those who can't stomach neither crafting nor adventuring, the Diplomacy offers a new and interesting 
 way to play. Through a card game interface, you are able to uncover a wide range of stories throughout 
 the game. When you reach sufficiently high diplomacy skill, you can actually influence the fate 
 of entire cities to benefit their inhabitant players in various ways. I don't think it's to the 
 point where you can raise armies, but in time, who knows?
  
  In a final note: Expect bugs and glitches. Also, expect them all to be ironed out in time. Sigil 
 has been doing an outstanding job at rolling out regular patches both before and after release, 
 and I expect this game to have all the major problems out of the way before two months have passed. 
 Thus, it's worth waiting a couple months if bugs bother you. Personally, I found that the game 
 shines through these problems, but your tolerance for bugs may vary.
  
  Score Breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10. MMORPG gameplay is, in general, pretty limited versus games which do not have 
 massively multiplayer overhead requirements. Vanguard manages to transcend the usual through a 
 combination of above average depth and balance that allows player influence to matter. Graphics 
 / Sound: 8/10. Both quite good in places, with aspects here and there that have left room for improvement. 
 I enjoy that there is a dynamic music score that change as you move indoors/outdoors or into new 
 chunks (almost seamless zone transitions) . Note that while this game does not support anti-aliasing, 
 it does support Bloom and HDR. Value: 8/10. The upside of a MMORPG like this is you can count on 
 it to continually improve and be expanded upon. Vanguard's launch looks to be just successful enough 
 that the developers should be able to keep their jobs to do just that. However, the downside of 
 a MMORPG is you've got to pay for these continual improvements. $15/mo (after the first month) 
 adds up. Will Vanguard keep you occupied enough that you'll not buy other games? It's hard to say.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8/10. Vanguard isn't perfect, but so far as MMORPGs go, it's a lot more innovative 
 than average. I really like that. It's a pity the first impression conveys the opposite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollaman123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard SOH is a good game that i lookef oward to for a while, and now after playing beta i thought 
 the game was unplayable, buggy, and crap. But with the final release at hand, the patches came 
 out and the game smoothed out sloowly, and now we ALMOST have a finished game. I have to say this 
 game is amazingly fun, the graphics are great, the sound totally matches the game regions, and 
 the community is good. All what many can hope for. There is so much to explore, and so much to 
 see, that sometimes you dont want to stop playing, but you do! Simply because ur game is buggy, 
 and u have to relog at least 2 times a day. I would give this game a higher score, but there is 
 still so much fixing this game needs to be finished, so it can be played smoothly. obvisouly not 
 all games come out perfect, but this is what some people expect, and their not going to get this 
 in Vanguard, and in many MMO's. But dont get me wrong, this game is absolutely worth playing, but 
 it is a lot more difficult than many solo MMO's, after about lvl 11 u must do everything with a 
 group ( Im on a PvP FFA server, we can kill anyone we want and get money for it, or lose money for 
 dying, so ull NEED friends, and ull HAVE to work together with others at one point in the game, 
 or u wont get very far) . The dungeons are enourmous, even at low lvls i was surprised to see that 
 i had no interaction with any groups during my first dungeon. So overall i think this game is good, 
 and has much potential, but if you are waiting for a finished game, wait a month then buy it,, 
 or if u just cant wait! get it now :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkwin_1
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I am not going to write a lengthy review as I think others here have already summed up well my 
 concern with this game but I will list the Good and the Bad.
  
  Good: Many, many ideas and things to do. If the game worked, I would consider this to the the total 
 package.
  Dynamic environments in that what I do as a character, impact the community
  Above average graphics
  
  Bad:
  Most of those many many idea and things to do don't currently 
 work at all or work well.
  No immersion. I don't know why people keep saying this game has such but your character gets dropped 
 in a city with no back story and no sense of purpose. My dwarf simply went from the loading screen 
 to standing in front of some dwarf guard with a quest icon above his head. This easily has the 
 least amount of character purpose I have seen ever for a MMO - and it is a shame considering the 
 fact that this game has a ton of lore on which they could have created sense of purpose for your 
 character.
  
  ---------
  
  This is a game what was released at least six months too early. I am currently in another beta 
 (which is closed so my lips are sealed) that is due to be released in April (hint) that is much 
 more polished and bug free three months before their scheduled release than this game is today.
 
  
  One last note, and this is a big one - Many of the 9.0+ reviews here are at best fake, at worst, 
 company stooges. Take this quote from a 9.1 review: Housing and boating is awesome, to craft and 
 decorate your boat, to place your house in the world for others to see. I plan creating my own 
 Blacksmithing shop. Houses are upgradeable and so are ships. 
  
  As of the end of Beta 5, neither housing or boating were working correctly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winky_9010
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Okay, first of all this is to all of those people who say this game sucks and gave it an abysmal 
 rating, first of all, the game IS in beta mode, the game will obviously become much better but 
 your vote will never change. This game is packed with new features, and will likely put WoW off 
 the shelves in a matter of months. The graphics in this are much better then WoW in my opinion 
 but it will probably eat away at alot of your system resources. Player housing opens alot of interesting 
 options, something WoW doesn't have.
  
  Let me explain the differences of WoW and Vanguard quickly: Vanguard: Has more classes, races, 
 and mounts. New features such as character housing. Vanguard has much more gorgious graphics then 
 WoW's cartoonish appearance. In Vanguard you even have the ability to create buildings and stores 
 -- even guildhalls.
  What does WoW offer? WoW is easy to get into the game, and is friendly for solo players and grouping 
 adventurers alike, it has a vast and easy world to get around. Very easy to find a group -- over 
 7 million people play WoW.
  People will also have to take the first release of Vanguard into consideration, yes, ofcourse it 
 will be updated, and i'm very confident that WoW's traffic of players will slow down to Vanguard: 
 Saga of Heroes. I'm dropping WoW and switching to Vanguard, anyone else? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  If you like EQII and WOW you will like this even more. It has taken (it seems) the best elements 
 of the two games and put them together. Nothing groundbreaking here, but it is very satisfying 
 and fun. The graphics are amazing! I am running a 3.0 gig Pentium 4, 2 gigs of ram and an ATI Radeon 
 9800 XT with over drive turned one. I have an expanded cooling set up so the overdrive works well 
 for me even after a couple hours of play time.
  The mission system and the UI is better than both WOW and EQII, and the customizability of class 
 and race blows WOW away. It kinda feels like EQIII but is not just another expansion. The feeling 
 of unknown is hugh and exploration in this game is very rewarding. The grouping system, advancement 
 system so far look to be well though out. You can choose so many paths for you character it is 
 going to be interesting to see if you run into anyone like yourself! 3 cities to start from depending 
 on race.
  
  This one is going to be around awhile. Get in while its new and take advantage.! At $49.99 though, 
 and a monthly fee of $14.99 I am setting my value at 9 instead of 10. If you have the computer 
 for it and the cash get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stingray427
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Having played this during beta, I didn't have much hope that the game would be very much fun. After 
 reading some of the reviews after launch, I bought the game and I am really enjoying it. Quests 
 are easy to find, not so cryptic as to make one insane and even on high performance setting it 
 looks good. The music is enjoyable. The game is new to most people in it, so the world isn't filled 
 with know it alls who argue about the slightest thing said in OOC. The game is running much smoother 
 than in beta. Much better than EQ2, not as huge and unwieldy as EQ1 (yet) . If you are on the fence, 
 and enjoy MMO's, take the plunge, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabutrader
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Ok, first off I felt this game was visually the best MMO out there, and I still think so, however 
 since the updates and patches that were introduced into this MMO I have to say that I regret ever 
 starting this one. Gameplay factor really killed it for me - it just isnt fun period.
  
  I created several different classes to start out with, I usually do this in order to get the feel 
 for what I really like. On three of them, I lost more than 50% due to a glitch that was reported 
 as a minor few... yeah, almost everyone in that area on all servers experienced it. Compensated? 
 nope. Did I really care? not really, but it just added to the frustration of playing this hugely 
 bugged out game. Bugs aside, another thing that has irrated me was the xp - be prepared to spend 
 an eternity just to get a level. I have 3 toons in the 20s and I have quit since then because the 
 xp was just plain dumb, and yes I played after the xp increase, still not enough. Be prepared to 
 find groups, if you don't then you will be at the same level a very long time. I love to solo and 
 this game just doesnt cut it at all for the solo content people out there. Not everyday do I have 
 time to invest several hours just to go up 20% in xp.
  
  Now on to crafting... everyone seems to really enjoy this. I guess I'm the odd one out - for I 
 hate it in this game. Every thing you try to craft will bring along complications after complications 
 making the game more frustrating than satisfying for me.
  
  Another major factor for me not caring for this game was the ability to find places to kill stuff 
 . The zones dont seem to be thought out very well, and it could easily take you an hour just to 
 travel to find someplace to grind. And that is putting it mildly. It's frustrating and very boring.
 
  
  Overall, I give this one a 5.8 with a 5 being for gameplay - I gave it this high just for the expansive 
 areas. And a 9 for graphics - 10 if it were written for dx10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  Vanguard dosnt deliver anything new at all on the MMO table. It tries to do the same stuff thats 
 done million times before. They even try to steal the WOW interface, but sadly for Vanguard, a 
 ripoff interface isnt enough to save this game.
  
  There is nothing special about this game. Perhaps the graphics but its uglier than EverQuest 2 
 and it requires the double computer power. what made WOW a success? good animations and nice art 
 style that can run well on old computers and out-dated graphiccards.
  
  This game runs very crappy on my AMD3500+ 2gb ram and GeForce 7800GTX. I cant imageing how much 
 it would lag in a big city og raid.
  
  Overall this game just blows, save your breath for Warhammer Online or just continue playing your 
 World of WarCraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daeftan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I played some of this game in early beta, and my hat is off to the guys at Sigil... they brought 
 this game along ways. As far as a release, the first couple days were probably the best MMO release 
 since DaoC. Servers ran smooth, patches were made quickly to fix unexpected problems, the game 
 ran great and I had a ton of fun. For those of you who played the original EQ and loved it: this 
 is the first MMO I have played since EQ that captures the truly 'Epic' feel of a new world and 
 a dangerous place. The game is hard, the death rules can be harsh, and the PvP is downright brutal. 
 Now I'm no masochist, but I do like challenges when they are fun. I think Sigil may have found 
 the secret sauce once again.
  
  Pro's: Graphics: The visuals are simply amazing. The landscape is varied and thoughtfully presented. 
 I think its probably the best visual advance since Anarchy Online. It makes WoW look like UO.
 
  
  Gameplay: Fast-paced combat, great group action (even at lowbie levels) , awesome quests and sweet 
 dungeon crawls. Diplomacy is a real neat thing to mess with that is totally novel in the way it 
 is implemented. I play on the FFA PvP server so the PvP is always a threat. And when I say always, 
 I mean ALWAYS. Once you hit level 7... it's on. The races/classes are very diverse so intelligence 
 matters when it comes to PvP. Sound: Great. Not too many taxing voice overs, great theme music 
 for different areas.
  
  Con's:
  
  I've heard some people say they are having problems with lower end machines. I have none myself.
 
  
  Crafting: I didn't think it was possible to come up with a more tedious crafting system in an MMO, 
 but this one really can make you grimace. It has all of the low level irritation of EQ2's system 
 combined with the mindlessness of WoW's... not sure how that was possible. I've never liked crafting 
 in games and VSOH won't change that for me.
  
  Anyway, I hope the majority of d00ds and 733ts stay on Wow and grind mindlessly away for that next 
 purple ring. I think VSOH is going to get a really nice fan base that will keep it fun and progressive 
 for some time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  If you loved the original Everquest, Linage II or Dark Age of Camelot then you'll maybe like Vanguard, 
 if your a fan of WoW then you're most likely going to hate Vanguard. Don't forget the extremely 
 high computer specs, most standard computers will have a tough time running it.
  
  Broken quests, lets see, theres so many broken quests its not even funny anymore, sure they have 
 been rush fixing alot, but theres still a huge amount of broken ones, and some of the entire areas 
 are broken, lets not even mention the lack of official forums and subscription issues.
  
  Forced grouping, lets see.... hmm just imagine sitting on your tush for hours on end or being forced 
 to do something you don't want to do because no groups are available, thats written all over Vanguard. 
 Sigil never listened to any of the closed beta testers about the forced grouping not working unless 
 your in a huge guild and/or have a static group, any casual or solo players just walk away and 
 never even bother to give VG a chance, you'll regret it.
  
  Heavy Grinds, we are talking almost as bad as Linage II here for grinds, they disguised this fact 
 so much in the FAQS, most of the hardcore original testers knows that SoE influenced Sigil in this 
 respect..
  
  20% solo content translates in the newbie race area and pretty much thats it, but wait, some classes 
 and races can solo better than others, because the whole balancing act is way out of sync since 
 right now, your actually paying for a beta still..... and its going to stay that way for a good 
 few months, expect heavy nerfs in all areas too. There is extremely little amount of casual content 
 as well, theres no real way any casual player can do anything in VG, trust me, they should have 
 kept alot of the phase 4 stuff in place, it was way better back then.
  
  The death penalty is perhaps the second worst penalty next to the dreaded EVE DP, all the problems 
 just translate into huge time sinks, wasted efforts and many other stupid stuff which these days, 
 shouldn't be tolerated in any MMo unless your a fanboi or hardcore player then, well you're obviously 
 playing the right game....... enjoy it whilst it lasts.
  
  Don't pay to play a beta, if you're really interested in Vanguard like I originally was, wait at 
 least 3 months or for the first free trial... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcook42
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Huge. Gorgeous. Deep. Unique. FUN! So many superlatives come to mind so early in the life of this 
 WoW-busting MMO. I have high expectations, mainly due to the staff responsible for creating this 
 game, and even early on I see subtle touches that make MMO life a whole lot easier, and as a veteran 
 player you just know that it's not an accident.
  Character creation is deep and presents a potential for tons of unique-looking characters. If you 
 don't like the look of your character in game, you can go back and fine tune him/her later on.
 
  Adventuring, at least up to level 15, is balanced, and while not giving the quest away you always 
 retain a sense of where to go and what to do. The few times I found myself surrounded by higher 
 level mobs, it was because I journeyed off in the wrong direction. Quest pacing is quite appropriate, 
 in that you never feel overwhelmed with quests, but you can still have enough options to keep the 
 game far from linear.
  Diplomacy, a new realm to MMO's offers players the chance to, theoretically, hack their way to 
 the end of a dungeon, and when they get to the end you need not kill the bad man, but negotiate 
 with him! Brilliant! Can't wait to see how it is executed in later levels.
  Crafting and Harvesting has been refined and presents some old comfort with some new twists. Group 
 harvesting for increased output, and building your own player housing and boats? Cool!
  Of course, in a world so big, travel is an issue. Cue the horses, unicorns, griffins, and dragons. 
 Trekking across the world will take a bit, as it should, unless you teleport. Don't misunderstand 
 though, this world is BIG! At one point, beta weighed in at around 23 gigs!
  All in all, I'm very pleased so far. It takes what MMO lovers love, and improves upon them. In 
 my play experience to date I must admit it is the end all sink-your-teeth in MMO I've been waiting 
 for, and it WILL convert WoW and EQ2 faithful. I can't wait to read the glowing reviews from my 
 favorite websites to confirm what I already know.
  Now, it's time for me to get back in game ;)
  Decimus - Dark Elf Sorcerer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rinerdar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Make it first make it clear that Im probably one of the few early reader reviewers who can base 
 an opinion on this game. While many people here are basing there review under the 3 day head start, 
 I've been in beta for 3 months and have seen the evolution of the game
  
  Back in 1999, a game called Everquest made the scene, and while it wasn't without it's issues, 
 the game pretty much set the foundation for games like World of Warcraft and other MMOs to come. 
 From the mind of the co-designer of EverQuest, Brad McQuaid, comes Vanguard: Saga of Heroes, a 
 MMO of epic scale, inspired by the art of Keith Parkinson (Don't know who he is... Shame on you) . 
 The game stripping back the genre back to its roots removing things like unattackable NPCs, Locked 
 combat, and instancing, while still taking many of the features that have developed over the years, 
 as well as apply some of its own. The UI interface is pretty familiar to anyone who has played 
 a MMO, new comers from Wow might be mistaken in thinking that its a rip off of Wow, not knowing 
 the interface has been used numerous times prior to WoW's existence. It has all the essentials 
 like Skill bars, chat, Player Stats, and so on. But it also includes things like an aggro list 
 showing the name and health of all the creatures that have aggro on you and your group... this 
 comes in handy when in large fights allowing you to efficiently click the desired mob rather then 
 fighting through the crowd to target what you need. The Graphics are nothing short of amazing, 
 one minute your walking through a dense forest, another and your on a flying plot of land inhabited 
 by corrupted wind elementals. The only 2 shortcomings of the game are that the character animations 
 are a little jerky, and the system specs are really high. However, it should be made very clear 
 this game is really suppose to be built for DX 10, what your playing now would be like what you 
 would be playing Crisis on DX 9. As such look for strong boost and hardware support that the other 
 guys wont give you. In that sense, if your one of those guy who ran off to buy Vista on launch, 
 Vanguard is probably your best bet.
  
  It's pretty much impossible to be bored in Vanguard, the game has 3 sphere of progression, Diplomacy 
 (allowing players to sway politics and events for themselves) , Crafting, and adventuring. Each sphere 
 and then harvesting require their own set of armor, skills and and advancement. After all, it doesnt 
 make since to be talking with a King in your bloody adventuring armor, or dirt covered work apron. 
 This Game is BIG, I mean real BIG, as in the bigger then you expect. The Game is broken up into 
 sections called 2.5 miles across zones the devs call Chunks... each chunk is just about the size 
 of the Western Plain of Karana in EQ (which took about 7 minutes to cross on foot with no speed 
 enhancements) . Yeah, there is about 250 chunks that make up the 3 main areas. To make up for the 
 huge size and lack of fast travel (purposely omitted) Players can get mounts very early in the game 
 with a 30% speed enhancement, higher lvl mounts and flying mounts allow players to travel at over 
 350% there foot speed. However Flying mounts cant cross deep ocean waters so players can build 
 and make their own boats to explore the oceans. To Vanguard, the journey is half the fun. Launch 
 isn't really much different from other MMOs, expect Bugs, lag, and missing features for the first 
 month or so. but bear with it, Ive been in beta for 3 months, and it has been really quite amazing 
 the strides and improvements they have made since I started. The game in its current state is much 
 more stable then games like Wow and EQ2 were at launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hepburn22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I played in the beta and if this game improves the way it has been just in the last month then 
 i really think this could be the next big thing, with a mix of both Everquest and WOW (best of 
 both) with 19 Races 15 Classes (2 more on the way) and 13 starting cities it has loads of variety 
 withing the first few mins, having tried most of these i can also they that each starting city 
 has a very different feel and its not the exact same thing but in a different place, such as the 
 Dark elves start with killing feeble vilages of their own race, whereas the woodelves purify a 
 lake and heal animals, and the dwarves rescue and defend baby griffons, The game play is farely 
 straight fowward with regards to quests and combat, crafting may take a little getting used to, 
 and diplomacy once you get the hang of it can be extremely addictive, also as you can get a mount 
 very early on (free one lvl 10 from diplomacy quest) or can buy one, you dont seem to be just running 
 around getting no where, the quests follow on from each other in small story lines which adds to 
 each back story/ setting, and its a very enjoyable game with some of the best graphics ive seen.
 
  
  Although it still has a few teething problems minor bugs / little lag, the rate this game has improved 
 just in the last 2 week i think this game could just grow from strength to strength. Great game 
 and well worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3RDRT
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I don't write reviews, never have, so my writing this alone speaks volumes. Sorry if this isn't 
 the best review as I've never written one before, i am writing more less to help anyone out there 
 on the fence trying to decide if they should give Vanguard a go.
  
  I've played lots of MMO's, lots of RPG's, lots of games in fact and can't remember being this happy 
 and excited with any game in years, many years in fact. I like depth, challenge, freedom, and most 
 of all i love huge virtual worlds, and Vanguard has all this in spades.
  
  Sigil has basically revived gaming. Why do play games? I nearly forgot with the endless ho hum, 
 dumbed down titles we have been getting for the last several years, then I fired up Vanguard and 
 the answer immediately came back to me, Immersion. We play to have a good time and get away from 
 reality for a bit.
  
  At release Vanguard already offers more to the player than most mmo's and RPG's out there today, 
 and to think this will only get better. Think gaming has lost it's luster, give Vanguard a whirl. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbesdknight
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start off I'm a huge MMORPG fan and I've tried everything out there and Vanguard was something 
 I was looking forward to. Something new, with what promised to be new and inspiring ways to play. 
 I even considered a break from World of Warcraft. HA! NOT LIKELY!
  
  This game.... wow, what a waste of money! It has bugs GALORE. They didn't improve the beta at all, 
 all those annoying crippling bugs are still there. They are so common and numerous that I was sweating 
 bullets and watching the clock to see how long I could go without hitting a major bug. The memory 
 dumps and crashes too! Oh, my head! The graphics are decent and there are some amazing in game 
 views of the world. The music is ok, not as good as Guildwars or WoW.
  
  There is a lot of limitation when it comes to character armor customization, as if they just didn't 
 add all the models or colours. Also to the card game dialouge has LOTS of finishing up to do to 
 make it functional. The developers did mention to the community that they were running low on funds 
 and had to release the game as is . I thought they were trying to downplay the game so people would 
 get it and say wow, for an unfinished game it's good! no. It's like paying for a beta. Total waste. 
 I reccomend to you all to pass this up and give it a few months. Either they fix it up or go bankrupt 
 from lack on income. Time will tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game feels like WoW++ or WoW 2.0 to me. Much of the gameplay is similar. But, Sigil has added 
 several elements to the gameplay that make this superior to WoW: much better classes, no instances 
 (a good thing, in my opinion) , much more user created content. Crafting is much better and more 
 engaging than WoW. Vanguard adds a whole new sub-game called Diplomacy that is extremely innovative 
 and fun. All of this is on day 1. Who knows how the game will improve over time. Sigil is promising 
 user-owned houses, professions, etc. I'm having big fun now and am looking for to the future.
 
  
  The only letdown so far has been the graphics. Sigil promised more than they're delivering here. 
 Also, this game requires an up-to-date rig. In the beta, I couldn't play with my Athlon 1.8, 1GB 
 and nVidia 6800. I'm playing now with everything max'd with a E6400, 2BG and nVidia 8800GTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetler
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  ... other than the slightly improved performance over the beta the game is still incredibly buggy. 
 Many players jokingly refered to the release as the paid beta and in many sense, it is. Most of 
 the games highly touted features are still either broken or bugged. Take diplomancy for example. 
 While the starting and various town quests work fine, the diplo sphere goes absoutely nowhere after 
 that. To make matters worst some of the quests are still bugged! Boats are still bugged, if you're 
 on one while crossing a chunk you'll fall through the world and die. For a live game its is still 
 way too easy to get stuck in the world just by walking around town or exploring.
  
  While the gameplay mechanics are sound and grouping is fun the UI is still inflexible and in some 
 cases, just stupid. For example my shammie can cure poison but I can never tell if my tank is poisoned 
 or not because there isn't an effect maintained window. If I wanna drag the main UI bar and place 
 it at the top, I can't. If I want to move my group health bars to the top of the screen, I can't. 
 Add all these annoying issues to the memory leak that will CTD your client out of the nowhere and 
 you'll have a game that is no where ready for release. There are tons of dungeons releated bugs 
 too but I think you get the idea...
  
  Someday, when the all the features work, the stupid UI retooled, and the zillions of bugs are squashed 
 Vanguard might be a decent mmo. But right now this game is a just a shell of what Sigil Vision 
 dictates it should be. Don't make the same mistake I did and waste $48 on this paid beta cash grab. 
 If I could return the game for a full refund right now, I would.
  
  All the glowing reviews here giving this game 8+ and singing its praise and features just are basically 
 LIES. Housing, not in the game. Player owned shops, not in the game, player controled boats bugged 
 and unplayable, ferries are bugged, scrippting for numerous quests are also bugged... and this just 
 in the newbie area! If I were to sit down list all the broken features that I encountered in just 
 a few hours of playing it would be a mile long. But just to give you a quick idea of how horribly 
 screwed up this game is, follow this link. http://forums. station. sony. com/station/posts/list. m? topic_id=11500001678 
 Its pages after pages of customers how can not get into the game because their account key doesn't 
 work. There are boxes of turd with higher quality than Vanguard right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajwall4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Vanguard: Saga of Heros, released today is a challenging and hard-core MMO, which is the complex 
 gamer's answer to World of Warcraft: The Burning Crusade. I have been Beta testing this game, and 
 have experienced the release.
  
  First Impressions: The graphics are truly stunning. Large complicated vistas allow your character 
 to see huge distances. The weather effects are marvelous and the animations of the trees and brush 
 swaying in the breeze are at par with Oblivion. Character customization, choice of race, class, 
 and starting area are myriad, and appearance customization is even greater than Oblivion. You can 
 customize anything about how your character looks. It is hugeless satisfying and way overdue in 
 an MMO.
  
  Motif: The Vanguard world is a world of moderate magic. The magic special effects, at least at 
 the lower levels are not as over-the-top as in WOW and in many Korean re-release MMOs such as Silkroad 
 Online or Knight Online. Your character's proportions are realistic, you do not look like an overlarge 
 toon as in World of Warcraft. You can be a buxom woman if you want, or a waif, a muscular man, 
 or an androgynous person whos gender is not immediately clear. The artwork in Vanguard aims toward 
 the realistic, which is very satisfying to gamer attempting to feel immersed.
  
  Spheres of Play: Unlike other MMOs your character can advance in other areas besides adventuring 
 (where you kill for XP and complete quests) . Crafting, for instance is not just one skill, but 
 an entire MMO. In fact, you can have an entire craftperson wardrobe that you can switch into, and 
 titles associated with your renown as a crafter. You can also advance through Diplomacy, which 
 gives you the power to convince others to give you a horse, promote you, provoke city guards into 
 violence, gain blackmail sellable for profit, or convince leaders to build permanent civic improvements 
 to the world. There is also a harvesting sphere, and a riding sphere complete with skills associated 
 and wearable items.
  
  Fundamental Step Forward: The difference between Vanguard and every other MMO that I have played 
 besides Ultima Online, is that your character will become a living and breathing part of the tapestry 
 of hte World's life. You never again will have to rely on web sites to inform the world of your 
 existence, PVP standings, or auction listings to show your advancement. In Vanguard, you can actually 
 build buildings, establish homesteads, influence the growth of a city, form powerful guilds who 
 will shape your realm. You can build ships and explore the open ocean on a course of your choosing.
 
  
  Computer Requirements: You need a powerful computer with lots of memory, a 3 ghz plus processor, 
 and an upper half of the market graphics card. Otherwise you will have to run the game on low graphics 
 settings which are very, very bland in comparison. The lighting effects alone in this game as the 
 days pass (at about 10 times real life) , are phenomenal. The water looks real and translucent. 
 The game is being improved constantly, and Sony's station system puts out patches quickly and effectively. 
 No longer will you have to wait for the next big patch to have problems resolved. They are upgrading 
 constantly.
  
  I love this game and hope you will join me Vanguard: Saga of Heros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JagsMan28
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Pick a Race, Class, and be prepared to immerse yourself into one of the biggest MMO lands in the 
 genre. Has a very deep combat system with combos, finishers, and chains. Crafting is a major part 
 of the game, as the economy will rely heavy on it, with crafted armor and weapons being very on 
 par with looted items ala SWG. Housing allows you to find a plot of land, settle down, and put 
 merchants inside to sell items. The 3 continents are huge with PLENTY of dungeons to crawl and 
 places to explore. 19 different, unique races. Each race basically has its own starting area, with 
 starting quests, and own lore. You can use diplomacy, a card-based minigame, to find out lore and 
 gain stat bonuses while in or near that certain city. 15 different, VERY unique classes ranging 
 from life-tapping healer Blood Mage to the mind destorying crowd control Psionicist.
  
  This game is what Everquest 2 should have been. This is not an easy game. Thats not to say its 
 only for the hardcore, but prepared to face hard times. This is a group based game, and death can 
 come alot easier with harsh penalties. Corpse Runs are in along with XP loss. Yes, you actually 
 FEAR death. You recieve a mount as early as level 10, and there are large variety you can achieve 
 as you get higher levels, from Pegasus to Unicorns, Dragons to Griffons. And yes, they are airborn. 
 Boats are also a viable way to travel.
  
  All in all this will be THE game you are looking for if you want to get out of the hand-holding, 
 kid infested, easy Current MMO's out today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joxon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I loved the design from the first time I sat foot in the game. The bloom/HDR effects are beautiful 
 (at least on my system) . I actually bought a new computer just for this game :p But that's just 
 me. I got to try one of the flying mounts in beta and even though it was buggy, it was one of the 
 greatest mmo experience I've ever had. Can't wait to get one in retail! I pre-ordered the collector's 
 edition which I think is the better choice because you get a lot of valuable things like buddy 
 keys, a cloth map (yes, excellent for us item-whores :D) and some in-game items.
  
  My only problem now is how I'm gonna manage real life :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rosicross
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I love the game! I was a little concerned in beta but now that it is live most of the things that 
 I was worried about have now vanished! A must have for any MMORPGer. Having said all of that... 
 I always liked EQ1 and EQ2... loved NWN on custom built servers, and didn't care for WoW all that 
 much or SWG. This is more like EQ2 but much better. I think someone mentioned that this was EQ 
 1.5.... that may be a good discription, but I think this has more too love. With the flying mounts, 
 boats, horses at 10, homes, trade, and all the other things that Telon has to offer, I think the 
 more serious gamer all the way to the passive player will find things to enjoy. One note, it does 
 take a little while to level. None of this "I am going to go grind my mind out to level 40 levels 
 in 2 days" business. You can grind but there is more to this one than just leveling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staticbb
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the future of MMORPGs. It's an evolution of themes already presented in today's 
 games with a undertone of difficult oriented thinking based upon some of the earlier games such 
 as Everquest. All may seem good and well, but at the end of the day the final product is a mishmash 
 of interesting ideas and just flat out poor execution. What isn't known by the newbie purchaser 
 is that this game is NOT FINISHED. This isn't just my opinion either... well at least the not finished 
 part. The developers have mentioned several times to the beta community that they simply ran out 
 of money and it shows. Although the game has come along way it's. just. functional. Areas of the 
 game aren't completed in both balance, population, and (highly unfortunately) itemization. The 
 art isn't completed with limited equipment art to helms not even existing. Some facets of gameplay 
 are either broken or unbalanced (with crafting [content and sheer function] and diplomacy [uneven 
 difficulty.. oh and content] falling under those categories respectively) . Game performance isn't 
 the greatest either with sub par performance going up to the inevitable memory leak that requires 
 reboot, causes you to crash, or if you're lucky requires a /flush every 5 minutes. but not to be 
 totally negative. The graphics are pretty good with an insane view distance for some inspiring 
 moments. Some classes are pretty unique and should provide the MMO fiend something new to chew 
 on. The gameplay on a general scale is more deep than most stuff out there. Diplomacy is new and 
 fun for those who dig the card game thing. There are a wide variety of races with some unique homelands 
 thats more diverse than alot of games out there. Crafting is well designed and requires actual 
 thinking.
  
  I read through some of these reviews and i can't help but to think what the HELL is some of these 
 people smoking. This game isn't worthy of any great titles or any great scores. Gamespot probably 
 won't even end up reviewing this sucker for a couple weeks out of sheer respect for the developers 
 so they can get some of the CRUSHING bugs fixed. You've probably heard it before and guess what... you'll 
 hear it again. Don't believe the hype. Don't let the vanbois spin their filth to cloud your judgment. 
 Take it from a guy who has been in Beta longer than any of these fools. Pass on this product for 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berto628
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  So, I spent this past weekend playing Vanguard, and I must say... I'm hooked. I've tried to play 
 other MMOs. WoW bored me. City of Villains disappointed me. I was looking for something with real 
 depth, complexity, and challenge. Vanguard offers one of the most robust and complex character 
 creation system in an MMOG to date. Players can customize everything physical about their character: 
 height, weight, eye color, nose length, hair... you name it, it's in there. For those of you who 
 played Oblivion, it's almost like the face generation tool you use to craft your character at the 
 beginning of that game. When picking your race and class, you are presented with two sidebars. 
 Click on a race in the left sidebar, and the available classes for that race are highlighted in 
 the sidebar on the right. The same goes for classes: if you've already decided which class you 
 want to be, click on the that class and see which races you have to choose from. In total, there 
 are 19 races and 15 classes to choose from, though not all races can be the same class. Each race 
 has its own passive and active advantages and disadvantages.
  
  The races of Telon are further divided between three continents: Thestra, Kojan, and Qalia. Thestra 
 is themed after Western European fantasy, while Kojan and Qalia are have Far East and Arabian Nights 
 themes, respectively. This presents a unique challenge for friends who want to start out together, 
 as they will have to choose between classes according to which continent they want to start on. 
 Players that start on different continents will likely not see one another for a little while, 
 as they are separated by vast oceans that players will have to sail across to get to the different 
 places.
  
  Gameplay can be divided into 3 distinct facets: Adventuring, Crafting, and Diplomacy. GAMEPLAY
 
  ADVENTURING:
  
  Adventuring is fairly typical for an MMO (in the beginning, anyway) . You run from place to place, 
 doing quests, slaying the occasional monster, going to retrieve an item, and so on. Where it sets 
 itself apart is the combat system. Over the course of the game, players learn skills that are reactive 
 in nature, that is, only available when certain criteria have been met. For example, my Ranger 
 has an attack that can only be performed after a successful parry. When I parry, the action lights 
 up and I can then use it to attack my current target. The result is a 30 second damage buff for 
 everyone in my group, plus additional damage. This, it seems, is just the tip of the iceberg. Higher 
 level player skills will allow groups to feed off of other group members actions, bridging attacks 
 between one another, interrupting enemy spells to protect allies, and doing serious damage. It 
 encourages groups to employ more complex strategies when taking down the larger enemies, which 
 in turn fuels quality community interaction.
  
  CRAFTING:
  
  Crafting in an MMO is typically one of the more boring aspects of gameplay because it is usually 
 an entirely chance-based, click-and-go situation. Take crafting a pair of gloves in WoW: gather 
 required materials, click, *poof*... gloves. Crafting in Vanguard is a game in itself. Players gather 
 the needed resources, but instead of just clicking and the crafted item either appearing or not 
 appearing, they go to a crafting table where they must undergo a multi-step process to create what 
 it is that they wish to make. This requires other items such as recipe-specific tools and utilities. 
 The process is a bit to complex to explain fully in this review, but it is a complex and rewarding 
 process. Fortunately, there are quest-based tutorials that guide you through the process. The items 
 generated can vary in quality depending on play skill and how well they know how to manipulate 
 the Crafting Interface. The quality of an item governs it's sell value, as well as how much experience 
 and money you get for the crafting if it is a work order item. Speaking of work orders, they are 
 essentially in place so that a crafter can advance his or her level without flooding the player 
 market with useless items. Players pick up work orders from NPC taskmasters, create the item (supplies 
 are provided) , and return it for experience, money, and sometimes items.
  
  DIPLOMACY
  
  I only dabbled in Diplomacy only for a little while as it's not really my forte, but there 
 is a caste of players already in-game who are enjoying it immensely. It plays out essentially like 
 a collectible card game, so people who have played CCGs like Magic or L5R will get the hang of 
 things quickly. Basically, you pick 5 actions from a deck that are designed to get the given character 
 to see your point of view. Diplomacy is necessary to access some higher level quests and other 
 such things, so guilds with a broad range of skilled members (adventurers to fight, crafters to 
 supply them, and diplomats to make sure they have access to where they need to go) will probably 
 do well for themselves.
  
  LEVELING
  
  Everything gives you XP, provided it is within your level range (don't go beat down the rats that 
 killed you at level 1 when you're level 10 hoping to get experience) . It has pretty normal progression 
 in terms of individual weapon type experience, overall experience, and player experience. All of 
 your character's stats are easily accessed in the character menu, from fighting to crafting to 
 diplomacy.
  
  MOUNTS
  Vanguard has its fair share of mounts, some of which are cataloged in the videos featured on this 
 site. The player can get his first mount at level 10. Mounts act as secondary inventories for the 
 player, and can be summoned at will once they are purchased.
  
  EVERYTHING ELSE
  
  Visually, the game is very appealing. There are, currently, some optimization issues like texture/geometry 
 popping, along with the occasional in-town hitching, but overall the visuals are fantastic. Easily 
 accessible hide-HUD and screenshot keys beg to be used often due to the 6 Km draw distance and 
 beautiful water and LOD effects. Nothing sets a desktop background better than an austere screenshot 
 of your character kneeling on an overlook.
  
  Vanguard is aurally superb. Weapons clash and thud, footsteps clatter, saws saw, and players laugh 
 and groan appropriately. The music is outstanding, changing dynamically between traveling, combat, 
 and traversing a city.
  
  Overall, it's an impressive, enormous game that is sure to pull in many people looking for complexity 
 and beauty in an MMO. With each passing update, gameplay smooths out, fixes are put in, and the 
 game gets better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roselight
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  i had high hopes for this game but after playing it for a few day i feel let down. this is just 
 a rehash of eq call it eq1.5 but dont call it a new game. its true that wow is too easy but its 
 playable ill get flamed for even saying the word wow but i had 6 years on eq and have played all 
 the mmog since and this is just hype. sony have got there hands on this and changed what could have 
 been a great game into some eq/eq2 beast that dosent play well. guilds will love it for 6 months 
 then be waiting for warhammer/lord of the rings online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lampbrain
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Its a large world. It uses the Unreal engine so things pop-up as you explore, but it is seamless.
 
  With all the attributes its like paper D&amp; D. You can assign attribute points per level. All 
 19 races get different attributes per level and each has a unique racial ability.
  The 15 classes fight differently. Learning to collaborate will take time.
  There is housing and 
 land you can buy. Ships can be crafted and sail fast down the rivers which wind through the 3 large 
 continents.
  Another major sphere is Diplomacy - persuading and getting info from NPCs. Its a card game. From 
 a set of acquired cards you choose 5 for each parley. You change them according to your opponent.
 
  There is solo and group harvesting. Crafting has work orders so you dont flood the market with 
 useless items. You can level without leaving the crafting area.
  Monsters have perception, they can hear you if they dont see you. They chase you for a LONG time 
 if you run which can be annoying, but it makes you think twice.
  When you die you leave a tombstone with all your items. You can choose to soulbind your items so 
 you keep them if you die. But to get experience back you need to get your tombstone and that is 
 hard if its at the bottom of a dungeon. But it makes it more intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klawrence
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  UO, and EQ was a job. Taking a huge time commitment, but the games were challenging. Then came 
 WoW. A game that was exactly the opposite. WoW took no time commitment. Got 15 minutes, heck you 
 could probably finish 3 quests. And not a lot of challenge. The game play was fairly light.
  Now enters Vanguard. Somewhere in the middle. It is EQ ish, being made by former EEQ designers. 
 But it is not a job. The gameplay is crisp. The Graphics are great, and it is just as fun to play 
 as WoW was at the beginning, but it has the long term playability of EQ. I would recommend this 
 game to anyone who still plays EQ and wants bit lighter gameplay, but still wants the challenge. 
 And, I would recommend this game to current WoW players who want to step up to a bit more of a 
 challenge, and a bit more of the epic gameplay that WoW only hinted at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbuhler
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  There's been a lot of anticipation around this game and let me tell you... it's worth the wait. 
 Vanguard isn't a revolution in MMORPGs, but a great evolution. They've managed to take all the 
 good elements of past games and meld them with some really cool new ideas to make things fresh, 
 challenging (in a good way) , and FUN!! What a concept.
  
  First off the world looks amazing. As some people have mentioned you'll need to tweak the graphics 
 to your personal performance needs, but even on Balanced (medium settings) the game looks amazing. 
 Personally I recommend playing on Balanced graphics but with Bloom Effect, HDR Lighting and Tone 
 Mapping turned on.
  
  The world is also HUGE and totally seamless. You'll get a hiccup in the framerate as you transition 
 to a new chunk but there are no zones ala EQ. You can see right to the horizon most of the time 
 which really gives you a sense being a small spec in a gigantic world.
  
  The music and sound effects are also good. The ambient adventuring music changes as you enter different 
 areas and really adds to the immersion.
  
  What really makes this game fresh for me is that the combat system is more interactive. After level 
 10 anyway when you get a larger array of abilities. You have to react to situations that arise 
 mid-combat by using counter-moves and such so you can never just go on auto-pilot. There are also 
 so many places to go and so many quests you never end up just killing random mobs for experience. 
 The loot is also good... you don't feel like you have to be in a raid-level guild to get wealthy 
 or get decent equipment. Good loot can be attained even by a solo adventurer.
  
  The crafting system is also an interesting mini-game. As with combat, you have to react to things 
 that happen while crafting so it's a lot less repetitive. There are also a lot of ways to customize 
 the items you make so you'll be able to make your own style of items. I can't wait to see how the 
 economy of player-made goods develops over time.
  
  Diplomacy is one of the most interesting components of the game. It's a simple little card game 
 where you parlay with someone and try to best them. If you win you can get faction, quests, or 
 any number of other benefits.
  
  In short if you've played EQ2 or WoW only to be left wanting more, this is the game for you. Grab 
 a preorder copy from Direct2Drive and you can be playing already. See you all online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmcss
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  I'm having a blast in this game, everything... from the amazing craft system to the diplomacy sphere 
 and the adventure sphere. This game brings the challenging fear feeling back, you just don't want 
 to die (not like another game in which you die and don't really care) , why is this death system 
 good? because makes you feel like a heroe when you obtain a reward, makes you feel good when you 
 reach level 20, makes you afraid when you see a dragon in the distance, this is what we were missing.
 
  Also this game brings back the NO INSTANCE world ala Everquest Live, where groups interact with 
 each other. PLUS can't ignore the fact that dungeons are extremely fun, there are hunted mansions, 
 dungeons without gravity, dungeons with special suits, dungeons with secrets.... there is alot in 
 this game... I think what makes this game so good is the amount of content (mounts, flying mounts, 
 dungeons, fellowship, diplomacy, crafting,, adventuring, housing, ships) + its big enough, one 
 of the biggest to this date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jliebel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game offers A LOT for the mmorpger, 3 spheres to work in, adventuring, diplomacy, and crafting. 
 Though it takes a beefy system this game is clearly a next gen game and it is only reasonable that 
 it has such high requirements.
  
  Races - you are able to selection up to 19 races, each race gains its own stat allocation starting 
 at lvl 10, you are also able to play 10 or 14 depending on race in stats. Races also get passive 
 bonuses to all spheres and an active bonus
  
  Classes - you can selection a class out of 15 classes, in which each class plays and feels as its 
 own, but each as a sphere in which it does its job, Tank, healer, Physical DPS and Caster DPS. 
 Though every class falls under one of those they each do there job different, and effectively. 
 Also the Healers in this game are truly a unique class. Healers are no long sit in the back and 
 heal, Clerics and disciple now are up front meleeing to regen mana, or blood mages which siphons 
 blood from its enemy to heal its team mates health. Tanks are no longer mindless hitting an 'aggro 
 button they require a smart player to be effective. Adventuring - The world is MASSIVE and beautiful 
 you really can go through the game multiple times and never see the same content, that is how massive 
 this game is. Along with having a ton of dungeons, this game is just plan fun, no matter where 
 you are. Thestra is a european continent, Qalia is a Persian styled continent, and kojan is asian 
 style island chain. You can solo the whole game if you want, but the real fun is when you are group 
 with other people or friends to take down the dungeon badies, no more are you penelized for grouping. 
 In fact grouping makes up 60% of the game, while 20% is solo and 20% raid.
  
  Crafting - Crafting is a game of progress where you go through many steps trying to craft a good 
 grade item while balancing out making forward progress, and fixing complications that happen on 
 the way that can affect overall grade, the crafting system with in this game is one of the better 
 ones around, and will keep the crafting crowd happy for awhile.
  
  Diplomacy - A fun card game, that can be used to become friendly with towns, get quests for adventuring, 
 and added money here and there. Basically you get 5 cards, and your object is to beat your rival 
 with these cards before they beat you.
  
  Overall - the game has a few bugs, but what mmorpg doesn't on release? if you want a game that 
 is massive, beautiful, and just really fun then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elikal
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Vanguard  A sort of review
  
  Reviewing Vanguard (VG) honestly is like cutting off the head of a hydra: Just when you think youre 
 done, two new heads of peril pop up. The game has so many aspects and angles, it is quite a chore 
 to explain someone Vanguard who has not yet played it. Vanguard  Saga of Heroes was a saga in 
 its making in the truest meaning of the word, and most likely will remain so. One can not understand 
 Vanguard fully, without digging a bit into its making.
  
  Vanguard was designed by the folks of Sigil, who once left Sony (SOE) and the Everquest team to 
 pursue their own vision. But, as ever so often with visions, it must stand against reality, and 
 sometimes the reality check is a painful thing. Vanguard is essentially a game with great potential, 
 and never has this phrase been truer. VG chief developer Brad McQuaid himself, in a sure to be 
 appreciated move of honesty, admitted that the game was released about half a year too early, because 
 they got out of funds. Now we have seen many solo RPGs rushed in the last years, and it is easy 
 to see a premature launch can cause great damage to an otherwise good game. Whether or not this 
 is the case for VG remains to be seen, but chances are about 50/50 for failure or success.
  
  Vanguard has been in planning and making for about five years. Back then, a lot of players 
 had Everquest I and Ultima Online as gamers background, and still recalled this time as their golden 
 era of MMO gaming. But times have changed, and so has the average target audience of gaming. Back 
 in EQ1 days MMOs were filled entirely by students and pupils; that was the niche of gaming. You 
 just can't fill MMOs with them now. Back then we had DOS and Windows 3.1. People were USED to make 
 many things by themselves, but we have 2007 and, well, computers and games have changed. I know, 
 if life is easygoing school or student life, it may be hard to imagine that some have that 40+ 
 hours week, coming home after fighting your boss and your colleagues, you just dont want to die 
 20 times with corpse runs, because you already have a hardcore LIFE. That is what VG claimed to 
 reanimate, largely supported by the quite aggressive vocal expression of the VG developers. The 
 way they talked about VG as a hardcore game has attracted a vocal and aggressive minority of players, 
 who hold the old days of gaming in their hearts as the best era and condemn all modernization 
 that happened since then in gaming; people who find journals or ingame maps as a feature for weaklings 
 and carebears.
  
  Then World of Warcraft happened. The debates about how to judge this game have not ended after 
 all the years, but definitely by the sheer number of discussions you can safely say it hit the 
 MMO world like a comet. After WoW EVERYTHING about what a MMO could be was forever changed and 
 re-defined. One of the developers of WoW, when asked what was their recipe for making such a successful 
 game, he said: we checked all features and asked ourselves is this fun to do? , and if the answer 
 is No, its out. Not realism, not logic, only is it fun! Now you may like or hate the result, but 
 when the day is over, all that counts in the end is: are the shareholders happy or not? And 8 million 
 players surely made Blizzard stockholders quite happy. So asking, what makes the average gamer 
 happy is likely on the top agenda here - or it should be, if the game does not want to vanish like 
 Dark and Light or RF Online. Vanguard was an expensive development, is HAS to pay off big time, 
 like it or not. It obviously took Sigil a lot of time to realize, that their vision did just 
 not have the power to make their stockholders as happy as they could be, but the prestige had been 
 set in stone: VG is a hardcore game. It took them a long time, as the painful beta 3 NDA breaches 
 showed, to make VG from a hardcore chore of the vision to a game with a realistic degree of accessibility 
 for any normal gamer. This is the core problem which plagues VG now. It has still a lot of reminiscences 
 to the old hardcore vision and the demands of the market reality. And that is the one true reason 
 VG is far behind schedule and has spent the money, forcing them now to publish a totally unfinished 
 product.
  
  VG is by and large an unfinished product. Many core features are not implemented at all, like the 
 fellowship, who allows XP sharing, or the caravans, which are supposed to make the vast travel 
 times easier. It is a strange twist that mostly those features are not in the game, who are supposed 
 to make it easier accessible. I have seen my share of MMO launches, but the sheer amount of bugs, 
 not implemented features, not tested quests and not balanced areas really exceeds anything I have 
 ever seen. About one third of the entire world have not been tested in the last beta phase at all, 
 and thus are in the game now totally untested. An average of 30% of all quests have bug stoppers, 
 mobs that will not drop the appropriate loot or kills, which do not count. Now I am aware Sigil 
 has made many patches, each with a long list of changes. But if you examined them from the last 
 days of beta to the present, 90% of changes were class reworking and other secondary changes. The 
 real substantial changes, like bug fixing, always made only a very small part of every patch. And 
 surely we can not expect miracles. Bug fixing IS a lengthy and tiresome process. The cost and time 
 of the last 5% of bugs in software as a rule are as high as the fixes for the other 95%, so it 
 will take a LONG time until a majority of bugs will be eliminated. Strangely a great part of patches 
 contain dozens of arbitrary changes like putting a ranger spell from level 4 to level 10, as if 
 they did not have more important things to do.
  
  What is definitely breathtaking and the biggest bonus is the world itself. It is without exaggeration 
 the most beautiful and breathtaking world we have seen, likely in any computer game ever. The three 
 existing continents have so many different, wonderful places, sights and designs, it would be worth 
 the money alone for seeing all the sceneries. Vast cities like Aghram or New Torgonor, are easily 
 the most wonderful cities I have ever seen in 20 years gaming. The dark side however is, they are 
 also easily the most lifeless I have seen. If you enter Qeynos (EQ2) or Stormwind (WoW) or Mos 
 Eisley (SWG) , you feel the place is alive. People and critter, womp rats, rabbits or sea gulls 
 fill the place with life. Children pass by and play, people get into an argument, THINGS happen 
 around you to simulate life. Entering the cities of Vanguard is mostly like entering a museum. 
 NPCs are nailed down where they stand and barely animated at all. The further away you get from 
 the starter areas the more lifeless the cities become. People love to gather in the cities of WoW, 
 SWG or EQ2, but I can hardly imagine people will gather in New Torgonor, which feels like a graveyard 
  however the most beautiful. We can only hope this will change, but with the many other more pressing 
 things at hand it is one of the features we wont see for a long time.
  
  The 19 classes and 15 races are fun to play and mostly well designed. Animations have greatly improved 
 and now and nice to look. Not breathtaking, but the upper quality in MMO terms. Its the animations 
 for NPCs, especially in social places, which sorely lack. NPCs stand everywhere like frozen, as 
 if some giant had dropped them out of a box and they had been glued down where they fell. Adding 
 the fact they have all quite similar haircuts and clothing and no voiceovers, it really takes a 
 lot of life out of this game. It is hard to imagine people meet and socialize in any place in this 
 game now. While the world is surely breathtaking, it lacks the kind of focus of places like Goldshire 
 in WoW, where you know people can always meet and greet, basically because everyone can reach it, 
 and it is strategically placed.
  
  Another novelty is, player starter areas are distributed all over the world. There is not only 
 a difficult and long journey, often impossible for anyone below level 30, if you chose a certain 
 race, the quite complicated faction system forces people who want to form a common guild and want 
 to do quests together to all either chose the same race or forget about grouping together for a 
 VERY long time. I can not make people delusions about levelling here. To gain levels is much slower 
 than in any present title. It takes about the same time as in the nefarious Asian grinder Lineage 
 II. That is not so much of a problem in the first 15 levels, since there are many quests, many 
 of which are interesting and well designed. Sure, you have the usual chore of kill X amount of 
 Z, but many interesting and funny quests also, to spice things up. Quests reveal a decent amount 
 of background lore about the world, but it is not too deep and thrilling. If you start the game 
 in any of the newbie areas, you are more or less tossed into a world and supposed to find your 
 place. It is rather sad to see, how less welcoming the starter areas are in terms of story and 
 character development are. Thinking about the detailed background you are given in EQ2 and its 
 starter isle, you feel more like tossed into this world and are supposed to see for yourself where 
 you belong. The feel of an ongoing story arc, which covers the entire world and where you can select 
 your role in, is entirely missing. There is no worldwide story whatsoever; maybe in much later 
 levels, but it is a big missed opportunity, and the meagre intro text window can hardly replace 
 this.
  
  Expect that the overall difficulty is higher as in WoW or EQ2. You need groups much more often, 
 you die much easier and it has the corpse run. If you die and no one is there to resurrect you, 
 you revive at an altar. There you can either summon your belongings by paying a small amount of 
 money, loosing some XP and the gear looses some quality which needs to be repaired OR you reach 
 the place where you died. Naked. No, you have some clothing, but without any gear. If you do this 
 corpse run however your gear is not much damaged and you keep most XP. This is essentially nothing 
 but a timesink, and in can be most tiresome in some dungeons. It is not that hard as it sounds, 
 especially when you have people to help you. But it surely is a totally NO-NO for every person 
 who has work and a normal, grown up schedule. Getting quests with the best XP and the best gear 
 usually leads into difficult dungeons. And they are BIG. So if your group gets wiped, you can easily 
 forget doing the rest of your 2-3 hours evening spare time anything else than sneaking into that 
 dungeon and retrieving your corpse. It takes time, and that is likely a big reason for every casual 
 player not to buy VG. Sure, you CAN summon your belongings, but in any dangerous dungeon you die 
 several times, and since money and loot drop is not really abundant, any such evening can easily 
 turn out more as investment than gain, if you call your corpse a few times. The repair cost are 
 soon much higher than the income from the dungeon run itself. Also taken into account, that many 
 areas are barely tested and need weeks or rather months of balancing. The dungeons in the first 
 15 levels in the various starter areas are so breathtakingly different in difficulty, there is 
 a LOT of work to do in balancing as well. While you can walk through the Kurashasa starter area 
 blindfolded, the first dungeon around Tanvu can easily kill a full group of the most experienced 
 MMO gamers.
  
  A big problem is also the high respawn rate in many areas, especially dense forests and dungeons. 
 Mobs respawn much faster than any average group is able to remove them. Often I was in a dungeon, 
 and when we just killed the two mobs in front of us, those behind us had already respawned. While 
 my groups were able to proceed, it was a 2 hours silent chore. If you entirely lack the time even 
 to exchange a few word the entire reason to enter a MMO is killed. Group adventuring just lives 
 from small talk and short comments, and in many places it is even impossible to type go left 
 until the next mob as already started to attack. Since I love to talk to people and not just silently 
 fight, this is one of the aspects I really disliked the most about VG. Due to the tedious nature 
 this ultra-fast respawn causes, a lot of players rather grind a few levels and then do group quests 
 solo instead of finding groups. It is a strange and ironic thing, since the difficulty initially 
 was designed to encourage grouping. But now it has been raised THAT high, that people rather come 
 back when they are strong and fight it out alone instead of the greater risk going through those 
 places with a group.
  One of the really good features is the music. The soundtrack is very good and supports the areas 
 perfectly. It is a pleasure to listen to and its that kind of soundtrack you want to have on CD. 
 The ambient sound and sound effects however are sub-standard and a rather crude mix of 1990ies 
 sound files.
  
  The User Interface (UI) is to a vast degree a WoW clone, down to every key and command. That is 
 in itself neither bad nor good, but the WoW UI wasnt really one of the most advanced and in my 
 opinion one of the biggest gripes I had with WoW. It is simple, functional but thats all. The 
 journal has no option to sort quests by type, region or difficulty. The character has no biography 
 people can read, which tended to be a good way to get in touch with people. The map is the most 
 barren and simplified I have seen. many quests still do not have waypoints, and the directions 
 in the texts often are vague and misleading. Finding your aim can be quite a chore. In this feature, 
 as in so many, the split between the hardcore vision and the reality check becomes visible. The 
 original idea was not to implement maps at all. As a result, VG would never have started on more 
 than two servers right away, so they started to make a compromise for casual players  or what 
 a hardcore guy THINKS is casual. The result is a map, which is far too much for the hardcore players 
 and far too less for the normal players, and that is exactly the misery in which VG is stuck in 
 so many things. Vanguard could be a really good game, if Sigil would listen less to the vocal minority 
 who  partially only for the teenage fun of boasting  demand always greater difficulty, players 
 for whom only perma-death is hard enough. The downside already has paid: on some servers the community 
 is more aggressive than in any MMO I have seen, and I have played a lot. Some servers are ok, but 
 even there you can hardly play 15 minutes without someone who criticizes some features is instantly 
 yelled down by some fans he should shut up and go play WoW. I have never seen such an aggressive 
 and immature mix of players as in VG. Sure, they arent the majority by far, but they vocally dominate 
 the chat channels in many servers and Sigil has so far only moved against the most gross, personal 
 attacks. I would love to see VG succeed, and I am sure many who play it now feel the same about 
 it. But Sigil has to face the real priorities and the REAL core gamer, not some arbitrary but aggressively 
 vocal minority. It is well advised to reveal the roadmap of the next weeks and months and not to 
 fall into the trap to keep their plans a secret. There are just too many questions about whether 
 something is bugged, too complicated to understand or simply working as intended and I doubt 
 many players have the endless patience to wait a year for unknown makes-all-good-patches.
  
  SWG was the last game who equally tried to satisfy traditional hardcore gamers and also attract 
 new players with much less tolerance to tedium and chore. The NGE, trying to create such a compromise, 
 was the greatest disaster the MMO world has seen to date. The end of the story is, I see another 
 crew of idealistic developers with visions and dreams, lacking the down to earth pragmatism 
 and the courage to accept the logic of the market. It is the unavoidable logic of capitalism, the 
 only stable and foolproof prophecy - despite Mr. McQuaid's claim there were no prophets - and that 
 it the success of greed. Greed lies in numbers, and as a matter of fact the number of hardcore 
 fans is *quite* anti-proportional to the loudness of their voice. When WOW was launched the definition 
 of what a MMO is has changed forever. SWG has ruined itself trying to be both hardcory and still 
 adapting WOW-elements. Every attempt to make niches within niches, making games too inaccessible 
 will doom any MMO to a miniature niche in mid terms. Not all WOW did was perfect, not all must 
 be 100% done as in WOW to succeed, but the core idea has set an entirely new standard: shortest 
 possible non-fun-times until the fun starts. That is the only winning formula that has a future 
 now. The avalanche has already started; it is too late for the pebbles to vote. 
  
  Graphics: The world is breathtaking, however the civilization does not feel alive but more like 
 a painted stage, therefore no maximum value. Some textures and places at not up to the high standard. 
 7/10
  
  Sound: Great music but no voiceover and quite outdated sound effects. 7/10
  
  Difficulty: Many modern features are missing. Features which Sigil had planned to make the challenge 
 bearable like Fellowships or Caravans are not implemented at all. There is a great imbalance in 
 the various starter areas in terms of difficulty. Also some classes are much easier to play then 
 others. The complicated faction system and the lack of any fast travel options force people to 
 group only with those playing the same race for a long time. 4/10
  
  Fun Factor: The quests are mindful and interesting. Many are quite beyond the usual kill X of Y. 
 Crafting and Diplomacy add some fun things to do, even though they seem to lack the focus at the 
 moment. Since both need a long time to delve in, they do not play a central role besides a bit 
 fun gaming for a few days right now. Some quests are really entertaining and thoughtfully designed. 
 8/10
  
  Character Customization: It almost equals the great character customization of SWG. You really 
 have a lot of sliders to create your own character. However, the races tend to look a bit cloned, 
 since there are no textures and no aging slider. Also extreme deformations have been taken out 
 prior to launch, so no fat or extreme thin characters can be made anymore. Since at this moment 
 there are only 4 haircuts for each race, this is not fully implemented as it is supposed. Since 
 hair is a big feature to really look different, the potential is highly cut. 6/10
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I am split how to judge the game. It has the potential to be a real hit, but Sigil 
 must get to the grip fast! Nowadays players do not have the years of patience people had back in 
 the SWG era, waiting for years for promises and unspoken somethings we are adding at some time. 
 There are awesome things in this game, especially if you seek for a richer and deeper world, but 
 much work needs to be done and if you play Vanguard, be sure to have thick hide and good nerves. 
 For the majority I can only advise to wait half a year. 7/10
  
  Overall: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawgutts
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Hey all,
  
  I have the chance to get a 3 day head start on the game to test it out via the digital download. 
 The game does have some potential to be a good game, but Sigil needs to get off the high and mighty 
 butt and start fixing some bugs that have been around since beta and FAST. Some ui issues and pathing 
 problems but nothing that can't be fixed with a nice patch. I happen to have a recommended machine 
 by the box to tell you what to expect when you install it and get into the game. Do not expect 
 to run around any place yet, it will take some time to load up all the graphics and after that 
 you will spend the next 30 minutes tweaking your visual settings, maybe longer if your a non techie. 
 This is one thing that has burned my arse since beta, they have issues auto detecting (i should 
 say none) peoples computer system to run at it's best performance and tweak the ui setting automatically 
 for the user.
  
  The great visuals will come at a price, though; running Vanguard at maximum quality settings will 
 be tough on most computers. But players with high-end gaming machines are in for a real treat: 
 fancy lighting, shadows, detailed landscapes, kick ass clouds and more. Even on a lower graphical 
 setting, though, Vnaguard does looks amazing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
