-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Vangers: One for the Road
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/vangersonefortheroad/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 11, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.8
Critic Score: 5.7, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 23 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interactive Magic
Developer: K-D Lab
Genre: Action
Date:     Jul 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Confusing. Off-putting. Indecipherable. Mystifying. These are just a few of the words that crept 
 into my mind as I wrestled with what should have been a fairly straightforward game of driving, 
 combat, and resource management. 

 Confusing. Off-putting. Indecipherable. Mystifying. These are just a few of the words that crept 
 into my mind as I wrestled with what should have been a fairly straightforward game of driving, 
 combat, and resource management. A vague interface, nonsensical nomenclature, in-game dialogue 
 that borders on the psychotic, unrewarding action sequences - all these help make Vangers feel 
 as if the main design goal was to ensure that only the most stubborn, dedicated gamers would have 
 any desire to stick with it long enough to reap whatever joy it might have to offer.  

 Things start off innocently enough with an intro (in the manual) that explains how humankind discovered 
 the secret of interstellar travel through Passages, presumably something along the lines of a wormhole. 
 Failing to learn anything from our past, we simply conquered the worlds we visited and exploited 
 their resources with total disregard for the inhabitants - until we ran into a race called the 
 Cryspo (sounds like a cereal from the 1950s, doesn't it?) .  

 As the Cryspo forced the human settlers to retreat into sealed cities, the colonists resorted to 
 genetic warfare. The result was a new race, the Lostie, which combined elements of human and Cryspo 
 anatomy and culture. The Lostie live in escaves, underground cities built by humans during their 
 battles against the Cryspo. Vangers, it turns out, are a clan of Lostie - and it seems that the 
 Infinite Mind (umm, I guess that's like a supreme being or something; it's the thing that gave 
 Earthlings the technology of the Passages) planned the entire affair in order to create the warrior 
 race of Vangers.  

 That's the abbreviated version, so unless you buy the game you won't get to experience the sensation 
 of moving from comprehension at the beginning of the introduction to dazed confusion as the narrative 
 starts introducing concepts like bunch cycles, the "Bouillon of Spawn," the bios, and other ambiguous 
 terms. Vangers' developer K-D Labs is obviously trying to make some comment on the human condition 
 here: In describing the Lostie, for instance, the intro says they live "on the rubble of powerful 
 and ancient civilizations... practic endless cult cycles in an attempt to establish a rationale 
 for their existence." Yes, the Lostie are a pretty clever little metaphor for mankind - but a better 
 idea would have been to attempt to establish a rationale for the existence of this game.  

 Of course, you're wondering just what you do in Vangers. Well, Vangers drive mechos, armed vehicles 
 that can venture to the surface of a planet and travel between escaves. When you enter an escave, 
 you can buy mechos, weapons, items for trade to earn beebs (beebs also happen to be creatures that 
 roam the surface of planets) , and take on tabutasks - specific jobs that can earn you the really 
 big beebs.  

 And it's in the escaves that you meet counselors - caterpillar-type creatures you can interrogate 
 to learn more about phrases like "phlegma," "Feenger," "beeborat," "cirt," and other bewildering 
 gobbledygook. Counselors don't speak a language you can understand; you read generally unhelpful 
 text responses as you hear a bunch of grunts and guttural sounds and stare at some crummy claymation 
 model contorting its insect-like face.  

 To leave the first game world of Forstral and move on to the next planet, you have to win a race 
 from the Incubator (which looks just like an escave) to Podish (a bona fide escave) while carrying 
 an eLeech (don't ask) . All the action takes place from a top-down perspective as your mechos travels 
 overland, burrows through the earth, drives underwater, and even hovers and flies.  

 To be fair, the terrain graphics in Vangers are some sweet eye candy. The ground can be permanently 
 deformed by explosions, and you actually see the surface undulate as other mechos (and God knows 
 what other things) burrow underground. But what good is all that when simply making your way from 
 point A to point B lends itself to neither skillful driving nor exciting combat, and the vehicles 
 handle like souped-up shopping carts?  

 There are no roads per se in Vangers, and because the surface is multitiered you can wind up driving 
 along a lower level, completely unable to see your vehicle - particularly annoying should you run 
 into another Vanger who decides to open fire on you. There's nothing like a combat-driving game 
 where you can't see where you're driving or who to shoot, is there?  

 And that's not all. You'll expend a prodigious effort trying to extract your mechos from rivers, 
 hilly terrain, strange buildings, and other places where you can get almost hopelessly ensnared 
 - not to mention being continually forced to use your weapons to cut a path through all sorts of 
 obstacles blocking your progress (these problems are reduced immensely once you earn enough beebs 
 to purchase devices that'll let you hover) . K-D Labs obviously created all the weird terminology 
 for Vangers in an effort to make you feel as if you were part of an alien civilization; in practice, 
 it means you're forced to read confusing descriptions for every object in the game. Why couldn't 
 the manual put the phrase "rocket launcher" under "Spreettle System" or "plasma gun" under "ghOrb 
 Gear," for instance, so that you'd know right away what they were without having to endure someone's 
 attempt to be clever and witty? With words like nobool, eleepod, poponka, nymbos, cirtainer, and 
 leepuringa (to name just a few) , you wind up walking away from Vangers feeling as if you'd just 
 played a game designed by Dr. Seuss in a hallucinatory stupor.  

 But let's forget the wacky words: Often you don't need to understand fully what they mean, and some 
 folks might even like the style. Here's the deal - even though I dragged myself back to this thing 
 for hour after hour, I never began to approach a level of fun that would make me want to fire it 
 up for any reason other than to give it a fair shake. A lot of gamers have described Vangers as 
 unlike anything they've played; that's because they paid too much attention to the weird language 
 and didn't notice that fundamentally it's not much different from a dozen other games that put 
 you in the cockpit of a heavily armed car of some type.  

 Vangers should thrill you with the excitement of vehicular combat while gradually advancing the 
 admittedly unique plot; instead, it bores you to death with a confused story that takes too long 
 to get off the ground and gameplay that would only impress someone who's never played a decent 
 driving-and-shooting game before. Yes, you could easily spend dozens and dozens of hours playing 
 Vangers - but all I can say is better you than me.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nystchan
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 5, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  Ok, I have to agree that it depends a LOT on the type of person you are and your interests. Vangers 
 can be a bothering game? Yes, it can. But if you're into racing/fighting games, RPG and sci-fi, 
 you're good to go.
  
  I play Vangers since 98, and look! Here we are, 2007 - and I still dig it up sometimes to play 
 it all over again!
  
  Vangers is a game from the time when games were more than just graphics, it has a catchy background 
 (as I said, if you like sci-fi) telling all about how humans finally joined science and mystics, 
 contacting the Infinite Mind which teached them how to build Passages - wormholes that let them 
 go from one planet to another; how humans first met the Cryspo - the first intelligent alien race; 
 altough they thought the Cryspo weren't an intelligent race, seeing as they appear to be just insects, 
 with a hive-guided mentality like ants and bees; that the humans and the Cryspo begin to wage war 
 and we were losing really badly; that human colonists closed themselves in sealed cities called 
 escaves and sealed the Passage back to Earth; how human colonists - left all on their own - decided 
 to go up with genetic warfare, which killed both Cryspo and Humans, through the Bouillon of Spawn 
 that created the Lostie - Eleepods, Beeborats and Zeex.
  
  You start up with one of the lowest mechos - cars armed with guns - and have to perform tasks to 
 go all the way up, from getting better mechos and equipments, then discovering about unique mechos 
 that you have to find spare parts hidden through the Worlds of the Chain to fix them. Meeting Parapheen 
 and Carmone, each one telling you what is their vision about a new begining for the Lostie - which 
 gives you two different endings. But everytime you decide to play, you can do everything in a completely 
 different way - never two games of Vangers were exactly the same to me, except for the maps.
  
  My tip: go ahead and try it. As I said, I play it since 98/99 and still today I dig it up and 
 play again. It scores 9.7 to me, an AWESOME game based on a unique idea - only problem I feel sometimes 
 is about the handling of mechos... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobkrishnan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Other than the Story Line there's nothing so great in this game which you cant get in other games. 
 The music is good but the sounds are dumb. Graphics could have just got better. Well I see they 
 have provided sufficient number of battle vehcles and weapons. Really If you use the cheats you 
 can finish the whole game in an hour. 
  There are a couple of interesting things here. The first is an artefact called MechanicMessiah. 
 It is very useful in offensively moving about in the game especially the fire ball rocks. The second 
 would be the protractor which is useful in survival and defence. The third would be the Boot sector 
 which allows you to stay alive even when you get busted by your opponents. I suggest not to waste 
 time searching for this thing if you use cheat codes.
  These three artefacts form the base of the game. They can be obtained from the outer worlds like 
 Ark-a-zony, weexen and the other worlds.
  The camera has been experimented with. You see the sloping top view of the vehicle from above and 
 you feel that you are drivind on a 3d map, that's all.
  Ther's nothing more in this game other than our usual trading stuff. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
