-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Vegas Tycoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/vegamakeitbig/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 88 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: Deep Red
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Jan 15, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Vegas Tycoon has a lot of good things going for it, though it doesn't quite hit the million-dollar 
 jackpot. 

  Las Vegas is America's playground, as well as the setting for the umpteenth tycoon game to come 
 our way in Vegas Tycoon. Developed by the same folks responsible for 2001's impressive Monopoly 
 Tycoon, Vegas Tycoon could very well be the quintessential casino-building game, not to mention 
 one of the better tycoon games overall. It has a lot of things going for it, including beautiful 
 graphics, oodles of detail, and lots of depth. Sadly, it's a game that doesn't quite hit the million-dollar 
 jackpot due to some cumbersome gameplay, an unusually and often frustratingly high level of difficulty, 
 and interface issues. These things don't keep Vegas Tycoon from being a good, solid game, though. 

          A well-designed resort includes nongambling entertainment, such as this disco that's equipped 
 with laser lighting.     

  Actually, there are essentially two games in Vegas Tycoon: a resort-building game and a casino-building 
 game. Indeed, real-life Las Vegas is no longer just about gambling, since the city has transformed 
 itself in the past two decades to become a premier entertainment destination for gamblers and nongamblers 
 alike. In the resort sim, you have to develop a world-class themed resort, complete with a luxury 
 hotel, upscale shops and restaurants, nightclubs, magic acts, theater and stage shows, roller coasters, 
 and more. However, the main economic driver for your resort remains your casino, and in this portion 
 of the game, you have to design the interior of your casino down to its smallest detail. It's much 
 like building a house in The Sims, but it's done on a much larger and more complicated scale.  
 

  These two portions of the game interact closely with each another. The more people you lure to 
 your casino, the more likely they'll explore the rest of your resort and spend money at your hotel, 
 your restaurant, your jewelry store, and so on. Additionally, the more you upgrade your resort 
 with high-class shops and services, the more likely you are to attract wealthy visitors, celebrities, 
 and whales (the really big-money gamblers) to your resort and casino.  

  Your ultimate goal, of course, is to lure as many visitors to your resort as possible to separate 
 them from their money. The game shines in terms of the options available to you. Pretty much every 
 Vegas attraction you can think of is available, including dolphin acts, fireworks, rock concerts, 
 and more. There are upgrades available for a number of buildings, and you can tweak everything 
 from ticket prices to hiring a celebrity chef for your exclusive restaurant. If a country music 
 convention rolls in to town, you can change the band in your concert arena to try to attract more 
 convention-goers. In the casino, you can analyze every game to see what kind of crowd it draws, 
 and then you can adjust the betting limits and house rules to attract different sorts of gamblers. 
 Vegas Tycoon does a great job at capturing the diversity of the Vegas Strip.  

  There are literally thousands of peeps roaming about the city, thus representing the wide array 
 of visitors to Vegas. As in real life, most of them are tourists and gamblers, with only slightly 
 smaller numbers of businessmen and VIPs. Of course, the rarest visitors are celebrities and whales. 
 So every decision you make has to be weighed against the kind of visitors you're looking to attract. 
 Businessmen like nightclubs and the topless revues with showgirls, but that can be a turnoff for 
 female visitors. Tourists, meanwhile, will probably want a magic show or a souvenir shop. Inside 
 your casino, the elderly will want a good game of keno, while young single men will flock to the 
 sports lounge and bar.  

  You start off by purchasing a lot and then placing and carefully laying out the buildings on your 
 resort. In Vegas Tycoon, placement is everything -- and not just for aesthetic reasons. Each object 
 in the game is rated according to sound, smell, sight, and comfort, so everything you design has 
 to be carefully planned to create an environment that appeals to visitors. For example, if you 
 put a noisy nightclub next to your hotel, you'll find unhappy visitors who are unable to sleep, 
 which will give your resort a bad reputation. If you put the smelly men's bathroom too close to 
 the craps tables in the casino, gamblers will leave in disgust. This is where Vegas Tycoon starts 
 to bog down because you can easily spend a huge chunk of time carefully sculpting your resort only 
 to then have to spend another huge chunk of time carefully designing the interior of your casino. 
 This isn't a process that you can skimp on, either. Visitors tend to be very picky, and if you 
 don't make them happy, you'll end up driving them in to the arms of your competitors. So there's 
 a very long learning process involved in figuring out what works and what doesn't. Moreover, there's 
 a lot of busywork because you have to place every last potted plant, light stand, and bench.  

 
  It's too bad that the developers didn't throw in some prebuilt casinos, because there's enough 
 depth in the resort portion of the game alone to satisfy most tycoon fans. But as it is, you've 
 got to create everything from scratch. It's possible to design a casino in sandbox mode and save 
 it for use later on, but this isn't as helpful as it sounds. There are 10 different resort themes 
 in Vegas Tycoon, each of which has three casino designs. Each of these has a different floor plan, 
 so there are essentially 30 different floor plans in the game. If you design a template for the 
 medium-sized London-themed casino, it won't work for the medium-sized Japan-themed casino. You 
 basically don't save any time or effort this way. You can download user-made casino templates from 
 the Internet, as well as a few official ones, but the selection thus far is pretty thin. However, 
 you should  definitely  download these templates, because they're eye-opening examples of good 
 casino design.  

  The design and layout tools are fairly simple to use, and creating a casino is much like house-building 
 in The Sims. However, the game desperately needs an "undo" function for erasing mistakes. As we 
 noted earlier, objects possess different environmental qualities, like sound and smell, but you 
 can't see how they'll interact with existing objects until you place them in the game. If you guess 
 wrong, there's no way to undo the action other than to sell the object back for a financial loss. 
 There's a lot of trial and error in the building process too, so you can probably imagine the amount 
 of time it takes to tweak everything perfectly. This can make the campaign scenarios brutally difficult, 
 since you'll often find yourself strapped for cash. Understandably, you can't afford to make many 
 mistakes building a casino. Misplace a few too many objects and you'll end up wasting precious 
 cash amending your mistakes. It's relatively easy to find yourself stuck with a bad casino, deep 
 in debt, and losing money hand over fist. At this point, there's pretty much no way out of your 
 situation because you can't take a loan, and you can't build anything if you're in debt.  

          The terracing segregates the noisy slot machines from the quieter poker tables in this 
 glitzy casino.     

  Vegas Tycoon is a beautiful game that boasts some impressive graphics. Thousands of visitors mill 
 about and cars are lined up on the famous Las Vegas Strip, just like in real life. Each of the 
 10 themes in the game has a distinct architecture -- from the buildings and garish neon signs to 
 the thrill rides. Additionally, the game has gorgeous high-res textures that almost allow you to 
 read the lettering on the slot machines. The sounds are equally well done, from the thrum of the 
 crowds to the noises in the casino. There's also a sly sense of humor in the game, including some 
 witty descriptions and scenario objectives.  

  While the game is stable, Vegas Tycoon is probably a patch or two away from greatness if the developer 
 can address some of the difficulty and interface issues and can also toss in some casino templates. 
 It's definitely a good, if somewhat flawed, game, and it's a pretty safe bet if you're a fan of 
 tycoon games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Vinniyo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Basically, in Vega$: Make it Big or Vegas Tycoon, your job is to build a casino or/and resort in 
 Las Vegas. First off, you choose the plot of land ranging in prices and sizes and the style of 
 casino you want, then you start building. You choose the size of hotel and casino, add buildings 
 to bring in more guests and upgrade as much as possible. With the buildings, you can choose how 
 much the charge is to use that facility: e. g The large hotel can be set from $100 to $40 or $190 
 (I think, if I remember correctly) . Inside the actual casino, you can choose what you want to have 
 placed: Slots, lounges, tables... Even plants and fountains. You can even choose the staff that 
 work there. Each staff has different skills and different pays. A staff member with a high skill 
 cost more that one with lBasically, in Vega$: Make it Big or Vegas Tycoon, your job is to build 
 a casino or/and resort in Las Vegas. First off, you choose the plot of land ranging in prices and 
 sizes and the style of casino you want, then you start building. You choose the size of hotel and 
 casino, add buildings to bring in more guests and upgrade as much as possible. With the buildings, 
 you can choose how much the charge is to use that facility: e. g The large hotel can be set from 
 $100 to $40 or $190 (I think, if I remember correctly) . Inside the actual casino, you can choose 
 what you want to have placed: Slots, lounges, tables... Even plants and fountains. You can even 
 choose the staff that work there. Each staff has different skills and different pays. A staff member 
 with a high skill cost more that one with low skill. With the slots and tables, you can choose 
 the betting range and the house setting ranging from 'generous' to 'criminal!'. You can get feedback 
 from every single guest in your lot. Not just an icon, but something that explains what they want 
 or why they are unhappy. It is a very nice game, some annoying flaws (but they don't hinder gameplay) , 
 but still worth it.
  
  Graphics: 8.5 - while not completely perfect (people will walk into garbage bins to get rid of 
 rubbish) , you can read what is written on the slots and even look at the designs on the pavement.
 
  
  Sound: 9 - Compared to most other 'tycoon' games, the sound is quite nice, it suits the place and 
 has decent background noise. The problem is on one or two of the casino styles, the sound can get 
 very annoying after playing for and hour or two.
  ow skill. With the slots and tables, you can choose the betting range and the house setting ranging 
 from 'generous' to 'criminal!'. You can get feedback from every single guest in your lot. Not just 
 an icon, but something that explains what they want or why they are unhappy. It is a very nice 
 game, some annoying flaws (but they don't hinder gameplay) , but still worth it.
  
  Gameplay: 6.5 - The gameplay is quite nice and thought out, the only problems are that the buttons 
 sometimes are slightly complicated and that mistakes when placing buildings are a nusiance, especially 
 when you think you click somewhere, but it goes to the tile next to it. Also there are some flaws 
 (read below) .
  
  Graphics: 8.5 - While not completely perfect (people will walk into garbage bins to get rid of 
 rubbish) , you can read what is written on the slots and even look at the designs on the pavement.
 
  
  Sound: 9 - Compared to most other 'tycoon' games, the sound is quite nice, it suits the place and 
 has decent background noise. The problem is on one or two of the casino styles, the sound can get 
 very annoying after playing for and hour or two.
  
  Value: 8.5 - Well, when I wrote this review, I bought the game for about $8 AUD brand new. I think 
 it's quite impressive although it could still do with some tweaking.
  
  Tilt: 8 - There are many 'tycoon' games out, but I don't know of any Vegas 'tycoon' games with 
 as much value as this.
  
  FLAWS: In my opinion, there are two major flaws in the game. 
  One is the difficulty: It is either too easy or too annoying. Basically, you can run the game without 
 any disasters (providing everything is the way you want it) and you will most likely make a decent 
 profit. Or you can run the game with disasters (different occur times) that will be just plain 
 annoying. E. g: On the 'very often' (I think) setting, on max speed you will be recieving a problem 
 with your casino every minute or two. As soon as you repair half your casino (resort and actual 
 casino) a disaster or event strikes and your whole casino needs repairing again... Two minutes 
 later and it'll need repairing again.
  Two is the AI. God that's annoying. I'll give you an example. In the actual casino, your guests 
 will drop rubbish even if they are surrounded by 20 bins, they will say they can't find one and 
 drop it right next to - say bin 6 after walking right past bins 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 (maybe even dodging 
 them) .
  Another example is the cleaning from the dropped rubbish. Your cleaners will clean (eg 5 sec) pause 
 (8 sec) clean in an area close (5 sec) pause (8 sec) walk off to another place on the other side 
 of the casino, even if the place they were cleaning was impossibly messy and clean the other side.
 
  
  OVERALL - Overall, this game is very good for the price I paid for it. I'm very happy. Though there 
 are some annoying flaws in the game, it is still worth it, although not really worth more than 
 $30 in this day. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
