-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Victoria: An Empire Under the Sun
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/victoria/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.0, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 268 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Paradox Inter.
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Nov 18, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Victoria is so overwhelming and complex that you might feel as if you'd been hit by a locomotive. 
 

  Victoria: An Empire Under the Sun opens with a runaway locomotive barreling straight down the tracks 
 toward you. Before it reaches your point of view, however, the scene switches to quick clips of 
 key events in the 19th and early 20th centuries. We see Abraham Lincoln speaking with Union soldiers 
 during the US Civil War, machine guns are being fired, girders are going up in front of a city 
 skyline, bodies are laying in the trenches of WW I, and even Sigmund Freud is contemplating his 
 cigar. All in all, it's an effective and dramatic way to introduce you to the time period represented 
 by this real-time strategic epic from the makers of Europa Universalis.  

          Most scenarios are incredibly complex, particularly if you control one of the dueling Great 
 Powers during WWI.     

  Unfortunately, this cinematic works both metaphorically and literally. While showing the train 
 and old photographs makes you feel the epochal changes that the world went through during the height 
 of the British Empire, it also gives you a good idea of what you're in for. Victoria is so overwhelming 
 and complex that you might feel as if you'd been hit by that opening-scene locomotive. Despite 
 having nearly a half-dozen voluminous games of historical strategy under its belt, Paradox Entertainment 
 is still tossing people in at the deep end. Add to this some truly spectacular technical problems, 
 and you've got a game that only diehards can appreciate.  

  Where Paradox's Europa Universalis games provided just enough information to keep you in the loop 
 without quite being overwhelming, Victoria practically tosses a filing cabinet at you. The complexity -- exacerbated 
 by the flatly incomprehensible absence of a tutorial, both in the game and in the skimpy manual -- is 
 staggering. Every nation that existed on Earth between 1836 and 1920 is depicted here, including 
 nearly 3,000 provinces. You can take charge of any country (from Great Powers like Britain and 
 France to relative trifles like Australia and Canada) in the solo or multiplayer (online or LAN) 
 Grand Campaign, which runs the full 84-year length of the time period. You can also opt to run 
 more limited scenarios, like the one that places you in charge of America at the onset of the US 
 Civil War in 1861 or the one that casts you in the role of Britain's leader in 1881, when she was 
 at her most powerful (added in the 1.01 patch) . Budgets are set, elections are held, technologies 
 are researched, provinces are colonized, revolts are suppressed, armies are built, wars are declared, 
 peace treaties are signed, neighbors are annexed, and so on. Everything that factored into the 
 running of a nation during the time when the sun never set on the British Empire represents an 
 important element here.  

  Not surprisingly, it takes many, many hours to figure out all of this stuff, and even then it's 
 hard to feel like you've got a handle on what's going on. It's simply impossible to play one of 
 the larger countries during one of your early games, since there are too many provinces to track. 
 Even later, once you've developed some familiarity with the gameplay, there is so much micromanagement 
 involved -- when running countries like the massive USA or the colony-rich Britain -- that it's preferable 
 to play smaller "starters" like Belgium and Sweden. Even then you have to wait for a long time, 
 as you must first build your social and economic infrastructure, get out of debt, and so on, before 
 doing anything else.  

          As with the Europa Universalis games, historical events sometimes require your participation. 
 Deciding a course of action here in Alabama could influence the outcome of the US Civil War.   
   

  The game's main problems are its density and its non-informative interface. The map is clean and 
 attractive (and will probably be very familiar to veterans of the Europa Universalis series) . Additionally, 
 the music is stirring. However, most screens are cluttered with pop-ups. Many can be shut down 
 or their functions turned over to the artificial intelligence -- although you then feel like too 
 much of the game is running on autopilot. As with Paradox's epic game of World War II strategy 
 Hearts of Iron, there doesn't seem to be a happy medium.  

  Another problematic issue with Victoria is that a major aspect of the game doesn't work very well. 
 Economics becomes a real issue later in the game. Money isn't properly redistributed -- perhaps because 
 of the sheer difficulty of creating a truly organic financial system -- which may be because Paradox 
 felt that the intricacies of such a system would bowl players over. At any rate, cash spent on 
 government programs, like those involving crime-fighting and education, doesn't go into the pockets 
 of the 10 population types to then be recirculated back into the economy; it just evaporates. So 
 you need a constant flow of money coming into the nation to pay all of the bills. This is when 
 you cue the world trade market, which has been tweaked so that you can sell goods even if nobody's 
 actually buying them. Because of this, nearly every nation on the planet can build a trade surplus 
 and make loads of cash. By the end of the 19th century, the Great Powers can each amass the equivalent 
 of Scrooge McDuck's money bin.  

  Additionally, nations can be wildly unbalanced, depending on region. This is a particular problem 
 in the New World, where -- if you can provide a relatively stable social situation with sound economic 
 policies -- European immigrants will eventually pour in. Your population will increase by leaps and 
 bounds, thus boosting your industry and trade to the point where you can construct massive armies 
 and navies that are powerful enough to conquer much of the globe. You can turn the USA into an 
 absolute monster, which, admittedly, isn't much of a stretch, but even smaller countries like Argentina 
 and Mexico have a shot at greatness once you improve social systems to the point where Europeans 
 see you as a worthwhile place to emigrate.  

  It may be difficult even to get Victoria running properly. We couldn't even get the game started, 
 initially. On two Windows XP machines, the game installed and booted without a hitch but dropped 
 to the desktop whenever we selected a scenario. The 1.01 patch didn't make a difference. Much experimentation 
 and trolling through the official support forums eventually solved the issue, which apparently 
 involved a conflict between XP and the Bink player that the game uses to play AVI files. Renaming 
 the AVI directory got the game started, though, of course, all cinematics were disabled.  

  Even after this, the game occasionally -- and apparently randomly -- crashed to the desktop, sporadically 
 froze while attempting to save or load games, and so on and so forth. Multiplayer doesn't seem 
 to work at all right now, due to lag and freeze-ups (not that there are ever any players on Paradox's 
 Valkyrienet matching service, anyway) . Judging by the many bug posts at the Victoria forums, these 
 issues are commonplace.  

          You can play as Mexico and battle Sam Houston in Texas for the fate of the Southwest. If 
 you emerge victoriously, you get the chance to expand Mexico all the way north to British Columbia. 
     

  With all that said, there is still something compelling about Victoria. Paradox makes a historical 
 game like no other developer, so the air of authenticity drives you on in light of the serious 
 flaws, like the ones noted above. Part of this is the allure of creating a believable alternate 
 reality. Because of the economic issues, just about every midrange country can be turned into an 
 absolute powerhouse. We've had games where Argentina became the dominant force in the Western Hemisphere, 
 where Austria conquered most of Europe, and where the Confederate States of America took out Washington 
 and annexed Canada. Since you never quite know where you're going to end up, once you get engrossed 
 in a campaign, it can be difficult to stop playing.  

  Victoria still remains a difficult game to truly like. The numerous bugs, the obtuse interface -- combined 
 with the lack of a tutorial -- and the design flaws make it positively unfriendly. Nothing draws 
 you in. Despite some wonderful depth and a great alternate-history ambience, this game is more 
 work than play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fidosim
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  If you're familiar with other Paradox titles, such as Europa Universalis or Hearts of Iron, you 
 know that they have a reputation for creating deep, rewarding gameplay that makes you think long 
 term rather than the short, flashy diversions other games seem to present nowadays.
  
  Well if you're wondering about Victoria, I can certainly tell you that it's just as complex as 
 the other titles. In fact it's more complex. It's actually so complex at times that I honestly 
 believe that this game may be more complicated than it is to actually run a real country.
  
  But the real question for Victoria is, once you've put the time and effort into climbing such 
 a steep learning curve, is there a worthy experience waiting for you? Why yes there is. If you 
 know what you're doing, this can be one of the most engaging, immersive, and downright addicting 
 games available. You can really get sucked into the world of managing your national budget, maintaining 
 your military, and watching the political spectrum of your country change over time. 
  
  Graphics really aren't a matter of much concern in this game. They do what they need to, and most 
 of your campaigns will be played out in a big old map of the world, with sprite guys representing 
 your military units.
  
  Overall, there's not much else I can tell you about Victoria. If you put the time and effort into 
 it (I still haven't figured everything out) You will be rewarded in the end with a fulfilling experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkerb103
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily my favorite strategy game made by paradox, and pretty much all other companies. 
 I have been playing the Europa Universalis games and I truly love them and I thought they were 
 the best games out there until I found Victoria. The EU games are great, but once I tried Victoria 
 I have found them too simple for my taste. It took me probably 2 weeks to fully understand how 
 to play but they were the best two weeks spent. The economic model and the government model really 
 shine and I find them much better than those in the EU games, I find myself trying to adjust taxes 
 and switch to a democracy far too often in EU. Overall I think this is one of the best games ever 
 and is completely underrated, and it's only drawback is the learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moraruro
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  This game is by far the most complex I have ever played. Indeed it is hard to learn to play it, 
 but once you have managed that, you will not want to play anything else. This game is a dream came 
 true for genuine strategy player! It is even more fun if you play it on multiplayer, strongly recommend 
 you to do that on LAN instead of Valkirye... This is due to the fact that the game tends to crash 
 some times (usually at a very important moment) but if you play on LAN, that problem is solved 
 90% at least.
  Try it, but be patient. You will see the charm of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pookieboy2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is very underrated by people. I love this game. I'm always looking for great 
 strategy games and this is def. one of the best I have ever played. If you like strategy games 
 then you will love Victoria. Just give it some time. I put the learning curve for 4 or more hours 
 because even after I learned the basics I still had to learn some more stuff to play better. Other 
 than that I would say it takes about 2 hours to start playing the game pretty well. P. S. Just because 
 you can't figure out one game doesn't mean it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreessen
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of Paradox's main line of Grand Strategy games. I've played Europa Universalis, Europa 
 Universalis 2, Crusader Kings, Victoria, Hearts of Iron, Heart of Iron 2, and Hearts of Iron 2: 
 Doomsday, each for a very long time. The replayability of their games is amazing, and I have gotten 
 many years of good solid gaming out of a number of their games. Victoria is the lone exception 
 to this rule. The micromanagement of your industry through the industrial age is not what I consider 
 to be very fun, and the lack of some key events such as the Treaty of Guadaloupe Hidalgo is frustrating 
 in the extreme. Perhaps this game plays better when taken from a European perspective, but the 
 gameplay in North America in the overall campaign really turned me off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Quality strategy game that follows on chronologically from its forerunner Europa Universalis II. 
 This game focuses on the late 19th and early 20th century, and has basically the same game engine 
 and interface as EUII, but is a little more complex. The problem with this is perhaps the time 
 in which its set. Gone are the days of Kings and Empire building - in this game, its not so easy 
 to make an impact on the world  one feels one has only a limited influence on events. Add this 
 fact to the games increased complexity, and that makes ones goals a little less clear and the 
 gameplay a little more like work than fun.
  
  Like EUII, this game has high value and game play ratings. Also, as EU, the graphics are not special. 
 The use of contemporary classical music scores compliment the game well, although some contempory 
 secular music wouldnt have gone amiss.
  
  Victoria is a good way to develop ones knowledge of the interest and complex political history 
 of Europe at that time, since the scenarios, events and people are all based on real world ones. 
 Im glad Paradox dared to bring out something like this, but I wouldn't recommend it unless you 
 have an interest in the period of history it covers, and a lot of time on your hands!
  
  Other strategy games pale in comparison to the Paradox series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 7, 2004 11:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good like its counterpart Hearts of Iron the game is basically about taking 
 the world and as much as you can in a certain time expansion limit. Well they did a little too 
 much remodeling of this game where the rules are ridicoules and take the fun out the game for instance 
 you cant annex any nation it has to be like a major nation. Ex: I was russia and I invaded Sweden 
 and I take all of Sweden but it wont let me annex at all and Partisians arise and my armys grow 
 weaker everytime they fight and almost all nations start with Negative manpower so you cant refit 
 your armys just put the rest that have survived in and hope for the best I found that really stupid 
 but they did make some changes in the menus I liked such as tax of the rich, poor, middle class. 
 And technology is in catagorys now such as Military, Economy, Industry etc. But this game is OK 
 if you can get past some of its stupid rules that really need to be changed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkwizard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2003 3:15 pm PT
Review:  There are aspects of "Victoria" that could use work. It doesn't have a tutorial, the manual is 
 totally inadequate, and it's very, very complicated. I pick up most games quickly, yet "Victoria" 
 took me over a day to finally figure out. And I'm still not sure about some gameplay aspects. Once 
 you decode how the economic system works, however -- it's a lot of fun, particularly if you're into 
 this sort of thing. It just takes time.
  
  This isn't a game for everyone. Obviously, "Victoria" wasn't the Gamespot reviewer's cup of tea. 
 He tends to make the assumption that a good game can't be complicated and hard to master. I disagree 
 because this title has a lot to offer if you have the patience to get through it. 
  
  "Victoria" is definitely a thinking man's experience. Overall, I'm very pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fizzy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2003 8:14 am PT
Review:  Im going to keep this short.
  
  This game is about empire building in the 19th century. You can choose almost any country and start 
 to expand your control, or in some cases just stuggle to survive.
  
  For any of you who have played Paradox's previous strategy games you should know that when it comes 
 to depth, thier games are the Grand Canyon of the genre. There is little you can't do and for first 
 timers it will take a while for you to get into the whole empire building and more importantly 
 managing side of things.
  
  Once you get your head around this game it will keep you up all nite as you just try to expand 
 one more colony or fight one more war. This is grand startegy at its best.
  
  Its not fair to rate this game on graphics since its just mainly maps and charts, everything there 
 is colorful and clear. Sound as well is merely classical music from the time period that fits the 
 flavour of this game quite well, the battle sound effects are more than adequate.
  
  When it comes to gameplay and value this game truly shines. Understanding the game dynamics and 
 the interface are the main challenges, it is best to start with a small country that is easy to 
 manage, Belgium or the Netherlands, this will help you get a grasp of the gameplay mechanics. Once 
 you understand the functions of the game this game takes off and doesnt let you go. Every time 
 you play the game there will be a different result and these game usually have a strong mod community 
 that continues to build new scenarios and additions.
  
  Overall this is a great game for those who have patience and love history. It is one of the few 
 games where you truly feel in control of the globe, and its a great feeling. Release your inner 
 meglomaniac! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
