-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Vietcong 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/vietcong2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Challenging combat that captures the feel of the real thing.
 Two campaigns let you battle from US or VC perspectives.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dated graphics and slow performance, even on high-end machines.
 Short campaigns (the VC campaign is almost a vignette).
 Can be frustrating at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.0, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 480 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Pterodon
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Oct 24, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like its predecessor, Vietcong 2 offers up some challenging gameplay, though it's plagued by technical 
 issues and short campaigns. 

  Given the dubious results of the Vietnam War, it was a bit surprising when publishers, after having 
 exhausted World War II for stories, started to turn out Vietnam War games a few years ago. This 
 resulted in a wave of Vietnam games, with the majority of them being utterly forgettable. A few 
 did make distinct impressions, including Vietcong, an immersive first-person shooter developed 
 by Pterodon, a Czech Republic studio (of all places) . Well, it's time to get back to the jungle 
 with Vietcong 2, the follow-up to 2003's original, which picks up almost exactly where its predecessor 
 left off. That's because Vietcong 2, like its predecessor, exhibits some great qualities but still 
 suffers from technical issues that affect its performance. Furthermore, it's a game that hasn't 
 aged as well as you might hope.         You can play as a captain in the US Army battling to take 
 back the city of Hue...     

  Vietcong 2 shifts gears from the actual jungle to the urban jungle, as the story this time centers 
 around the brutal fighting in and around the city of Hue in the days leading up to and after the 
 infamous Tet Offensive of 1968. The sequel actually boasts two campaigns, and this time you can 
 play from either the perspective of a US officer or a Vietcong guerilla. Though in truth, the VC 
 campaign is all but a vignette, as it's a fraction of the length of the US campaign. In addition 
 to the campaigns, you still retain the ability to play any completed single-player mission in quick 
 play against a host of enemies, and there's also a full-fledged, if rudimentary, multiplayer suite 
 at your disposal.  

  The meat of the game is in the single-player campaign. And in the US storyline, you are Captain 
 Daniel Boone of the United States Army, who's assigned to MACV (aka the Military Assistance Command, 
 Vietnam) . Like in a gritty Vietnam War movie, Vietcong 2 tries to immerse you in the atmosphere 
 of the war, so you actually start the game in a brothel before you travel to headquarters to get 
 your first assignment. Nothing unseemly is seen or happens, as this sequence is mainly for you 
 to chat with your fellow officers and to get the sense that this isn't your typical first-person 
 action game. Unfortunately, once the action starts, Vietcong 2 eschews the talking and exploring 
 part of the storyline to transition in to a fairly straightforward shooter where you and your squad 
 must battle the Vietcong level after level. The US campaign actually has a nice twist about midway 
 through that serves as the introduction to the VC campaign. Though in the end, it's something of 
 a disappointment. The VC campaign lets you play as a Vietcong guerilla that joins up with the insurgents 
 after your village is destroyed by South Vietnamese soldiers. However, it's so short it can't really 
 be considered a campaign. All it covers is your journey from your village to the city of Hue. And 
 once you arrive, the VC campaign is over.  

  It takes a while to get used to Vietcong 2's gameplay, especially if you didn't play the original 
 game. If you're a first-person shooter veteran, then you're used to running around in the open, 
 blasting guys and then picking up health packs before repeating the process again. That's something 
 you can't do in Vietcong 2. While there are health packs to be found, Vietcong 2 is also a game 
 where you must use cover at all times if you want to survive, because the combat can be downright 
 brutal. In many ways, Vietcong 2 is sort of a cross between a Call of Duty-style run-and-gun shooter 
 and a more realistic tactical shooter. Thankfully, the game gives you the ability to "peek" over 
 or around whatever cover you're huddling behind when you fire your rifle to get a good sense of 
 what real combat is like. The enemy soldiers aren't too smart about shifting around, but they do 
 take advantage of cover themselves, and they'll peek out to fire potshots at you -- unless they're 
 being suppressed. Your own teammates are a mixed bag in terms of intelligence, as they're sometimes 
 good about getting behind cover and laying down covering fire, but they also do crazy things, like 
 rushing forward into the open or constantly getting in your line of fire. They can also perform 
 some cool moves that really make you feel like you're in a battle, such as roll for cover or leap 
 over obstacles. Unfortunately, you can't execute these moves yourself.  

  Both campaigns don't actually have that many levels, so this is generally a "short" game by that 
 standard. However, just because there aren't a lot of levels doesn't mean that you won't spend 
 a lot of time trying to get through them, because this can be a brutally tough experience. Thanks 
 to the "realistic" combat, the smallest mistake can get you killed in a heartbeat, which means 
 you have to go back to the last checkpoint or save point. And you only get a limited number of 
 quick saves, depending on the difficulty level, so you have to parcel them out carefully. Otherwise 
 you'll have to redo long sequences over and over until you get them right. Even then, though, you'll 
 be hard-pressed to find 10 hours of gameplay in the single-player campaign. The multiplayer suite 
 isn't much stronger. Vietcong 2 features the standard multiplayer modes, such as deathmatch and 
 team deathmatch, but the gameplay is fairly generic, and the levels are fairly basic. There is 
 a cooperative mode that will let you play alongside other players against the computer, at least. 

          ... or you can play as a Vietcong guerilla in the very brief VC campaign.     

  It doesn't help that the game suffers from all sorts of performance issues. On a high-end machine, 
 we suffered through countless stutters and hitches, and that's even after sliding the visual and 
 physics options down to the middle settings. This is unacceptable in a shooter, particularly one 
 where you can't afford to make a mistake. We had to tone down the settings quite a bit to get the 
 game to run without a hitch. And the inexplicable thing is that the game doesn't look like it's 
 that demanding. From a visual perspective, the graphics are decent, but they're also dated. Meanwhile, 
 the animations are downright clunky at times. The graphics engine hasn't kept pace with the latest 
 in dynamic lighting or pixel and vertex shaders, and Vietcong 2 looks and feels very much like 
 a 2003-era shooter. And when you get down to it, there are tons of shooters that look far more 
 complex than Vietcong 2 but run at much higher frame rates. The audio in Vietcong 2 is at least 
 stronger than the visuals, though it does get a bit annoying to hear your squadmates repeat the 
 same lines over and over again ("Kill a commie for Christ" becomes grating after the 50th time 
 you've heard it) .  

  Ultimately, Vietcong 2 is a game that doesn't improve too much on its predecessor. And while it's 
 a fairly challenging game in some respects, it's also one that suffers from numerous flaws. There 
 are flashes of goodness in Vietcong 2, but it would have been nice to have seen the noncombat portions 
 of the game extended throughout the story to give you a sense of what Vietnam was like between 
 the firefights. Still, those firefights can be challenging and immersive, even when you do get 
 bogged down by technical issues.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  the conflict in vietnam was a contradiction from start to finish..
  civilians were considered enemie troops during the conflict and many were forced to fight.
  vietcong 
 2 offeres u a similare experience and mostly seemingly incomplete yet it has very smart and difficult 
 to kill NPC's (non player controled.. yeh.. it sounds geekish!) .. and fun multiplayer!...
  i'll now list down the results of what i think!
  its very:
  -engaging
  -fast-paced
  -hard
 
  -historical
  -short
  its not!:
  -easy
  -pritty
  there it is.. ut it also contains boobie traps (if ur imature get over it.. hehehe.. boobie) .. so u 
 will need to watch ur step in the jungle 
  and this game contains tons of glitzes and u will c that it isnt well animated and all.. but all 
 and all it has a fun multiplayer and is quiet enjoyable!..
  i need more friends so add me on myspace my url is:
  
 
  so.. later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveman_Ci
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  i thought this game would be pretty damn amazing, considering that the first vietcong game was 
 a breath of fresh air from army fps. But the game play just doesnt cut it in my books. Don't know 
 if its the fact that its not set cruising about the jungle or not but it just doesn't have a great 
 feel.
  
  The multiplayer aspect isnt great either, vietcong was and probably still is one of my favourite 
 games to play online/lan with great map design and weapon balance.
  
  I just wished they hadnt ruined the formula from the first vietcong... but still worth the low 
 low price of 5 just for a cheap and easy game to play through to kill some time on a budget :P
 
  
  but then again, just buy the first game instead and enjoy it for hours online :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  When I was in college, I worked at the campus computer store with a really cool guy. He was a Non-Traditional 
 Student in his early thirties who went far and saw much during his time with the 75th Ranger Regiment. 
 He shared a number of stories with me (as many as he could, anyway, since he took the classified 
 elements of the Armys duties and training programs very seriously) about a number of things: the 
 insane nightlife in some of the overseas cities in which he was occasionally stationed (Protip: 
 stay away from wild-eyed Navy SEALs who are drunk on formaldehyde-tainted beer during shore leave 
 in the Philippines) , the trio of utterly Playmate-gorgeous young Ukrainian ladies who taught his 
 detachment in a class on how to speak Russian, sniper school, and, yes, even a few war stories 
 from his brief tour during the first Gulf War. His favorite subject, however, focused on the battles 
 fought by a generation or two before his: the intervention known simply as The Nam. It was through 
 my buddys expertise on Vietnam that I first learned of the underhanded trick that was the Tet 
 Offensive, in which the VC and NVA kicked off a tactically unsuccessful but nonetheless bloody 
 push into the friendly half of the country during the formal observance of the Lunar New Year.
 
  
  The emotional impact of that Trojan Horse-style snub was enormous, both in my own mind and in the 
 historical recollection of my coworker, which he based largely upon the accounts of older soldiers 
 who actually witnessed the blitz. Using that startling event as the backdrop for Vietcong 2 works 
 fairly well, as the games protagonist begins his journey soaking up the benefits of the celebratory 
 truce at the local brothel, followed by what he assumes will be an easy babysitting gig for an 
 American reporter. VC2 builds suspense during those expository scenes at the Giao Thua party, as 
 various officials fatefully proclaim the war a done deal (with the exception of a cautionary cameo 
 from VC1s Captain Rosenfeld) . The player is introduced to the action with an excellent little 
 cutscene (in fact, all of the games cinematics are its strongest suit) that ends with an RPG round 
 to the face. What follows is a series of regrettably repetitive room-to-room, house-to-house, and 
 even street-to-street battles that, Im sorry to say, eventually fail to sustain the momentum of 
 the tense retreat to and defense of home base. Even though I tend to prefer well-staged waypoint 
 crawls and on-rails sequences to other FPS conventions (like, for instance, the obligatory exercises 
 in sneaking around that were shoehorned into VC1 and its expansion) , the gameplay in VC2 was hampered 
 by odd glitches and the enemys apparent tendency to, once again, target only me in favor of an 
 entire squad of friendlies. I completely understand that the latter is necessary to prevent the 
 possibility of a stale bot match, but the scapegoating certainly led to a high number of quickloads 
 on higher levels of difficulty. Also, the game ran very poorly on my moderately powerful rig even 
 with the physics detail (my favorite component) turned all the way down.
  
  Vietcong 2's combat mechanics and character animation were reminiscent of a rushed product or even 
 a budget title, and playing it after the comparatively solid proceedings of Vietcong and Fist Alpha 
 found the sequel lacking. Although the dramatic setting of the Tet Offensive was very compelling, 
 I found myself missing the jungle junkets through spacious highlands from the original. Which leads 
 me to my favorite levels in the game: serving as a fresh VC conscript for the enemy. Although playing 
 for the other team didnt really feel taboo, I also didnt relish the idea of doing so. However, 
 good virtual combat works regardless of the politics involved, and VC2's short secondary campaign 
 reminded me more of the general vibe found in the original. The main mission was adequately fun 
 even though it came across as a bargain-priced knockoff of Men of Valor. I recommend VC2 for anyone 
 who is fascinated by war stories, otherwise the Purple Haze pack for the original title is a much 
 better deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  Strike 1: Two attempted installs, two failures. To get this game installed involved having to copy 
 all the files to a folder on my hard drive and then running Setup. exe from there. It could not 
 complete installing from the CDs without failing every time.
  
  Strike 2: Multiple times, the game hung my system during combat sequences but worse than that the 
 incredibly stupid AI of my own squadmates repeatedly got me killed as I tried to manuever around 
 them for cover and they got in my way and would not move. At one point I was not only with these 
 idiots but several AI USMC troops in what servicemen sometimes call a cluster**** that again got 
 me killed as I was unable to take cover to reload in a fierce firefight.
  
  Strike 3: I found exactly one multiplayer server up with 5 other players on it but for reasons 
 unknown, the button to join was grayed-out so I couldn't join them to play online. I had the same 
 version of the game as they were playing on. The server was not passworded. I was logged into Gamespy 
 which they seem to require (I hate that also) but no joy.
  
  That was it for me. I uninstalled after spending maybe 5 or so hours with this game and getting 
 through several missions miraculously enough, despite my own squad constantly running interference.
 
  
  In addition to these gripes, the NPC models are ugly and crude looking while the graphics overall 
 are not especially good either although they are not terrible. The cursing and swearing is so overdone 
 as to be annoying, as are the other canned statements your own guys make in combat over and over. 
 The sound of the weapons is somewhat unsatisfying, the frame rate dropped to zero and stuttered 
 at times on a decent midrange PC that runs much better looking titles flawlessly and then as mentioned 
 previously multiple times the system just locked up requiring a reboot to regain control.
  
  The game was patched to the most current version during all this fun.
  
  Needless to say, 
 I don't hold this title in very high regard after that experience and my score reflects that. The 
 current user rating for this game is 6.6 and now I know why, although I think that score is actually 
 rather forgiving. So here we have a case where being all it's cracked up to be is not something 
 to get excited about. It is good reason to not to buy this game however, even at bargain bin price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathEaterR
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  Campaigns for both sides is a wonderful idea; but please do CARRY OUT that idea to the very end! 
 The US campaign is a little more interesting than the one in Vietcong in the sense that it tells 
 the story of Hue, which has not been done by many Vietnam shooters out in the market. Still, between 
 the jungle and the city, I'd take the jungle. Why? Simply because that's what Vietnam (during the 
 war) truly was: a hellish jungle battlefield. It was nice (for awhile) to see the urban warfare, 
 but then it starts to get monotonous because your team-mates just don't die. You can throw them 
 a frickin' grenade, shoot 'em up then send them to Hell and they'd still be in ONE PIECE saying, 
 "Piece o' cake, Cap!" If that really were what happened, the Commies would have gotten their asses 
 handed to them so fast that they couldn't even finish saying "Ho Chih Minh"!
  
  Graphics-wise, Vietcong 2 is pretty OK. They managed to render the city (well) as one deserted 
 Commie-infested **** that Capt Boone and his mates have to liberate. Rag-doll physics are an absolute 
 beauty (everybody play  game) and the gun modelling is superb. 
 Realism-freaks, watch out though. This game is more of an arcade-tactical shooter rather than a 
 realistic-Rainbow Six styled game. 
  
  Cheats were well-placed, especially "erikgun" for the fireworks-shooter. It shoots out fireworks, 
 and the fireworks explode like minibombs. Commies will then join the birds for a brief stint of 
 flight in the sky, courtesy of Pterodon. 
  
  Casual gamers, go ahead. Vietnam-realism lovers, I'd advise you guys to stay away. Vietcong 2's 
 fun for a casual game, but it definitely is not in the league of Rainbow-Six or SWAT realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khalid_power
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  The game Vietcong 2 is really amazing, because it takes you in the middle of the Vietnamese war. 
 You begin the game by playing in the American campaign and eventually you will be able to play 
 the Vietnamese campaign.
  
  Each of the campaigns is really amazing and has its special unique scenarios. The game is not limited 
 you can choose more then one way to go through your campaign and most of the time you are backed 
 with soldiers. Most of the time you have a medic in the squad who heals you and your squad members 
 and himself. 
  
  In other words If you like games like: Brothers in arms, calls of duty and so on for sure you will 
 like this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CANAKP
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  If you loved the first one like i did, you'll probably enjoy the sequel too. However i should admit 
 that the game has some very serious issues. The graphics seem to be a little rusty or out of date 
 if i might say. Also by means of controlling your character, the game system acts like a bumpy 
 road. 
  
  The makers also had made the mistake of copying another game's well known side. The way of commanding 
 your troops is the exact same way of the Game "Brothers in Arms". Even the symbol of troop movement 
 is the same. This behaviour gave me an itchy feeling about the whole project. I think the makers 
 shouldn't have copied the system entirely. At least they should have covered their tracks by changing 
 the icons.
  
  Despite all of these disadvantages the game deserves a few hours. The first one had some issues 
 and i managed to play it anyway. Maybe you should rent it first an see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prodkss
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  Damn it! , there was no worse way to spend my hard earned money!
  This game is a piece of s@#$, poor graphics makes you think why they have done such a bad game 
 on the 21th century! 
  It is crystal clear that Pterodon does not deserve reverences for what they've done, and I think 
 even the most fan of vietnam will like this thing people call game.
  I have one last thing to say : don't bother about this game , and if you was wondering about buying 
 this game, FORGET IT! this is a crappy game !
  
  
  Sorry for any english errors , I'm Brazilian.
  Thx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando8535
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  It's been almost three years since the original Vietcong appeared on the shelves of stores since 
 then Pterodon have been working on there sequel Vietcong 2.
  
  Vietcong 2 was a complete turn around from the lush jungles of the Central Highlands this time 
 you play as Capt. Daniel Boone a soldier assigned to MACV in Hue and like most soldier's in the 
 war one that thinks that the US can't win a Guerilla war with tanks and bombs.
  
  I'll get right into the chase of this review.
  
  Game play:
  This time your enemies are smarter 
 than ever, every corner you turn is an ambush every alley you run is your grave your teammates 
 that accompany you are either complete idiots or suicidal maniacs. The command system isn't "there" 
 the guys who made Vietcong 2 I guess tried to copy the command system of Brothers in Arms but failed 
 in every single way possible, if you order your team to hide behind a car for instance they instead 
 hide in front of the car, albeit there good shots but being a good shot is one thing being a fully 
 alert soldier is another, firefights are well done there quick and deadly and intense, you have 
 to use your brains for this game as running and making a direct assault will send you 6 feet under. 
 The NVA and VC however suddenly become snipers, they make shots that are not possible, they shoot 
 faster and are much or aggressive (Literally) . Like VC1, VC2 has a lot of bugs and glitches, the 
 problem of the collision detection wasn't fixed as you can still poke your head out through a door, 
 or the VC will shoot through the walls. If you were a fan of the quick fight feature of the game 
 then I'm sorry to say that it was taken out (god knows why they took out a important part of the 
 SP) . There is also a VC campaign which unfortunately I have not yet tried.
  
  Sound:
  The soundtrack is ok, they used the original soundtrack of VC but with a rock twist to it (it's 
 not that good to tell you the truth) , the menu music however is another story I liked the menu 
 music. The weapon sounds they don't feel right, there either too soft or sound like a distorted 
 television. The voice acting isn't glamorous either, Hawkins and Rosenfield they sound way too 
 old, Some of the Vietnamese English is so bad that you can't make out what there saying, you'll 
 hear the same line several thousand times.
  
  Graphics:
  3 years and you would think that Pterodon would create a better and powerful engine, think again 
 the Graphics are just outdated, there still using graphics from 2001, its ok but I've seen better 
 allot better. The gun models however are amazing albeit there a little big.
  
  Special Effects:
  The game has some effects, like the destruction caused by a shell, the explosions 
 are pretty nice to watch and seeing a tank blow a building up with Charlie inside is ever so sweet. 
 The Cinematic of this game is some of the best I've seen, it's basically a news report and it's 
 safe to say that the graphics and sound are better in the Cinematic.
  
  Cool Features:
  VC2 has some nifty little features, this time you can travel around the base and actually have 
 conversations with the soldiers around, you'll hear in the first 3 missions about the Marines getting 
 the hell beat out of them, you'll even see our old friend Steve who's sitting at a bar (drunk) 
 and talking about Nui Pek, you'll hear some Marine vs. Army chatter/jokes and see Boone duke it 
 out with a Marine.
  
  the interaction is this game is one of the few highlights of this game.
  
  Bugs and Problems:
 
  VC2 is full of bugs its basically the same bugs as in VC2, the Problems are endless I had to return 
 my copy today to exchange for another because the CD Key wasn't valid, I had reinstall three times 
 because of the 99% bug.
  
  But VC2 is also only a handful of games that capture the essence of Vietnam, Hue wasn't a pretty 
 battle it was basically the Ortona or Caen of Vietnam, this game makes you afraid to step into 
 another room (knowing that Charlie is inside with a shotgun pointed to your head) it gives you 
 a sense of vulnerability (This isn't a run and gun game as mentioned, sometimes you'll be alone 
 and have to take out a shack or make your way through a building) this game shows what it was like 
 in Hue (given that nothing beats real life experience) and a game that casts a new shadow, a shadow 
 that cost many sailors, soldiers, marines and airmen their innocence and for some there lives.
 
  
  Overall this game is ok, If you were a hardcore fan of VC1 (like I was) then you may or may not 
 like it, if your looking to play a game that captures Vietnam then I suggest that you give VC1 
 a whirl or what until Pterodon comes out with VC3 or a bigger company (like Ubisoft and EA take 
 Vietnam for a spin) if your new to the game then I wouldn't suggest it this game for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The meat of the game is in the single-player campaign. And in the US storyline, you are Captain 
 Daniel Boone of the United States Army, who's assigned to MACV (aka the Military Assistance Command, 
 Vietnam) . Like in a gritty Vietnam War movie, Vietcong 2 tries to immerse you in the atmosphere 
 of the war, so you actually start the game in a brothel before you travel to headquarters to get 
 your first assignment. Nothing unseemly is seen or happens, as this sequence is mainly for you 
 to chat with your fellow officers and to get the sense that this isn't your typical first-person 
 action game. Unfortunately, once the action starts, Vietcong 2 eschews the talking and exploring 
 part of the storyline to transition in to a fairly straightforward shooter where you and your squad 
 must battle the Vietcong level after level. The US campaign actually has a nice twist about midway 
 through that serves as the introduction to the VC campaign. Though in the end, it's something of 
 a disappointment. The VC campaign lets you play as a Vietcong guerilla that joins up with the insurgents 
 after your village is destroyed by South Vietnamese soldiers. However, it's so short it can't really 
 be considered a campaign. All it covers is your journey from your village to the city of Hue. And 
 once you arrive, the VC campaign is over.
  
  It takes a while to get used to Vietcong 2's gameplay, especially if you didn't play the original 
 game. If you're a first-person shooter veteran, then you're used to running around in the open, 
 blasting guys and then picking up health packs before repeating the process again. That's something 
 you can't do in Vietcong 2. While there are health packs to be found, Vietcong 2 is also a game 
 where you must use cover at all times if you want to survive, because the combat can be downright 
 brutal. In many ways, Vietcong 2 is sort of a cross between a Call of Duty-style run-and-gun shooter 
 and a more realistic tactical shooter. Thankfully, the game gives you the ability to "peek" over 
 or around whatever cover you're huddling behind when you fire your rifle to get a good sense of 
 what real combat is like. The enemy soldiers aren't too smart about shifting around, but they do 
 take advantage of cover themselves, and they'll peek out to fire potshots at you -- unless they're 
 being suppressed. Your own teammates are a mixed bag in terms of intelligence, as they're sometimes 
 good about getting behind cover and laying down covering fire, but they also do crazy things, like 
 rushing forward into the open or constantly getting in your line of fire. They can also perform 
 some cool moves that really make you feel like you're in a battle, such as roll for cover or leap 
 over obstacles. Unfortunately, you can't execute these moves yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgez
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  Vietcong 2 has better graphics, more classes, more weapons, and drivable vehicles. Unlike the first 
 VC, VC2 uses a rag doll effect when people die. It makes it more realistic.
  
  One of the biggest cons that I can see so far is the iron sight aiming. Very poor, The iron sights 
 are large and blocky, it makes it very difficult to aim at a target far away when the iron sight 
 is twice as big as your target. For example, the sight on an M16 on VC is a small and thin, on 
 VC2 the sight is much larger and shaped like a rectangle. Maybe it takes some getting used to, 
 but VC dominates VC2 in this regard.
  
  Overall VC is more playable than VC2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emt-k999
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  Goody! At last a sequel to Vietcong, the immersive FPS that put you deep in the jungles of 'Nam.....
 
  
  It still retains many of the good points as the original & some new stuff:
  - The skill of aiming and cover required to hit anything and avoid being hit is still there
  
 - The opportunity to play as the VC
  - More weapons, all of which are accurately researched and contemporary to the time period (even 
 if there are debates about which were actually used in Vietnam)
  - Realistic limits on sprinting to account for fatigue
  - Use of heavy weapons and vehicles
 
  - Change of scene to urban street fighting, setting new challenges and tactics
  - Limits on amounts of ammo/first aid holdable by engineer/medic classes in MP (more realistic)
 
  - Continues storyline of VC (talk to as many characters as possible in the scene setting early 
 missions)
  
  However, it's not all good news, several issues are readily apparent;
  
  - Tech flaws & bugs: I've escaped most, but keep loosing MP connectivity due to a CD key flaw (admittedly 
 this appears to be more Game Spy's fault)
  
  - Clunky team command system: The new C&C method for squadmates in the SP campaign takes getting 
 used to & you will often have your head blown off whilst standing out of cover to try and plant 
 a cursor on the spot you want to tell your squad to move to in the early stages
  
  - No Quick Fights: Single missions don't lend themselves to one off play and are obviously repetitve, 
 but the QF option with the variabilities in settings expanded the options and challenges for off 
 line SP play, but it's not in VC2
  
  - Unrealistic engineer: In the original Vietcong you couldn't use the engineer to restock if you 
 picked up a VC weapon as understandably he wouldn't carry Soviet calibre rounds - but now he'll 
 restock anything which on some missions means you can mow down the enemy with RPG or SVD rounds
 
  
  - Invincible squad: One of the tricky parts of original VC SP was working with your team not just 
 to effectively kill the enemy, but to stay alive - let a squad member stray too far & he dies, 
 it's mission failed. But now, although they can still get dropped they don't die, but writhe around 
 until the medic arrives (who also always heals) . The only way to get a mission failing squad death 
 is if you frag them yourself. You can effectively send your squad in to complete a lot of some 
 missions as a result.
  
  - Worst Point of all, TOO SHORT!: This game has the length of an expansion pack, not a full game. 
 I finished the game in less than a week 7 that's not a full non-stop week as I work 5 days. The 
 VC campaign is a short afterthought and the US campaign isn't much better when you realise the 
 first two missions are just non combat scene setters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chavez_US
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  Requires a video card with pixel shader 2.0 or better. Installation problems. CD Key in use problem. 
 VC2. ded server crashes. Very laggy FPS isuues in Single player and Multiplayer modes. No voicecom 
 like in VC1. Limited number of maps. Gamespy server problems. No support from Take2.
  
  Supposedly these issues will be fixed. My recommendation is to stick to VC1 until these problems 
 are fixed. 
  
  We at V. E. T. keep the latest information reguarding this game and VC1 at our website. 
  
  www. VietnamEliteTeamwork. com
 
  
  We have provided some of the best Coop maps for the Coop community, which we have made the Artificial 
 Intelligence just as smart and good as you are.... prepare for war in VET servers...
  
  At our website you will find forums with information on how to edit maps for VC1 and how to use 
 3dsmax6 for making terrains for the game. We are primarily a Coop Community, but half of our 120+ 
 members play Capture the Flag as well... As soon as the patch and editor are released for Vc2, there 
 will be a few Custom maps we have made to be released shortly afterward....
  
  Chavez_US 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I tried out several professions in an attempt to get a clear perspective of what the game offers. 
 In EVERY profession, I found a very limited and static amount of what many players call "Grinding", 
 where a character must perform a mundane and repetitive task in order to advance. At some point, 
 your character just plateaus, and then must jump through some very boring hoops. Eventually you 
 get through to bigger and better things. Overall, it is an experience that brings you back to the 
 game for more. There are many places to see, static quests to accomplish, creatures to fight. Many 
 try to become a Jedi of some kind, unlocking the elusive Force-Sensitive character. More grinding.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but the polygon count can get quite high. Invest in a nice pixel shader 
 card if you want to play this for very long. Your swap file will get punished unless you have at 
 least a gig of ram. There are great video settings, tho, that let you control MANY aspects of the 
 detail in the game, right down to which pixel shader version you will use.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Annihilator007
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 12:24 am PT
Review:  Ok so I'm writing this review about a game which first version was pretty good. Cool nice action 
 game play in de jungles etc. You really had the feeling you were really there. Vietcong 2 however 
 doesn't give me that feeling. This time you start your missions in a city and all you can do is 
 shoot run shoot run. The AI is also pretty much from good. I looks sometimes more like Serious 
 Sam 2 than a realistic action game and that's to bad. So people, if you wanna play a good Vietnam 
 game take Vietcong 1!
  
  (This review has been writtin with not the knowledge about the full game, that's because I quit 
 playing it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:41 am PT
Review:  This game have a lot of features: co-op, drivable vehicles and lots of real authentic weapons like 
 the AK-58 and the XM-177-E2 (versions of the famous AK-47 and the M-16) .
  The single player is very short probably because Pterdon wanted to do another single player for 
 Vietnam. however to unlock the vietnam single player you have to complete all the levels of the 
 US single player.
  The good thing: cool experience and story of the both sides US and Vietnam
  The bad thing: very 
 very short single player of the both sides and some annoying bugs. The enemy AI isn't worse but 
 still it doesn't good as games like SPLINTER CELL or FAR CRY.
  
  The multi-player is very fun. All of the maps have some cool ways to get into the enemy's side. 
 but still there are a lot of bugs in the multi-player maps especially when you shoot in the enemy 
 and the enemy doesn't get killed 
  
  vietcong game could be better and get a score of 8.0 to 9.0
  but all of those annoying bugs make 
 him a game of 7.0 to 8.0
  for those who like the first Vietcong this is the game for you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xp0svolc0mx
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This game, if it wasn't for the bugs and problems surrounding it, it would be above average. But 
 the out-dated game play and graphics are just hurting the game. The graphics, excuse me, are actually 
 good, nothing special. IF you liked the first vietcong, then you should give this one a try. But 
 if your looking for something different, i dont suggest it.
  
  Pros: Nice graphics, some intense moments.
  
  Cons: To many bugs, out-dated game play.
  
 
  This game is not bad at all, its on par. But this game is not worth the waste of money unless 
 you were a diehard vietcong fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Van_Faulk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 9:38 am PT
Review:  Well this is a game that wipes out all other Vietnam games. This is a strong and fast playing single 
 and multiplayer first person shooter! If you like war games based around that rough rough age of 
 bloodshred and horror, then this is the game for you. Its action blows you away as 2K swing out 
 this action packed shooter. Its characters are excellent, Creating one of yourown characters for 
 multiplayer is just what you need for your own personal enjoyment. This by far will knock out BattleField 
 Vietnam by 3 seconds with this games amazing graphics and physics engine. There are, yet again, some 
 disadvantages to this mind blowing game. When playing this game ata fast pace during multiplayer 
 the weapons are very inacurrate. You may have to center your gun throught the sight or scope to 
 kill you enemy (You may be dead by then so I suggest you make it snappy. The models or bodies of 
 you or your enemy are fairly wide and blocky. The physics engine is 2 thumbs up. Your body bounces 
 around when grenades or machine guns blow or riddle you apart. Weapons yet again are extremely 
 unreal. The mass amounts weaponarly and explosives are just incredible. One player is excellent 
 Very exciting and you will imediatley get sucked into the campain of this war and may last you 
 a good while. Graphics are just incredible whether you have the lowest or the highest graphics 
 card of the year you will be amazed by this games and for its real time graphics and explosions.
 
  
  Overall this a rather intriguing game and its the most addictive vietnam game since Vietcong 1. 
 So sit back and enjoy this game will suck you in!!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
