-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Vietcong
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/vietcong/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.8, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,075 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Pterodon
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Mar 26, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Vietcong has a lot of great qualities, so it's unfortunate that some technical issues detract both 
 from its performance and its presentation. 

  Up until a couple of years ago, the humid jungles of Vietnam were all but uncharted territory for 
 gaming. But all of a sudden Vietnam games are all the rage. Developed by Czech Republic-based Pterodon 
 Team, Vietcong is neither the first such game to be released, nor will it be the last, considering 
 that at least one other Vietnam shooter is currently in development. It's an odd trend on the one 
 hand, but on the other, the appeal of this subject matter makes a lot of sense. The small-arms 
 guerilla warfare that characterized the conflict, which began in earnest in 1965 and ended in 1973, 
 can make for just the sort of tension-filled, tactical, relatively close-range combat that fans 
 of first-person shooters love. And Vietcong, at its best, does deliver this. It also often does 
 an excellent job of establishing its setting, helping make the experience more dramatic and more 
 cinematic. Vietcong has a lot of great qualities both as a single-player game and as a multiplayer 
 game, so it's unfortunate that some technical issues detract both from its performance and its 
 presentation.           The enemy can attack from any direction in the jungles of 'Nam.    

  Vietcong features a complete single-player campaign, a single-player quick-mission mode that 
 throws you into an enemy-infested area per your specification, and a fully featured multiplayer 
 mode with a built-in server browser for finding open game sessions online. The quick-mission and 
 multiplayer modes let you play as either the Americans or the Vietcong, but in the campaign, you'll 
 assume the role of Sergeant First Class Steve Hawkins, who is transferred to a Special Forces unit 
 based in Nui Pek Camp at the start of the game. Here Hawkins will meet his other squadmates, including 
 Vietnamese point man Le Duy Nhut and loudmouthed machine gunner C. J. Hornster. Clearly, Vietnam 
 War movies like  Platoon  and  Full Metal Jacket  informed and inspired Vietcong as much as any 
 history books did, but in any case, the character-driven plot works well to make the campaign more 
 engaging. The events of the campaign are predictable enough in and of themselves, but they may 
 take you by surprise as they come up, and they're the sorts of experiences you'd probably hope 
 to get out of a first-person shooter set during the Vietnam War. Between creeping through the foliage 
 with your squad, hoping to spot any camouflaged VC before they spot you, and lurking all alone 
 through the VC's elaborate tunnel networks, wondering if you'll ever see the light of day again, 
 Vietcong's campaign by and large hits the right notes.  

  This is due in no small part to the game's artificial intelligence for both friendly and enemy 
 forces. The AI isn't perfect, and it does occasionally exhibit strange behavior, but when combined 
 with Vietcong's realistic motion-captured animation, the AI makes for some pretty convincing action 
 more often than not. You'll see your squadmates gesturing to each other when the coast is clear, 
 vaulting over or crouching under felled trees that are in their way, bolting for cover when under 
 fire, and more. As squad leader, you're free to lead the charge, and your teammates will follow 
 suit. Alternately, you can ask your point man to lead the way.   

  Enemy forces, meanwhile, will always fight from behind cover, and they do a fine job of making 
 themselves difficult to spot. They are tenacious and tend to have superior numbers, and they seem 
 more brave than foolhardy. They'll retreat if injured and will keep their heads down when under 
 fire. Realistic tactics work against them. When the rest of your squad is pinned down by embedded 
 VC forces, often you can take the initiative and flank the enemy, catching them completely off 
 guard for a satisfying victory. At other times, you'll be caught off guard yourself, either by 
 enemy fire or by booby traps. Vietcong uses a combination of sporadic autosave checkpoints and 
 a limited save system to strike a good balance between letting you save your progress as necessary 
 but not allowing you to abuse a save-anywhere feature, which would make the shooting sequences 
 trivial. In another testament to the game's AI, when you do end up replaying certain battles, you'll 
 notice that they play out differently on successive attempts -- the enemy behavior isn't just scripted. 
           In the campaign, your Special Forces squadmates will watch your back and help you fight. 
    

  A good variety of realistically modeled weapons are available in the game, including mainstays 
 such as the M16 and AK-47, the classic M1 Garand, the M60 machine gun, and the Dragunov sniper 
 rifle. Plenty of side arms, submachine guns, and explosives can also be picked up and used, though 
 you're restricted to carrying only one weapon of each type at a time, so you'll need to choose 
 wisely and often salvage weapons from fallen foes. Any weapon can be shot from the hip like in 
 any other first-person shooter, or you can bring it up to eye level and steady your aim for more 
 accurate firing. What's extremely helpful is that this aiming mode also automatically causes you 
 to peek up from behind cover. You can move from a crouched or prone position, and keeping a low 
 profile not only makes you a harder target, but it also improves your accuracy. You'll rarely fight 
 from behind ideal cover, but you'll still quickly learn to always use your surroundings to your 
 advantage, as that nearby tree or shrub can mean the difference between life and death if you manage 
 to position it between you and the enemy's bullets. Taking a bullet doesn't necessarily mean instant 
 death, but you can't survive more than a few direct hits. Again, the game makes a good compromise 
 between enjoyable action and gritty realism: A medic or a health pack can be used to quickly heal 
 your wounds, though you lose some of your maximum health for that mission each time you're injured. 
 All in all, the game does a good job of making you tread carefully, and it's legitimately challenging 
 much more often than frustrating.     

  As you play through the campaign, you'll unlock new weapons and scenarios for use in the quick-mission 
 mode. You'll also be able to play through the campaign missions as stand-alone scenarios at varying 
 difficulty settings, the hardest of which takes away all your graphical indicators, like your health 
 and ammo displays. The single-player game has good replay value, but of course there's the online 
 multiplayer mode, too. Seven different multiplayer variants are available, including the standard 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag modes. The others are assault team, which is 
 your basic Counter-Strike derivative with a character class system, pitting Americans against Vietcong 
 in a number of specific scenarios that tend to boil down to both teams meeting at a choke point 
 and killing each other; last man standing, which is a deathmatch where you can't respawn until 
 the end of a round, and he who doesn't die wins; real war, which is a capture the flag variant 
 with multiple flags; and cooperative, where players can team up against packs of AI-controlled 
 enemies. Multiplayer runs smoothly over a broadband connection, and plenty of servers are already 
 up and running, though online games are sometimes prone to crashes or disconnects.           A 
 map and a radio set up an artillery strike -- just be careful of where you have the goods delivered. 
    

  Sadly, that isn't the only technical issue that mars Vietcong. The game attempts to auto-detect 
 your graphics card settings when you begin play, but it does a pretty lousy job of it, defaulting 
 to a low resolution even on systems that could easily do better. Or rather,  should  be able to 
 easily do better. The biggest problem early adopters of Vietcong are experiencing is the game's 
 proprietary 3D engine runs at a suboptimal and inordinately slow frame rate on relatively fast 
 machines that should be getting much better performance. For many users, this problem is due to 
 the fact that the CD-ROM is constantly being accessed during play, though there are some workarounds 
 that fix this problem. At any rate, it's possible to get Vietcong running smoothly if it doesn't 
 run smoothly on its own, though at this point it's not unreasonable to think that PC games shouldn't 
 require this sort of fine-tuning. The game has a few graphical blemishes, to boot, most notably 
 in the way characters will often clip right through their surroundings. This is especially noticeable 
 during indoor firefights, where fallen enemies can regularly be seen jutting right through solid 
 walls, each other, and more.  

  These problems with the visuals detract from an otherwise convincing graphical presentation. The 
 game's character models can look odd from certain angles, but they're rendered with impressive 
 detail, down to the whites of their eyes. Their camouflage looks just right and actually helps 
 them blend in with their surroundings. The various weapon models look authentic, and the ability 
 to raise all the guns to eye level helps make them seem more real. The game's environments look 
 best from medium distance -- up close, the vegetation gets blocky and ugly, while from far away, 
 things can look a little sparse. From many other angles, though, the settings of Vietcong look 
 just right, with thick greenery, all of it gently swaying in the wind, and plenty of bugs and other 
 critters. Also, Vietcong somehow squeaked by with a T rating instead of an M, even though there's 
 a noticeable spatter of blood when someone gets shot. The violence isn't graphic, though, which 
 might disappoint those expecting the sort of harrowing depiction of warfare featured in the aforementioned 
 films.           Vietcong's dense environments can make for some intense shoot-outs in both single-player 
 and multiplayer modes.    

  Vietcong's audio is well done, thanks largely to a fine selection of '60s and '70s rock that can 
 be heard during certain moments in the game, such as when Steve is in his bunk between missions, 
 listening to his radio and taking a breather. The voice acting in the game is ham-fisted -- overenthusiastic 
 Steve sounds like a superhero's sidekick rather than a hardened soldier -- though the game deserves 
 credit for having the Vietnamese characters speak either in their native language or in English 
 with an authentic accent. Audio is also used to further create the impression that you're actually 
 in a jungle, with realistic footstep sounds and ambient noise. And the report of each of the game's 
 firearms is distinctly different. Bullets can be heard whizzing right past you or thudding hard 
 into nearby objects, which adds a lot to the sense that you're in serious danger during a firefight. 
 When you do get shot, you actually hear your heart begin to race for a while, which is a good idea 
 in principle but becomes somewhat repetitive in practice. Also, explosives that go off near you 
 will cause a realistic ringing in your ears that mutes all other sound around you, a great audio 
 effect that's rightfully becoming more common in these types of games.  

  Vietcong has a lot of fine details such as that one, but they don't change or hide the fact that 
 the game has some obvious rough edges. It's really too bad that the game isn't more polished out 
 of the box. Its technical issues are going to get in the way of some players' enjoyment of an otherwise 
 solid and relatively original first-person shooter, and they'll likely convince other players to 
 avoid the game altogether. Vietcong is still a very good game, however. So if you aren't discouraged 
 by a few possible bumps in the road while trying to get the game to run properly, you'd do well 
 to give it a shot.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pletch29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Although it's impossible to capture the fear experienced by a soldier, and the horror of killing 
 another human being. Fist Alpha does capture the insanity, and poor communication which goes beyond 
 frustration. 
  The game gave me the creeps and brought back memories, I ended up quilting the game but ultimately 
 completed it. First person shooters recently programmed today have improved on the graphics and 
 other aspects of game programming, their is more to a game than great graphics as we all know. 
 I noted detail in Fist Alpha like, rifling, jungle sound's and the camaraderie, that a soldier 
 will never experience again and the memories that haunt you for the rest of your life.
  This dichotomy of good and horrible memories is hard to play out in a game. It is somewhat possible, 
 as in," Apocalypse Now", where the lieutenant is staring at the ceiling fan and he is experiencing 
 the sound of a helicopter and his being drunk to wipe out the horror. This could be placed in a 
 game. Brother's in Arms, Hells Highway comes close.
  Our society does not like this aspect of war, and the men of, "Fist Alpha", certainly would have 
 experienced the life time of being in battle.
  Despite the flaws, the makers of the game did an excellent job, real life situations, and still 
 one of my favorite first person shooters that I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  great game !!!, a surprise, cause it's have a great A. I., and good quality image of paisage and 
 very reallistic ambience sound and atmosfere
  
  
  really one of the best surprises i have played !!!
  
  bem agora como no sou expert em ingls, 
 continuarei em portugus mesmo
  
  o jogo  uma surpresa, mesmo que voc tenha uma placa potente e um pc super da hora, vale a pena 
 jogar este game, a inteligencia artificial dos inimigos  surpreendente, e o ambiente  realista 
 demais, as armas so muitssimo bem equilibradas ....... realmente voc consegue preferir uma arma 
 do que a outra, pois umano responde igual a outra (eu adoro a AK47 e a garand) , 
  
  este jogo  MUITO empolgante, quando acaba a gente quer jogar tudo de novo !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  You follows a US Special Forces group out of Nui Pek, a base just a few miles outside of the Cambodian 
 border where a group of Special Forces were camped for incursions into enemy territory to deal 
 with the North Vietnamese Army and the feared Viet Cong, a guerrilla force with an uncanny knack 
 for killing the hell out of their enemies. You play the part of Sergeant First Class Steve Hawkins 
 that has just been assigned to the unit at Nui Pek. As you might imagine, the group is filled with 
 all different personalities, that don't always mix well, but they always get the job done. It's 
 good to be the best. Aside from some small conversation and jibes back and forth, there's not much 
 character development to be had, but that's probably because there's not much story to be had. 
 The story is really just Hawkins and his missions.
  
  The missions begin with a briefing cutscene that takes place in the Nui Pek camp. You and your 
 team will be given mission parameters before marching off into the forest, or wherever else the 
 game takes you. You get your orders from a Fire Marshall Bill looking character with no upper lip 
 and a lop-sided nose that allows him to consume huge quantities of cocaine through one of his nostrils. 
 The voice work here is done decently, although it sounds like the actors were trying a little too 
 hard at times, especially the main character and machine gunner.
  
  Once you're done with the short briefing, you'll have the opportunity to pick out what weapon you 
 would prefer to use and grab ammo for it. You'll start out with slim pickings and work your way 
 up to better weapons as you move through the game. These weapons also become available in the quick 
 fight as you progress, giving you some of that "unlocking" fun we usually miss out on compared 
 to console titles. These weapons can all be tested on the firing range as well, in case you're 
 not sure what kind of effects they have. During this time, you can also extend your fictional enjoyment 
 by reading Hawkins' journal about the missions and team bios as well as your historical enjoyment 
 through some slim readings about the area, the VC and some of the tactics used in Vietnam. While 
 I appreciated the effort, I really didn't give a crap. They weren't exactly exciting reads, although 
 some of the field guide helped out a little bit in game.
  
  Once you're done fiddling around in the bunker, it's time to head out into one of the varied missions. 
 When I say varied I mean it in a couple of ways. First, the mission structures themselves are pretty 
 different. There's everything from search and destroy missions to base defense missions, to recon 
 missions. There's a lot to be had here. Unfortunately, it also varies in terms of quality. There 
 are some exciting points in this game where you'll start to smile, and then you'll be hit with 
 frustration and boredom all of the sudden. 
  For example, who the hell thought it would be a good idea to stick a gamer in miles of bland underground 
 tunnels. It took me an hour and a freakin' half to get out of the stupid things. Upon reaching 
 the surface Hawkins says, "Thank Christ!" and I echoed his sentiments. Sure, the tunnels were great 
 for a small portion, I know it was part of the war, but good lord... let me out of the damn things 
 already, I'm getting claustrophobic. Sadly, you'll actually find yourself walking for good distances 
 without seeing enemies more than a little bit in this game, even when you aren't in a tunnel. I 
 suppose that was to create suspense, but there's timing involved in that, and they missed the mark 
 on a few occasions.
  
  But for all of that, there are some really fun portions of this game, mostly thanks to your squad 
 members. I've always thought it was fun to work with other people on your team, like in Medal of 
 Honor. Having some folks to play with you, even if that is AI is pretty fun. Seeing them spread 
 out and dive for cover while shouting obscenities at the VC is fairly entertaining, although I 
 swear I heard Bender from Futurama and Bill from King of the Hill in there. Anyway, they're mainly 
 autonomous, which is nice, although occasionally they'll do something stupid, like jump in front 
 of you while you're firing... which leads to mission failure. Most of the time they won't die on 
 their own, thankfully, because when they do, it's usually compltetely out of your control, which 
 can be a pain in the ass. There's nothing like playing a mission to perfection on your side only 
 to have jack ass machine gunner get shot around the other side of the base.
  
  But as I said, their AI mostly works very well. When an enemy is spotted, they all run for cover 
 and start firing. You have some bit of control over the troops as well, which works most of the 
 time, although every now and again, when you tell them to hold position so you can scout ahead 
 a bit, they'll forget you told them to stay put once bullets go whizzing around. This can be a 
 pain in the butt when you're trying to call in artillery fire to take out heavily fortified locations. 
 One step too far and they're toast. The interface for giving commands is very simple since the 
 commands you can give are simple as well. You can call any of your troops to you immediately in 
 case you need ammo, medical attention, or use of the radio. 
  
  The most problems I had with the AI was actually in the pathfinding. You'll often find them in 
 your way, or running into the side of a ditch trying vainly to jump their way out of it. Your pathfinder 
 is also a bit roundabout in pathfinding some times. He'll go the wrong way and finally turn around 
 to lead you in the right direction. But he's still useful as a scout since he'll always find the 
 enemy and warn you before you're staring a fistful of VC pointing their guns at you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: historickillers
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  The new Vietnam screening was a nice change, it's awesome jungle combat is good for close quarters. 
 The AI is awesome and you can give orders. The graphics are not that good, but I'm a lucky one 
 who doesn't have a frame problem. It is fairly hard, you are with your team for the most part, 
 except when you are clearing the tunnels and escaping. It is intense, pretty good graphics, and 
 nice weapon selection. The one thing about the graphics is that I noticed when you're on the walkie 
 talkie, the fingers are flat. Overall, i give this a 8 out of 10 for the moderate graphics, excellent 
 AI, interesting period weapons and authentic Vietnamese dialogue.
  
  The only thing I was disappointed about is that you don't man any Anti-Tank weapons besides the 
 C-4 and that you can't drive vehicles. But I guess thats what Battlefield is suppose to do, I'll 
 get Battlefield Vietnam and review later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  So the game takes place in Vietnam 1967-68 where you play Sergeant First Class (SFC) Steve Hawkins 
 of the U. S. Army's 5th Special Forces Group, aka the Green Berets. The game starts with the arrival 
 of SFC Hawkins at the Special Forces Camp, Nui Pek, where you start your campaign against the communist 
 North Vietnamese Army (NVA) and Vietcong (VC) guerillas that threaten to takeover the democratic 
 South Vietnam. There is an assortment of missions that you undertake over the course of the game 
 from simple recon, sabotage, and hostage rescue, to search and destroy that will take you into 
 the dangerous jungles, rivers, and underground tunnels of Vietnam. 
  
  The graphics themselves don't look as great as the games today, but considering the game came out 
 in 2003 they are still passable. The sound effects, music, and voice talent are all exceptional. 
 The ambient sounds of birds and other wildlife make the environments come to life and make you 
 feel your trekking through the jungles and mountains of a foreign country. The voice acting is 
 also pretty authentic as you can hear all the indigenous people of Vietnam speak their native languages. 
 Depending on if you can find the M-rated version of the game you'll be able to hear your character 
 and teammates cussing and calling the VC and NVA by their offensive slang names making it a very 
 genuine experience. The music is also very good featuring music from various artists including 
 some licensed music performed by The Stooges, The Groupies, and Deep Purple.
  
  The only real problem with the game is the A. I., which can be pretty annoying at times. The enemy 
 utilizes cover pretty well when on the defensive, but offensively for the most part the AI just 
 charges you head on and barely use any kind of flanking maneuvers or tactics making them easy cannon 
 fodder. Not only that the AI follows a linear path on the ground so it can also be easy for an 
 object to block part of path causing them to get stuck or try to jump over the obstacle constantly. 
 Of course the game kind of balances that out by making the enemies sometimes frustratingly difficult 
 to fight as their weapon damage and marksmanship drastically increases with the difficulty. This 
 is pretty much the same with the A. I. of your teammates, but at least you can call each team member 
 individually (Scout, Heavy Gunner, Medic, Engineer, and Radioman) so they will eventually be there 
 when you need them. Unfortunately also when it comes to cramp spaces it can be pretty easy to get 
 yourself stuck in a small room or corridor when your entire team is blocking the only way out and 
 they don't know how to back out. This causing you to have to either restart to previously saved 
 game or having to lure them deep into a space if there is room so you can squeeze right by. Happily 
 though there is really only one level where this frequently happens.
  
  The game is not too hard on easy/intermediate settings, but can be unforgiving on the most difficult 
 settings especially in the last few missions of the game. As for the levels themselves they are 
 pretty linear. There are some areas of exploration in each level and on some levels there may be 
 an alternate way, but for the most part it's going from point A to B. There are a variety of missions 
 you will go on (intelligence gathering, sabotage of caches and tunnels, and the rescue of POWs) , 
 but the common link will be you killing a lot of VC and NVA troops. On a few levels there is even 
 a stealth element, but for the most part the enemy will always know where you are. A lot of missions 
 you will have the backup of your Special Forces team whereas in others you will be by yourself. 
 
  
  In-between missions after each briefing you are given the opportunity to walk around your living 
 quarters and the camp's rifle range. At the rifle range you can improve your marksman skills as 
 well as test out of the new weapons that have arrived to your camp, which can be used on the next 
 mission. Inside your quarters you are able to just sit around and listen to the music and recent 
 news in Vietnam on the radio as well as read your diary to see what's been going on in the life 
 of SFC Hawkins in-between military engagements. You can also read some tactical documents and notes, 
 ranging from the history of Vietnam and its people to how to find VC traps, tunnels, and caches. 
 It's not something you have to do, but it gives a nice history lesson and some of the tactical 
 information could help you out on future missions. Not to mention it's just a good way to give 
 you a breather from combat and help immerse you as a soldier during the Vietnam era.
  
  The single player campaign though will last around 10+ hours depending on the difficulty you choose. 
 Aside from that there is also a quick battle mode if you desire more action against the VC/NVA 
 A. I. I must say though the quick battle mode easily gets tedious as they give you only 5 levels 
 to fight on and honestly is not anywhere as exciting as the action in the story mode. There is 
 also a multiplayer portion to the game with the standard capture the flag, death match, etc. A 
 caveat however that barely anyone plays the multiplayer anymore so unless you have a few friends 
 to play with the single player is really all you're going to get in this.
  
  Overall it really is a fun and immersive game. It's got some notable flaws and bugs to it, but 
 if you are looking for a good single player Vietnam game with Special Forces action I can't recommend 
 this more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDarkcrystal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  The concept of the game is great, but with a little more pepper , It could be a whole lot better. 
 The AI are considerably stable, but there are a few minor bugs that happens to them occasionally. 
 One thing that I liked though, about the game is that the AI characters shout their voices loud 
 when under fire by the Vietcong. This is another good job done by the programmers keeping the realism 
 in battle. But there is a flaw, they still shout when under short burst of fire. There was no need 
 for them to shout very loud when they are being shot at with just a Tokarev handgun. The story 
 was well done and planned. However, it lacked many possible features that could be added into the 
 game. For example, the players in the Single Player Campaign could have been given a lot of freedom 
 when they are back at base after every mission. Instead of just exploring your bedroom and playing 
 in the armory/shooting range, the players could be given the privilege of exploring the whole base 
 and doing fun stuff like planting mines above the trenches and interacting with the other characters. 
 The mines that you have planted then could appear in the last mission where you would have to defend 
 the base. The more mines you've placed, the more chances the enemy won't get to penetrate easily.
 
  
  After all, there so much that could be added into this fun and immersible game.
  The game is fun in a creative way and there are a lot of AI programming to be improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like this but beyond the electric guitar music at the main menu screen there wasn't 
 much to like.
  
  The opening scene which takes you to a camp up north for some action you've been just dying to 
 experience versus the boredom of being safe with a chance of going home in one piece and still 
 breathing sets the stage for the initial missions. During this flight you get the rundown on the 
 poor soul you are replacing from one of his pals who is completely unaffected by the loss and tells 
 you oh, well he took a AK-47 round to the head and was dead before he hit the ground. Oh well, 
 that's war he tells you with bogus macho facade geared towards some stereotypical idea of a stupid 
 teenage boy who would think this is cool.
  
  Fortunately, I would hope most teenage boys are not stupid and would not think this downplaying 
 of the horror of vietnam and the death of one's friends is cool at all and neither is this stupid 
 game.
  
  The opener really blew it for me personally. That and the immediate bugs with looping sound, looped 
 speech in training, completing training and having the drill instructor never notice but keep ordering 
 you to do it like nothing ever happened, the several crashes and the general ugliness of the graphics 
 pretty much told me early on it's time to bail now before any more time is wasted here.
  
  I could forgive half-baked visuals easily in a game that otherwise is stable and of decent quality 
 in other areas but I just didn't see it here. Needless to say, I didn't get very far.
  
  I tried multiplayer and while the server ping was very low, the lag was horrific. Who knows why. 
 I tried several with similar results. I am surprised at this late date for this game in particular 
 there are any servers going at all but I guess it must work better on some systems or something. 
 Most games play just fine for me but who knows. In any case, it was unplayable and at this point 
 I logged an uninstalled before it could crash again on me.
  
  Pretty much a train wreck of a game in my book that could have been good with a lot more work which 
 it never got. Avoid this one as there are much better ways to blow 10 bucks in the bargain bins 
 than this lemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Devoted readers will remember a game-design contest we held a few years back where readers sent 
 in ideas for their ideal game. One of the finalists was a submission that dreamt of a suspenseful 
 Vietnam War shooter involving intense jungle combat and historically accurate weaponry. Vietcong 
 is just that game.
  
  Stacks of books have been written on the controversial conflict, but only rare attempts have been 
 made to game it, and most of those were turn-based wargames. Vietcong, by comparison, plays like 
 a made-for-cable testosterone flick set in the bad bush  youll hear every dialogue clich&eacute; 
 of Vietnam cinema regurgitated in the first 20 minutes.
  
  The murky, sprawling jungle (captured by the developers research trips to Southeast Asia) is the 
 setting for this squad-based shooter, courtesy of the folks who brought us last years fine gangster 
 FPS Mafia. As a sergeant in the U. S. Special Forces in Vietnam, you lead a band of stereotypical 
 squadmates through 20 missions. The battles are fierce and the enemy tactics dirty.
  
  If we picked only one thing about Vietcong to talk about, itd be the terrain design. Not since 
 Ghost Recon have I been so impressed with the level of detail put into re-creating jungle landscapes. 
 Valleys, mountain passes, and caves are littered with vines, bushes, and trees to create the effective 
 illusion of a real battlefield. Authenticity fanatics, take heed: this is as close as youre going 
 to get to rendering Vietnam on a PC.
  
  And speaking of realism, Vietcong has more than just your typical one-shot-to-the-head kills (though 
 that rule still applies) . The weapon design, tactics, and sounds are all authentically reproduced, 
 right down to the rusted rifles and Vietnamese voice acting. Youll encounter booby-trap grenades 
 and camouflaged stake pits; swinging bamboo traps can whip you in the face.
  
  The bad news: this game is painfully slow. Vietcong is saddled with sluggish scripted action. Most 
 of the time, your squad literally moves at a crawl. In one rescue mission, I was frustrated just 
 by the amount of time wasted navigating terrain before I engaged any troops  definitely not good 
 for gamer morale.
  
  Your team consists of a medic, engineer, pointman, radioman, and machine gunner, all with personalities 
 that could well have been ripped from Full Metal Jacket. They all prove useful throughout the game, 
 providing navigation, communication, heavy-fire support, and the all-important first aid. Each 
 holds his own during firefights, and in most instances, I couldve just fallen back and watched 
 the team take out opposing forces. But you have very few options in terms of squad control, so 
 its disappointing to have to rely on the slow-paced scripting the entire game.
  
  Multiplay, while not as team-oriented as that in, say, Battlefield 1942, had me hooked for a while. 
 Up to 64 players fight for flags and kills in the same awesome jungle environments from the single-player 
 game, which suits online play perfectly. In fact, the tough assault tactics used in single-play 
 transfer nicely to the multiplayer arena, so the game doesn't just become a sniperfest.
  
  Ultimately, the environments are impressive for a while, but you can admire the foliage for only 
 so long. Vietcong satisfies as a polished-looking shooter, but needs a more energetic design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Walk into jungle kil VC go into tunnel walk out of jungle Repeat. Very repititive game 
 killing enemys is fun
  
  Graphics: Amazing graphics for a 2003 for 2007 not so much. Very nice textures and enviroments 
 guns are modled accuratley
  
  Sound: Ok voice overs. VC yell alot lots of guns firing and people talking.
  
  Replayabilty: 
 Little To None: You can run thro and find all the diffrent propaganda pieces.
  
  The good: Nice graphics and sound
  
  The Bad: repititive gameplay some framerate issues and 
 random crashes.
  
  value: The game is very cheap now 5-10 dollars. Its worth it for the gamer on a budget 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Shadio
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Compared to World War II, very few games have been made on the war in Vietnam, and most of them 
 have been not worthy of mentioning. Well thanks to Pterodon we have a game on this war, and it 
 turns out to be a good one too. The game places you in thick forests of Vietnam and surrounded 
 by plenty of VC. You play as Sergeant Hawkins and control a little squad of soldiers and in the 
 beginning most of the time youre patrolling through the woods. Your squad is important to you 
 as they fulfill all your battle needs; you get a pointman, a medic, a machine gunner who loves 
 killing and a couple of other members for your squad.. What I liked about this game was that not 
 do you only order your squad, but what ever you order, your character speaks out those words, so 
 unlike many other FPS, you finally get to play with a character that does talk (whispers/shouts 
 etc depending on the situation) which makes the game much lively.
  
  The graphics of this game are pretty nice, the maps are big, and there are lots and lots of trees, 
 bushes, streams and swamps which make it difficult to get clear shots at your enemies. You often 
 come across smartly laid booby traps which are deadly. There are a lot of weapons which you can 
 use, and if you get your hands on the uncensored version, you can rip of the flesh of your dead 
 enemies e. g. by using your dagger continuously on the corpse; fun isnt it? :twisted:
  You also end up many a time in VC tunnels, in fact the tunnel networks are so big, it like having 
 a proper underground city, so make sure your flashlight is always on when moving in the tunnels. 
 The game promises a lot of action for FPS fans especially near the end when the entire VC goes 
 crazy and an all out war takes place, you might get tired of killing them, they just keep coming 
 and coming, but then again, the more they are, the more the fun. =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpvalkyrie
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Vietcong is definitely, by far the best Vietnam war shooter out there. You can choose several options 
 of difficulty but does not matter if you play easy or hard mode, if you walk into a jungle trap, 
 you are dead.
  
  There are a lot of missions in the game. All kinds of missions such as tunnel clearing, POW rescue, 
 recon-missions far beyond enemy lines, even your headquarters at Nui Pek is under attack half the 
 times, so be ready in your debriefing to be interrupted by Vietcongs assaulting your base. The 
 game is a lot of fun to play. The missions are all totally different from one another. From stealth 
 ops, to heavy commando ops with Huey and Phantom support, you've got it all, if you are interested 
 in Vietnam stories, this is the game to buy!
  
  The only three negative aspects I have to discuss are graphics, linear gameplay and some AI issues 
 in some of the missions.
  
  The graphics are definitely not up to date, however, don't let that fool you because you will feel 
 like you are in the jungle. The weapons skins are great, but speaking of the enemy, there are maybe 
 4-5 different types of skins, with other words, they all look the same and some of your southern 
 vietnamese alies wear the same skin as the vietcong, the camp guards at your special forces camp 
 look all the same, you get the point. The game is also very linear in terms of completing your 
 objectives, so you can't get lost, you can however easily walk into a trap in some missions, so 
 be careful. The AI of your teammates is mostly good, same with the enemies, but then again, from 
 one mission to another, some teammate gets stuck somewhere and your pointman doesn't go ahead if 
 the team is not there, so good luck restarting the level, so SAFE the game every time you plaid 
 for 15 mins, you got 5 saves.
  
  All in all, a must have if you like tactical shooters, enough said ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I went deer hunting with my dad a few times when I was young, and although I really enjoyed our 
 time spent roughing it in the great outdoors, I absolutely could not abide with the idea of sitting 
 stock-still for such long periods of time, waiting for our prey to wander past. The creeping cold 
 and restricted movement frankly bored me, and our particular neck of the woods seemed completely 
 devoid of ruminant critters even though they infested every corner of our entire state. The forest 
 in which we were sitting was fascinating, though, with small but ominous caves, a number of modest 
 but intricate waterfalls, and a hilly but uncluttered terrain perfectly suited for a brisk walk. 
 My father strongly advised against the idea of a walkabout, however, reasoning that hunting season 
 is a downright dumb and dangerous time to tromp through the forest, even painted up as I was in 
 a day-glo vest.
  
  The Nam was an even more hazardous place to take a walk, but American soldiers followed orders 
 and did the deed, often reconnoitering their way through booby-trapped and horrifyingly hostile 
 jungle real estate. Vietcong tells the story of a group of those GIs as they push and pull against 
 waves of encroaching Charlies to win the hearts and minds of local villagers and maintain a toehold 
 in an important patch of ground near the Cambodian border. I thoroughly enjoyed those portions 
 of the game that satisfied my years-old urge to actively stalk my prey, to sniff them out with 
 the help of an ARVN guide and snuff them out in a series of furious forest battles.
  
  Vietcongs creators also included some dark, muted subterranean incursions to give players a glimpse 
 into the claustrophobic and unbelievably treacherous duties of a Tunnel Rat. In addition, the game 
 includes some excellent point-defense segments against a steady supply of VC encroachers. I even 
 enjoyed the peaceful after-action lulls that permitted me to sit back in my bunker, listen to some 
 era-appropriate counterculture tunes, and read up on some genuinely educational field bulletins 
 and weapons specs. However, the best bits, by far, were the pedestrian forays into the green to 
 root out the many pockets of well-armed and  from both a programming and historical point of view 
  capable adversaries. My AI-controlled squadmates were smart and proficient, and on those rare 
 occasions when they werent, they were at least nigh-invincible. Even though my per-mission body 
 count was often higher than all of theirs combined by a factor of four, my troop occasionally impressed 
 me with their realistic actions under fire, leaving me awestruck on one occasion: when we reached 
 the ruined Bahnar village near the end of the game, we were caught out in the open as enemy mortar 
 rounds sprouted from a nearby tangle of trees accessed by a north and south entrance (with a thin 
 trail in-between that I didnt notice until later) . My boys ran north as I ran south, and we met 
 up in the middle. I scored only three cautious kills during that row, while Nhut and the gang plowed 
 through the rest of the VC, finishing up with a very satisfying pincer attack in which the lot 
 of us stamped out the panicky remnants together.
  
  The somewhat linear design of Vietcongs forest paths dont always allow for such wide-ranging 
 flanking maneuvers, so many of the other encounters are head-to-head clashes won by the proper 
 use of cover by players who arent too proud to crawl on their belly through a ravine. The solo 
 tunneling missions require a lot of patience, what with all the careful cornering and a fair amount 
 of backtracking. I experienced only a few framerate issues with the patched version on my 2.0 GHz 
 P4 with a Radeon 9600, and none at all on my current rig, which runs at a slightly faster frequency 
 with a Radeon X850. Finally, the voice talent was of a very high quality, although the protagonists 
 rah-rah game show host style of delivery sometimes grated severely on my nerves. The guy just didnt 
 look like the jutting-chin Agent Stan Smith type that the can-do vocalizations portrayed, which 
 I believe is more the fault of the voice talent director than the actor. Based on Sergeant Hawkins 
 shaggy and lean appearance, I expected  and preferred  more of a staid personality.
  
  Vietcong provides a very solid impression of the isolation and lack of amenities and security faced 
 by a front-line Army unit that must uphold its duties against a confusing enemy that is seldom 
 seen or heard. The game lays out an appreciable amount of turf for those who prefer to do their 
 hunting on the hoof. The settings are often dank and always hostile, but the highlands of Vietnam 
 (and the miles of tunnels threaded through them) provide an excellent backdrop for mayhem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiddai
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game i had quickly to switch my graphic card from the crappy TNT2 to the 
 Radeon 9100 and then i bought the Geforce FX 5200 so i chose to stay with the Geforce.
  
  The Game's plot isn't the best but it makes you feel like you can rely on your friends and it makes 
 it very good. Everyone of your friends has personality and you can't complete the game without 
 relying on them. You start your journey as Steve R. Hawkins a soldier that replace Douglas Warren 
 (In Vietcong: Fist Alpha he is your main character) .
  
  Your friends are:
  
  * Le Duy Nhut - Pointman: He is the one who tells you where to go he will warn you if he sees a 
 mine or enemy soldiers.
  
  * Joe Crocker - Medic: He wil heal you if you get wounded.
  
  * Thomas Bronson - Engineer: He will bring you Ammo for all the US weapons you carry with you.
 
  
  * P. J Defort - Radioman: He will let you use his radio to call the command that will give you new 
 objectives (you will use the radio a lot in the game)
  
  * C. J. Hornster - Machinegunner: He isn't really helpful but he is your first friend you met and 
 he carries M-60 LMG.
  
  The game feature tens of weapons you start only with Colt 45., bunch of M-67 grenades, M1A1 Thompson, 
 M1A1 Carbine and Remington 870 and after you complete a mission you will unlock new weapons from 
 both US (such as: M-16, M-60, M-79, M3A1 and more) and North Vietnamese (such as: AK-47, SDV, PPS-43, 
 RPD and more) . Before every mission after the cut-scene of the brief you will go to you private 
 room where you can look at the brief again or go to the shooting range to practice the new weapons.
 
  
  The graphic was, and even today it is amazing. The game's most exciting moments are the tunnels 
 where you are completely alone, only with a Silenced pistol, Radio and a flashlight. The tunnel 
 is like a VERY BIG maze you can go sometimes through impasses roads. You may watch out for mines 
 and enemies because the enemy can come from anywhere which is pretty scary when the battlefield 
 is in a room with a lot of dark small tunnels...
  
  The Multi Player is sucks lots of bugs and lags so this is an SP-game only!
  you will have also 
 quick fight mode where you can create a battle quickly either as a US soldier or Vietcong and play 
 in a bunch of maps. and you also have 4 Training levels which is very funny to hear your command 
 curse and shout at you all the time.
  
  In the end if you are an SP fan this is the perfect game for you if you want to experience an amazing 
 adventure that can't be found in every game, this is an amazing game that you must not miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 683B
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  There is so much potential in this game and it hurts to see it being treated so bad by developers. 
 It's full of glitches and grphical issues. And the AI of your squadmembers are so stupid at times. 
 These times offen occour when you are standing in a trench with them. They block your way and just 
 jump up and down. No matter what you do they will not let you pass (Shooting them means mission 
 failed) . On the positive side I must say that I enjoyed some of the missions. The game creates 
 some realy tense moments and you feel challenged by your enemies. A lot of the time the scenario 
 is like this: You will be walking behind your pointman through the jungle listening to some very 
 good ambient sounds not knowing when your sqaud will be attacked. All of the sudden hell breaks 
 loose and you'll find yourself desperatly trying to find out where the attack is coming from. 
 
  
  All in all I would say that the game is pretty good. And if you have the patience to forgive the 
 fact that you'll encounter countless occasions where the AI simply teases you with it's insanely 
 stupid pathfinding abilities. Then you'll probarly enjoy the game a lot. 
  
  Finaly I should say that I uninstalled the game after being left in a pitchblack tunnel network 
 with only glowsticks as lightsource. My frustration level couldn't be pushed further from there. 
 I wish the game didn't had the problems explained, cause it could have been very good : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonaManson
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:58 am PT
Review:  Vietcong is what you would expect out of a jungle warfare game. It can be surprising, loud at times 
 and quiet at times. Vietcong gameplay is ok. It has the basic controls of any FPS. Although the 
 tunnel section can be really frustrating most of the time it shows what war is really like, Frustrating. 
 However the squad functions may need some improvement as it is quite limited. Weapon Variety is 
 great and quite realistic. The players look fine except when you get to those slow servers and 
 then the players look as though they're floating and head banging at the same time. The Graphics 
 are ok and its those few games which has grass instead of just flat textures and the grass can 
 Actually be used as means of minimizing your body outline. Sound is one of the best i've ever heard. 
 The weapon sounds really make you feel as though you're in the heat of combat. Overall this game 
 is good but has some certain issues to settle with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Vietcong features a complete single-player campaign, a single-player quick-mission mode that throws 
 you into an enemy-infested area per your specification, and a fully featured multiplayer mode with 
 a built-in server browser for finding open game sessions online. The quick-mission and multiplayer 
 modes let you play as either the Americans or the Vietcong, but in the campaign, you'll assume 
 the role of Sergeant First Class Steve Hawkins, who is transferred to a Special Forces unit based 
 in Nui Pek Camp at the start of the game. Here Hawkins will meet his other squadmates, including 
 Vietnamese point man Le Duy Nhut and loudmouthed machine gunner C. J. Hornster. Clearly, Vietnam 
 War movies like Platoon and Full Metal Jacket informed and inspired Vietcong as much as any history 
 books did, but in any case, the character-driven plot works well to make the campaign more engaging. 
 The events of the campaign are predictable enough in and of themselves, but they may take you by 
 surprise as they come up, and they're the sorts of experiences you'd probably hope to get out of 
 a first-person shooter set during the Vietnam War. Between creeping through the foliage with your 
 squad, hoping to spot any camouflaged VC before they spot you, and lurking all alone through the 
 VC's elaborate tunnel networks, wondering if you'll ever see the light of day again, Vietcong's 
 campaign by and large hits the right notes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byronkiser
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was a good realistic -- shooter for gamers who like a challenge and don't like strolling 
 through levels easily. It made me wonder what our soldiers went through in the jungles in Vietnam 
 as I played it. At times I was on the edge of my seat -- and others I was annoyed ---especially with 
 the guide --nyut -- or something like that. I wanted to shoot him myself. Anyone wanting an exciting 
 stealth sometimes -- full fleaged fire-fight sometimes -- this is your game. Havent played the online 
 game-but sure it's good-reminds me of a battlefield 1942 campaign (only with better graphics) . The 
 only drawbacks I could find was the inability to play without interrupttions from one of you own 
 teammates telling you something you already know or wanting something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m4a4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  As a FPS related with Vietnam War, Vietcong has reconstructed the dread of jungle warfare in Vietnam 
 War.
  
  When I play Vietcong in first time, I thought this might be a simple FPS as Counter-Strike. But when 
 I start the first mission, and be shot by a VC sniper, who hid at the jugle about 10m away, I changed 
 my opinion -- it is not a simple FPS! The enemies will not stand in fornt of you and be shot like 
 a fool, they are hunters, hide in the jungle and prepare to kill you. The VC in this game become 
 very smart, especially in "vietnam" level. They snaked to
  you back and kill you with their AKs, keep in low to avoid you shot, and even laugh at your death. The 
 smart enemy AI result in a exciting gunfight and become carefully of engage with enemy.
  
  The enemy is so sly that we need some strong support, and it provide five teammates come along and 
 fight to VC with  and HMG (Heavy Machine-Gun) gunner will provide 
 various kinds of support you need. Without them, you just can die in this hostile jungle with despair. The 
 AI of your teammates are as smart as their enmey, they can defense, cover you, attack, and even retreat, just 
 like a real soldier doing in the war.
  
  The graphics in the game is great, the detail and texture of weapons is very good, look like a real 
 weapon. The texture of characters are real, also.
  
  The sound in the game is outstanding, every firearm has its unique firing sound, you can even recognize 
 the weapon VC carried by its sound.
  
  The less scores I give in "Value" as a result of its short missions, while the missions in Vietcong 
 is exciting and interesting, its length is too short to give satisfaction to the player, and I think 
 it is quite a bad point of Vietcong.
  
  However, Vietcong is still worth to play, for its real atmosphere of jungle warfare and interested 
 missions.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Vietcong has several great things. First is a "Quick Fight" feature. dont know what it is but i 
 think is like a skirmish in strategy games, second is the wide variety of weapons. and third is 
 the AI, When you fire they will crouch and look around and if they see any vietcong they will unload 
 on them. also the easiest squad commands of all time. just set to "agressive" and tell them to 
 follow you. 
  
  The downside is almost every multiplayer server is laggy, there is poor visibilty and everyone 
 is running with snipers and big guns. also there are many camping spots. Play this Single player 
 and play again on vietnam mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 29, 2004 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Vietcong makes a pretty bad first impression on you. It's an ugly game, and it's quite hard to 
 get used to its peculiar style of gameplay. Vietcong isn't a stealth game. It's not a pure action 
 game either. The squad-based elements are too simple to call it a tactical shooter. It's unique 
 one its own, and it's very good. Best of all, it feels authentic, and for a war as unique as Vietnam, 
 that's saying a lot.
  
  The reason why this game excels is because it effectively captures the elements that made Vietnam 
 different from wars such as World War 2. Engagements take place quickly in tension-filled jungles 
 between your small squad and small groups of four or five VC. A helicopter often brings you into 
 the mission and then picks you up at the end. Occasionally, you can radio a firebase for support 
 and then a few seconds later, hell in the form of artillery shells will come raining down on the 
 area that you specify and obliterate anybody in it. Using artillery is a fun mechanic and it's 
 too bad that it only comes up a few times in the game. Vietcong checkpoint saves your game, but 
 it also gives you a limited amount of quick saves per level. This save system is perfect. It keeps 
 the game suspenseful almost all the time, without making it frustrating. The gameplay also relies 
 on good AI instead of heavy scripting for the firefights, and that's another big plus.
  
  The dialog, sounds, and overall feel of the gameplay give the game a feel that resembles what you 
 read about or what you see in old news tapes. You creep slowly through the terrain, following your 
 point man, and then find some cover when you engage some VC. your enemies, as well as your squadmates, 
 are highly lethal and very effective at using cover. It takes maybe three or four bullets to kill 
 you in this game, which means that you have to advance very slowly and carefully. The hardest part 
 about firefights often isn't shooting the enemy, but just finding where he is hiding. Sometimes, 
 all that you see is a tracer or two, or maybe a muzzle flash along with the sound of bullets whizzing 
 past your head. These cat-and-mouse type firefights usually last less than a minute, but they can 
 be very exciting. I have not played a first person shooter that resembles this, except for maybe 
 Medal of Honor: Pacific Assault.
  
  The only fault that I had with the gameplay was that the game occasionally deviates from the squad-based 
 formula and sticks you in some solo tasks. These tasks frequently involve spelunking through maze-like 
 VC tunnels, fighting one or two enemies at a time in a very boring manner. There is one absolute 
 marathon mission in the game where you explore a seemingly endless maze of VC tunnels. It's not 
 frustrating as much as it is really boring. Hopefully, this wasn't in the expansion pack.
  
  The game's audio is competent without being outstanding. The voice acting is a mixed bag. The 
 main character is pretty weak, but some of your squadmates are good. The radio chatter that you 
 listen to is pretty good. The weapons are kind of average sounding, and none of them sound very 
 powerful. The soundtrack is very good, and does a good job of matching the era. 
  
  As I said previously, the graphics for this game are pretty bad. All of the character models are 
 blocky and low-detailed. The same goes for the environments, which are drab and very unconvincing. 
 Instead of the feel that you are fighting through jungles, it feels like you are fighting through 
 valleys full of boxes that have crude leaves painted on them. The environments and objects are 
 all very repetitive, which is expected for a game like this, but it's magnified even more by the 
 fact that it looks like such crap. 
  
  Vietcong has a pretty good length to it. It took me just under 15 hours or so to finish it. You 
 can probably find this game cheap right now, so it will be worth your money. The underwhelming 
 presentation is the game's only big shortcoming. I recommend this game to somebody who is looking 
 for something different, and doesn't mind playing with some ugly graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subcritical
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 12, 2004 1:50 am PT
Review:  This game could of benefitted from a bit more polish, because as it stants it is very dissappointing. 
 The action just isn't that good. The sequences of firefights are not long enough and there are 
 too many interruptions in the action (checking in with headquarters via radio) . All of the interruptions 
 chop up any action and enjoyment. Further gameplay dissapointments include walking behind your 
 pointman waiting for something to happen. The way things play out is usually slow and ardous; the 
 action sequences are just too far a few between. And when you do encounter the VietCong, the firefights 
 are very short.
  
  Sound is terrible. The weapons sound are almost good, but lack any oomp and the volume of the weapons 
 is not balanced very well. They frequently sound muffled. There is a lot of character speech, but 
 some of it sounds cheesy. On a good note, at least the Vietcong speak in their native tongue. That 
 is a nice touch. But overall, many times it is very difficult to hear what your squadmates are 
 saying: sometimes they come in loud and clear, other times it is muffled similar to weapon firing. 
 To sume it up, the sound levels are just so inconsistant. The only sound that comes through loud 
 and clear is when your mission fails. The volume and tone the game makes is so much louder than 
 everything else, it almost hurts your ears and it certainly frustrates you when you die because 
 it almost deafens you and adds insult to your failure. Too bad the weapon discharge sound is so 
 pronounced. The only real good thing to say about the overall game sound is the fantastic environmental 
 sound effects. Superb. Other than that the sound is unbalanced, inconsistant and should be better.
 
  
  Graphics are very good. Even after being out for almost two years, the graphics still look very, 
 very good. I've recently played Far Cry and Doom 3 and althought those two games are graphically 
 superior, VietCong holds its own, and manages to still look great. There are some big clipping 
 issues, but that is very common in most games anyway.
  
  The AI is ok. They hide well, etc but many times you will witness the Vietcong jumping up and down 
 and just doing odd things. This holds true for your squadmates too. A couple of times, when you 
 are at your base camp, guys would get stuck trying to walk past each other. The only way to proceed 
 forward in the scripting was to restart from a save and hope that events don't play out similarly. 
 Also, in one of the missions you have to drive a jeep. I went off the road abit and the jeep was 
 stuck on its side. There was no way to get it back on four wheels and the game would of been stuck 
 infinium. So I had to replay the mission. There are a few other things that indicate to me that 
 this game just wasn't tweaked properly. It does feel kind of rushed because there is a lack of 
 polish.
  
  Overall the gameplay was frustrating and I ended up abandoning the singleplayer campaign about 
 10 missions short of completion (out of a total of 30) . It just was too unpolished and I was still 
 having a hard time becoming immersed into the game. Bad gameplay mechanics and sound are what did 
 it. Too bad as this game ALMOST could of been a great experience. Unfortunately too many things 
 just didn't feel correct or complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 14, 2004 3:19 pm PT
Review:  When Vietcong was released it was the first and probably still is the only quality FPS that takes 
 place in Vietnam. It has a realistic campaign and for most of the game you have a squad with you 
 that you can give order to. The AI is excellent some of the best in a FPS, The graphics are above 
 average. The sound is great. The Vietcong community is fairly large and still going strong. Vietcong 
 is the best recreation of Vietnam you can get.
  
  Graphics. The levels are huge and have a ton of foliage. It recreates a jungle quite well with 
 tons of trees and all kind of foliage that you can crawl through. The way they recreated the jungles 
 is quite amazing. It is very realistic the dev team actually went to Vietnam to recreate the jungles 
 and give the gamer a truely realistic Vietnam experience. The character models are done very well 
 as are the weapon models. The game is brutally violent and bloody. Moreso if you get the European 
 uncensored version. Gamers should get the European version to get the most realistic feel as the 
 violence is no hold insanity, the US version is toned down but still quite violent. As of now Oct. 
 2004 the graphics are a little dated but still hold up very well, at the time of release they were 
 great. The game is quite demanding on your PC so it is recommended that you have a pretty hefty 
 system if you want to crank up the settings. Also makes sure you get the current patch as it improves 
 performance and takes care of some bugs. Gamespot gave VC a lower score due to these bugs which 
 are now fixed with patches.
  
  Sound: The music in VC is 60's and 70's classic rock performed by real artists. It really fits 
 well with the atmosphere and while you are at your base you can go to your radio and change the 
 playlist. The weapons sounds are dead on realistic and pack a punch. Voice over is great. They 
 got the drill seargent from Full Metal Jacket to play your Seargent in Vietcong and he acts just 
 the same as he did in FMJ with some serious foul language. The language is brutal especially if 
 you get the uncensored European version, the US version while still pretty bad with the language 
 they toned it down a lot compared to the UK version of the game. The jungle sounds are great you 
 can hear enemies walking in the foliage and when there are getting closer sometimes birds will 
 fly out from the trees to give you a clue that someone is approaching. Overall the sounds and music 
 in the game are top notch.
  
  Gameplay: You play out the game mostly with your squad. You have a point man called Nhut a vietnamese 
 who knows his way around the jungles. He will guide you to your destinations and also spot booby 
 traps. It is recommended that you let him take the lead! He also is pretty good with the gun too. 
 You have a medic who will heal you win you are hurt. A gunman who will give you ammo when needed, 
 an engineer who can defuse bombs and plant bombs for you and a radio man that you use to call in 
 for plane bombings or to contact base to get more orders. The AI of your team is incredible they 
 will follow you orders and really help out by killing the enemy. They arent just for show they 
 actually help a lot through out the game and you really get to know them and feel for the characters.
 
  
  The combat in the game is engaging. The vietcong are tough enemies and the AI for them is pretty 
 smart. The will hide in foliage duck and hide behind cover and have a pretty decent shot. There 
 are some really good gunfights throughout the game and some of them are very tough. There are a 
 variety of different missions some you will be a gunner in a helicopter, there are missions where 
 you defend your base, solo missions without your team, day and night missions, varied weather and 
 stealth missions. The single player campaign is quite big and will take around 20 - 25 hours to 
 finish. The single player is really fun and varied.
  
  The muti-player had quite a big community even still today you can find plenty of servers to play 
 on and lots of clans to join if you like. You have your standard variations on DM, Team DM and 
 team based modes of play. Since the patches online play has been quite good with not much lag when 
 you find a good server. You can find some really good times playing online. One of the best things 
 is that you can get a friend and play the single player missions on co-op play! It is great replaying 
 the missions with a friend. More games on the PC should come with co-op like Vietcong has. Vietcong 
 also has a great expansion pack out there called Fist Alpha and you can get both the original and 
 the expansion in one package called Vietcong: Purple Haze.
  
  Vietcong is still the best Vietnam game you can get for single player and it comes with a great 
 co-op mode and online play. This is the only Vietnam FPS that you should get for single player 
 action, there isnt much competition as all the other Vietnam single player games are quite poor. 
 While not the best war game out there it is the best that represents Vietnam, has great AI, lonmg 
 SP campaign, Co-op play and good community for multi-player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2004 4:34 pm PT
Review:  ... go up against some great AI. You get the fight in the jungle, why wouldn't you pick this one 
 up?
  
  The graphics are a bit outdated by todays standards, you don't even notice once your into the game. 
 Your too busy trying to spot enemies and not get shot. Im having a great time with this game. Single 
 player has a great campaign, you can also go back and play single missions and there is another 
 feature where you can have a quick fight. You choose what team you want to be, how many team members 
 you want with you, what weapons you use, which map and how many enemies there are then you play. 
 You unlock new maps and weapons for this mode by playing through the campaign.
  
  You can swap weapons with enemies, you search their bodies for intelligence, weapons and ammo. 
 You need to look out for booby traps, such as punji pits and trip wires.
  
  Between missions your in your bunker. Here you can read your "diary", check mission briefings and 
 numerous other things. You even have a radio which plays music from the 60's.
  
  The AI is very good at times. Throwing grenades and the perfect moments. Your squad mates are pretty 
 good, but the enemy VC AI is where it's at. Trying to flank enemies, and not be flanked. Do you 
 hide behind the fallen tree? Do you lie belly down in the mud in the bush hoping you wont get spotting. 
 Then when it's clear you get up to move only to step into a trap.. The enemy "bug out" (retreat) 
 when they think they can't win. And they fall back to better positions. Finally a great war FPS 
 without scripted AI!
  
  Definatly a game you should get if your looking for a fun single player experience, with good multiplayer 
 and you want a challenge while your at it. The graphics are outdated, but when your into the game 
 they really don't seem that bad at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Vietcong effectively combines the elements of realistic military combat with those of fun fast-paced 
 action, and by doing so pointing out a possible evolution path for shooters which gameplay-innovation-wise 
 have reached a sort of dead end. The game starts immersing you right at the menu where the guitar 
 riffs take you unmistakebly right back to the seventies (even if you have never heard the music 
 before) , and later make you hang out in your bunker longer (reading mission logs, your diary and 
 the information about locals) just to listen to the military radio. The best moments of playing 
 Vietcong are undoubtedly spent trying to lead your team of five soldiers (medic, engineer, radio 
 guy, chaingun guy, and a pointman) to a successful assault on large outdoorsy fields. While a lot 
 of the game is linear, such open areas present the player a lot of different options: VC's (Vietcongs') 
 networks of trenches and tunnels can be assaulted from different places, at any time one can call 
 for air support (be careful not to target yourself!) , but mainly you can instruct your teammates 
 of up to 5 people to either hold, cover, attack, follow, sneak, or come to you. All team-mates 
 are involved in the storyline, and fortunately AI is smart enough to let you play and not make 
 keeping your team-mates alive a major hassle. Enemy AI does a good job of taking cover and shooting 
 too, so successful battle strategies turn up very realistic (especially with Vietnam difficulty 
 setting) . Vietcong's milieu forces to draw parallels with another shooter, WWII-based Medal of 
 Honor: Allied Assault. Funnily, Vietcong's weaknesses are MOHAA's trumps and vice-versa. First 
 off, Vietcong's reward system is terrible. There are a lot of events and other immersive elements 
 in the first three missions, but then at some point in the fourth mission you find yourself alone 
 facing dozens and dozens of Vietnamese and after going through each of a particularly rough stretch 
 all you get is to radio back to the base, which mostly goes like this: Base Six, this is Shrew 
 One. Reached this, lots of VC here. What to do now.  Keep on investigating. Be careful. We have 
 intelligence there are tons more VC nearby.  Wilco that, Shrew Out. Radio messages have been kept 
 realistic but there could be a lot more juice there, and the occasional bad voice acting does not 
 help either. MOHAA, on the contrary, excels in level design and pacing. Then again, Vietcong's 
 combat surpasses MOHAA's by far, and among many other things described below, VC's guns recoil 
 realistically, so that consecutive hits cannot be made as easily as in MOHAA. Other Vietcong's 
 touches of realism include map which is not a separate window but comes out in your hands (left 
 picture) , the ability to call artillery strike anywhere on the map, the right mouse button raising 
 the weapon to your eye-line to improve the aim, limitation to carry only one type of each weapon 
 at a time, near-by explosions muting your ears for a few seconds, crawling, binoculars, getting 
 wounded producing violent cries of pain etc. The health system is excellent too: it takes just 
 a few shots to kill you; although you can have yourself patched up by the health guy or by medikits, 
 your maximum health decreases every time you do. For every level area 5 quick-saves are permitted, 
 which adds some welcome tension. Vietcong also has some pretty motion capture sequences such as 
 the North-Vietnamese ducking their head and dying in a variety of ways, your own team-members graciously 
 stepping over a fallen log or signaling others to stop. Besides the 12-level single player campaign, 
 Vietcong features 7 multiplayer modes: in addition to the usual, there are last man standing where 
 there is no respawning until the end of the round, real war which is Capture The Flag with multiple 
 flags, and a cooperative mode where players can team up against packs of AI-controlled enemies. 
 The impressive amount of research Pterodon guys put into this game can be checked out on the Vietcong 
 website. To sum up Vietcong: An excellent game in many ways, but with some more it could be irresistible.
 
  
  16/20 - Based on : 10 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - A Czech production but looks high-class.
  3/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Sometimes 
 little problems with objectives, but nothing major.
  1/4 PACING - The fourth level of Vietcong felt like a beautiful concert was taken over by the ugliest 
 sounds you can imagine.
  4/4 INNOVATION - Look at lots of little gameplay features listed in the second half of the article.
 
  4/4 IMMERSION - The biggest contributor is the military radio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 24, 2004 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Funny - I'd forgotten how this game provides some of the most immersive first person action I've 
 ever come across with some of the most annoying aspects of 3rd person shooter game design and programming. 
 Overall well worth buying mind you but..... if this sort if thing irritates you its worth bearing 
 in mind that it substitutes apparent immunity to bullets and startling accuracy and range with 
 everything as a way of making the game more difficult. Fo example - having drilled a couple of 
 Cong with a 50 calibre machine gun (repeatedly) I was amazed to discover that they could stand 
 up and drill with mission-killing accuracy my boat pilot with small arms. I mean I know there are 
 only a few ways of making a game more difficult but this is bloody silly - a .50 should cut your 
 average Cong in half with a few rounds and I'm reasonably convinced that my boat captain shouldn't 
 be made of bullet-attracting papier mache.
  
  So - good game but (as is often the case) let down by lazy programming and crap mechanics. Worth 
 it for the experience but really not that replayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffrok
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2003 11:24 pm PT
Review:  A totally absorbing game from beginning to glorious end! VC has probably the best enemy, and friendly 
 AI I have seen in a FPS. VC pop out of brush, fire, then move to new cover with believable realism. 
 Great game interface with the best control mechanics ever done. Most of the missions are quite 
 lengthy, and really give a feel that you've been on a long patrol w/your buds. Intense firefights, 
 use of realistic combat tactics, amazing realistic jungle graphics, very nice sound... all work 
 together well to make the jungle alive! The game world in most missions is huge. In progress you'll 
 likely get attached to your team characters, due to their believable personalities. Plenty of good 
 cut scenes, heli drop offs and LZ pickups give a feeling of completeness. Everything adds up to 
 the most perfect FPS I have ever played! (played 'em all) I've replayed it now 3 times, and the 
 quick mission mode, lone wolf mode, and MP modes add even more replay value. I can't think of anything 
 bad to say about it, had quick load times, and ran flawless. Challenging & fun like games are suppose 
 to be, do not miss this one... run and buy it!!! -JK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_R_Fugate
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 13, 2003 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I had been looking at purchasing this game for a while, but put it off because it does have a cheesy 
 name, and I figured that it was of the same caliber of that "other" Vietnam simulator. I found 
 it at a reduced price of $29.99, and figured even if it did suck, I was only out $30 bucks. The 
 game was well worth the $30 or so dollars that I paid for it. The music is one of the things that 
 grabbed me right from the start. The title screen is playing some very mellow, very Jimi Hendrix-ish 
 guitar rift that does a great job of setting the era "mood". The training scenarios are good, if 
 a bit annoying at times, and the drill is funny if not monotonous. I spent at least of couple of 
 hours just screwing around in the training scenarios. It also lends a bit of history to the main 
 single player character. One gripe, the calling in of artillery is a major pain in the ass. They 
 could have provide a better map for calling in artillery. The map that is provided is not very 
 clear, nor detailed. Like I said, a minor gripe, but one still worth mentioning, as the first time 
 I tried to do it, I blew myself into next week. So approach it with caution.
  
  After getting bored with "boot camp", I jumped into the single player game. It plays well. A true 
 measure of a great game is if it has sub-par graphics but still manages to suck you in, leaving 
 you waiting for the end of a workday so that you can rush home and play it. A lot of people seem 
 to be comparing this to the MOH series. I would agree that it is as good of a shooter as MOH, but 
 as I have stated, the graphics look a bit dated. They would have been very good as of late 2000 
 or early 2001, but are starting to show their age. This is a minor hit, as it will allow it to 
 run on lower end systems without a hitch. This would be a bigger concern if this was not such a 
 quality game. The sound is very good. I can't say that I have noticed all that much in the sound 
 department that is not just very good, with the minor exception of I have encountered a minor glitch 
 that cause dialog to sometimes be repeated, but since the install of the patch, this seems to have 
 alleviated itself. Another more annoying complaint is the team member AI. They are, at times very 
 stupid. There has been more that once that I have become trapped in a tunnel by my team behind 
 me, and ahead of me trying to walk through a wall. It is also somewhat amusing when they catch 
 on fire, and calmly proclaim "Oh no, I am on fire." and then proceed to pat themselves until the 
 flames are extinguished. The stupid AI team members can be a real pain in the hind end. Another 
 thing that may turn some people off is you can't carry an arsenal on your back. You are limited 
 to a knife, pistol, rifle/machine gun, and four grenades of US manufacture/ four of Vietcong origin, 
 for a total of eight. I rather liked this feature.
  
  Overall, the game has kept me coming back for more. I would recommended it to anyone likes a d@!$%* 
 good FPS shooter.
  
  On a side note, if you really care to see how hard these guys worked on the game, you must check 
 out the website fore Vietcong. It is truly impressive. These guys started out to create a quality 
 product, and have succeeded masterfully. When cruising the web site, pay attention to the name 
 of the guide they received Vietnam...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katiff
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2003 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, sure there were a lot of technical issues when it was first released, but these 
 issues were fixed with the 1.01 patch that was released. Now the game runs great, the graphics 
 are incredible, highly detailed, stunning and epic environments. This game has a lot of value because 
 of all the different types of multiplayer you can try. There are also a lot of cool features, like 
 calling in artillery support etc...
  
  All in all this is a great game. I recommend it, just as long as you get the latest patch. I tried 
 it with and without the patch; I can see that it made a huge difference. Not all games are perfect 
 on their release, i. e. Battlefield 1942. But if the developers are willing to fix these issues, 
 then I dont see any reason to pass up the opportunity to play a great and exciting game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: corypowers
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2003 8:23 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent game and one of the most engaging FPS games that I have played. The reviews 
 that I have read seem to focus on a few flaws that, while the definitely exist and should be fixed, 
 they do not 'ruin' the experience. The Single Player campaign is more innovative then any other 
 FPS that I have played.
  
  The missions are surprisingly original and fresh, and the game creates a feeling of anticipation. 
 You never know what is around the next corner and you don't have any idea where or when someone 
 is going to start shooting at you.
  
  I would recommend this game to any one looking for a FPS with a little depth. Hopefully the publisher/developer 
 will release some patches for the minor technical difficulties that the game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batlord
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2003 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I agree that this is the best FPS since MOHAA. I think its interesting that peoples response to 
 this game seems to be greatly tied to how well it performed on there particular machine. Obviously 
 some people are getting poor performance on modern hardware. I have a AMD XP1800 and Gforce3 200ti 
 and the game ran fine and looked great. I notice a couple of frame rate drops in the second or 
 third mission, but I turned off triple buffering in the video setup box and I also selected store 
 textures in video memory instead of system memory. I never noticed any more problems. I wont say 
 this game is perfect, but it was very fun, challenging and satisfying. I definitely recommend this 
 game, but I also wish you luck that it runs as well for you as it did for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordsArmy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2003 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Not sure why this game has been number one on the trafic list for so many days. Being a fps nut, 
 I had to give it a shot, and, to be frank; I'm not impressed. From the anoying slow down in multi-player, 
 to the anoying voice overs in single player... it pretty much leaves every thin gto be desired. 
 No one thing can make me recomend this for any one but die hard fps fans. SOCOM for PS2, while 
 not technically a fps, blows this out of the water in terms of a team based shooter. For those 
 of you not willing to drop 200$ for the PS2 in order to get SOCOM, wait for SOCOM2 as rumer has 
 it going to multiple platforms. (including PC) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk887
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2003 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow. What a game, this game is truly impressive. I'm not disappointed with Gamespot's score, for 
 this game does consist of many technical problems. Patches will FIX this, and the framerate is 
 poor, but a patch should fix that also. This game, other than its vast number of tecnical problems, 
 which could be fixed, is a great game, with a great plot, weapons, and sound as well. Online multiplayer 
 is so fun too, all but one map are excellently done, and it truly brings out competition to the 
 game, even if there are some VERY frustrating areas in the single player area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlackJaw1970
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2003 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one outstanding game. I agree with the GameSpot review regarding the technical issues, 
 but I think they weighed that too heavily in their review. This definitely deserves a rating of 
 9+! 
  
  The single player game rivals MOHAA, and the multiplayer game rivals CS. Period. Go buy it and 
 see for yourself. 
  
  Only problem I have with the game is the T rating. Apparently, the UK version will be rated M, 
 and will be loaded with swearing and gore. These elements certainly will not enhance the gameplay, 
 but it will definitely improve upon the immersiveness of the title. Hopefully, an optional patch 
 will be realesed for the U. S. version. (I hope Pteredon is reading this.)
  
  See you in the bush.
  
  
  SlackJaw
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightmare__74
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 5, 2003 8:41 am PT
Review:  Vietcong has been a blessing in first person shooters. It breaks the monotony of the World War 
 II shooters. The games graphics are excellent with the rich foliage and vast arenas of play. The 
 enemy AI is some of the better Ive seen in these types of games. Instead of running out in the 
 open and firing blindly the AI will actually try to use strategy such as cover, cover fire, and 
 force by numbers. There is a slight drawback with the friendly AI that probably can be fixed with 
 a patch in the future. In some situations the AI follows you so close that you can become trapped 
 in certain boards. If you only have one way in and one way out be wary before you trudge down that 
 avenue. I found myself having to start a board over because the AI would not move out of the way. 
 You can not jump, or crawl around them. During firefights the AI takes a mind of its own and tends 
 to run off blindly with guns blazing. The commands during firefights do not seem to work immediately. 
 I have to issue the command to hold or retreat several times before the AI will react to it. The 
 sound in the game is superb. I find myself having to turn down my speakers because of the intensity 
 of the firefights. The only drawback is trying to hear your radio transmissions during a firefight. 
 The game play in single player missions is excellent and only gets better during multiplayer games. 
 Overall this game is leaps and bounds ahead of most first person shooters but there is some room 
 for improvement. I would recommend this game to anyone who loves the first person shooters especially 
 if they are intrigued with jungle combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomBomb
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2003 5:53 am PT
Review:  Holy God! THis game is one of the coolest games I have ever played. The textures are phenomenal, 
 the charcter models are a little like Half Life. I would of expected better at this current stage 
 of game development. But it's not so bad. I have had NO problems with this game, and I have a Dell 
 P4 2.4GHZ with 1GB of RAM and a 64MB GeForce4. The game runs nice at 1280x1024. And the game nearly 
 makes you wet yourself with the stealth tactics and AI of the enemy. The story is wonderful, and 
 the sounds immersive. Go get this GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaperPlate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2003 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm having flashbacks about this game already. Can't get the images of the VC appearing out of 
 the forests like ghosts. This game is great if you're a fan of war games. It does every little 
 thing to grasp the players attention and put them in the jungles of Vietnam. When you brush past 
 a bush pieces of it fall to the ground. Birds fly out of the trees as you come closer to them. 
 Along with visual feats the sound ranks up there also. Explosions cause a ringing in your ear (possible 
 to shut off, so dont worry) ! A++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulsd2002
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2003 11:16 pm PT
Review:  After reading GameSpot's review, I second guessed picking this title up. After reading a few forum 
 pages and downloading the NoCD patch I went out and got this game. I just spent the last 7 1/2 
 hours glued to my computer. I was prepared to suffer through tweaking this game all night until 
 it ran to my liking. So far I've had not one problem. I'm running a P4 2G machine with an ATI Radeon 
 9700 pro. Granted I've only tried 800x600 resolution with all the graphics and sound to max at 
 this point, but I'm extremely pleased. The graphic are good and due portray the immense jungle 
 well. There are a few quirks here and there. However, I truely felt like I was in the vietnam backcountry. 
 The fire fights are very rewarding and visually enjoyable. If you enjoyed MOHAA and OFP you really 
 owe it to yourself to give this a whirl. As I stated I'm only through 3 missions in at this point 
 and all I can say is WOW. Don't let the first short mission fool you, there are some extremely 
 intense moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: code7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2003 1:01 pm PT
Review:  YOU DO HAVE TO USE A NO-CD CRACK FOR NOW ('TIL A PATCH COMES OUT) , BUT THIS GAME IS KIIIIIIIING!! 
 IT'S 100% OMG!
  BUY IT, RUN, DON'T WALK!
  The visuals are right on the money, and I'm running on only a P4 1.7ghz, 384mb rdram, and GeForce 
 3.
  I have tried the Vietcong demo and the Line Of Sight: Vietnam demo. Absolutely no comparison. This 
 game is the jungle RULER until 2004 when Men Of Valor: Vietnam comes out. The jungle sounds in 
 this game alone will creep you out.
  Some games make you feel so excited after you buy them, like you're very happy you bought it (i. e. 
 Quake 3 Arena, Unreal Tournament 2003, Raven Shield, Return To Castle Wolfenstein, Splinter Cell, 
 etc.) . This is one of those games. The box that my Vietcong came in will proudly go upon my game-shrine 
 . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adeline06
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2003 5:53 am PT
Review:  Not quite as good as their Mafia game but still a great original experience. Finally a great Vietnam 
 game. Just don't use an ATI card with it and get a no cd patch to increase your framerates. I run 
 all settings high with higest resolution with a 4600ti, 2.4, 512 and get really good FPS. The single 
 player and multi player are both great and the NPC AI is maybe the best I have ever seen. The music 
 is 70's classic rock which fits right in the game perfectly and the Charlies speak theri native 
 tounge, Tung Si? Better than Raven Shield go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimsonblake
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 2, 2003 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Do you like Medal of honor? Are you tired of cheaters? Then get this game. All i can say is WOW. 
 This game has completly and totally blown my mind. Oh BTW i'm not some fool that works for Vietcong 
 coming here to sway the scores. I'm a true gamer.
  
  Back when i first bought Medal of honor last January the game was superior to any other FPS due 
 to its REALISM. Vietcong takes that realism another step. The environments in this game are truly 
 astounding. In the real world a marine wearing chamo in a jungle is hard to find due to all the 
 cover he has. This also applies to Vietcong, it's very difficult to run around the map and just 
 find people and shoot them, you must be slow, methodical and you must have patience. 
  
  If at first you bought this game, then you install, then you load it up and say "Huh, why is this 
 game chunking at 20 FPS on my 2.4 GHZ MACHINE!!". Then i understand your problem, THIS IS THE LONE 
 PROBLEM WITH THE GAME. Once you overcome this problem you will experience a masterpiece. How do 
 i fix my FPS? I'll give u the answer, download the no-cd crack. If you have bought a legit copy 
 of this game, then download the No-cd crack. SOME REASON (don't ask me) the company decided to 
 use some sort of cd-protection that just boggs this game down. Doesn't make sense does it? Cd protection 
 slowing down the game? Yea i know it doesn't... but some reason its the cure. I'm sure this game 
 will be patched in the future to overcome this problem.. and when it does you can just ignore what 
 i just said.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: linnx88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2003 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game will simply amaze you. I'm a huge fan of WW2 (European front) games like MOHAA (RtCW 
 was funny, but very fun too, not historic though) and didn't think that this game would come anywhere 
 close. Boy was I wrong. This game succesfully builds an atmosphere that VERY few games ever managed 
 to achieve. To cut down on the philosophy, the game makes you feel like you're in 1968 Vietnam 
 with your comrades fighting the communists. 
  
  I think a huge reason behind why the game makes you feel so is that it has an excellent 60's music 
 score. You get your own personal bunker where you live and the game actually rearranges your stuff 
 in your bunker to make it look like you're really living in it. There is a diary you can read after 
 every mission, it fills all the gaps in between your missions and draws you even more into the 
 game. But wait you get more great features not seen in any other games. You can definetly tell 
 that the game is made by a European team because it tries to tell you the history behind the war, 
 not just make you shoot mindlessly at 3d objects. You get an information booklet that tells you 
 a short history if Vietnam, its people and original inhabitants. It tells you the background and 
 reasons for the war and how the French were involved as well. At any time, you can step out of 
 the bunker, select new weapons which become available as your progress and even has a shooting 
 range where you can practice. There is also a booklet describing every weapon you posess as well.
 
  
  The enemies behave realistically, they yell for help, dodge, hide behind trees/rocks/objects, alert 
 others, run away, change positions and generally behave as you would expects a Vietnamese commie 
 to behave ;-)
  
  The fact that you travel with a team, adds greatly to the realism, you actually grow attached to 
 every team member (similar to Flashpoint (yet another great European combat game, Czech as well 
 i think) ) . The sound is great, enemies yell and your own character lets out an ear ripping roar 
 when he is shot, as he should because it hurts like hell. The graphics are beautiful and realistic, 
 there are also traps you'll need to worry about. All I can say is: PLAY IT! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
