-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Vietnam 2: Special Assignment
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/vietnam2specialassignment/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 10, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.4
Critic Score: 5.1, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 50 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: ValuSoft
Developer: Single Cell Soft.
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Jun 30, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Vietnam 2 is a generic shooter in the worst sense of the phrase. 

  The most striking thing about ValuSoft's new war-themed shooter is how many different titles it 
 has. The name on the box is Elite Forces Vietnam Special Assignment 2. The official Web site lists 
 it as Vietnam 2: Special Assignment. After you install it, the game's icon is labeled BlackOps 
 2. When it's actually running, the name on the taskbar is Vietnam: BlackOps 2. Then, in a sort 
 of grand finale of many of the different words associated with it up to this point, the title screen 
 calls it Vietnam 2 Black Ops Special Assignment. Whatever you call it (this review will refer to 
 it simply as Elite Forces Vietnam 2 Black Ops Special Assignment) , the search for its true title 
 unfortunately ends up being more interesting than the game itself.           The action in Vietnam 
 2 is very formulaic...    

 Although several of its many names might lead you to believe that Vietnam 2 is about a second Vietnam 
 War that perhaps takes place in the future, it's actually set during the real Vietnam War. A rogue 
 American Colonel has established his own kingdom in a temple deep in the Cambodian jungle. Your 
 orders are to track him down and kill him. If that sounds familiar, it's probably because it's 
 the plot of  Apocalypse Now .   

  The gameplay has also been lifted from other sources. Vietnam 2 is a generic shooter in the worst 
 sense of the phrase. Everything here has been done before, and done better. You'll trudge through 
 12 levels, and at the end, you won't remember any of it.   

  The environments are uniformly bland. You'll visit giant stone forts, sewers, narrow valleys that 
 represent outdoor areas, and lots and lots of tunnels in which the Vietcong have apparently hidden 
 their nation's supply of crates. There are a few parts that take place in what might be the densest 
 fog ever seen in a game. The horizon is literally about 4 feet in front of you, though that doesn't 
 stop enemies 30 yards away from immediately pinpointing your position and firing at you. The LithTech 
 engine powers the graphics, and though it's been the rendering force behind a few good games, this 
 definitely isn't one of them.   

  A looping ambient sound-effects track accompanies the environments, and it's occasionally effective. 
 However, there's a silent 4-second gap every time a track resets, which repeatedly kills whatever 
 atmosphere it manages to build. The enemies all have screeching, over-the-top Asian accents while 
 screaming things such as "Die Amelican!" At pre-scripted moments, your character occasionally rattles 
 off one-liners. Some of them can be ignored, but a few are just inexplicable. At one point, after 
 climbing through some underground tunnels, you emerge into a rocky cavern. For some reason, this 
 causes your character to sarcastically say, "What's this, a stupid cave?"           ... and the 
 game doesn't offer much in the way of originality.    

 The firefights are on par with the generally lackluster standards set by the other elements of Vietnam 
 2. Enemies usually appear in groups of four or five, and though they exhibit a small amount of 
 intelligence -- for instance, they'll often stay behind cover rather than run straight at you -- the 
 battles are generally devoid of any compelling action. The standard elements are all there: guns, 
 rocket launchers, and grenades. But the game never manages to create the sense of breathless excitement 
 that separates good shooters from bad ones. Every fight seems exactly the same, except for the 
 ones that take place in thick fog, which add a layer of annoyance to the boredom.   

  No multiplayer options are included. Though given how the single-player game turned out, you're 
 probably not missing much.   

  As a budget-priced game, it's arguable that Vietnam 2 should be judged against a lower standard. 
 Still, it's hard to imagine standards low enough to warrant playing it. Unless you have a dedicated 
 manservant who'll play it for you, you'll still have to invest a significant amount of your precious 
 time finishing it. To put things in perspective, the great Serious Sam was a budget-priced game 
 too. And Elite Forces Vietnam 2 Black Ops Special Assignment is no Serious Sam.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bh711
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Dont expect too much from this game. This game is downright dreadful. The graphics sucks, the 
 game play sucks, the sound sucks, what more wouldnt you want from a game? What is even more ironic 
 about the game is that its publisher is named ValuSoft. This implies that you had bought a game 
 of great value. How wrong could you be? Ok, its a cheap game, but surely there are plenty of cheaper 
 games that are much better than this. Even a dollar would be good money badly spent on a game of 
 such lousy quality. The first game was even worse than this, so it really confuses me why this 
 sequel was even made at all. Its not as if it was an instant hit or anything like that. So why 
 bother creating a sequel? Just compare this game to another First-Person shooter, like lets say 
 Counterstrike. This game just pales in comparison to it. On second thought, the games nothing 
 compared to it. Lets start with the general game play of the game. The story basically puts you 
 in the shoes of an unnamed American soldier, sent to Vietnam to track down and kill a renegade 
 soldier. Yawn Been there done, done that. The lack of originality in the storyline is blatant 
 here. No twists in the story or double crosses by the government here. You get to use an arsenal 
 of 8 weapons throughout the game, which consists of basic weapons such as the AK-47, M-16 and sniper 
 rifle. Of course, these weapons do not look nearly as nice as the guns found in games such as Counterstrike 
 and Battlefield. Unfortunately, aiming with these guns is definitely a chore. Once, I found myself 
 wasting a full round of ammo trying to kill an enemy across a distance. The aiming crosshair is 
 just not accurate enough, even for the case of the sniper rifle. From the start of the game, what 
 strikes you first are the poor graphics found throughout the game. This comes as a surprise if 
 you compare the graphics of this game to the other games of that time. The graphics were so bad, 
 that I mistook a jungle I was in for a big room. The sky just consisted of a grey ceiling, and 
 if only I could have jumped a few inches higher, I really believed that I could have touched the 
 sky. The trees and the grass looked just like cardboard cut-outs, and imagine my surprise when 
 I realized that my bullets could not even penetrate through the thin cardboard trees. Your enemies 
 consist of Vietnamese foot soldiers and snipers, with lousy Asian accents. What amazes me is the 
 almost super-human eyesight of the AI in the game. Even the darkness of night and the thickness 
 of fog cannot prevent your enemies from seeing you. These super soldiers can see you from across 
 the length of a football pitch and can shoot you accurately, and they arent even holding sniper 
 rifles! What more, its nighttime! They can even shoot you with such good accuracy in fogs so thick; 
 you can hardly even see a few feet in front of you. You cant see them, but they definitely can 
 see you! These super soldiers are also so difficult to kill. Shoot them once, and it does not even 
 appear to have affected them at all. No pain, no nothing. They dont even stagger back for crying 
 out loud! They just stand there continuing raining their barrage of bullets on you. Only after 
 what appears to be many shots, do you appear to have killed them. Dont believe me? Just buy the 
 game and try it, which I really would not recommend.
  
  Boring and unimaginative are what sums up this entire game. And did I add dreadful? I feel like 
 just breaking the disc every time I play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alien_Devil
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  Vietnam 2, Black Ops 2, or whatever the name really is this game is sucks. The story has nothing 
 of value. THE GRAPICS: Looks like **** I mean its just awful. The weapons looks like noone is carrying 
 them and are ugly, the enemys looks like an pice of diapers. I mean, even Duke Nukem 3D or DOOM 
 has better and nicer grapics.
  
  THE SOUND: Just sucky. Why the hell does the guy you are sound like Duke Nukem? Even that aint 
 good and Duke usually have nice comments but this guy??? His comments are awful and uninteresting. 
 The music? I cant remember hearing any music that is good. Sound effects are the same bad or each 
 weapon.
  
  THE STORY: Anything interesting? Well the thing i know is that some dude has gone crazy and another 
 dude (YOU!) is going to kill him.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY: The regular FPS-Gameplay, but the lousy grapics and levels brings it down.
  
 
  Now here we have an game that is so sucky that the enemy easily kill you. Well no need to buy 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  My primary complaint about Vietnam: Black Ops  taking its bland graphics, overly-simplistic animation, 
 and flat sound effects into account  is that the gameplay was overwhelmingly repetitive. The player 
 simply meandered from one area to the next, trying to get the drop on each unobservant batch of 
 bots, stepping over a few comically obvious booby traps, with the only surprises generated through 
 the appearance of some bizarrely fleet-footed suicide bombers. Having practiced their skills to 
 the tune of $5-20 per purchase of V: BO, the same small team of designers tried to instill some 
 variety in the sequel. Although I can appreciate the effort, the portions of Vietnam 2: Special 
 Assignment that dont repeat the same pedestrian bot hunts range from somewhat dull to downright 
 horrible.
  
  First, the positive elements: in addition to the creators attempts to spice up the gameplay, V2: SA 
 throws in a few more of the creepy, misty caves and Buddhist temple ruins that I enjoyed in the 
 original. Early versions of the LithTech engine simply werent powerful enough to render eye-catching 
 outdoor scenes (in my opinion, few assemblers before the CryEngine were sufficient for presenting 
 nature as anything more than a hedge maze with the occasional free-standing tree) , so the game 
 works fairly well whenever the action moves indoors.
  
  A decent corridor crawl just doesnt stack up against V2: SAs moronic dialogue and muted sound 
 effects. The promise of a few team skirmishes never really happened; a pair of cloned friendlies 
 might appear on occasion, fire a few rounds, and then stand perfectly still. An experiment with 
 an on-rails sequence during the river raft ride wasnt bad, but was frustratingly hard in parts. 
 And speaking of unbalanced levels of difficulty, the area spent wreathed in a thick fog, with bullets 
 and bombs flying unerringly from the depths of the cloudy soup, was simply a mistake. The enemy 
 AI was unaffected by the severely limited visibility, so the only workable solution was to barge 
 full-force through the mist, rendering what I suppose was an attempt at some entertaining surprises 
 or a few Rambo-style stealthy kills utterly pointless.
  
  I cant really fault the efforts of a group of designers whose love of shooters in general and 
 the daunting quagmire that was the Vietnam War in particular lead them to invest their limited 
 resources into an unpolished but modestly entertaining product. There is no denying, however, that 
 the end result simply fails to impress, and entire sections of the brief game slip from the players 
 memory shortly after they are completed. Vietnam 2 is an improvement over its predecessor, but 
 still doesnt make much of a case for budget titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeroshift
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  When I though games would NEVER be this bad to the point where I give it a 1 out of 10, there came 
 Vietnam, a worthless piece of crap that only belongs in the lower depths of HELL.
  
  Seriously, I think this game was made by just one guy who was the sound engineer, game designer, 
 graphic designer, programmer, and in charge of himself in the level design section and decided 
 to make a crappy ass game in which the developer should be shot so many times that there are no 
 more bullet holes to put in him. The shooting has no recoil, and whenever the enemy shoots up at 
 you, IT DOESNT SHOW HIM LOOKING UP! It would look like he's shooting in the central position but 
 he's actually shooting up at you! As for the enemies in the game, they look like asians that just 
 came out of 17th century Japan. As for the level design, the tree vegetation looks like green cardboard 
 and the enviornment looks like it came out of a copy and paste backround.
  
  As for the sound, all I can say is that the theme music is god awful, in fact all of the music 
 is. The sound effects sound like my farts, and the voice acting takes the spotlight with it's awful, 
 AWFUL acting.
  
  Easy to recommend when your making a fire. The most fun you'll have with the game is the installation 
 process. After that, you'll have more fun throwing the disc around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmenneverdie
Rating: 1
Date: May 21, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible, The most retarded AI ever, BAD gfx, Bad sounds, Same textures, Same game as the 
 first just plain terrible keep away from this game. If you ever play it you need to be slaped. A 
 terrible peice of crap Calusoft is a peice of crap too single cell soft are idots too.
  
  Who ever made this game and thought it was good should be slaped, The testers should have said how 
 bad this game was. Who ever retailed this game are idots terrible terrible peice of crap.
  
  The frist one is bad but this is worse. No one ever play this, The only thing I'm wondering if the 
 frist one was terrible how the hell did they ever make a second. I might have to kill everyone in 
 valusoft if the decide to make another one (if there still around that is) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Vietnam 2 is disastrous:
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics dont look good at all, they just suck, enemies look stupid.
  Weapons dont look great.
 
  Still the engine runs quite smoothly, but thtas the only good point of this game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Bad, levels arent entertaining, i dont like the weapons, not much variety in enemies.
 
  
  Sounds:
  The sounds are horrible, bad weapon sounds, enemies sound like nothing.
  Bwah!
  
  Variety:
  Very bad, only a few enemies, a little variety in sorts of maps, enough 
 weapons though.
  
  Value:
  Bad and NO multiplay, it just sucks.
  Even if they made multiplay nobody would even try it.
  
  Online:
  ? no multiplay, it doesnt 
 matter anyway, nobody plays this game.
  
  This was my review, cya all 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
