-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Virtual On: Cyber Troopers
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/virtualoncybertroopers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 31, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 5.7, 8.3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 34 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date:     Sep 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Virtual On for the PC is convincing evidence that some arcade games aren't meant to be played at 
 home. 

 Its title doesn't make much sense, but far be it from your typical arcade gamer to speak ill of 
 Virtual On. Sega took the basic one-on-one fighting game premise and applied it to giant robots 
 with giant guns to create a one-on-one 3D shooter that has garnered immense popularity in arcades 
 all across the world. It was only a matter of time before Sega ported Virtual On to its 32-bit 
 console and subsequently the PC. But as it turns out, Virtual On for the PC is convincing evidence 
 that some arcade games aren't meant to be played at home.  

 Virtual On for the PC offers the same great cast as its arcade counterpart. From the nimble, feminine 
 Fei-Yen to the hulking, hammer-toting Dorkas, each of the eight selectable Virtual On cyber troopers 
 is distinctive and interesting. A far cry from the ungainly, overheating mechs you may be used 
 to, these 'bots are blessed with lifelike agility and personality exemplified through highly detailed, 
 colorful polygonal models. Watching the cyber troopers sprint around the battlefield and take to 
 the skies as they unleash flurries of guided missiles upon one another is truly a sight to behold. 
 But even if you can exceed Virtual On's steep requirement for a Pentium 166 with MMX, you'll still 
 encounter a frame rate that's unreasonably sluggish. You can switch to a lower resolution, but 
 even then you'll be hard-pressed to approach the arcade's blistering and uncompromising 60 frames 
 per second. Here's one game that begs for 3D accelerator support and doubly proves that "Designed 
 for Intel MMX" is little more than a slogan. At least all the arcade's metal-crunching sound effects 
 and the manic, upbeat, synthesized soundtrack made it home without a hitch.  

 The arcade game is able to maintain its detailed graphics at such a furious frame rate only through 
 the power of Sega's awesome Model 2 hardware, which far exceeds the comparatively piddling polygonal 
 horsepower of an unaccelerated high-end Pentium. The arcade game was constructed to take full advantage 
 of Model 2; tremendous polygonal explosions rock the battlefield left and right as the cyber troopers 
 settle their score. But whereas the arcade hardware doesn't even hiccup at such pyrotechnics, your 
 home PC will bog to a virtual slideshow whenever you eat a big missile... making it that much simpler 
 for the opponent to feed you the next one.  

 Virtual On has remained near the top of the arcade charts ever since its late 1995 release not only 
 because of its remarkable graphics but because of its intuitive, precise, and fast-paced gameplay. 
 Arcade machines typically consist of two sit-down side-by-side units designed for easy network 
 play. Control involves using twin digital joysticks with two triggers apiece to pull all the various 
 fancy stunts from a behind-the-bot point of view. You choose one of eight cyber troopers and take 
 on the opponent using your three progressively powerful weapon systems to try and blow him to smithereens. 
 You can leap behind terrain for cover or rush toward him to deliver a deadly point-blank assault. 
 The eight robots are fairly balanced and demand considerably different fighting strategies, adding 
 considerable play life to Virtual On. The dual joystick layout makes circle strafing and other 
 ace maneuvers readily possible and definitely necessary in dealing with the challenging, versatile 
 computer AI, let alone a capable human opponent.  

 And herein lies the greatest shortcoming of Virtual On for the PC: The highly specialized arcade 
 control scheme just doesn't translate effectively to any existing PC peripheral. Attempting to 
 use the keyboard as a control device to any degree of success will invariably prove futile since 
 there are so many movement functions, while most flight sticks also prove ineffective because they 
 cannot distinguish between turning and sidestepping. Only those gamepads with shoulder buttons 
 to allow for easy rotating and strafing can even approach the perfectly implemented arcade control 
 scheme. To its credit, the PC rendition of Virtual On does allow one to emulate the arcade configuration 
 by using two joysticks simultaneously, but this will only be a feasible option for a scarce few. 

 Between its uncertain frame rate and its less than ideal control, the PC conversion of Virtual On 
 just doesn't pack the punch of its arcade cousin. Sure, the PC version supports multiplayer setups 
 across the board, including Internet play - but you just can't get too excited about winning when 
 your computer and your gamepad are far more important factors than your level of skill. And while 
 the two-player simultaneous split-screen mode is a nice idea, unless you have a Pentium 200 or 
 higher, you won't get any enjoyment out of it. At the same time, challenging the computer opponent 
 over and over won't keep you riveted for long since Virtual On is intended for competitive play. 
 As it stands, the PC conversion of Virtual On inherently lacks those key features that assured 
 its quarter-munching longevity at the arcades.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  When this game came out in the arcades, I had found the next best thing to CYBER SLED, which also 
 played the same way as Virtual On. The original arcade controls consisted of 2 sticks that acted 
 just like how a real tank is suppose to be set up as well as move. The only plus side to Virtual 
 On was you had more weapons to fire and more abilities to escape from your attacker. Course, the 
 fact that it has more vehicles to play with was an added bonus. Then when teh PC version came out, 
 I figured "COOL". No more having to spend tons of quarters at the arcades to play this game anymore. 
 But, it wasn't until I realized something about the way the game was setup that I saw a problem, 
 which you will find out in a sec...
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  Graphics are very well detailed, just like the arcade version. This game will work great on Windows 
 95 - 98. Course if you have Windows XP, it should run just fine in compatibility mode. I have not 
 had any problems with this game and the graphics are just as detailed and the animation is just 
 as smooth just like in the arcade. Even the weapons and blast animations are very well designed 
 and show the great work they put into making the PC version.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  This is where it will get a little tricky. Since the arcade originally was set up to use 2 sticks 
 to move your mech, this would not be the case for the PC version. Although you can switch the controls 
 around, the problem lies in the way the controls are set up. Regardless of the smooth animation, 
 the controls can get a little tricky, almost making you think you need 3 hands instead of 2. In 
 some ways, and if you have one, you might want play this game with a PS2 type controller so you 
 can have all 4 of your actions near your hands at one time. Controls on the keyboard are just too 
 much for even the simplest of players. The main problem is to account for, not only the strafing, 
 but also the forward, backward, and turning controls. Added to the fact that you also have to jump 
 and fire your 3 different weapons. If anything, it would be best to use a controller of some time 
 to help you keep all your fingers and controls together.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  It's not a bad game if you're into playing tank games and you want to get the idea of driving a 
 mech instead of a tank. This is the best simulation you will get to play that is close to the arcade. 
 Just remember that if you use the keyboard for controls, you may find yourself with troubles trying 
 to find the best control setup. Overall, you would be better off using a PS2 type controller so 
 your fingers are close to the buttons and you can press what you need in an instant. This is as 
 close to the arcade as you are gonna get. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
