-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Virtua Fighter 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/virtuafighter2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 16, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.6, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 162 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sega-AM2
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date:     Sep 30, 1997
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Virtua Fighter 2 is unquestionably the best fighting game on the PC, and certainly one of the finest 
 fighting games of all time. 

 There are several reasons why fighting games continue to dominate arcades around the world, and 
 Sega's Virtua Fighter 2 is one of these reasons. What began as a revolutionary 3D fighter in 1993 
 culminated the following year in a graphically astonishing sequel that took Japan, the United States, 
 and everywhere in between by storm. And now, years later, one of the most successful arcade games 
 in history has hit the PC in full stride. And the good news is, Virtua Fighter 2 still packs a 
 big punch.  

 Virtua Fighter 2 boasts some of the most detailed 3D characters ever seen on the PC. All ten fighters 
 are expertly motion-captured and texture-mapped in great detail. You can even watch their facial 
 expressions change and their loose clothing rustle in the wind, lending a strikingly realistic 
 look to the game that easily outclasses any and all competition. And speaking of class, Virtua 
 Fighter 2 takes itself seriously; you won't see any blood spilled or bones busted. Just fast, furious, 
 lifelike, hand-to-hand fighting.  

 Think your computer's the baddest polygon pusher on the block? Just toggle all of Virtua Fighter 
 2's graphics settings to maximum and watch your sorry machine groan in virtual agony. Even a top-of-the-line 
 MMX-powered Pentium can't deal with everything Virtua Fighter 2 has to offer. Granted, this PC 
 conversion theoretically allows you to recreate the arcade game (powered by Sega's mighty Lockheed 
 Martin-powered proprietary Model 2 hardware) in full detail. And while it would be great to play 
 the unadulterated arcade game at home, these high-level graphics options simply aren't practical 
 and aren't even available unless you go for the whole-hog full install that demands upwards of 
 300 megabytes of disk space. Fortunately, if you set your sights a little lower, you'll be able 
 to find a perfect middle ground between graphic detail and playability. If you set background detail 
 to a minimum, you can play in high resolution and still witness the action at nearly 60 frames 
 per second even on a low-end Pentium. Every sound sample and music track from the arcade translates 
 intact to the PC version, but the arcade didn't sound particularly special in the first place - 
 unless you want to count the mysteriously inappropriate English ("I'm faster than lightning!" exclaims 
 Jacky Bryant) spoken by the non-Asian characters in the game.  

 Virtua Fighter 2's play mechanics translate perfectly to the PC, though you'll need a good gamepad 
 to take full advantage of the precise control. The easy-to-learn punch/kick/guard button scheme 
 belies the depth of Virtua Fighter 2. Each of the ten characters has dozens of different moves 
 and combinations, including throws, counters, pursuit attacks, parries, and reversals. Most of 
 these aren't difficult to accomplish, but the trick is rather to keep all of them in mind and to 
 know when to use what. Fights typically consist of a best-of-three-rounds game, where you win either 
 by beating the stuffing out of your opponent or shoving him out of the ring. Mastering but a single 
 character is no easy feat, and chances are you'll want to master them all - Virtua Fighter 2 is 
 a remarkably well-balanced fighting game where any of the ten characters can be deadly if used 
 properly. Several new gameplay modes exist in the PC conversion, most notably Internet-ready multiplayer 
 support. Like any good fighting game, Virtua Fighter 2 is at its best when two expert players battle 
 it out against each other, but the computer opponent is no pushover and offers a great challenge 
 in the meantime. The computer learns your tricks and patterns and won't hesitate to show you a 
 thing or two of its own if you're not careful. Other goodies, including a sound test and an art 
 gallery for each character, help pass the time when you're not duking it out.  

 Virtua Fighter 2 is unquestionably the best fighting game on the PC, and certainly one of the finest 
 fighting games of all time. Those who enjoyed the arcade game will be more than pleased with the 
 near-perfect PC conversion, which rivals even the excellent Sega Saturn console port. Otherwise, 
 those who don't have as much experience with the coin-op will discover that Virtua Fighter 2 is 
 hardly a mindless action game but rather a highly technical and totally fast-paced battle of wits. 
 If you're a fighting game fan or if you're wondering what the fuss is all about, don't pass it 
 up.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Best fighting game I've played on the PC and one of the most technical fighting games available 
 when it was released
  
  Defense is just as important as offense in VF2, and special moves/body slams are very punishing (often 
 removing most of your health) so you need to defend well but not be too defensive otherwise if your 
 opponent gets hold of you and body slams you expect to lose most of your health.
  
  The battles are very tactical, the characters all have good diversity in the level of speed, power 
 in their basic attacks, the ability and reach in their special moves and some can use wrestling 
 moves (such as body slams if they are able to get close to an opponent)
  
  You need to lure your opponent into making a mistake, or overwhelm them with speed, or trick them 
 with the scissors/paper/rock system.
  
  A good way to explain how the different fighting techniques apply to the technical style of fighting 
 VF2 uses, is Akira has a powerful jumping double kick that has good reach and removes about 1/3 
 your opponents health, but Akira has slower and weaker punching ability.
  
  Where Lau has amazingly fast hand speed, and will beat any other opponent to the punch, but his special 
 moves are not very effective.
  
  The wreslter Wolf has slow, sloppy punching speed, but his punches do a lot of damage but are easier 
 to block. If Wolf grabs hold of you though and performs a body slam on you expect to lose most of 
 your health.
  
  I love watching the ninja character Kage throw you high in the air, and whenever he throws you high 
 in the air or knocks you down he performs a low sweeping kick on you for extra damage.
  
  There is 2 new characters in VF2 in Lion and Shun. Lion dresses in a very colorful, bright orange 
 life vest and uses a style similiar to the Mantis and it's very effective in close combat and will 
 win most punching duels because it has wider range of motion. Shun is a drunkin, elderly martial 
 artists, who can barely stand up properly because he is so drunk, but if he gets close to you he 
 can unleash a spinning, fist/elbow combo to your head that will result in massive damage.
  
  The characters come in good variety too such as Akira (Japanese martial artist) , Lau (a chef and it 
 explains his fast and skilled hands) , Pai (Laus daughter who like her dad uses speed and believes 
 offense is the best defense) , Wolf (a canadian wrestler) , Jeffry (a big Australian bloke who loves 
 tropical weather and uses wrestling stye moves) , Jacky (an Indy car driver) , Sarah (Jackys sister) , Kage (a 
 ninja) , Shun (drunkin, elderly martial arts expert) , Lion (a French martial arts expert who wears rowing 
 gear) and Dural a robot who can perform the moves of all the characters, and is much faster and powerful 
 than any of the characters and smarter too. Dural is playable as a secret character and is the final 
 boss.
  
  For uniqueness you fight Dural underwater and it makes maneuvering much slower but gives against 
 Durals otherwise unmatchable speed.
  
  You cannot change the difficulty in the options, you must play this game with arcade settings but 
 at least you know you're playing the game with arcade difficulty everytime. There is other modes 
 you can try besides arcade such as ranking, time attack etc.
  
  The graphics are smooth and colorful and don't look blocky anymore. The characters have smooth polygons 
 and the environments look like actual environments now eg the palm trees and ocean at Jeffrys stage 
 looks beautiful now and you still see things like a beautiful sunset, and even lightning in the 
 background too. You see detailed paving and martial arts buildings, forest etc.
  
  The announcer sounds loud and the music is loud, fast, exciting and gives the game a nice arcade 
 feel. The music can be peaceful and relaxing when youre fighting in the forest.
  
  If you loved Virtua Fighter 2 at the arcades or want one of the best fighting games for PC you 
 need to get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Virtua Fighter is undoubtedly one of the most popular series of all time on all platforms. It was 
 the game that actually led me into the depth of playing games more and more and I always felt the 
 lack of games in the fighting genre for the PC after playing Virtua Fighter 2 for the PC. The game 
 is a total classic and is a must for every PC game enthusiast
  
  Its various characters provide you the chance of learning the art of each character's specific 
 combat moves and takes some time to discover their most powerful attacks and combinations. But 
 excluding that it is one of the most easiest games to play and master. A very addictive game in 
 nature and the player has a lot of fights to look forward to in higher difficulty levels.
  
  The game has good graphics for its time and is very smooth in today's PCs and you can take 
 full advantage of the smoothness in the gameplay. The game has a great two player versus battle 
 system and also a great team battle system that provides hours and hours of ever lasting enjoyment 
 for two players. The practice mode is also useful for mastering new skills and learning new moves. 
 There is also an Expert mode that has the full potential of the Artificial Intelligence of the 
 computer players utilized and you can see that after plaing in Expert mode a few times, sometimes 
 the opponents will start countering your usual moves and you will find your self devising new counter 
 strategies and this mode lets you improve yourself four-fold in the game.
  
  On the whole this game is on of the best releases on the PC for a long time and most PC gamers 
 would agree that the sequels should have been released on the PC too. In the end, VF2 TOTALLY ROCKS!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titomag
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  There have been a few ports of this game, first the Sega Saturn, wich handles the game pretty well, 
 then you have the Sega Genesis port, wich isnt so amazing, and the PS2 port. But... wich one is 
 the best? i think the PC version is. Its an exact port of the arcade, set the the graphic settings 
 to max and you will see an exact replica of the arcade version. If only it would accept todays 
 resolutions, it would actually look better than the arcade. 
  
  This game is fast and the moves for each fighter are awsome and unique. You have 10 fighters to 
 choose from (and 1 hidden boss) each have their own moves wich makes each fighter unique from others, 
 none of them mimic each other they have their own style of fighting based on real martial arts. 
 Some fighters have a countering attack wich could lead the attacker to get bashed, others have 
 methods of rolling, cartwheeling or somersaults to avoid an attack, another nice feature is when 
 you nock your opponent to the ground and if you still want to punish the fighter you can kick or 
 stomp the opponent. the music and sounds were fit in this port perfectly from the arcade. 
  
  You get 5 modes of play wich adds more gameplay. You can also change the game's version from 
 2.0 to 2.1. The game also as a feature called portrait mode, wich you can see screenshots of each 
 character, it also offers online play, and other modes available on the Sega Saturn for more gameplay. 
 A cool option is that your oponents can study your gameplay by turning on the "learning"option.
 
  
  I highly recommend this game, and if your wondering that if it will work on Windows XP, it does. 
 
  
  Graphics: 
  + The textured fighters were all translated faithfully. 
  +Characters have facial expressions, you can change the graphics settings to your liking, any PC 
 today can handle this game.
  + THE best graphics ever seen on all ports of the game. 
  + Backgrounds are fully detailed and crsip, the paralax scrolling is unique.
  - dosent support 
 higher resolutions and bit color
  
  Sound: 
  
  + The added choice of listening to the original VF2 music.
  * Voices are very clear.
  
  Game 
 Play: 
  
  + True martial arts moves from a variety of different cultures. (Including the "Drunken style":) 
 
  + The smooth fighters add to the realism and with over 700 moves, you can learn a lot. 
  - Not everyone likes the "realistic" type of fighting, and might follow the herd over to Mortal 
 Kombat or Street Fighter 2.
  -Of course...... Online play is empty
  
  Replay Value: 
  
  + With all the different modes of play including Team Battle mode, and Ranking Mode, you have 
 a lot to do. 
  + Over 700 moves is enough to make you cry. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
