-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Virtual Pool 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/virtualpool3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.5, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 213 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Celeris
Genre: Billiards
Date:     Nov 14, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You can't find a pool sim that looks and plays as much like the real thing as Virtual Pool 3 does. 
 

 Every game in the Virtual Pool series has come with a money-back guarantee - you get the purchase 
 price refunded if your real-life billiards skills don't improve after you put the game through 
 its paces. We don't know how many people have asked for their cash back in the past, but one thing's 
 for sure: Interplay's investment in the Virtual Pool series has never been safer than with this 
 latest installment. If your real-life play  doesn't  show any advances after you spend some time 
 with this outstanding pool simulation, you're left with only two possibilities - you're so good 
 that there's no way you can get better, or you don't have any arms.   

  Thanks to last year's Virtual Pool Hall - a game that offered very few enhancements over its predecessor, 
 Virtual Pool 2 - there are sure to be some Virtual Pool veterans who'll be wary about picking up 
 Virtual Pool 3. But this time around, Interplay and developer Celeris have really improved the 
 game in several key categories - the most important of which are the vastly improved multiplayer 
 support, as well as a career mode that'll help you get ready to tackle the sharks waiting for you 
 online.   

  You couldn't ask for a sport more suited for online play than billiards; low ping times aren't 
 a prerequisite for satisfying play, and pool is by itself a social sport. But for some reason, 
 previous Virtual Pool games haven't made online play a high priority. For instance, in the case 
 of Virtual Pool 2, Interplay suggested that owners use the third-party program Kali to find opponents. 
 That's changed with Virtual Pool 3, because Interplay has bundled GameSpy Arcade with the game, 
 and finding a game couldn't be much simpler.   

  Some players might regret the game's lack of support for direct TCP/IP connections, but the bottom 
 line is that GameSpy Arcade works just fine - save for the fact you can't tell how far into a match 
 two players are unless you join the room and wait as Virtual Pool 3 loads. The game has a couple 
 of other shortcomings in the multiplayer mode, to be sure. The documentation is very thin (the 
 manual refers you to three different sources of info for specifics of online play, all of which 
 are woefully inadequate) , and conniving players can inflate their ratings by starting a game and 
 refusing to break. If you choose "quit game," you'll see their ratings go up and yours go down. 
 But with online tournaments already being scheduled and plenty of casual games to join, it's easy 
 to overlook these issues.   

  The star of the game is famous pool player Jeanette Lee, known as the "Black Widow." Lee has probably 
 done more to grow interest in pool than any other player over the last decade, and the instructional 
 videos in which she's featured give Virtual Pool 3 a much more personal feel than you'd get from 
 a more straightforward pool tutorial. Longtime pool players probably won't pick up a lot from those 
 videos, but beginners are sure to find them useful. In addition, if you order the game directly 
 from the publisher, you'll get a free copy of The Black Widow's Guide To Killer Pool, a sizable 
 paperback book that covers everything from pool fundamentals to match preparation, pool etiquette, 
 and tips on how to develop a winning attitude.    

 Sixteen pool variations are featured in the game, and while most players will stick to favorites 
 such as 9-ball, 8-ball, and straight pool, the inclusion of strange variations such as Bowliards 
 and Honolulu is still worthwhile. Three preset table configurations are available for all games, 
 but any table can be customized for table speed, roll speed, pocket size, and pocket cut. After 
 a few quick play sessions, you'll probably be ready to jump into the new career mode, which starts 
 you out in a basement with 50 bucks in hand. Even relatively inexperienced pool players will stomp 
 on the jokers who play here and at the Hawg Pen (a holdover from Virtual Pool Hall) - but the competition 
 starts to pick up as you advance to larger tables at better venues.   

  You can use your winnings to buy better cue sticks and cases in which to carry them from manufacturers 
 such as Joss and Viking, but you can go a long way with the basic stick you start out with. It's 
 a little odd that you have to be well into a match before you can check out your career statistics, 
 but one glance at your wallet gives you a pretty good idea of how you're doing. (There is a bug 
 that makes your rating drop even when you win, but this occurs only when you play 8-ball, and as 
 of this writing, Celeris has already announced that the problem will be fixed in a patch.)   

 
  It's a bit disappointing that, as in previous Virtual Pool games, you'll still be stuck looking 
 at 3D floating cue sticks during the game, since the players themselves are invisible - but Celeris 
 apparently concentrated more on ball physics and game options than on 3D-rendered characters. The 
 ball physics are even better than in previous versions - balls fly off the table at a prodigious 
 rate when you're playing against low-rated computer opponents, and making shots when you're forced 
 to severely elevate the cue stick feels as difficult in Virtual Pool 3 as it does in real life. 
   

  The eight venues featured in the game don't have a lot of ambience - for example, you might hear 
 a beer bottle being smashed, a Harley being revved at the Hawg Pen, the beep of a cell phone, or 
 the meow of a cat in the basement - but there's no denying they look gorgeous, especially at higher 
 resolutions. The difference between the graphics in Virtual Pool 3 and in Virtual Pool Hall is 
 like night and day: The ugly, flat polygons used to render the surroundings of the various locales 
 in the previous game have been replaced with crisp, sharp images of restaurant booths, bar stools, 
 and even a gorgeous view from Jeanette Lee's beach house.   

  Better graphics, better ball physics, better online support, better single-player action - about 
 the only thing left that you could hope for is for Virtual Pool 3 to be compatible with earlier 
 versions in the series. But because the physics engine has indeed been ramped up, that's unfortunately 
 not the case: While you can load saved games and trick shots from earlier games, you can forget 
 about using Virtual Pool 3 to compete against owners of Virtual Pool Hall or Virtual Pool 2. But 
 that's OK - once those who own the previous games see how much better Virtual Pool 3 looks and 
 plays, they'll be glad to pony up the game's modest asking price. Bottom line: You can't find a 
 pool sim that looks and plays as much like the real thing as Virtual Pool 3 does.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hoz18
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Virtual Pool 3 is the predecessor to the popular pool game from celeris. This latest version maintains 
 the graphics, sound, features and gameplay that made this game the most realistic, addictive pool 
 game. This game adds more features e. g. snooker, to the table and also with improved graphics and 
 sound. Virtual Pool 3 is the best recipe, pool and snooker players could hope for with loads of 
 pool games e. g. 3 ball, snooker etc. You can play tournaments against plenty of challenging computer 
 players and you can practice your skills on your own with quick play. This game supports internet 
 play where you can play against other players around the world, for this you will need gamespy 
 arcade.
  Overall, this game is definitely the best in the series with new features and sound and it is the 
 best pool simulator that I have seen. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: usdm85
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I was pleasantly suprised when I fired up this most recent billiard simulator from Interplay. I 
 can remember playing the original Virtual Pool back in the days of my 200mHz Pentium 1. It was 
 fun back then and it is still fun now.
  
  One of the greatest changes is the graphics, not so much in a sense that good graphics makes a 
 better game, but they actually help improve the gameplay itself. The shadows and textures of the 
 balls coupled with the clarity helps the player make better decisions about just how hard they 
 should tap that cue.
  
  The cicuit style career mode adds to the fun with different backgrounds and different tables, the 
 ambient noise does leave a bit to be desired, but overall its not as obnoxious as some games. The 
 billiards shop gives a secondary purpose to earning money, and the selection of cues availiable 
 to purchase is quite impressive.
  
  I enjoy playing this mellow game windowed with some mp3s playing in the background, it is a nice 
 break from many of the over intense games of today. I applaude the ability to play mulitple players 
 on one machine as well as LAN capabilities. As to whether or not this game truely improves ones 
 billiards skills, I have yet to test. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  The original Virtual Pool (demo) was the first Cuesport simulation game I've played, I have played 
 International Cueclub on PS2... Nothing compares to Virtual Pool on the PC!
  
  It does everything except show an FPS view of your hands holding the cue. With that in mind you 
 could more less show the Spider (the hand/fingers holding cuetip in position) configurations when 
 aiming and shooting. Other than that, Virtual Pool 3 (being the best of the PC versions) is definitely 
 the best you can get for a Cuesports sim!
  
  Word of advice for a Cuesport sim fans...
  
  If you see this game on sale (new, mint or secondhand) , grab a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtorresrangel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  An awsome game indeed, even for those who have never played billiards in real life, this will be 
 an exciting experiment, and adictive one.
  
  For those who have played in real life, will find this game almost perfect, it has all the main 
 games (9 ball, 8 ball, snooker, valley, 3 cushion, etc) , all played in the specific table, what 
 makes it even more realistic. You can practive by yourself, play against the computer, make your 
 single player carrear, etc ... and of course, the online games makes it complete; play it with 
 a friend via IP, or enter a tournament to show the world your pool skills.
  
  For every one out there who likes to play a pool match with friends, watch snooker on TV or even 
 if you're a professional pool player, get this game! Its a hell of a fun, and you won't get tired 
 of it, because you can always improve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john_jk22
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Definitely the best pool game ever on any platform out there. With a reminiscent feeling of the 
 series, this game enhances any experience a computer player ever had in a pool game. Not only that, 
 but even professionals may find themselves surprised by the variety of shots and techniques used 
 in this game.
  The gameplay is definitely at its best and, besides some minor flaws, it gives a wonderful up-to-reality 
 experience. The wide variety of games will keep you hooked and ready to practice any drills real 
 life has taught you.
  Sound is pretty basic and the graphics exactly the way they should be. Any extra effects or special 
 artefacts would only decrease a player`s ability. Hence, the perfect experience can only be attained 
 with a high luminosity and no background whatsoever.
  The best part about the game is the online session. The server is usually up and running and lots 
 of players willing to have pure fun. League matches, tourneys, everything is implemented in a professional 
 way on the specialised server.
  
  An impressive game, unmatched to date. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
