-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Viva Pinata
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/vivapinata/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Accessible and fun for players of all ages.
 Deceptively deep.
 Gorgeous scalable visuals.
 50 varied achievements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Games for Windows Live compatibility problems.
 Overly limited space for items in garden.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 223 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Climax Group
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Nov 6, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The PC version of Viva Piata is every bit as enjoyable as the Xbox 360 original, assuming your 
 system is one that it chooses to run on. 

  In a world where parties don't happen without piatas and the candy-filled creatures need to be 
 cultivated or captured rather than constructed, skilled gardeners who have a penchant for papier-mch 
 wildlife are in great demand. In Rare's Viva Piata, you have the opportunity to become such a 
 gardener. Although the game is very open-ended and looks like something that only young players 
 would enjoy, its colorful exterior belies a carefully structured and occasionally challenging experience 
 that provides plenty of depth. Yes, Viva Piata is primarily aimed at the same audience that might 
 enjoy the animated TV show of the same name. However, like hitting things with sticks or eating 
 candy, you're not too old for its appeal just because you can get into PG-13 movies, drive a car, 
 or claim a pension. Arriving on shelves almost a year to the day since Viva Piata first appeared 
 on the Xbox 360, the PC version is almost indistinguishable from the console game -- save for some 
 unfortunate technical issues.  

  Getting right into those issues, at the time of this writing we're unable to play the game for 
 more than a few seconds at a time without it crashing back to the desktop, and, as evidenced by 
 posts in various forums, we're not alone. The problem halted our progress after around 10 hours, 
 but can purportedly do the same thing at almost any time. This appears to be a compatibility issue 
 similar to that in the PC version of Gears of War, which, not coincidentally, incorporates the 
 same Xbox Live-like "Games for Windows Live" service. Refusing to log in to said service will let 
 you work on your Viva Piata garden in most cases, but it'll also deprive you of the option to 
 save your progress. These issues don't rob the game of its charm, but they do make the overall 
 experience rather frustrating if you happen to run into them.  

           No profitamoles were harmed during the taking of this screenshot.      

  Technical 
 problems aside, for those who never had the opportunity to play Viva Piata on the Xbox 360, your 
 life on Piata Island begins on a small patch of land that used to belong to a legendary gardener 
 named Jardiniero. It's been neglected for some time, though, and looks more like the beginnings 
 of a desert landfill than a garden that any self-respecting piata would want to call home. When 
 you arrive, a tearful girl named Leafos, who spends her days lamenting the state of the garden, 
 will guide you through all of Viva Piata's basic controls and gameplay mechanics. By the time 
 you're done talking to her, you'll be armed with a shovel, a watering can, and a packet of grass 
 seeds with which to get started on your piata paradise. The game doesn't present you with many 
 specific tasks at any point; your goal is simply to create and maintain a garden that increasingly 
 demanding piatas will want to make their home. This degree of open-endedness can actually feel 
 a little daunting at first, but you'll quickly realize that your progression through the game is 
 more structured than it first appears.  

  Viva Piata can be played using either a mouse and keyboard or a Windows-compatible Xbox 360 controller. 
 Neither setup is complicated, and while the controller is definitely preferable, those of you who 
 are more comfortable with a conventional PC setup should have no problems. The context-sensitive 
 functions performed by each of the controller's four face buttons are displayed on a simple flower-shaped 
 diagram at all times, and if you're playing without a controller you can simply point and click 
 on the flower's petals or use keyboard shortcuts to do the same thing. Viva Piata's numerous menu 
 screens are also very user-friendly, and also take the form of flowers with an option on each petal. 

  Within moments of getting started in your garden, you'll begin to attract the attention of wild 
 piatas. Each of the 70 or so different species in the game has different criteria that you or 
 your garden will need to meet before they'll appear. Once you've sighted a piata, you'll have 
 to meet further criteria before they'll visit, move into, and ultimately, procreate in your garden. 
 In the early stages of the game, it can seem as if almost everything you do has a positive effect 
 on the local wildlife. But as you level up and gain access to more abilities, more seeds, and better 
 tools, the demands of the wildlife that you'll be trying to get into your garden increase proportionately. 
 For example, you might attract a new low-level piata simply by growing a vegetable or a certain 
 kind of flower. But to even catch a glimpse of some of the larger, more impressive species, you'll 
 need to dedicate large portions of your garden to their needs. In some cases, you'll even need 
 to ensure that they have plenty of smaller piatas to feed on. Still more challenging are the evil, 
 sour piatas that will be attracted to your garden from time to time. These instantly recognizable 
 red-and-black creatures, which invariably have very sharp teeth, do nothing but cause trouble until 
 you figure out a way to keep them out or tame them.  

  Viva Piata's learning curve is near-perfect. It does a great job of giving you new abilities over 
 time. It also prevents you from progressing to a point that you and your garden just aren't ready 
 for, which is based on the way that you level up in the game. You'll earn experience points (read: 
 blue flower petals) toward your next level each time you attract or breed a new species of piata 
 or successfully grow a new kind of plant. There are other, less obvious ways to level up as well. 
 For example, you may discover different color variants of piata that you already have in your 
 garden by instructing them to eat or otherwise interact with different things. The majority of 
 the piatas have three different color variants for you to discover, and some will even evolve 
 into entirely different species after eating certain items.  

           The candary, like most piata species, has three different color variants for you to discover. 

  While you're experimenting with telling your piatas to eat different things, you'll also want 
 to try out different-colored fertilizers on any seedlings that you plant. Early on, you won't need 
 to concern yourself with the art of fertilizing plants. But when space is at a premium later on 
 (there's a limit on how many items -- including piatas and helpers -- you can have in your garden) , 
 the skilled horticulturalists among you will find that growing one tree capable of bearing 24 fruit 
 is far more efficient than planting two trees capable of only bearing 12 fruit each. Even small, 
 seemingly insignificant plants, such as daisies and buttercups, can be fertilized to produce multiple 
 flowers. Unless you figure out how to make your own fertilizers, you can count on regular trips 
 to the gardening store.  

  As you progress, you'll gain access to a number of different store owners and other useful characters 
 in the nearby village. You'll be interacting with most of these characters quite frequently. Their 
 services don't come cheap, but the game's chocolate-coin currency should rarely be a cause for 
 concern because every item and piata in your garden can be sold quickly and easily if needed. 
 Furthermore, certain species of piata are capable of producing goods for you, including honey, 
 milk, and wool. With the correct accessories from the pet store on the piatas in question, it's 
 possible to automate these production processes. You'll still need to hire a helper to gather the 
 finished produce, though, if you don't want to bother with collecting and selling all of the items 
 manually.     

  There are several different helpers that you can hire to carry out various tasks in your garden, 
 though they become less useful as you level up and your own skills improve. It's also worth noting 
 that because Viva Piata is so open-ended, there might be times when you've established a largely 
 self-sufficient garden and don't  need  to do very much. So there's plenty of time for you to take 
 care of some of the more menial tasks before pushing forward.  

  The most unfortunate aspect of Viva Piata occurs when you sight a new piata species and decide 
 that you'd like to attract it into your garden, because it often means undoing a lot of the work 
 that you've put in previously. For example, our own garden started out as a carefully planned and 
 quite formal affair, but it evolved (or devolved, perhaps) into something that resembled a swamp. 
 This change occurred because we attempted to entice some piatas that demanded large expanses of 
 water. Later, when we were dealing with piatas that resembled bears, elephants, lions, birds of 
 prey, and the like, we had devoted so much of our garden to water that it became problematic. We 
 were then forced to fill in much of what had become a nicely landscaped pond. It's possible to 
 play multiple gardens while using the same player profile that is complete with its own chocolate 
 bank account and experience. But because the aforementioned item limit applies to all of your gardens 
 rather than each one individually, this doesn't really help matters much.  

  Your in-game journal does a great job of tracking and arranging all of your accomplishments, which 
 makes it an easy resource to refer back to if needed. The journal also contains a detailed instruction 
 manual and a storyline of sorts, which is presented through a series of unlockable journal entries. 
 Like all of the other menu-driven areas of the game, the journal is presented as a series of easy-to-navigate 
 flowers with options on different petals.  

           The in-game journal notes and organizes everything that you might otherwise be tempted 
 to write down yourself.      

  If you're a fan of achievement points, you'll find that the journal is a great way to keep track 
 of how close you are to completing some of the point-scoring objectives. You'll likely earn many 
 of the game's 50 achievements (many of which are simply described as "secret" until you unlock 
 them) simply by playing as you would normally. However, there are definitely a few that you'll 
 have to go out of your way to get. The same can be said of the optional "Piata Central" challenges 
 that crop up from time to time. Their premise is that you need to supply specific piatas for use 
 at upcoming parties. These challenges don't award experience points upon completion, but the value 
 of the piatas that you send will have increased when they're returned. They'll also bring back 
 some candy with them that increases the happiness of any piata eating it.  

  The crates that you use to ship off your piatas to Piata Central are the same ones that you can 
 use to take advantage of the game's only online functionality, which is sending gifts from your 
 garden to other players on your friends list. Of course, not everything that you send has to be 
 nice. But you should know that when you receive mail, there are options to simply return to sender 
 or forward on to another player. So habitually mailing out your problems isn't really an option. 
 Sending valuable piatas and other items is a great way to let your friends know when you're doing 
 well. Even if they're further along than you, the game's open-endedness means there's a chance 
 that the item you're sending could be something they haven't seen before.  

  This is not to suggest that Viva Piata boasts a vast number of customizable items or anything. 
 However, piatas with variant colors (a blue fox or a pink duck, for example) are a good example 
 of the kind of thing that you could send to a friend and reasonably expect to get a message back 
 from him or her a few minutes later asking how you came by it. Piatas that are born in your garden 
 each wear your own customized label, much like you'd find on a teddy bear or some other stuffed 
 animal. That label information stays with the piata regardless of how many times it moves around 
 to other gardens. If you zoom in close enough during the course of regular gameplay, you can make 
 it out quite clearly.  

  The attention to detail in Viva Piata's visuals is uniformly impressive, and you'll rarely find 
 an object in the game that doesn't hold up to close scrutiny. The unique visual style of the game 
 is likely something that you've already decided to love or hate. But regardless of your personal 
 taste, there's no disputing the fact that the visuals are cohesive and impressive technically. 
 The great animation in the game is what gives many of the piatas their personalities, even more 
 so than their distinctive appearances. The species-specific "romance dances" are especially fun, 
 though you'll get to see each of them only once. Procreation can be a quite complex affair for 
 piatas, incidentally, because the romance dance can occur only after you've satisfied a number 
 of prerequisites and beaten the species' unique mazelike minigame.  

           Procreation can be a dangerous game.      

  Even a year after its Xbox 360 release, 
 Viva Piata is a great- and unique-looking game. The game's colorful, bold style ensures that it 
 holds up well even when played at lower 4:3 resolutions, but it goes without saying that the visuals 
 improve significantly at higher resolutions. Widescreen displays are supported, and even a relatively 
 modest system should have no problem keeping the game running at 30 frames per second provided 
 your visual settings are realistic. For the most part, the gameplay is silky smooth and hiccups 
 only briefly when the autosave kicks in once every few minutes or so.  

  Your ears are also in for something of a treat when you play Viva Piata. Some of the animal sounds 
 and character voices can become grating after extended play. But for the most part, the game's 
 ambient sounds are really great. The game also boasts an accomplished, somewhat understated musical 
 score, which gives way to much more brash noises briefly whenever a garden-wrecking ruffian or 
 sour piata finds its way into your garden.  

  It's unfortunate that Viva Piata does seem to suffer from the reliability and login issues we 
 encountered, but it's otherwise a game that is difficult to dislike. It oozes charm and personality 
 from its every papier-mch-covered pore. While it's accessible enough for those with very little 
 gaming experience (and their children) , it also has enough depth to keep anyone with a Pokmon-style 
 "gotta catch 'em all" mentality -- or perhaps a penchant for gardening -- entertained for many hours. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  We're little bit in love with this. The silly voices the none more cute animals (except for the 
 terrifying starting eyes) and the whole Animal Crossing meets Harvest Moon meets The Sims gameplay. 
 That and the fact that visually this rare at their very best just look at it! Impressive, eh?
 
  Garden party:
  The game's all about creating and maintaining a beautiful garden in order to attract pinatas, of 
 which there are over 60. Once you've attracted some you'll need to nurture and care for them and 
 you can customise them too (we especially like the huge buck teeth you can give 'em) .
  Tending to their needs make them happier and they'll even start a family if they're happy enough 
 but you'll need to watch our for invading troublemaking sour pinatas. Online, you can visit friends 
 gardens and interact with their own unique pinata community or even send rowdy ruffians and sour 
 pinatas to make a nuisance of themselves. 
  There's much more to the game than space allows us to describe here but the moro I see of it the 
 deeper and more charming it appears to be.
  Family: 
  It's all very well keeping your garden nice and neat and attracting pinatas but you've got to make 
 sure the beasties are going to pass on the family name as it were . Get two happy animals and they 
 might just settle down together and drop a sporg which is definitely good news for your garden... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is an outstanding game featuring awesome graphics, never ending exciting gameplay and 
 a host full of crazy looking characters.
  
  You start off with a tiny peice of land that you need to evolve into a flurashing and Pinata filled 
 paradise, as you begin you will notice that you will soon rn out of room and you may need to rethink 
 your building locations and such, do not fear, as you gain levels you will increase the size of 
 your garden. This is good however the biggest size garden that you can unlock still feels like 
 it keeps this game from truly shining in all its glory, mainly because you never ever have enouth 
 room to build everything you would want to in your garden.
  
  The whole idea of the game feels very original and its a blast to play, there may not be people 
 getting shot and bombs going off left right and center, but this game does give an equally satisfying 
 feeling when played. 
  
  VP is a game for kids, familys and anyone else that may like video games. It's a brillient game 
 and is in my opinion, a must own game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2609,0. html
  
  Rare's Viva Pinata was well-received on the Xbox 360, and in typical Microsoft fashion, the game 
 was ported to Windows platforms to help boost sales. This review is a focus on the differences 
 between the PC and Xbox 360 versions.
  
  Pinata Island begins on a patch of land that once belonged to a legendary gardener named Jardiniero. 
 You'll be given a shovel, a watering can, and a packet of grass seeds with which to get started 
 on your pi&ntilde; ata paradise. The game doesn't present you with many specific tasks at any point; 
 your goal is simply to create and maintain a garden that increasingly demanding pi&ntilde; atas 
 will want to make their home. It's a game for people who want to have a more light-hearted and 
 less adrenaline-pumping experience that once finds in shooters or RTSs.
  
  The most noticeable warning signs of this PC port are the vast multitude of bugs with the game. 
 This stems from the still-unstable "Games for Windows Live" service. The game can't log in sometimes, 
 and this prevents you from saving its progress.
  
  In standard fashion, you can play with either a controller or a mouse and keyboard. This is one 
 of those games where you should use a controller, but it isn't strictly required. In either case, 
 the selection diagrams and menus are aesthetically pleasing and easy to use.
  
  Viva Pi&ntilde; ata still looks great a year after the 360 version. Widescreen displays and higher 
 resolutions are supported, so it definitely looks great on the right PC.
  
  Underneath all the bugs and porting quirks, Viva Pinata is a beautiful and fun game which has its 
 own sense of personality and unique game-play style. It's a great game for kids or adults that 
 want to blow some steam off. 
  
  Gameplay: 8.5 - The game is a lot of fun with its freedom and problem-solving
  Presentation: 
 8 - The game is mostly a straight port off of the 360 version, and as such, doesn't really take 
 advantage of the pc platform strengths.
  Graphics: 8.5 - Viva Pinata is colorful and great to look at.
  Sound: 8 - Viva Pinata has some 
 charming and fitting sounds.
  Value: 8.5 - The game gives you quite a bit to do, so it's mostly money well-spent.
  
  Final 
 Score: 8.3 - Viva Pinata is a great game that loses some appeal with its shoddy porting job.
  
  Marcin Skok
  Editor-in-Chief
  "The Gaming Corner" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Viva Pinata first came out on the 360 a year or two and a little later found its way to the PC. 
 The PC verison is one of a few titles that actully uses the game of windows features which add 
 all the thing like achievements and so on. Mark my words when i say this just cause the game looks 
 a little kiddy should not turn you away. Viva Pinata is one of the most enjoyable and frustrating 
 games out on the market today.
  
  When you start your giving a patch of land where u have to turn it into a place where these creatures 
 called Pinatas can live. As you progress in the game 
  more Pinata will turn up looking for a place to stay. To actually get them to stay will require 
 you to do tasks such as have a certain amount of water in your garden or even eating another Pinata. 
 This is where you see how deep Viva Pinata really is. Much of your time willactually be drawn to 
 growing plants and trees and other such tasks in order to get the Pinata. Infact i was pretty surprised 
 that the rating was only a 3+ as there a few things in here that seem maybe a higher rating might 
 have been an idea. As i said thought even thought the is great fun it can get very repetitive at 
 times. trying to get Pinata may require you to do a long process maybe two of three times. Also 
 there a lot of grinding in the game and it does get boring.
  
  Viva Pinata is a stunning looking game due to its art design and its just colorful look. The great 
 part is that its system specs are also quite low as well. The actually Pinata really add to the 
 games look thought. There some fantastic designs, great background and just so colorful the screen 
 is busting with life. Even so at times the graphics due tend to look a little blockly a times.
 
  
  What to say about the sounds. Well for starters it a has a great intro. Also when you Romance your 
 Pinata each do a different dance with different music which just adds to its colorful andquick 
 feel.
  
  There are major Flaws and bugs thought in the PC verison that really do let it down. And its a 
 case of will it been nice enough to work on my comp with no problems. Even thought it will run 
 on a low spec PC I don't recommend it as there more chance of it lagging like hell or it won't 
 run at all. Even thought I warn for low spec PCs this did happen on mine and it was a pain to fix. 
 I really recommend Viva Pinata but its really a game you have to put a lot of care and time into 
 but this is a game where you will keep coming back. If you have a 360 thought irecommend sticking 
 with that verison due to the temperament of the PC version. All in all its a great colorful but 
 time consuming game that you really do have to a bit quite a bit of effort into but you do feel 
 like you get rewarded for that time and effort which is always a good feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormri
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  Viva Pinata is a game that puts you in the boots of a gardener, taking care of a garden and attracting 
 creatures to it, while earning allies, enemies, and experience. Viva Pinata starts immediately 
 with a short tutorial that teaches you the basics of the game and throws you into a garden, it 
 kinda makes you feel confused at first, in fact, half the game I haven't really realized what am 
 I supposed to do (Except growing plants and attracting Pinatas.)
  So basically you're given few tools to manage your garden, A Shovel, which is the most important 
 tool, since you'll need it for whacking "Bad Guys", putting holes for growing plants quickly, and 
 digging ponds. The second tool is a Watering Can, which can make certain Pinatas happy, and of 
 course, can make plants grow. The last tool is not commonly used, but I'll mention it anyways, 
 it's the grass packet, makes your garden much greener, or, if you don't like grass, it pulls the 
 grass out.
  So now you've got your tools and first Pinata, what's next? if you own it already (at first the 
 Pinata are just observing) you can experiment on it and change it's colors by feeding it with plants 
 or food, or you can just breed it in order to get a few coins and bring your garden another Pinata 
 being.
  As you level up you achieve new Pinatas, Places to buy from, sour Pinatas (Which if you manage 
 to make them your residents you get a nice experience bonus and an ability that can work nicely 
 for you, for example, Crowlas can distract a certain type of foe entering your garden) , more seeds, 
 more items, and tool upgrades.
  
  I had fun playing the game, but it might get you real pissed, it has some weird bugs, and you might 
 waste lot of time trying to figure out how to get certain thing to happen.
  
  So I suggest that only if you really feel bored and you can offer a lot of time, and, you're patient, 
 only than I suggest you consider buying Viva Pinata. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  It's funny how reading various sites puts a glorious picture in one's mind about how awesome a 
 game is going to be - and then the rude awakening hits you like a cold fish in the face when you 
 realise you overhyped it in your own mind.
  
  That's prettymuch my experience with Viva Pinata.
  
  I spent most of my gameplay either clicking 
 on Alerts, Clicking on my flower petal menu, Clicking through my journal, or Clicking through various 
 shop screens. Constant clicking and navigation instead of playing the damn game! Having a pan-over-tooltip 
 would be IDEAL in this sort of game, but no, for every object you are managing you have to go through 
 this cumbersome navigation process to find out what it is and how to make it better. 
  
  Add to this the fact that your little garden is literally bombarded with new Pinatas and characters 
 every few minutes, and you soon have a logistics nightmare on your hands as you attempt to "catch 
 up" on what is actually in your garden again by navigating through various lengthy info screens.
 
  
  I dunno I just find this game simplistic LOOKING but incredibly cumbersome to actually play. I 
 highly doubt any kid under the age of 10 could manage a garden in this game, despite all the voice-overs 
 and graphics obviously aiming directly at younger kids. Weird.
  
  I'd rate the game 7.5 if I was using a better controller (XBOX) , but minus another 1 for the terrible 
 UI on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoosTrax
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Before going into the numerous issues, I'd like to start off with the positive:
  
  - Stunning graphics: each Pinata, building, and item model looks nearly flawless, especially with 
 the resolution and graphics quality at maximum. You can see each individual little piece of paper 
 making up the Pinatas' fur.
  
  - This game really is suitable for all ages. Despite the cutesy graphics, there is a fair amount 
 of depth, and some thought and planning is required to get the most out of the limited space in 
 your garden.
  
  Now the bad:
  
  In it's current state, this game is nothing short of broken. I had heard of the issues that many 
 people experienced, but I was keeping my fingers crossed, hoping that I would luck out or that 
 these issues were isolated. It was not to be:
  
  Issue #1 - I didn't have a Live account, so I had to take the time to create one (this is required 
 to even save a game) . That in itself isn't really that much to ask... but see Issue #2.
  
  Issue #2 - If you're using a router, there's a small chance that it will incompatible with Windows/XBox 
 Live. Consult the "Compatible Home Networking Equipment" page on the XBox official page to check. 
 I had to update the firmware on my router before the Live account creation could be completed. 
 Now this is asking a bit much, since I've had no issues at all with Steam, BF2, or any other games 
 online.
  
  Issue #3 - Now this is the BIG one: the dreaded corrupt save file. This happened to me about 10-15 
 hours in, and it wasn't a case of me turning the system off in the middle of a save, or anything 
 else that could have been attributed to user error. It was simply me trying to Save & Exit, and 
 seeing a message about the corrupt save file. The important point here is that during this same 
 gaming session, the game had autosaved successfully numerous times. So the corruption essentially 
 came out of the blue - there are no warning signs.
  
  So in short - great game... but you'd be strongly advised to wait for a patch.
  
  My system 
 specs, for reference:
  Core 2 Duo E6600
  GeForce 8800 GTS
  2 GB DDR2-800
  Windows XP Pro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CybranMaster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun, upbeat game. If you want a full, in-depth review, go up to the search page, type 
 in Viva Pinata, scroll down to the Xbox 360 version, and read that review, because first and formost, 
 this game is a port. You could also argue that, as far as ports go, it's a horrible port. Why? 
 THe gameplays great, the game addicting, and the visuals amazing. Only problem: TECHINAL ISSUES. 
 Please, take a second. Right Click on the forum button at the top of this page, then click open 
 link in new window. Read the thread titles for a second, then flip back. What do you see? I see 
 a forum full of people having troubles getting the game to work, including me. So before you buy, 
 check for patches or updates, so you will be able to spend your time with this amazing game playing 
 it, instead of cursing your computer because your graphics driver is only compatible when there's 
 a 32.345673% chance of snow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Now i like Viva Pinata and it's just something that's different from alot of other games and comes 
 from the once amazing Rare. However it's clear to see that it's a bad port from the clunky menus 
 and not being able to be played in windows mode to the real bad controls and having to use windows 
 live. I also hate how all the menus take ages to load and there doesn't seem to be any SDK for 
 adding your own content or downloading new content which makes no sense to me. It's very annoying 
 how Microsoft is trying to restrict all the modding and i'm just not a fan of it.
  
  Viva Pinata could be a great game on the PC but the feeling of it being such a bad port and nothing 
 added from the 360 version and the restrictions just make the game a worthless purchase and i'd 
 say it feels more at home on the 360.
  
  It's a great colourful game that kids will enjoy and spend hours playing although for the older 
 genertion i find it becomes annoying. When i'm playing it i just hate how small the gardens are 
 and get sick of how much the game tries to take control of you and look after you, i don't like 
 being spoon fed and there doesn't seem to be any options to turn it all off. also the voices all 
 get annoying because it tries to aim itself at kids.
  
  The graphics and look of the game is all good and the only complaints i have are at the bad optimization 
 for the PC. It just doesn't feel very polished and doesn't feel very smooth and alot of the time 
 i'm clicking buttons and menus are popping up or vanishing and just doesn't feel well put together.
 
  
  
  Going to keep this review short so i'm just gonna sum up...
  
  
  Great game for kids, adults might get bored pretty fast and find the game kinda tedious and annoying 
 due to being spoon fed and the restrictions. Don't bother with the PC version however because it 
 is such a bad port and just doesn't feel at home on the machine.
  
  
  Just another game that's using Windows Live which just doesn't have any polish to it, please Microsoft 
 leave these products alone with your crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I seen a friend playing the original Viva Pinata on his 360 and thought it looked very entertaining. 
 A long-time fan of the Harvest Moon and recent addition of Animal Crossing I thought this would 
 be ideal!
  
  I'm not much of a console guy, haven't been for a very long time. I sighed and left hoping one 
 day my rig would have the chance to play it. As lady luck decided, her good graced bestowed my 
 wish and I've had that opportunity. 
  
  Brass Tax:
  
  It's a lovely game. It's highly addictive and you really have a sense of accomplishment in your 
 garden if you tend to it well enough. There are plenty of challenges and rewards if you work at 
 it.
  
  Sadly, and this is my opinion only, the game seems very buggy. As I'm sure can easily be found 
 on other forums the game is prone to crash and on one instance a saved garden file was corrupted. 
 Nonetheless, with the latest Nvidia 8X series beta driver things seem to be running smoother.
 
  
  If you've played the game on the 360; this game likely isn't worth your money.
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayomic1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game has great potential but is in desperate need of a patch. Problems include (but not limited 
 to) inability to boot the program without a selective windows start-up (compatibility issues) , 
 random crashing in-game, invisible animals & pavement, camera angle can not be adjusted enough 
 to easily see perched or in flight animals, etc. 
  
  The controls are a bit clunky for mouse and keyboard but this is to be expected due to it's import 
 from X-Box. 
  
  I DO NOT recommend anyone buys this game until a fix is available it literally took 5 hours to 
 find a work-around to the compatibility issue only to get into a game itself riddled with bugs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnhao
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I must say that I ENJOY the game on xbox (so much so that I am willing to again shell 
 out 30 dollars for this PC transplant) ; I bought the PC version in hopes for better graphics, improved 
 controls and additional contents... but have found NONE.
  
  Since I do not wish to be judgenemtal, I will discuss both the pros and the cons of the game "Viva 
 Pinata".
  
  Pros:
  
  - If nothing else, the game is original. You might have played various typoons (e. g. zoo typoon) 
 before, but there's nothing you can find in those games that even resenbles what you will discover 
 in the land of the Pinatas. In this game, you will play as a host (manager if you will) , of this 
 Pinata island; you will have the option to fully customize your island to your likings (though 
 different constructs will attract different Pinatas) , and you will later also be able to customize 
 each individual Pinatas; you will be able to tag them, customize their clothings, and other goodies 
 like that (don't let the Animal Rights people see you doing that though... the dressing up of Pinatas 
 can sometimes be very...... perspicacious)
  
  -For the action inclined people, the game also offers something for you. In the Pinata world, quite 
 like ours, has villians (evil Pinatas... yeah!) who will not hesitate to destroy your creations, 
 mutilate your dreams, and haunt your throughout the night (well... maybe not, not unless if you 
 are natually phobic to Pinatas) . Anyways, the point is that you will be able to organize a Pinata 
 army (PA) , equip them with powerful arsenal (or pitiful arsenal depending on your case) , and fend 
 off the invasive Pinatas, which is always fun (especially when the enemy, or your own troops, blow 
 into a thousand pieces...)
  
  -There's also in the game the option for you to play online; indeed, you don't have to manage the 
 entire island by yourself! you can seek help, suggestions, and trade tools with other player online; 
 you can collaborate with other players to manage the same island, and you can then exhibit your 
 Pinata Island to the multitude of players all across the globe, and it is always rewarding to see 
 your creation praised (or lampooned) by other players.
  
  
  
  Cons:
  
  -The game is original, but it hasen't changed AT ALL from its Xbox version. Indeed, great games 
 like Oblivion don't have to change that much from its console transplant, but not a game that releases 
 a YEAR after its initial Xbox version! As you can clearly see from the screens here at GS, the 
 game, not even the sharpest one on Xbox, looks completely abysmal a year later on PC. It is fun 
 to control a Pinata around, but you should at lease be able to tell that it is INDEED a pinata 
 you are controlling, not some lump of discolored, wierd animal appeared in someone's fantasies. 
 The graphical engine is technically outdated, there's no support for DirectX 10, no soft shadow 
 (com'on, what year are we in? 2004?) , AA doesn't really help the case, and the textures look completely 
 outdated. 
  
  -It is fun... for the first few hours. The concept is very interesting, and will probably attract 
 your attention for a while (yes, only for a while) . After that, it becomes the usual run the mill 
 Caesar styled city managing game that I find completely frustrating and longtitudinal to play. 
 There's not really an ending to the game, you just play your heart out to construct the best possible 
 world out of the best possible hopes, but without really being able to achieve it due to the frequency 
 of evil Pinatas pillaging your island on an octa-minutal basis... You can look forward to dressing 
 up your pinatas and tagging them, but that's generally it... and the scenes usually last for 5 seconds 
 (so for those potential animal abusers wishing to cook their puppies in the microwave, you are 
 out of luck, cause those "scenes" are too transient, and you have to first work your Pinatas for 
 20+ hours before you can abuse them...)
  
  Now, as for the evil pinatas I have grumbled so often about... THEY ARE EVIL!!! THEY ARE EVIL, DEADLY, 
 HEARTLESS GRIM RAPERS OF PINATAS!!! They won't hesitate to blow your peaceful one's up, destroy 
 the island you worked so hard for many hours, and you are then left with a barren island that you 
 have to start over from Scratch!!! Of course, you may argue that you can repeal them by force; 
 yes, but you have to also realize that the evil creatures come on a minutely basis, and they WILL 
 tramp your island down with their sheer number, and leaving you in the end with the urge of jumping 
 into your Pinata island to beat up the evil guys yourself... or the impulse of rushing out for a 
 real pinata so your can physically beat him up when you are unable to do so in the game. (Don't 
 forget to buy a baseball bat... too!)
  
  The controls are awkward. There are already camera problems with the original Xbox version, and 
 that problem only seem to have escaladed in the PC version. The game camera seem to be designed 
 for an Xbox controller (but the game doesn't suppor joysticks, ironic?) , and the camera turning 
 can be a real hassle, esecially during the intense Pinata in Conflict actions where waves after 
 waves of evil pinatas are pouring into your island, and here you are facing a trunk of a tree and 
 hearing your Pinatas being blown up without anyways to help (well... the sound effect for Pinatas 
 blowing up does sound amusing, if you have enough Pinatas to blow up, that is) .
  
  The game has a promising multiplayer portion, but it is not very well implemented... Indeed, the 
 game came out on the 6th, and I checked online today, the 10th, with absolutely NO ONE online beside 
 me... Well, I was able to start a multiplayer game and played for 3 hours in hope of someone other 
 Pinata aficionados to join my cause.... and was greatly disappointed. The multiplayer function might 
 be promising, but it is no different from spending time OFFLINE if no one else's online playing!!!
 
  
  
  
   Verdict:
  
  Not all game developers are born equal. Indeed, people would naturally expect a Xbox game released 
 a year after its Xbox releasal to have improved graphics, addtional content, and other goodies 
 of such nature (which is the case for games such as Fable and Gears of War) , but CERTAINLY not 
 for Viva Pinata. The game is great on console a year ago, but with the same graphics, even more 
 awkward control system, and the lack of additional content, this game is definitely not worth your 
 hard earned dollars if you have the Xbox version.
  
  However, if you have a natural hatred towards the Pinatas, have not played the game before, and 
 like the Caesar styled city building games, you should probably check this game out, for it still 
 contains some light in the midst of all the shroud....
  
  Although blowing up Pinatas is VERY fun, but for those of the quick tempered, it might be better 
 to just go out and buy a realy Pinata to beat up (and it saves money... too!!!) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
