-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Voyage: Inspired by Jules Verne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/journeytothecenterofthemoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fascinating, surreal setting.
 Nicely re-creates the whimsical mood of 19th-century sci-fi.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Puzzles are extremely difficult, with scattered clues requiring lots of backtracking.
 Repetition is stressed, solely to drag out the conclusion of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.4, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 116 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Kheops Studio
Genre: Sci-Fi Adventure
Date:     Aug 18, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Voyage reduces Jules Verne's tale of a visit to the moon in 1865 to a series of clumsily arranged 
 logic puzzles geared to try the patience of adventure-game veterans. 

  Kheops Studio must have a thing for Jules Verne. Voyage: A Journey Beyond Reality is the second 
 adventure based on a classic tale by the 19th-century novelist that the developer has released 
 in less than a year. And just like last fall's Return to Mysterious Island, Voyage takes up where 
 Verne left off, reimagining one of the author's now-legendary sci-fi epics. Unfortunately, Voyage 
 does it much less successfully, reducing the French author's tale of a trip to the moon in 1865 
 to a series of clumsily arranged logic puzzles geared to try the patience of adventure-game veterans. 

           The lunar terrain couldn't be any stranger unless it really were made out of cheese.  
    

  Where Return to Mysterious Island was written as a modern sequel to Verne's  The Mysterious Island 
 ,  Voyage  is a revamped edition of Verne's  From the Earth to the Moon and Round the Moon . The 
 main difference between the game and the novels is that the space capsule fired from a big gun 
 in Baltimore, Maryland, lands on the moon this time instead of simply orbiting it, and passenger 
 Michel Ardan has a chance to get out and stretch his legs. Aside from an opening preamble in the 
 capsule en route to La Lune, the entire game takes place in a lunar crater and the mountains that 
 surround it, with Ardan exploring the ruins of an ancient alien race called the Selenites.  

  Ardan clocks a lot more time on the moon than Neil Armstrong ever did. Where Neil was satisfied 
 with his one small step for mankind, the French adventurer leaps all over the lunar landscape and 
 solves dozens of head-scratchers that test logic, memorization, and your tolerance for frustration. 
 There isn't a whole lot of standard collecting and combining of objects here, which is good. But 
 puzzles generally involve fairly complex mathematics or the memorization of color patterns, sounds, 
 and pictographs called ideograms, which is bad. To open doors, for example, you need to figure 
 out the system of dots and lines that the Selenites use for numbers. To scare off the  Little Shop 
 of Horrors  rejects that pass for flora on the moon, you have to crossbreed other plants based 
 on a formula provided by scanning cave walls and examining color patterns more closely than Martha 
 Stewart does.  

  Immediate solutions are never available to problems, so you have to do a lot of exploring and a 
 lot of backtracking to figure things out. You rarely encounter problems in the order in which they 
 need to be solved, so a lot of them appear to be inscrutable at first glance, or solvable only 
 by trial and error. Solutions often have to be repeated for no obvious reason, which lends tedium 
 to the frustration. When you need to activate the pipe organ to summon the Selenite exiles, for 
 instance, you need to solve the same problem in two locations to get water flowing. And when you 
 play this pipe organ to unlock a door, not only do you have to memorize three different tunes  
 la Simon, but you also have to repeat entire songs from scratch if you mess up a single note. Too 
 many moments like this cause Ardan's exploits to feel more like a rainy Sunday afternoon than a 
 once-in-a-lifetime lunar expedition.  

  At times, anyway. Even though many of the puzzles cross the line into monotony due to repetition, 
 both the surreal storyline and the character of Ardan perfectly mimic the whimsical, if a touch 
 foppish, personality of 19th-century sci-fi. Even though Verne stopped well short of Luna in the 
 original  From the Earth to the Moon , Voyage really does seem like a tale that the French author 
 could have penned.  

  A sense of wonder fills every pixel of the graphic design. The Selenites look nothing like stereotypical 
 aliens, with elongated stalks for torsos that make them look more like walking shrubbery than the 
 usual  Close Encounters -inspired knockoffs. Brightly colored sentient plants and ancient ruins 
 also dot the lunar landscape, further adding to the game's dreamlike personality. Audio isn't as 
 flashy, though. Ardan's dialogue is somewhat lame and is occasionally recited flatly, and sound 
 effects include failure blats more appropriate to a TV game show than a fantastic adventure. At 
 least the music is appropriately spooky and understated, the perfect companion on such a strange 
 trip.  

          Landscapers on the moon really have their work cut out for them.     

  Design innovations top up the immersiveness. While Kheops hasn't strayed far from the traditional 
 "boots nailed to the floor, but you can swivel" point of view, Ardan can use the lunar gravity 
 to leap from one scene to another. Also, some puzzles feature time limits, and there are arcade 
 challenges in which you need to gather objects. None of these features add much to the game, however. 
 Jumps are accomplished simply by clicking on a meter similar to those used in old golf games, and 
 the arcade minigames involve easy tasks like clicking on floating globs of potassium hydroxide 
 to collect them with a funnel before they mess up the inside of your space capsule.  

  But appealingly weird cinematography and inventive design quirks just aren't enough to compensate 
 for Voyage's puzzle problems. Although the game is ostensibly about an expedition to the moon, 
 it plays more like a static series of logic puzzles no different from those you can find in dozens 
 of magazines on every newsstand.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bjbigham
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  
  
  There isn't anything here that we haven't seen before, but the combination of challenging puzzles, 
 good graphics, an interesting storyline and easy-to-use navigation add up to a game that can still 
 satisfy adventure-hungry gamesters.
  
  The plot is simple: in a departure from the Verne original, you (Prof. Michel Ardan) land on the 
 moon, circa 1865. There, you encounter strange and aggressive plants as well as a species of intelligent 
 (if somewhat pretentious and arrogant) beings known as the Selenites. Your task: find a way back 
 home to earth.
  
  The graphics are good, with vibrant colors and otherworldly landscapes. The "investigation" notebook 
 fills up with mid-19th century style illustrations as you solve the mystery of the death of the 
 two scientists who were in the space capsule with you. Here, too, the graphics add a nice element 
 to the game, as does a log book, accessible at any time during the game, that helps keep track 
 of clues you might need later. 
  
  For the most part, the puzzles are actually quite logical and not particularly difficult. Granted, 
 since I'm not a particularly clever game player, I found myself consulting the clues in UHS (Universal 
 Hint System) more than one (okay, if truth be told, more than a few times!) . But I almost always 
 find myself thinking "I should have been able to figure that out!" 
  
  Admittedly, there is little new here. I don't know how many games I've played that included a musical 
 Simon Says game, where you are expected to match notes you hear. At least this game has a way to 
 'cheat' (by using a special key if you have acquired it) to bypass that puzzle. But the others 
 are mostly a mixture of figuring out the alien mathematical system (not as difficult as it sounds) 
 or the Selenite ideographic language. The game does, however, also include the most simplistic 
 and useless verbal "logic" puzzle I've ever encountered. 
  
  As to navigation, Voyage offers "shortcuts" from one site to another, avoiding the dreaded ten-clicks-to-get-there 
 syndrome, but there was still quite a bit of going back and forth from one place to another.
  
  For the most part, I enjoyed wandering around the moonscape, solving the puzzles, mixing inventory 
 items, etc. But I was stunned when the game suddenly came to a rather abrupt halt when I managed 
 to get into the capsule and blast back to earth. I had accumulated a number of items that I assumed 
 would be needed during the flight back to earth, or in another chapter in the game but which, in 
 retrospect, had absolutely no use or function. 
  
  As it turns out, there are many puzzles that don't need to be solved in order for you to complete 
 your main task and get back to earth. They merely help add to your points, which are displayed 
 at the bottom of the screen as you progress. If, like me, you make the mistake of ending the game 
 prematurely but getting the capsule to blast off, you will find yourself either having played only 
 half a game or forced to replay it to complete all the puzzles and get maximum points.
  
  I thought the game was worth the $20 but it's not in the same league as Syberia, Longest Journey, 
 or even Grim Fandango. Still, when the adventure game market seems to be flooded with terrible 
 games like Atlantis Evolution, Twilight of the Gods, Mysterious Journey II or Agatha Christie's 
 And Then There Were None (I'm in the minority there) , it doesn't take much to stand above the crowd.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 13, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks. I got into the point and click games because of Syberia. I also like the Broken 
 Sword games. These games had puzzles, but they could be resolved with a little thought. The puzzles 
 in this game were so confusing that I could not crack them with the help of a guide. I do not think 
 a PHD in math could figure these things out. On top of this the graphics are not great and the 
 game is boring. I should have just shredded my 20 bucks. At least I could figure out how to do 
 that. If you like point and click games go with the games I mentioned above. Stay away from this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inthezone
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 15, 2005 7:57 am PT
Review:  Voyage: Inspired by Jules Verne is one of a number of new adventure games to be released by The 
 Adventure Company. The companys recent releases have been quite unique, but some lacked gameplay. 
 Voyage comes to the aid of this problem, offering not only an ingenious back story  inspired by 
 Jules Verne  but also solid and structured gameplay, which still allows for a lot of freedom to 
 choose to work on different puzzles, instead of a certain order to things. 
  
  The game begins with you assuming control of a Frenchman called Michel Ardan who is about to land 
 on the moon aboard a capsule. Ardan finds both his companions dead and also finds a rooster. An 
 investigation commences into the deaths of his companions. This investigative segment of the game 
 is one of the highlights, as whenever new information regarding the mystery is uncovered, a comic 
 book-style frame is shown with a voice-over by a narrator. These frames are also used quite effectively 
 through the course of the game.
  
  For the duration of Voyage, movement is conducted using a point and click system. An interesting 
 mini-game is available at the beginning of the game, where you have to click the mouse at the right 
 time to jump to a certain location, or you will die. When you die, instead of having to retrace 
 your steps, a comic-frame shows the cause of death, and you simply restart from the point where 
 you died. This prevents time-consuming repetition of parts of the game whenever you die. Interaction 
 in the game is also exceptional. If ever there is an object to pick up, a person to talk to, or 
 anything else to interact with, the cursor clearly displays this using a blue circle that appears 
 with a symbol inside. 
  
  One of the major strong points that Voyage has to offer is the superb inventory system. When an 
 item is picked up, it is put into an inventory which can contain hundreds of items. The inventory 
 is divided up into tabs which each can contain three rows of slots for items. This makes for easy 
 access and usage. Combining items is easy, as one item simply has to be dragged over another. Some 
 combinations contain three and even four items. Ardan can also cook food and eat it using the inventory, 
 and can drink as well. 
  
  In terms of graphics, Voyage is definately not the best in the market. While some of the building 
 interiors look nice, many of the lunar plant life is disappointingly dull. A lot of textures inside 
 are quite interesting, especially a lot of the machinery. However, the visuals are ultimately a 
 bit of a let down, and could have been done better. The soundtrack, however, really compliments 
 the games environment, and is subtle, yet at times filled with suspense. 
  
  Voyage: Inspired by Jules Verne is a game that shines out in a very bland industry. It offers a 
 unique experience to those who are familiar to the adventure game genre, and even those who are 
 new. Despite some graphical downfalls, the final game is excellently put together and should appeal 
 to most people. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
