-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wall Street Trader 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/wallstreettrader2000/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 21, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.3, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 9 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Monte Cristo
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Dec 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The developers made a very impressive attempt to make a financial simulator that's worthy of being 
 called a game. 

 Perhaps the best compliment one could pay the designers of Wall Street Trader 2000 is to say that 
 they deftly avoided all of the obvious opportunities to screw it up. That's no small feat, since 
 a financial-markets simulation such as Wall Street Trader 2000 always runs the risk of being an 
 atrocious game. The first temptation is to convert the experience of researching companies, buying 
 low, and selling high into a massive spreadsheet that has all of the drama and suspense of balancing 
 a checkbook. A straightforward trading sim also would suffer from a fairly pat victory condition 
 - amassing mo' money, mo' money, mo' money. Beyond that, any accurate and deep model of what affects 
 market behavior could swamp you in an unwieldy interface that forces you to drill into and track 
 countless layers of variables. In other words, Wall Street Trader 2000 could have been entirely 
 unexciting.  

 Instead, the developers made a very impressive attempt to skirt all of the natural pitfalls and 
 actually make a financial simulator that's worthy of being called a game. Rather than dropping 
 you into the middle of a spreadsheet, the game instead thrusts you into a contemporary economic 
 drama. You play a bright young financial wunderkind hired by the enigmatic and cheeky financier, 
 Lord Fleming. After buying up a failing Asian bank, Fleming expects you to save the company. Things 
 go awry in short order. Other traders at the bank, against whom you competed to win the Lord's 
 favor, take off for the US with embezzled funds. To avoid publicity, Fleming puts you on their 
 trail to wreak revenge the old-fashioned way - by ruining them. You must win back their ill-gotten 
 gains via hostile takeovers and perhaps earn control over the entire Fleming empire in the process. 

 A series of lighthearted and well-acted full-motion-video cutscenes take you through the game's 
 mission-based structure. After the first mission, which is just a basic test of your moneymaking 
 skills, you not only play the markets but also compete against a pool of rival investors. At first 
 you simply aim to beat them at the bottom line, but ultimately, you will need to deploy spies, 
 engage in insider trading, and master market trends to buy them out.  

 The game is played in real time (though you can adjust the speed) , so you must monitor incoming 
 newsfeeds that concern market behavior and react accordingly. Oil and yen are the only available 
 investments at the start, but new equities come online soon enough. Ultimately, you will be able 
 to lose your shirt in 16 different economic sectors, from foreign stock exchanges to cars and technology. 
 While your in-game employer's holdings are unrealistically vast, Wall Street Trader 2000 nevertheless 
 provides a decent crash course in modern capitalism. Each new investment opportunity gets an initial 
 analysis, including historic price performance and an outline of how certain types of news affects 
 pricing.  

 Wall Street Trader 2000 excels at keeping all of its layers of information only one click away, 
 which helps immeasurably in keeping the action manageable. A single console screen gives quick 
 access to real-time quotes and graphs, news reports, current portfolio valuation, and business 
 research. Click-and-drag maneuvers let you track half a dozen holdings in real time from the main 
 console, but six holdings won't seem like very many as your portfolio broadens. Dragging a listing 
 into the trading area calls up a buy/sell window in which you execute the transaction; tabs let 
 you view your gains and losses in various ways and keep an eye on the calendar. The scenarios tend 
 to require you to perform your market wizardry within three- to six-month windows. While the gameplay 
 is sane and straightforward in the beginning, broader investment and information options ramp up 
 the action quickly. As you progress through Lord Fleming's missions, more subtle and clandestine 
 market intelligence becomes available through a series of agents, which you can assign to any of 
 the investment sectors. The basic analysts you can hire spit back fairly obvious recommendations 
 for a fee. But several missions into the game you can enlist insiders and spies who supply the 
 kinds of detailed information on markets and rivals that give you a sense of control. You also 
 run the risk of being caught by the SEC, which makes another agent, a lawyer, necessary.  

 Wall Street Trader 2000 has network and Internet multiplayer modes available, but you shouldn't 
 count on finding much competition online. The in-game Net access is actually very smooth: Just 
 a single press of a button searches for available games. But even an entire month after the game's 
 release, no online competition ever showed up. On the other hand, the game's low hardware requirements 
 are well-suited for low-end PC owners and laptop users.  

 The game's story-driven mission-based structure is great for the gameplay, since it makes the game's 
 objectives immediate and tense. On the other hand, it's disappointing that you really can't take 
 advantage of long-term or blended portfolio strategies. Success depends on your day-trading skills 
 and on watching the newsfeeds like a hawk. You must be ready to respond immediately to an oil-rig 
 disaster by selling those barrels or to rising interest rates by shifting money from stocks to 
 T-Bills.  

 Wall Street Trader 2000 would be truly outstanding because of its excellent dramatic devices, good 
 gameplay, and wonderful interface, if it weren't quite so frustrating to play, especially in the 
 early stages. For all of the available information sources, the behavior of the underlying markets 
 remains inscrutable. Sure, a lawsuit against a major oil supplier will depress the stock price, 
 but otherwise oil-barrel prices fluctuate wildly and for reasons that never surface. In too many 
 cases, you'll fail to see the expected effect of a news story on market pricing.  

 When confronted on the subject of the unpredictable market behavior, the designers reassured us 
 that while some natural capriciousness is built into the game's market fluctuations, most of the 
 price movements are directly responding to the news stories. But even on the easiest difficulty 
 setting, where the correlation is supposed to be strongest, it's still difficult getting oriented 
 to the virtual market. Even when stocks respond to world events, there can still be strong fluctuations 
 in many market segments that would seriously affect your portfolio but go unexplained by the game. 
 The manual does a good job of explaining the interface, but has nothing to outline the underlying 
 logic of the game's virtual market, and it even lacks any advice on initial strategies for the 
 novice.  

 Success in Wall Street Trader 2000 demands extreme day-trader tactics. In addition to watching the 
 news, you must sit on the real-time graph of price movement and wait for an equity to crest or 
 bottom out to make quick buy-and-sell moves. While doing so is unnecessarily frustrating and certainly 
 needs a better explanation, it speaks to the designers' attention to gameplay. Wall Street Trader 
 2000 is less a Wall Street simulator than it is a financial fantasy. Winners in the game's fantasy 
 world don't play like Louis Rukeyser, they play like Gordon Gekko. Greed is Good.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
