-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wanted: A Wild Western Adventure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/wantedawildwesternadventure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.9, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 101 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Revistonic
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 3, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of old-school adventures who can put up with a lot of problems should find Wanted reasonably 
 entertaining. 

  Wanted: A Wild Western Adventure boasts a certain quirky, ingratiating charm. It's a good thing, 
 too, since the game suffers from some major problems -- juvenile writing, a lame ending, a clunky 
 camera and interface, some ill-conceived puzzles and action sequences, and major bugs, among other 
 things. Still, fans of old-school adventures who can put up with a lot of problems should find 
 the game reasonably entertaining.  

          Our cartoony hero, Fenimore Fillmore.     

  Don't worry if you feel a striking sense of dj vu when playing Wanted. The story 
 is one you've heard a million times before. A rich, evil rancher named Starek has the local town 
 under his thumb. He's paid off the sheriff and bought up most of the local farmsteads, and only 
 a couple of farmers still oppose him. In rides our hero, Fenimore Fillmore, a bumbling, well-meaning 
 cowboy who helps the poor, freedom-loving farmers hold on to their land. Of course, Starek also 
 has a feisty, red-headed niece who's looking for her Prince Charming. Naturally, that would be 
 Fenimore.  

  Not only is the story one giant clich, but the characters are also one-dimensional and the 
 dialogue is simple. Most of the time this E-rated game literally seems geared toward 8- to 10-year-olds. 
 You can see that juvenile quality in many of the game's stabs at humor. Much of it consists of 
 predictable pratfalls or a guard at Starek's mansion being mentally slow on the draw.  

  Fortunately, there's some humor for adults, too, though it's very much hit-and-miss. You'll see 
 visual references to  Hamlet  and anachronisms like Fenimore swiping a credit card when he makes 
 a purchase at the general store. Every time Fenimore leaves the Sheriff's office, he says, "I really 
 need to go." The Sheriff keeps misinterpreting him and responds with lines like, "I'd get your 
 prostate looked at if I were you." Hinting at Arnold "The Governator" Schwarzenegger, an eccentric 
 inventor lets our hero in on a secret: "Some say that the governor of California is a robot, one 
 that looks like a man." The Sheriff also gets in a thinly veiled and jarringly gratuitous dig at 
 President Bush's invasion of Iraq, wondering aloud how a president could invade a country without 
 evidence to support his actions.  

  Even if the writing has a lot of flaws, it's refreshing to play a game that tries to focus on plot 
 and character. There's plenty of gameplay to go with the story, too, though it also has a lot of 
 problems. Wanted calls to mind the classic Sierra graphic adventures of the '80s, like the King's 
 Quest series. You wander across cheery, sunny, cartoony landscapes in search of dozens of inventory 
 items that you use to solve straightforward story-based puzzles. There are no Myst-style mind-benders 
 here. For instance, you need to impersonate a drunken doctor to visit Starek's niece, but first 
 you need to clean and dry out a messy coat that will form part of your disguise. So, you'll need 
 to find someone to wash the coat and then gather fuel for a fire, figure out how and where to chop 
 the wood up, and find a way to get the fire started. Later you need to rescue an innocent farmer 
 from jail, which is no easy task when the Sheriff sits right next to the cell, lazing about and 
 eating a burger. Maybe an urgent telegram would get him off his duff and out the door, and maybe 
 the ornery bull out behind the jail could be of use in getting past those thick prison walls.  
 

          Cheerful and cartoony scenery is the norm in Wanted.     

  The puzzles tend to be fairly easy, and they're mostly logical and tie into the gameworld smoothly. 
 Unfortunately, one of the central puzzles of the game is an extended series of "Spicy Sarsaparilla 
 drinking duels" with Starek's henchmen. These enormously tedious rhyming contests make little sense 
 at first and actually require you to lose a number of times to eventually win. An added problem 
 is that you have to pay to play, and there's only so much money to be found in the game. (Our "hero" 
 casually steals cash from people's closets and desks.)  

  Wanted adds some spice with a few action sequences. There's a fun little shooting gallery event 
 that should appeal to shooter fans by virtue of its familiarity -- then again, it will probably seem 
 much too easy to them. You'll more often encounter frustrating or boring sequences, like one in 
 which you have to catch a fish with your bare hands. Worse, there's a woefully implemented and 
 anticlimactic final battle at a farmer's home. This bloodless shootout is erratic to control, horribly 
 paced, and far from dramatic. Imagine a shooter designed by someone who's never played one. Then 
 dumb it down and sanitize it, and you'll get the idea.  

  In addition to the mostly lame action sequences, Wanted suffers from a clunky camera and an ill-conceived 
 interface. The game tries for a cinematic feel, choosing basic camera angles for you as you move 
 about the screen. You do have limited control over the camera, yet certain default views can obscure 
 as much as they reveal and can even make Fenimore disappear from view entirely behind shrubs or 
 other scenery.  

  The interface is arguably more of a problem. You use the right mouse button to switch the cursor 
 to perform different actions when you click on something with the left mouse button. For example, 
 you can choose icons for talking to or looking at a bartender before you click on him. The big 
 problem is that the default action is to look at something, which you can usually do just as easily 
 by moving Fenimore near an object. Almost all the time, what you actually want to do is manipulate 
 objects (open a door, pump a well handle, and so on) , not get an unnecessary close-up view. This 
 means you'll have to press the right mouse button countless times during the game to get the cursor 
 to do what you really want.  

  An equally big hassle in the game is the fact that you have to plant carrots, water them, and then 
 wait for them to sprout. You need these to "fuel" your horse as you ride between the game's major 
 locations. There's no obvious or justifiable point to this tedious busywork, other than perhaps 
 to artificially extend the game's length. Yet Wanted is already reasonably long, at 15 hours or 
 so.  

          The villainous Starek, replete with plastic beard.     

  Wanted matches these sorts of quaint Mr. Rogers farming activities with cutesy, cartoony 3D graphics. 
 The game makes a few visual references to Sergio Leone's classic spaghetti Westerns by using some 
 extreme close-ups of gunfighters' eyes and their six-shooters, but for the most part the game looks 
 like something from Nickelodeon. Trees are big, bright blobs of green, town streets are always 
 sunny and cheery, and characters sport plastic-looking hair. Wanted features some whimsical animations 
 to fit the overall style, with Fenimore bobbing wildly as he tries to get a railroad handcar moving, 
 for example. Some catchy Old West-style tunes add to the ambience, though real harmonicas and Mexican 
 trumpets and strings would have made a much better impression than the obviously synthesized sounds. 
 Stock sound effects -- Counter-Strike fans will recognize a door sound -- and weak voice-overs do the 
 game no favors.  

  Wanted is an odd game: In many ways it's geared toward kids, yet it can require the patience or 
 intellect of an adult. It's hurt by many sloppy or ill-conceived gameplay mechanics, some major 
 bugs (save often near the end) , and a lame finale, with the two main characters almost randomly 
 babbling on about an irrelevant issue. On the bright side, Wanted sports a lighthearted presentation 
 that offers a welcome change from all the dark, gritty games out there. It also features puzzles 
 that should appeal to both nostalgic old-school adventure fans and genre neophytes. Wanted is subtitled 
 "A Wild Western Adventure," and while it's hardly wild, it does have its share of fun moments. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: alkapelonis
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  It is a game which remind me the old good adventure games. But let's explain the main spots of 
 the game by category: 
  
  Story: an interesting story which takes place in wild west. Our hero, Fenimore Fillmore, tries 
 to defend the farms from the "evil" farmer Starek. When Fenimore falls in love with Rhiannon, who 
 is nephew of Starek, things become very confused. Also our hero has to find what is behind a murder 
 of an other farmer.. 
  
  Graphics: the graphics of this game are 3d, and they are pretty good.
  
  Music: this is the 
 weaker category of the game. I don't remember some kind of music, except some "western" samples.
 
  
  Voice acting: it is very good and they have done a very good job.
  
  Generally it is a very good game with smart puzzles. The only bad point of the game is that you 
 have to grow up many carrots to feed your horse, and you have to examine all the drawers and closets 
 to take money. Everyone who has already played this game will understand what I mean. However I 
 think it is a worth playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 2.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  When i saw the first screenshots of this game i realy thought this was woody from toy story. this 
 cowboy game feels to much for baby's ok there is action but that's baby crap action. If you played 
 GUN and then this game you realy wouldt throw this away. Sometimes it's fun to play and the graphics 
 look funny but i love action and this game hasn't that at all. it's fun to buy this for your kids 
 they wouldt love it but dont think this is a good game for you. 
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
  ''I say this cowboy kiddo needs to go back to school'' 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
