-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WarBreeds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warbreeds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  5, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.2, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 19 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Broderbund
Developer: Red Orb Ent.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
WarBreeds harbors many great ideas and features. Unfortunately, these are hampered by a lackluster 
 manual and gameplay glitches. 

 There's nothing new under the sun. Nowhere is that statement more evident than in the games industry. 
 Almost every game put out is a sequel or a clone or an expansion to another game. So if you're 
 a budding new game designer the question should not be how you're going to bring something totally 
 new to the genre, but rather how you're going to bring something fresh to the genre. Red Orb Entertainment's 
 WarBreeds is a well-intentioned stab at doing exactly that with real-time strategy games. It comes 
 close to the mark but, unfortunately, it misses.  

 On an alien world a race called the Yedda has learned the secret of bioengineering, creating structures 
 out of living materials. In conjunction with this knowledge, it also learned of the process of 
 manipulating DNA to form other living creatures. Three slave groups were then created. Still not 
 content (and obviously never having seen Jurassic Park) , a small group of Yedda attempts to create 
 a new being, which is meant to fulfill an ancient prophecy. Quicker than you can say "Frankenstein" 
 the new creature turns on its creators, and soon the Yedda race falls. The game opens with the 
 three slave races vying for power along with this new race.   

 Even with four races, WarBreeds only includes two actual campaigns, though all the races make an 
 appearance. The campaigns are not dynamic (something that hopefully will one day cross over into 
 RTS from flight sims) , but several times you can choose between two scenarios. This does give at 
 least some limited replayability. The majority of the scenarios is standard fare; build a base 
 and then wipe out the enemy base. A few scenarios force you to attack with a set amount of units, 
 though these end up being more disappointing than refreshing. One such scenario gives you two units 
 to wipe out a specific enemy structure. Your creatures are invisible as long as they aren't in 
 combat, which means the hardest thing about the mission is finding the structure. With no real 
 challenge, the mission is over in under five minutes.  

 While the missions aren't particularly unique, the rest of WarBreeds is. Graphically the units, 
 structures, and terrain are all well done and, for the first time, an alien landscape actually 
 looks like an alien landscape. Where WarBreeds truly differs from other real-time strategy games, 
 though, is the actual gameplay. Since Westwood's Dune II, there's been a basic formula of including 
 two types of resources that are harvested by a unit that has the intelligence of a box of rocks. 
 In WarBreeds there's essentially a single resource, cropland. There are two types of crops, but 
 both are grown in the same way. A shaman (your basic builder) plants the crops on terrain that 
 supports the flora. The crops then grow and spread themselves to the limit of this special terrain. 
 The shaman can then build a refinery, a structure that harnesses power from the crops. Once power 
 is being collected, the shaman can then go about building other structures. These structures include 
 psi towers (which control how many units you can have) , relays (which extend the power zone) , and 
 gene labs (where units are built) . As the game progresses, more structures can be built, which 
 vary from defensive units to upgraded basic structures.  

 Units are created at the gene lab. A basic unit consists of a body that houses several mounts. Each 
 mount can lodge a different weapon or special ability (such as healing or longer sight) . Thus building 
 a unit is more akin to building a 'Mech in BattleTech than popping out mini-gunners in Red Alert. 
 While at first the variety of weapons and abilities available is limited, more and more become 
 available as time goes on. When a unit dies it slowly dissolves away. Before it's completely gone, 
 though, a shaman can collect its DNA, which eventually translates into combining enemy weapons 
 onto your own creatures.  

 While the resource management and unit creation is rather unique, WarBreed's other features are 
 simply what you'd expect from any modern RTS game. Waypoints can be created, units are built in 
 a queue, behaviors can be set, and units can become veterans. A really great addition is the ability 
 to form your groups into various formations such as a line or a wedge much like how an armored 
 unit or fighter wing operates. So far WB sounds like it has a lot going for it. After all, there's 
 no harvesting, there are four unique races, a state-of-the-art game system, and the ability to 
 create scores of different types of units. How could it go wrong?  

 Well it does go wrong, and in fact it goes wrong in several places. For starters its greatest strength 
 is also its greatest weakness. The world and units are very alien, which leads to much trial and 
 error to discover what works in combat. Anyone can pick up an RTS game and know that a siege tank 
 is more powerful than a marine. But is a Tanu raptor armed with blades more powerful than a Kelika 
 mongrel armed with drills? Another factor to consider is that in most RTS games you know the tank 
 is more powerful than the trooper because it costs more to build, but units have no cost in WarBreeds. 
 If you have power to your gene lab then you can create units. Each unit does have a build time 
 - but it's impossible to discern their relative strengths from this alone. The manual doesn't really 
 help because the stats are all given in ambiguous terms such as "medium" or "fast." How much longer 
 is a build time of fast versus medium?  

 Several other problems creep up while playing. Unit pathfinding is at times awful, including the 
 enemy pathfinding. Several times an enemy base will be under attack while its defenders run around 
 in circles because they can't figure out how to get to the attackers. While in other RTS games 
 it's easy to judge how big you can build your base by checking available resources, in WarBreeds 
 it's much tougher. Because everything revolves around crop power, figuring out how much power is 
 available is another source of constant trial and error. Finally, the background of a game does 
 play a passive part in the gamer's enjoyment. A designer could make the world's best RTS game, 
 but if it involved talking mushrooms and kittens it probably wouldn't sell too well. WarBreeds 
 is simply too alien to really care about its environment. Frankly, it's interesting but not enough 
 for you to care how the game progresses.  

 WarBreeds harbors many great ideas and features. Unfortunately, these are hampered by a lackluster 
 manual and gameplay glitches. In its current state, WarBreeds is an average RTS game - but if Red 
 Orb releases a better table of build times and unit effects, then WarBreeds will be a worthwhile 
 purchase.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
