-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warcraft2tidesofdarkness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.5, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 3,677 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1995 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warcraft II manages to create a truly unique experience that considerably improves upon its predecessor. 
 

 Blizzard Entertainment has outdone itself with this sequel to Warcraft: Orcs and Humans. The development 
 company has become known for highly playable games - including cartridge classics like Interplay's 
 The Lost Vikings and PC greats such as the side-scrolling action game Blackthorne - but the original 
 Warcraft was the first to show Blizzard's penchant for strategic fare. Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness 
 continues in the same vein as its predecessor, but adds more depth and features to the formula. 

 Combining the best aspects of many strategy favorites - Dune II, Populous and SimCity - Warcraft 
 II manages to create a truly unique experience that considerably improves upon its predecessor. 
 A plethora of options and features have been added to the real-time war game engine of the original, 
 making every aspect of the game, from combat to resource management, much more enthralling. Flying 
 vessels and seafaring crafts have been added, improving upon the landlocked combat of Warcraft. 
 There are new technologies to research, new structures to build, and new races to align with. Resource 
 management has been expanded, and now includes oil, in addition to gold and lumber, as a necessary 
 ingredient for successful construction and destruction.   

 In addition to noticeably improved artificial intelligence, the most obvious change to combat is 
 the "fog of war," a shroud of semi-darkness which allows your minions to see only what is in their 
 direct line of sight. This decimates any fool-proof strategies that were available in the original; 
 for instance, you can no longer send a kamikaze scout into enemy territory, then watch the goings-on 
 for the rest of the game. Warcraft II also gives you the option to command nine units at once, 
 making large-scale battles much more viable and enjoyable. And as a complement to the drastic changes 
 in gameplay, the aesthetics have been enhanced too, with highly-detailed SVGA graphics and a bombastic 
 soundtrack that suits the regal mood quite nicely.  

 Perhaps the most amazing thing about Warcraft II, however, is that it takes two seemingly geek-dominated 
 niches -- namely war gaming and fantasy role-playing -- and makes them incredibly fun. And funny. There's 
 nothing quite as amusing as hearing one of your minions say, in a faux Shakespearean tenor, "Why 
 do you keep touching me?" in the heat of battle. The only slightly justified complaint is that 
 the game is too short as single-player fare. But the incredible multiplayer options (including 
 the ability to have several players use one copy of the CD) , coupled with the custom scenario builder 
 and the Beyond the Dark Portal expansion pack, make that nit too insignificant to pick.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard took everything that was flawed in Orcs & Humans, threw it away and put together this 
 game that is so much better than the original. It is not often that we get a sequel that is SO 
 MUCH darned better than the original, but Blizzard does deliver, as always.
  
  First off, the game looks great, there are a handful of environments all looking quite unique. 
 The animations are fairly fluid and each unit looks fantastic. Watching two armies clash in this 
 game is absolute bliss. For its time, this has to be one of the best looking RTS games. The cutscenes 
 also look fantastic for its time, but are slightly flawed with akward models and content that generally 
 has absolutely nothing to do with the current story.
  
  The sound, on the other hand, is flawless. The music is very appropriate and sounds fantastic (you 
 will not forget these tunes) , and actually adds character to each of the two factions. The sound 
 effects of each unit are amusing, well acted and generally appropriate. The battle effects are 
 absolutely great. As far as the sound goes, I have absolutely nothing to complain about.
  
  Now the controls are a major improvement. First of all, you can click and drag to select multiple 
 units. The maximum unit number for a group is now 9. To make it even better you can program a group 
 to a number on the keyboard (0-9) to make a maximum of 10 groups of 9. That means you can effectively 
 control 90 units at a time. Also, right-click is now used for movement/attacking and left clicking 
 is used for selecting now. Both buttons to serve the same funciton like in the original. The controls 
 are much more optimized and the only complaint I have is that using spells can be a little difficult 
 in the heat of battle since you have to individually select your unit to use the spell (I'm used 
 to Warcraft III's controls now) . Still, this is a major improvement over the original. The game 
 is actually playable this time around.
  
  There are two factions again: the Orcs and the Humans. Each factions tells the story through its 
 own unique perspective, and the story starts to get quite a bit more deep in comparison to the 
 original. Each factions is nearly identical though, with minor differences in some spells only. 
 This means that really you are choosing to play as whichever faction you like better through looks 
 only. Still, since the game is balanced, you will find every match to be a match of fast-paced 
 and violent chess. The best thing I like is that roads have now been removed, giving you MUCH more 
 freedom in building. Also, there are many new units, and there is a whole new naval aspect that 
 makes things VERY interesting.
  
  The campaign mode for each faction is easy and gentle for the first 7 missions. Then the last 7 
 missions put you into absolutely difficult situations that require you make complete use of all 
 the tactics you have used. Sometimes it can be brutally difficult, but with some thinking over 
 tactics, everything is manageable. I was a little dissapointed that the cave missions were removed 
 in this game (where you are given a certain number of units and you must get through an enemy-filled 
 dungeon and survive) , but I suppose Blizzard used that opportunity to make a whole game based around 
 that concept: Diablo. On the bright side it does come back in the future. So there are a total 
 of 28 missions, 14 being extremely difficult and 14 being fairly easy. The sudden change in difficulty 
 can be a little frustrating at first but you get over it quite quickly.
  
  One of the best things about this game is the multiplayer. There are a good number of varied maps 
 that are included and this game is much more fun to play with friends than the previous installment. 
 You will find that you will be playing this game long after you have completed the content if not 
 for the multiplayer, than at least for the skirmishes and the unique scenarios that the game includes.
 
  
  This is one of the best RTS games even to this day. Granted, so many newer games offer so much 
 better content and optimization, but for its time and what this offers, you can't find a better 
 RTS. This has to be one of Blizzard's best works (my personal favorite being Warcraft III) . Enjoy.
 
  
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  OVERALL: 9.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemarsh
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  I have played this game so many times in my life I can even describe the fun I have had in it. 
 I mostly played this game as a multi-player network game with friends, which this was one of the 
 first that you could even do that. The game was so much fun just building an army and destroying 
 your friends base over and over again. Who could get the most resources, who could build the fastest, 
 who could max out the game unit limit first (that was a shock the first time that happened) , all 
 good times. One of the best this game was the little details that blizzard added for fun, like 
 if you keep clicking on a unit he would start saying different things like: "stop bothering me... 
 don't you have a kingdom to run... Join the army they say, see the world they say.. and who can 
 forget the "daboo" the peons would say. It makes me laugh even to this day. I guarantee you will 
 have fun playing the multi-player with your friends. Its not so complicated that you get distracted 
 with game concepts that make some of these new game not nearly as fun as these older ones. I wish 
 that we could have this game remaster with new graphics but same game play and maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scigeni
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  This game is the mother of all great real-time strategies. Warcraft 2: Tides of Darkness offers 
 a very deep gameplay. Although the two races (orcs and humans) are almost the same, it is still 
 a great game that you will enjoy for years. For me, I hate World of Warcraft, even though I never 
 played it. But I really hope Blizzard stops making World of Warcraft expansions for some time and 
 consider making Warcraft 4. Warcraft, Warcraft 2, and Warcraft 3 were all great games. So why didn't 
 they make a sequel? I really hope Blizzard already considered it and are in the progress of releasing 
 it this year as a surprise. I really hope, but I don't think it will happen. Anyway, Warcraft 2 
 brought a totally new category of real-time strategies. The graphics might be bad for nowadays, 
 but believe me, it isn't that bad. If you're a real gamer, the graphics shouldn't stop you from 
 enjoying this classic. This game is simply a must have to all kinds of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Although I am not sure what came first, Command & Conquer or WarCraft but they both have the same 
 type of feel. Warcraft tends to be a classical fantasy and I am rather fond of the gene. But this 
 version doesn't seem as tactful as the predecessor, as the AI is considerably more intelligent 
 even know I can beat it fairly easily. There are simply more options, more to do and the cut scenes 
 are great.
  
  I love building my base, making sure the church goes in the right place. I like the towns to have 
 a unique feel and my citizens to look happy! But then again this is war. Being able to build a 
 big fleet of ships makes for a great sea battle and I do love having the ctrl function that allows 
 you to have multiple armies to send into battle. All the upgrades and levelling up of the units 
 in my army does add that addiction factor and I could easily spend hours a night on the game.
 
  
  So I am grateful there is a Dark Portal expansion pack to add to the last ability which Tides of 
 Darkness lacks. Even still Warcraft II is an excellent game with good background music, excellent 
 graphics and great functionality.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urworstnhtmare
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  As i said before this game is flawless. It stands the test of time, with amazing sound, graphics, 
 scenarios, and gameplay.
  
  The game follows the story of its predecessor Warcraft I: Orcs and Humans, and the conflict between 
 the two races of (you guessed it!) Orcs and Humans. To see the story unfold, you must play through 
 the single player campaign which spans 28 scenarios. Then once you've finished that you can set 
 up a custom match by choosing one of the preset maps or by using the Warcraft II: map editor, you 
 can make your own.
  
  The graphics are beautifully presented in sort of semi-cartoon look. The voice acting is done to 
 the highest standard and the music is mood setting and really adds to the character of the game.
 
  
  But compared to Starcraft I (another one of Blizzard's ground breaking real time strategy games) 
 it lacks certain features. The ability to create waiting lists for training is non-existent, and 
 the ability to select a maximum of only nine units at one time is a little frustrating at times 
 when you need to move more than nine units but its much better than the measly four units of Warcraft 
 I.
  
  All in all, an excellent sequel to an already stunning game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aroonie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  This is simple one of the best RTS games ever made. Right from the beginning when you load the 
 game you are hit in the face with a rich orchestral score that readys you for battle.
  The campaign starts very easy but is quick to increase the difficulty. Leading to to battles that 
 last more than 3 hours. Beautiful cut-scenes build up a story which however doesnt really have 
 much impact on the game itself.
  The units are a perfect balance which means that the two factions humans and orcs are just cosmetic. 
 This is probably the only down side of the game. A point that was picked up very quickly by the 
 first Command & Conquer game.
  Another great aspect of the game is the multiplayer. You can spend hours together on online battles. 
 Together with the map builder you get limitless extension to gaming.
  Using the map editor its even possible to turn the game into a mini RPG by upgrading a single unit 
 type's characteristics (e. g. the Paladin) and send him through a maze of enemies.
  
  Overall, a mustp lay RTS that stood benchmark to others and shaped the way RTS games are made today. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stokkolm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing this game some long time ago. It was though, I barely reached the late stages 
 of the campaign and i never managed to defeat an AI opponent in a custom game. Now after playing 
 quite a bunch of real time strategies, it was much easier, and probably more fun.
  
  When WarCraft III was released I was eager to see the result. When I got my hands on it, though 
 it left me a with good impression, I realized that it still cannot replace it's predecessor, there's 
 some strange charm about WarCraft II that can't be found in any other game. Maybe it's the old 
 cheesy yet catchy and joyful soundtrack, maybe the simple yet efficient graphics which can be enjoyed 
 even after all this years without getting disturbing. Most probably.
  
  As any standard RTS, WarCraft II has two main mods: the Campaign Mode and the Custom Game Mode 
 (against AI opponents or human opponents) . You don't need to play too many RTSs to know what they 
 mean. The campaign mode should be focused in presenting the story, but except the cut scenes and 
 the rushy briefings in which the narrator tells you with a good voice acting btw "we need to take 
 the Lol'Barad from the clan of Uga-Buga in order to secure the Burning Forest and advance to the 
 Land of Lulz". That's quite like things work in briefing most of the time. When you enter the game 
 you need to build quickly a base, and then prepare for offense. But what's more interesting is 
 that we have naval battles which are quite decisive to the game's outcome, because having sea supremacy 
 makes victory only a matter of time. 
  
  Warcraft II has the merit of having it's own style and atmosphere, and for that reason it deserves 
 a place in the RTS Hall of Fame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domot
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  neat game i like it play it every weekend one of the coolest games in its time i really like it 
 its so good i recomend it for people liking wow or warcraft 3 thank you game spot for the website 
 and all the reviews and help for warcraft 2 and other games i need help with i always visit you 
 its a quite short game but really good warcraft 2 is the no.1 game of its time it really is its 
 so good like building a brracks or a great hall or a city or stuff like tha its non stop action 
 reaaly good all who like strategy games shud play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agni_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 2 is possibly one of the best games of all times.. at least to me. It is very well balanced 
 and so easy to get into. Every unit is carefully designed by the folks at blizzard and while the 
 story element is not that great, it gives you an excuse to build massive armies and wreak havoc. 
 The single player campaign does a good job of bringing you along and doesn't put too much on you 
 right away. However, the game does get really challenging at the later levels, and it is extremely 
 fun to try to finish the last few levels of the game with the best possible outcome/score. Without 
 giving too much away , the units available at the later level will make you feel good about yourself. 
 The skirmish is also an excellent addition and it will provide you with hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  I played it during the time when C&amp; C Red Alert was also a popular sensation and being a hardcore 
 C&amp; C fan, I was sceptical of other RTS games made during that time, like KKND. Boy I'm glad 
 that I decided to give Warcraft II a chance after all! Being a fantasy RTS, Warcraft II had it 
 all. I thought only a military theme like C&amp; C can make it work as an RTS due to their epic 
 scale and tactical combat system but Warcraft II proved me wrong.
  
  Combat works very well in a game like this where it strikes a balance between melee and shooting 
 units. This is where medieval and fantasy combines to give us the best of both worlds when swordsmen 
 and knights (tanks) could be used in force with archers and mages (artillery) to allow tactical management 
 that would otherwise be a standard form of tactic for modern military-themed games to be so engaging. 
 This makes Warcraft II's gameplay both challenging and satisfying. As a bonus, a fantasy based 
 game like Warcraft enabled magic curses and blessings to be part of your tactics and formulas.
 
  
  The design of the units and structures look detailed and cartoony though and each unit could give 
 silly comments if you click on them long enough, which would definitely bring a smile to you once 
 in a while. If you're a fan of Warcraft III and haven't tried this yet, recommend you do so to 
 fully appreciate the classic roots of Warcraft.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 934400
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft II tides of darkness was the 2nd warcraft II thus the name. This one came after Warcraft 
 orc &amp; human, which wasn't a very good game or not as good as intended. In this installment 
 you get new units (if you played orc and human) like the archer/axe thrower and Ogre/knight.
  
  RTS stands for Real Time Strategy. Games like age of empire, starcraft, dawn of war are games 
 that are Real Time Strategy. You can choose which race you want to do first, I think it is suggested 
 that you do the orc campaign first then doing the human campaign second.
  
  The story is that the orc and human have had constant battles every day or have frequent battles 
 with each other. When you play as the race the first 4 levels you are trying to muster your forces 
 and take control of the area. Then you are entrusted to more perilous tasks. This game takes about 
 1 hour to get use to building and moving your forces and attacking and what not. The overall time 
 you will take depends on good you are with RTS games. You might take at least 100 hours in completing 
 this game since there about 16 levels per race.
  
  overall this game is very good and is worth every dollar you spend on this. And is still worth 
 playing even though this game is well over a decade old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta222
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off where this game fumbles:
  
  Until castles are made, both sides are pretty much the same. Footman and Grunts are interchangeable. 
 The gameplay was also kinda simple and is based purely on rush.
  
  Beyond that, this game is really good and highly addictive, had a great story, and the gimmick 
 of being able to fight on land, sea, and air worked well enough. This game expanded upon the first 
 Warcraft (Dunecraft to be exact) but did everything better, but didn't do too much new.
  
  For when it was released, this game looked really good, compared to the competition: Command and 
 Conquer.
  
  The sound needs no elaborating, just get a peon and click on it.
  
  This game deserves a spot in everyone's game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lannyboy334
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Many people like to bang on Warcraft II's (WC2's) cloned races, they are extremely balanced only 
 because they are basically carbon copies. This is a gnawing fact, but it still does not deduct 
 from the games solid gameplay, the core concept of the two races very well founded and rounded. 
 The tech tree is very existent, and the rush to a fully leveled ogre magi and a death knight with 
 haste is a very apparent and entertaining factor in the game. The graphics have taken a hit over 
 time, the effects rather dull and non-existent, yet two-dimensional graphics generally keep a lot 
 of their distinct flair, and the non-animated character faces are totally wicked. The sound has 
 taken a harsh turn for the worse over the years, the grating noise of sword on shield, along with 
 the entertaining, but ultimately annoying voices. The thing that has really stayed intact over 
 the years is the value of this game. It's purpose was to be the milestone launch to push forward 
 this whole genre, making gamers accustomed to a very solid tech tree. It was basically pre-Starcraft 
 and Warcraft III, bringing out a lot of ideas and fast paced gameplay in a genre that was fairly 
 clunky back in the day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game takes place in the fictional fantasy world of Azeroth where creatures called 
 Orcs are at war with humans. The condept of this game is very simple. Build buildings so you can 
 train soldiers, and let the soldiers discover the map. once you find enemie (s) , you kill them all 
 to proceed to the next scenario of this game. Also gathering resources is pretty simple. You gather 
 wood and gold to build up your army but there is a new resource, which is oil to help build your 
 ships. But this just adds stress to your workers. Thats because there are a bunch of new units like 
 Zepplins, Wizards, suicied bomers and ships. So the storyline continues the battle between the 
 orcs and the humans. The orcs have taken over Azeroth and the humans have fallen back to another 
 land and have seeked help from elves. And so the battle goes one. There is still the random map 
 play where you get to choose the map and fight against the computer. Also there is a new multiplayer 
 mode where the server can hold up to eight peoeple at the same time. Graphics: The graphics have 
 been improved from the first game of course. The cuts sceans have been improved and the cartoon 
 looking graphics have been improved and look more polished and more colorful.
  
  Sound: The sound has been improved. The soundtrack goes well with the game which really sets the 
 mood during the battles. Also the voice acting during gameplay and the cut scence are well done.
 
  
  Value: The replay value Is good, once you are done with the single player you can move on to the 
 multiplayer. All in all it's not a bad RTS game of it's day but I have played better RTS games. 
 The thing I don't like was the lack of units, the moral system and fantesy related games are not 
 in my radar of intrest.
  I give this game 7.6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimBurber
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Truly one of the most amazing games ever printed on a little round silver disc. It's hard to sum 
 up how fantastic this game was when it was released compared now that it has been out for 12 years 
 and has had many successors to the near burnt out genre of RTS. Back before the internet was common 
 knowledge in the average house, this game managed to shine in it's multiplayer capabilities even 
 more than in it's single player campaign. Which is saying a lot because the campaign in War2 was 
 absolutely outstanding. The storytelling was superb, and it did a fair job progressing the story 
 during missions, which was not commonplace at the time. There were no ingame cutscenes during that 
 era, but Blizzard designed the intelligence of the units well enough that they did what they were 
 supposed to do in a campaign that lacked many scripts or triggers. The Campaign has 2 seperate 
 storylines that are sort of set in parallell universes. Each campaign you control one of the two 
 factions, the noble Alliance, or the invading Orcish Horde. In each campaign the story picks up 
 off from the end of Warcraft I, using the Orcish campaign as the true campaign. The Orcs have destroyed 
 and captured the land of Azeroth and have sailed across the seas to conquer the Aliance of Lordaeron. 
 Each Campaign starts off simple, building a barracks and learning how to train soldiers and harvest 
 supplies. As you progress through levels the goals get more ambitious and the difficulty raises. 
 The technology you control also rises as you given more and more responsibility in your respective 
 army, until eventually in each campaign you are entrusted to a lofty victory goal to hopefully 
 defeat your foe once and for all.
  
  For a single player RTS campaign, the design is fairly straightforward, however done very well. 
 Where this game shines is in it's smoothly operated, extremely fast paced and intense multiplayer 
 battles. With the ability to battle team based or free for all with up to eight players, the battles 
 can get really pulse raising. Within minutes of the game starting, you will no doubt find yourself 
 under attack by some sort of enemies, and you will be forced to learn to defend your city while 
 commanding an offensive to coincide with it.
  
  Blizzard did play the race differential card fairly safe by making most units and tech-ups fairly 
 similar. Enough differences are present however to make each race feel different enough that people 
 could easily learn to like one race more than the other, depending on their play style. This is 
 done with the use of special skills. Mastering your special skills is crucial to winning a multiplayer 
 match, especially if the other player (s) know what they are doing. You can utilize powerful mages 
 in the Alliance of Lordaeron to dispatch you enemies instantaniously. Slowing down enemies with 
 spells, or making your own units invisable can also be strategic advantages. On the opposite side, 
 the main fighting units, Ogres, have the ability to go into a blood lust frenzy and deal out amazing 
 amounts of damage. Raising the dead is also an option using Orcish Death Knights, to strengthen 
 your forces on the battlefield.
  
  Warcraft II set a standard as to what RTS games should and did follow in years to come. With Countless 
 amounts of replay value, including it's healthy lengthed storymode campaigns and the new ability 
 to create your own unique maps, Warcraft II provided a refreshingly experience everytime war was 
 waged across the lands of Azeroth and Lordaeron. An expansion pack entitled Beyond the Dark Portal 
 added even more replay value with all new map sets, heros and campaigns. Plus an all new expectation 
 on the concept of hero units makes War2 even more significant in the history of RTS gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSCNAVYSPAZ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  OK I absolutley hate World Of Warcraft Online. Its a discrace. And I hate RPG's. But this Old, 
 Bad Graphic, 2D Game. Is suprisingly good. You can harvest lumber, mine for gold, and get oil and 
 stuff. Sure its somewhat fake but really addicting. You can even make your own maps. Which is really 
 fun, and you can spend alot of time on.
  
  Gameplay: The fights are pretty basic, They dont do BACKFLIPS and stuff like that, they move around 
 tho, not just stand and slash. And its mainly, Addicting... And not NOTHING BUT fighting. You do 
 need to work alot too. I like the humans more then Orcs tho.
  
  Graphics: Decent for its time I guess, 1995 was before Golden eye 007. and other bad graphic games, 
 but the graphics dont matter in this game.
  
  Sound: Pretty good, again esspecialy for its time. Doesnt really matter tho.
  
  Value: OK I 
 guess if you like addicting games :) I say its good for anyone.
  
  Im really addicted to this game, which is over 10 years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThunderEight
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game picks up where Warcraft: Orcs and Humans left off. If you read my Warcraft: Orcs and 
 Humans review you'll see alot of similarities. This game, again, when it was originally released 
 was ahead of everything on the market. Blizzard did an amazing job when creating this game. It 
 pushed every system on the market to it's limit. This was the first game I ever played online and 
 it was a blast.
  
  Gameplay: You are again either an Orc or a Human fighting for your existance in the wonderful world 
 of Azeroth. You build up your forces using some very colorful characters and battle until the other 
 exist no more. You work your way again through multiple stages, completing multiple taskings and 
 several different missions until reaching the end, where either man or orc no longer exist.
  
  Graphics: For the time again the graphics were amazing. This game really pushed the limits 
 of what systems were capable of doing.
  
  Sound: Incredible. The first time you click on a character and hear them talk balk is amazing. 
 Want to hear something funny. Continue clicking on a character over and over again. They will continue 
 to spit out more quotes... each one getting funnier.
  
  Overall: I again wouldn't recommend this game because it would be overwhelmed by the power of today's 
 machines. But if someone ever does invent a time machine and you find yourself back in 1995... try 
 some Warcraft: Tides of Darkness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarrom_Fin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 2 is one the best games blizzard has made. The story is great, I liked it. But the units 
 are very rememberful. This is the only warcraft game where you can have ships. I dont understand 
 why they didint get ships to warcraft 3. Campaign was very fun to play, I always liked to see where 
 to story goes. The multiplayer was so fun. I still remember when I played multiplayer against my 
 friends. The gameplay is like C&amp; C but still I like this game more. The music is best music 
 Blizzard has done to any of its games. Its so sad, that Blizzard doesn't do any good music anymore. 
 Graphics are good for the age of the game, and they dont look bad after all these years. This game 
 doesn't age very fast. I still play it sometimes. This is best strategy game that Blizzard has 
 made. This is the true warcraft that earns its name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeymoreHunter
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing Warcraft II for the first time and I didn't really know what to think. I was 
 new to the whole RTS idea and I was amazed by the concept. Once I got to learn more about the game, 
 I was instantly stuck.
  
  With a fantastic ability to tell a story, the single player campaign was unbelievably good. The 
 story was told in such a perfect way that made you want to advance just to see what would happen 
 next.
  
  Not only was this a very strong game in terms of single player action, but also on multi player. 
 I spent many hours playing this game over at my friend's house on network play and it never got 
 boring no matter how much we played.
  
  The game just gives the player a solid presentation with awesome sound, a deep, wonderful storyline 
 and a beautiful faced paced RTS experience. Warcraft II will forever be one of those games I will 
 remember until the day I die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godziilla
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I don't care what anyone says, Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness is better than its predecessor, Warcraft 
 III: Reign of Chaos. For me the gameplay was much more entertaining & fun. I thought it had better 
 characters & maps. Easier to get the hang of, cheaper, & takes up less space on your pc. I think 
 that if you want an rts you are going to play everyday, get this because you won't get bored with 
 it. Without this game there would have been no Warcraft III so it shouldn't be so underappreciated. 
 I don't like the whole Warcraft series that much, but I do like Warcraft II & World of Warcraft. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MickeySteroid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 2 is a fun strategy game that will be fun to both fans of the series and any strategy 
 fan. In this game you will build cities and armies. You will need both wood and gold to have a 
 well built defense system.
  Depending on which team you choose you will have different types of soldiers and defense systems. 
 Example: Human builder: peasent Orc builder: peon. The game isn't just hack and slash as it might 
 look like. It is actually a strategy game with battle sequences in it. In story mode there are 
 14 different missions for both teams. (Humans and Orcs have different missions.) They both give 
 a reasonable amount of challenge to game players.
  The games interesting strategy system and selection of soldiers each with their own strengths makes 
 the game fun. The graphics and sound effects are so awesome for its time. The free versus mode' 
 long campaign' and online mode make the game fun for a long time. The storyline is cool and it 
 was made very well. It is mostly about Humans and Orcs fighting.
  
  Well I can't give it all away so try it if you like RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GromHellskream4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I know I'm a little late in reviewing this game but it was such a big part of me getting into 
 PC games that i had to review it. WC II picks up a couple years after the first war of Orcs vs. 
 Humans. The biggest differences from WC I are that Blizzard has put sea battles in the mix of this 
 game which is a welcome addition and something i missed quite alot in WC III. The strategy on this 
 game is amazing for how old it is. The other amazing thing is how many people still play is on 
 B. net the multi-player version. The story is submersive and puts you in command of either the Orcish 
 horde or the Human Alliance, each of the campaigns have alternate endings for the game. The only 
 thing i didnt like too much in this game is the stupid cut scenes. of the orcs killing the Humans 
 or vice versa. It doesnt give the story any more clarity or life than it already has. This game 
 is a wonderful game and if you play it you'll understand why it won best game of the year so many 
 years ago. This game was my first WarCraft game, Well my first Game i playd in general and for 
 that i must give it a 10/10 for a wonderful work of art. Bravo Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 3, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  The graphics were teh bomb back in the day. The menu art is cool; the cut off hand for your cursor. 
 It was a really graphically intense game.
  The strategy is amazing, even today. For only a few characters to choose from, there's the classic 
 Land/Sea/Air strategy put forth for you to determine which will beat which.
  As in every Blizzard game, clicking a unit several times makes them say funny things. I don't 
 know why, I just think that is a really cool feature.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Even though there's IPX, there's no real way to play LAN since IPX isn't really a standard today. 
 Still, you can play Battle. net together if you have the Battle. net edition.
  Compared to games today, there's not enough units in the game, which will drive some people insane.
 
  Building your base according to economy compared to military. This is not Age of Empires!!
  
  :Overall:
  Despite being an older game, this game still runs on Windows XP just fine without 
 emulating DOS or anything. It's a terrific treasure and a must have for a fan of the Warcraft/Starcraft 
 games. It's as classic as Doom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingmario78
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  It really stumps me to see in-great ful beings say they hate this classic and love WC III, which 
 is very boring and just because it has four races and better graphics won't take me.
  I beat WC III about two times, and I've never beaten WC II. I hate that they killed away Grom-Hellsrceam 
 and got rid of all of those other races, like Moon Elf, which is now in the Horde for WoW.
  If you love a hard to beat game with the two best races: Orcs and Human, this is the game for you.
 
  
  Multiplayer is amazing, and making your own map for a multiplayer game is even better! I once had 
 a great game and everything like that, and my brother got a scratch on the disc.
  For those of you fan boys, who only play games with "good graphics" and think that "graphics make 
 the game", well, uh.... this isn't the game for you.
  The story is like magic, so smoooooooooooooooth and cool, is almost like ice.
  I really do love 
 the fact that you have to put an effort to beat the game, unlike III, which you can beat in four 
 hours (spit on the disc) , although WC III has the demon hunter which I really liked.
  They* really messed up the legend. 
  They as in Blizzard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragerino_dude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely fantastic, the number of units upgrades, animations, will never stop amusing 
 you. Although it may be old the graphics would have been revolutionary for it's time. The gameplay 
 is just awesome, even if you bought it back in 95 you will probly still love it.
  
  Blizzard has done exceptionally well with this game. The thing that I think is best about it are 
 the units, and the magic anime. In alot of strategy game races the units are all fairly similar, 
 but in warcraft 2 every unit is unique. The magic users are just great to watch. This ideas of 
 this game are up to date with any new game at the moment and in some ways I think they are better.
 
  
  The unit animations are great although there are a few faults and a few people would make a big 
 fuss over this, 10 years ago these animations were great seeing as these were early rts's.
  
  Although the campaigns have no cut-scenes and the story is quite hard to understand it's still 
 lots of fun playing through the levels over and over again. The maps of the campaign are also well 
 thought out.
  
  The maps of the game are great providing loads of unused land for you to take over. The only problem 
 is that most of the maps are quite symmetrical and in reality I don't think there is any land in 
 the world which is symmetrical.
  
  This game can compete with any newer games that are coming out, this is definitely worth playing, 
 even now. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaiser634
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I can still remember my young self going over to my friend's house nextdoor to play this game all-day 
 after school. Tides of Darkness was a brand new universe we only got our hands into because of 
 the knights vs. monsters deal back then, but strategy just got to be so much fun. The fact that 
 there were so many different unit and building types, but were yet SO well-balanced made this game 
 a stand-out. Go paladins, go. 
  
  Who knew Blizzard would become the kind of developer they have today, and who could predict the 
 massive universe and success that has come with World of Warcraft!! EPIC!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nibbleyDUDE
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  This game is great i found this in a shop for 3 ($2) so i thought might as well buy it.
  
  This game is great regarding that it was made about 11 years ago. Age of Empires eat your heart 
 out cos this game rocks. The gameplay is very similar to Age of Empires also the main idea of the 
 game is also virtually the same, build a empire build an army destroy. The idea may seem boring 
 but you need to play the game as it's great. 
  
  The graphics are good and ideally suited to this gameplay style. The units look brilliant (especcialy 
 the Griffins) the spells look cool too. I'll go into more depth of army and units. You start of 
 with a Town Centre and 2 peasents from then on you need to collect building materials to make barracks 
 and other buildings. From barracks you make footmen to fight for you, there are also other buildings 
 that can make soldiers (archers, mages, gnomes) . There are two playable races, The orcs and the 
 humans. In the campaign the storyline basically is the orcs invade and The Alliance have to hold 
 againest this attack. 
  
  Just buy this game it's addictive cheap and a brilliant alternative for Age of Empires.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greek5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  I remeber going to a friends house when i was about 15 back in 1997 to play multiplayer, and we 
 always complained of no RTS titles to play, the usual duke nukem 3d and quake were around, but 
 no RTS, command and conquer was alright but something was missing.
  
  Then one day we started playing Warcraft 2, and i can remeber that day like it was yesterday, the 
 peons chopping down trees with their classic sounds effects and responses.. and if a game can leave 
 that kind of impression on someone, it definately has something special.
  
  The gameplay was amazing, and still is! we spent hours playing, and it never got old, well done 
 Blizzard, you've create a Beautiful game that will always be respected by gamers that were intriqued 
 by the Warcraft world for years.. 
  few things in gaming history have accomplished what Warcraft did.. 
  
  An awesome game that 
 is sure to be remebered in the history of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  bakc in the day this game was the best awsome graphics great gameplay and much much more this was 
 the full package! To me the orcs and the humans were so distinct I always loved when the peasents 
 ansewred ansd they were like "ok" "i don wanna do this" or the peons saying "squirboo" and ect 
 this is one of th ebest games of all time and shuld always be remembered ! But the best thing of 
 all to me was the game had a variety of things to do u can fight on land with ur footmen and knights 
 ogres and more or in the sea with battle ships or in the air with dragons and ect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Hek ya it is older then hek but the game is funner then hek it may not have the best graphics but 
 the game is so addicting I love this game its is on my Top 5 List of Great Games its very fun and 
 relaxing makes you use your head a little bit but mostly fun to watch.
  
  Its worth buying or download it might be free now I bought it a long time back when it was newer 
 I dont know if they still are charging for that old game but its worth getting the game its great 
 gameplay no other Warcraft is like it you wont regret this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 16, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft II is about 10 years old as of this review, and I still love to play it. It is the mile 
 marker in the real time strategy road to greatness. It is the game that provided all the greatness 
 that made Starcraft great well before Starcraft existed.
  
  The Good:
  Comical tone of the game that still manages to be serious about the story, open combat across land, 
 sea and air makes this game heavy on the strategy department. Beyond the Dark Portal expantion 
 pack provides lots of playability to the game. Requires you to think unlike the (cough) comand 
 and conquer series. Technology is introduced slowly so you are still learning well into the game.
 
  
  The Bad:
  Graphics are flat out bad (the games 10 years old what do you expect?) , the two races are somewhat 
 off balance favoring the orcs, can only select a small number of units at once (not so in battle. net 
 edition) , competive play on battle. net is nothing more then a race to build units and throw them 
 at your enemies with no strategy involved. Computer controlled enemies can trip over them selves 
 and crowd their towns basicly freezing their base of all opperations. Beyond the dark portal is 
 freakishly hard.
  
  Who else can remember their own personal tactics they used in WC2? Or those people that just throw 
 units at the enemy and watch them selves get killed. Its all fun and if you don't already have 
 this game then buy it now! if you don't have a PC then get one and buy it now. If you joined a 
 cult that hates PCs get the playstation verson but find some way to play this game and your life 
 will never be the same again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DelphiDevil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  A clasic if there was ever one, i'm saying this after more than 7 years since it's aperance.
  
  I still remember the days returning from school and leaving everyone behind so i can be with 
 my beloved Warcraft II, ah those where the days :)
  
  One of the first games to have multiplayer over the internet, unfortunatly those competition games 
 are just sweet memories
  
  My scoring:
  9 for gameplay: you never get bored of it it's just a fun game easy to learn and chalengic to master
 
  
  9 for graphics: considering the time it was launched it was one of the best ;)
  
  9 for sound: unit reactions are just to damn funny :D
  
  10 for value: What would the world 
 of RTS be without this landmark in the genre
  
  10 for personal opinion: what can i say, i'm emotional attached to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  AHHHH!!!! Nothing beats a good old fashion battle between good and evil
  whether you fight as a noble paladin or as an angry dwarf or maybe you would sport a rusty helmet 
 on your head. Or prehaps you'd like to gather gold or prehapes click on your units till they get 
 angry... so what am i talkin about exactly... why im talkin about WARCRAFT 2: Tides of Darkness.
 
  You remember Bilzzard's classic game called Warcraft: Orcs and humans.
  it was fun ,exciting and also bloody! Well this is ofcourse a sequel to the game and man does it 
 rock!
  If memory does serve me right, the story about WARCRAFT2 does continue with the huge war between 
 the humans and the orcs. Now its seems the war is raging in the skies and on sea, and now them 
 pesky orcs are planning to use the dark portal for their own evil use, the human must do what it 
 takes to protect their homeland.
  As you may know, ( or dont know) Warcraft 2 is a war strategy game,
  youll need to build a base, 
 get enough resources, ( gold, oil and wood) build your army of destruction and get it on in BATTLE!! 
 Just like the previous WARCRAFT, you can play in 2 races, the NOBLE HUMANS or THE BLOOD THRISTY 
 ORCS.
  This games does offer brand new feature and a huge improvement.
  Considering this game is a decade old, at that time in the 90's this was amazing improvement!!!! 
 The sound has improved, the graphics are quite smooth, and decent. Theyre are plenty of new unites, ( 
 such as new warriors, airfighters additional sea ships and lots!) Theyre are loads of missions 
 in the games and is quite addictive once you start playing it.
  As i explained, although this game is quite old, there no doubt about 
  it, this game did make 
 a huge impact towards gaming. Warcraft 2 is absolutely an instant classic and is an amazing game! 
 
  This game does deserve to be "one of gamespot's greatest games!"
  
  PROS: huge improvement, better graphics and sound, new unite, new feature and amazing gaming experience
 
  
  CONS: some online problems for multiplayer technical and some minor issues
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stratos1990
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  It may not look much in these days and probably only mature gamers will appriciate it but a true 
 classic isn't made bjust by the awsome graphics or the 3d sound but from it's....... spirit. That's 
 what's this game is all about.
  A true classic!!
  Blizzard never let me down and that game is a real beauty!!
  Although i'm getting a bit irritated 
 by the scroll speed all the time.
  I think that's couse of the new mouses, they're apparently not fully compatible.
  Still it IS 
 worthy of attention!
  I'm afraid though that new gamers are not able to apriciate these games couse of their age.
  
 Well their loss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellbenta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Back in the early 1990's all you could play in your pc was either a FPS, Myst or C&C. FPS were 
 pretty much dominated by Doom and all its sequels, Myst while being a great game, wasn't for everybody, 
 and C&C graphics and unbalanced gameplay (Tank Rush within a minute of starting a game , anyone?) 
 were making me wish for a game "Revolution" (Hint, Hint) And then from the cold reaches of Blizzard 
 came WC2. Never before had any of us played a RTSG so well balanced (except with that orc Bloodrush 
 rush, to wich the humans had no answer) that it actually FORCED the gamer to plan a strategy before 
 executing it. Whant to send an army of human mages to decimate the horde with their blizzard shower 
 and no footman protection? Go ahead, they'll get owned by the horde in a few seconds. Whant to 
 send an army of orc grunts to decimate the human town with no ax-thrower back up? Try it fool, 
 those human mages will shred your units from affar while the footmen stop your advance. The game 
 also provided a wide arrange of upgrades for ALL units, up to three tiers for each one, meanning 
 that even in the later stages you would still be using footme and grunts, even when you had Paladins 
 and ogres. Also, just like G. I JOE, you could take the fight for Azeroth by land, sea and Air, 
 wich also added new units and upgrades for every one. It also featured some great individual powers 
 by some of the units, like the Dead knight's "Revive" spell wich allowed you to use fallen enemies 
 for your army and the Mage's "Polimorph"' spell wich allowed you to completly aliminate a though 
 opponent by turning him into a sheep. I can't finish my review of this game without mentioning 
 the voice over for EACH individual unit. From the paladin's proud "Yes sire?" to the goblin demolition 
 squad's "KA-BOOOOONNN OHHH IT'S BEAUTIFULL!!!!"' every unit had a diferent personality that could 
 be recogniced without even looking at the screen. Indeed, this game was well planed thru and thru. 
 Without it, i doubt that the RTS faction of pc gaming would be were it is today. When a company 
 creates a game wich is so famous that just by saying some of it's catch phrases in a pc gaming 
 convention averybody turns at you and say 5 or6 more of them, you know you have an Instant clasic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I played that was strategy. I actually think this is the game that got my 
 friends and family into computer gaming opposed to consoles.
  
  For those who just play World of Warcraft and think "Hmm, old school goodness.", you'll be in for 
 a spin. Not only does it not feature annoying kids who Nazi the general chat with their account 
 bans, but it actually tells a much better story on where Warcraft began. It's history is beyond 
 words, honestly, but I also think it's a game you'd have to had grown up playing.
  
  The graphics are blah today but back in the good old gaming days, they were the bomb! The sounds 
 are crud now but again, back in the day... You basically only get to choose between Orcs and Humans. 
 Both teams have equal abilities overall and the game is basically a rush to build units fast and 
 attack hard. There's also like 10 units per team. But that's not the real point. Back then, that 
 was enough and it was fun. It still is fun and when I play this with my brother or dad, it brings 
 back the memories of when games were all about being so dang fun.
  
  ---------------------------------------
  Pros:
  Still works online and works on any PC; Fun, 
 quick matches; Great graphics & sounds for it's time.
  
  Cons:
  Direct-IP is kind of a pain; later on the missions are crazy hard.
  
  Overall:
  A great classic 
 but don't expect much if you're a new gamer. Just stick to Warcraft III or something newer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevster812
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  definitly to my knoweledge this the best rts out there i simply love it. the missions are fun and 
 well so is the entire game i mean this is probably $10 bucks so you got to pick it up im not gonna 
 keep on rambling on about how great this game is i mean mit is a little on the late side to really 
 be a game u sit downn and am blown away by. just do yourself a favor and pick it up. its just low 
 on sound and graphics (considering the time period) . the pure fun of this game is unmatched although 
 it does run a little on the easy side the different campagains well theyre not really different 
 just the same thing dressed up differently. still great game pick it up i loved it you will too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J4CK_0F_SP4D35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Warcraft has been around almost as long as gaming. From its first installment, Warcraft: Orcs and 
 Humans; to it's most recent, World of Warcraft. Any long time gamer has played or at least heard 
 of a Warcraft game, and this friends is the best.
  Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness came out in 1995, one year after it's first episode in 1994. Warcraft 
 II took WC: O&H and improved everything you hated about it. The gameplay was improved, the speed 
 and challenge got kicked up a notch, and the visuals were outstanding (for its time) . But you might 
 say to yourself, "What about Warcraft III? That must be better than it?" Yes, technically it is. 
 But WCIII is a bit overwhelming for a beginner to RTS and is a bit hard to just jump into.
  So in conclusion, if you mix the simplicity of Warcraft I and the fun and game play of Warcraft 
 III, you get Warcraft II. The perfect mix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casteye
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game rocked it awsome its totally awsome the grafix are really good and it loads fast when 
 i got it i was in love i thought this game rocked and by in love i dont mean in love i mean i could 
 not stop playing the game 
  REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD 
 REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD 
 REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD 
 REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD 
 REALLY GOOD REALLY GOOD THIS GAME ROCKED AND
  ******** I DO RECOMEND IT CAUSE THIS GAME IS A CLASSIC*********** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I got this game not long ago like March 2005 and my friend found it in his basement and we decided 
 to play it!! at first it was pretty crappy but i started to get into it and started playing and 
 playing for hours and hours!!!!! this is a very good  
 recomend you pick this game up now.... right now get get get it now now  
 HMM scnario is cool cause you can customize your battle and its cool i dont know where you can 
 find this but good luck cause this game is coo yea i cant think of anything else so get this game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DumassBarb
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  A classic that defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to any RTS gamer!
  A classic that defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to any RTS gamer! A classic that 
 defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to any RTS gamer! A classic that defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to 
 any RTS gamer! A classic that defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to any RTS gamer! A classic that defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to 
 any RTS gamer! A classic that defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to any RTS gamer! A classic that defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to 
 any RTS gamer! A classic that defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to any RTS gamer! A classic that defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to 
 any RTS gamer! A classic that defined what Warcraft was all about!
  A must buy to any RTS gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avaneesh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game as well as the seris is one of the best strategy games. I feel that it is even better 
 than age of empires 2 though i have not played AOE 3 yet. It surpasses the command and conquer 
 seris by years. one game suggested to people who want to get good strategy skills. it is one addictive 
 game which makes you think a lot just like the commandos seris and is just as exciting. and the 
 story line is perfect too with very nice grafics which just fit the story line. the game dosent 
 have a limit on population and you cant delete structures or units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 28, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 2 entered the RTS scene with a bang. It's predecessor was a promising early entry during 
 Blizzard's formative years, and the new version addressed several shortcomings of the original. 
 Warcraft 2 crafted a beautiul universe with crazed orcs, tough speaking dwarves, and more than 
 a little tongue in cheek humor. It's solid gameplay delivered a simple interface and enjoyable 
 experience, even if it was slightly lacking in comparitive depth with a few of it's peers.
  
  Players enter the world of Azeroth a second time as refreshed orc forces are sweeping across 
 the land, laying waste to everything in their way. They'll be in command of either the fearsome 
 Orc Horde or the honorable Alliance of Azeroth, complete with single player campaigns and multiplayer 
 skirmishes. 
  
  Gameplay is solidly rooted in resouce harvesting, base building, and small squad skirmishes. Any 
 RTS fan will be immediately familiar with their surroundings, and the superb interface will allow 
 even the most untested gamers instant access to command functions. Units are easily directed with 
 an intelligent "right click" driven interface that intelligently performs momvemnt, combat, spell 
 casting, and base assaults. Players will find themselves on maps ranging from the arctic tundra 
 to open ocean environments, and each side is replete with infantry, cavalry, naval and even aerial 
 units. 
  
  Base building plays a huge part of the gameplay, and this feature does not dissapoint. Players 
 can build barracks, town halls, guard towers, lumbermills, farms and more. The step-ladder approach 
 to base building is very intelligent, and allowed for a tight "arms race" where players can race 
 towards various technologies. Structures could also be used to purchase unit upgrades to existing 
 troop types, and could also be equipped with new capabilities. A huge portion of the game's strategy 
 comes from your approach to the economy of your force, and commanders that over specialize or develop 
 slowly will assuredly be crushed by a non-stop flow of forces from the other commander's base.
 
  
  Blizzard established their trademark for polish with this game. It was unquestionably a monstrous 
 achievment in art, sound, and overall ambiance. Graphically, the game gleamed on a few levels. 
 The units themselves are bright, animations are clean, and the building design is fantastic. Bases 
 will vary if on a snow covered map, and the ork buildings are appropriately "ork-ized" with horns, 
 pallisades, glyphs, and haphazard nail placement. The human structures are typically feudal, but 
 the overall style is, again, clean and presentable. Spell effects were well done, and the between 
 mission cut scenes are some of the best ever to grace the genre.
  
  Sound is really where this game shines. Blizzard is, once again, a master of this area. The orchestrated 
 score is phenomanal, well paced, and matches in game missions perfectly. The quality of the sound 
 is amazing as well, and it was the first time I ever looked at my PC speakers and thought "wow, 
 I should upgrade these" Unit sounds are perfect, and this is where Warcraft 2 received it's kudos 
 for humor. All of the units have various "acknowledgement" sounds, which would eventually reach 
 a fever pitch if you persistantly clicked on them. The famous orc "Zug Zug" will eventually turn 
 to "heheheh, that tickles", elves will berate you for touching their more, ahem, sensitive areas. 
 Death Knights, one of the better voiced units in video game history, will assure you that they 
 are coming back for you after finishing off the foe! Brilliant.
  
  Warcraft 2's value is where the kinks begin to appear in the armor, and contain my major qualm 
 about the game the sides are incredibly similar. Units, structures, and overall approach to the 
 game are practically identical for each side. While there are "special units" they are few and 
 far between, and the sides major seperation is cosmetic in nature. This is a damn shame, since 
 the game is outstanding on so many other fronts. The multiplayer, lauded in it's day, degenerates 
 due to this issue.
  
  So what's wrong with this title? Nothing immediately noticeable, but there are some serious gameplay 
 issues here. Warcraft 2's virtually identical sides equate to a ton of attrition based combat. 
 The special characters and units help abate this to a certain extent, but this game always ends 
 one way at the end of the research tree. Warcraft 2 innevitably develops into a sprint to reach 
 the end-game tech, and hordes of these units are them pumped out to assure victory. In practically 
 every loss I ever suffered in this game, legions of identical looking ogres/knights rampaged into 
 my base and proceeded to assassinate anything that moved. At this point, you're done.
  
  Bottom line is Warcraft 2 is a solid RTS title. It's presentation is matchless, and it provided 
 other developers with a glimpse of what could be done and accomplished in the RTS genre. Had the 
 sides differed more and offered more depth of gameplay, it would have assuredly been one of the 
 best strategy titles ever made. As it stands, it's a solid entry into the RTS genre and one of 
 the crown jewel's in Blizzard's cap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2004 4:00 pm PT
Review:  ... in their collection. It was such an amazing game when it was released. Everything from the intro 
 cutscene to the end cutscene was supurb. The units were awesome, as were the maps, the cutscenes 
 through the game were the best i've seen. Better than a lot of cutscenes we see in more recent 
 titles. 
  
  I played modem and skirmish games of WarII a lot. Fantastic game. This is a classic game that everyone 
 should have. It's a pity WarcraftIII went off track and tried to be something amazing and new.. 
 WarcraftII is the best in the series, along with the expansion pack is one of the best games i've 
 ever played.
  
  The game's sound is great, the graphics (especially in the cutscenes are terrific) , the single 
 player campaign is awesome. There are two campaigns, one for Orcs and one for Humans. Both are 
 very well done. The story is excellent and will keep you playing right till the very end, and then 
 you'll be wanting more. 
  
  The gameplay is really something. This is one of the early RTS games, you'll notice that right 
 off, but the difference is, compared to more recent RTS games, this is one you could play over 
 and over and over and not get sick of. A must have title for all RTS fans. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
