-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warcraft II: Battle.net Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warcraft2battlenetedition/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 10, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.5, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,002 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warcraft II's great gameplay still shines through all these years later. 

 By publishing Warcraft II: Battle. net Edition, Blizzard Entertainment risks evaluations such as 
 this, which are just as liable to berate the aging real-time strategy hit as they are to acknowledge 
 Warcraft II as one of the most important games of the decade. After all, it's true that this modest 
 revision of Warcraft II is ostensibly no more than a repackaging of the four-year-old original, 
 whose once-impressive production values no longer meet modern standards. On the other hand, Warcraft 
 II's great gameplay still shines through all these years later, and its graphics and sound have 
 also withstood the test of time. And at any rate, Blizzard makes no false claims about Warcraft 
 II: Battle. net Edition. It's an attractively packaged, well-documented reproduction of a continuously 
 popular game, designed to provide Warcraft II fans with an online arena for multiplayer competition 
 so that the game might live on even longer.  

 Warcraft II: Battle. net Edition includes the original Warcraft II as well as the Beyond the Dark 
 Portal expansion, which collectively contain over 50 single-player missions. These are fun to revisit, 
 but Blizzard's original plans to include an additional all-new Warcraft II Platinum campaign were 
 scrapped in the interest of emphasizing Battle. net Edition's true intent: to provide the classic 
 Warcraft II as is, with extensive multiplayer support and a few select gameplay enhancements. As 
 such, the decision to forgo additional content in Battle. net Edition makes a lot of sense. If this 
 new Warcraft II actually included sporadic additions to the original game, it might have upset 
 fans who would have felt cheated into playing new missions for an obsolete game, as was the case 
 with Westwood's halfhearted Dune 2000. But Blizzard played fair and clearly identified what's new 
 and what isn't in Battle. net Edition right on the packaging.  

 As far as gameplay's concerned, what's new includes tried-and-true Starcraft control mechanics such 
 as keyboard hotkeys for autocentering on alert events, unit groupings, and double-clicking to select 
 all units of a type. Other typical real-time strategy features, such as production queues and waypoints, 
 were not included in Battle. net Edition because they would affect the dynamic of the original game. 
 Blizzard's oft-debated rule that limits you to selecting no more than nine units at once remains 
 for the same reason. The game looks and sounds exactly like it did before (though hard-core fans 
 will detect a few additions) , and its colorful, cartoonish graphics hold up nicely, while its superb 
 sound effects and musical score have hardly aged at all. The game runs perfectly - not too fast 
 - on any modern machine, and play control and interface design remain as intuitive and accessible 
 as ever. Warcraft II might be old, and it might feel simple by today's standards, but it still 
 plays great.  

 It's true that the computer opponent in the single-player game relies on predictable if startlingly 
 efficient tactics as always, but you're not buying Battle. net Edition to play against the computer. 
 As a multiplayer game, Warcraft II is still quite fun and substantially more enjoyable than at 
 least half the real-time strategy games released this year. Battle. net Edition provides extensive 
 multiplayer options, including additional speed settings (which now remain constant throughout 
 a match) , variable starting resources, alliances, random race selection, and online map trading. 
 Pioneered by Diablo and refined by Starcraft, the free Battle. net service itself is guaranteed 
 to provide willing or downright zealous competition at all hours and lets you play against as many 
 as seven other players at a time. Of further note, Battle. net Edition is backwards compatible with 
 the original Warcraft II, and you can still install multiplayer spawns so up to eight people can 
 play over a network with just one disc. Multiplayer gaming wasn't as popular five years ago as 
 it is now, which means Warcraft II and all its particular nuances ought to have a fresh appeal 
 as a competitive game, especially for those who didn't have access to a network or the Kali service 
 back in 1996.  

 And that's exactly the point. Regardless of what some may think of Warcraft II, the fact is the 
 game has retained a loyal following for nearly half a decade, and for all these many fans, Battle. net 
 Edition provides a carefully designed, tightly focused opportunity for them to experience one of 
 their favorite games within a contemporary context. It's unlikely that Battle. net Edition will 
 rekindle the same strong feelings that made Warcraft II such a hit back in its day. But it's a 
 perfect homage to Blizzard's classic, and as such, even this unpretentious rerelease smacks of 
 the same high quality that put Blizzard at the top in the first place.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wreckem406
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 7:57 pm PT
Review:  After picking this game up after years of playing more modern RTS games, I truly enjoyed this simple, 
 tastefully done, classic. It's been years since Warcraft II first came out but even then one could 
 tell Blizzard was on their way up.
  
  The fact that you can get both, Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness, and its expansion Warcraft II: 
 Beyond the Dark Portal, along with access to Battle. net; Blizzard's way of letting you play the 
 game online with people around the world; in one package is amazing. This is one of those games 
 that is one you will find yourself replaying just for the hell of it.
  
  The campaigns, four in total, one for the Human Alliance, and one for the barbaric Orc Horde, in 
 each game, are done phenomenally. While it's missing some of the flash of newer RTS's, all the 
 essentials are still there, and they come together just so to create hours upon hours of innovative 
 gameplay that will keep you coming back for just one more mission long after you should've put 
 it down.
  
  Online play is, for the most part, great. Blizzard keeps servers up and running and has thus far 
 managed to avoid hackers and any glitching that could possibly ruin gameplay. Whether your cup 
 of tea is killing other players in traditional matches or playing special edited maps that feature 
 a wide variety of play styles, Battle. net has it for you.
  
  While many features, namely the online play, have been set aside by the majority of the game's 
 fan base for the newer and shinier Warcraft III and Starcraft, the old school style and thought 
 required to beat back the orc hordes or to Slaughter the puny humans, and demolish their way of 
 life, is always invigorating and refreshing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  WarCraft II: Battle. net Edition is a fantastic game. While it lacks the player database of StarCraft 
 (actually it lacks any player database at all, except the  II 
 Server [/URL] Battle. net gateway and thats in Russian. WarCraft II: BNE may not be as popular as 
 StarCraft, but it has a better melee, while the game lacks any sizable ammount of Use Map Settings 
 maps (though it does support Use Map Settings, I'm not sure how many WarCraft II: Battle. net Edition 
 Use Map Settings maps there are, if there are any) . Why UMS didn't catch on for WarCraft II is 
 beyond me since that is the most popular game mode on StarCraft. Well WarCraft II: Battle. net Edition 
 isn't sold in stores anymore, you can find it online still though (check Amazon) . Well WarCraft 
 II: BNE is in some ways better than the legendary StarCraft even, it has more fun melee, but no 
 UMS community whatsoever (and hardly any community at all whatsoever) . Blizzard removing the official 
 WarCraft II: Battle. net Edition forums didn't help the game too much. I give WarCraft II: Battle. net 
 Edition 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudcaked
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft II: Battle Net Edition gives the player the opportunity to revisit the dark days of the 
 Tides of Darkness and it's expansion: Beyond the Dark Portal in a Windows environment that has 
 also been optimised with multiplayer capabilities over battlenet.
  
  Warcraft II set the standard for most modern RTS titles. While basic and with very little gameplay 
 variations between the Humans and the Orcs, the gameplay was without a doubt still solid with each 
 side containing great looking units for the time as well as humourous remarks should the player 
 click an individual unit one to many times. This game had solid maps and a decent storyline allowing 
 the player to get absorbed into the world. 
  
  While more primitive by today's standard RTS titles, this title is an excellent place to play out 
 the initial stages of the conflict between Humans and Orcs. If you are a World of Warcraft player 
 you will notice many footnotes and landmarks that appeared in this title, such as a destroyed Alterac, 
 Grim Batol, Khaz Modan as well as the areas surrounding the dark portal and more. Warcraft III 
 will players will pick off from the end of Warcraft II at the height of Lordaeron's glory and strength. 
 While those of you who are playing through The Burning Crusade will notice characters and references 
 from Beyond the Dark Portal.
  
  Warcraft II BNE is also optimised for multiplayer over battlenet as well as other small gameplay 
 enhancements, for any shortcomings, you still can't beat the bargain price it can be found at. 
 I strongly recommend this for any Warcraft, RTS or retro fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moogle_eater_89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Nothing says RTS like Warcraft. I remember the last time I went to a game shop here in Canada. 
 and hearing a young teenager requesting Warcraft, despite not finding this hard to come-by gem, 
 I believe he settled for this game, actually. This brings a tear to my eye almost, because it confirms 
 the belief that this gaming franchise in particular will stand the test of time and be remembered 
 by the generations, I'm almost positive on this. This game falls under the fantasy genre of art, 
 I guess. Imagine something out of Tolkien or feudal Europe or something, and you'll understand 
 the basic idea of the genre. The gameplay is fairly unique in the sense that I don't think this 
 genre of video games (real-time strategy) is one that has a lot of titles under its wing, but for 
 those of you who aren't familar with it, its basically an addictive-type of gameplay meshed with 
 quasi-topographical graphic interests for the most part, which may result in a mere satisfactory 
 grade in most people's books in this regard, but you need to realize that it's difficult to detail 
 games of this very nature. I personally find the graphics in this title perfectly fine with only 
 slight crack-up. The gameplay, despite its addictive nature, which results in high replay value, 
 naturally, is somewhat flawed. There are just at least a couple of what I would call oopses, mainly 
 revolving around the A. I. on your side. The workers sometimes seem needlessly puzzled, it seems, 
 and the battle units are difficult to command as well, I find. The music is really fine. I cannot 
 find anything wrong with or find any way to really improve the music and or sound quality given 
 the time that this game was produced in, and the subsequent technology of its time. All and all, 
 buy this game if you can. It's really one I would recommend anyone to have. Especially if you're 
 interested in things pertaining to war, because this game is probably the best middle age war simulator 
 of the 20th century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Fast RTS gameplay with objectives such as kill this guy and destory his camp our build 
 something.. over and over again very repititive
  
  Graphics: Horrible even for a game from 1999 graphics on the N64 are better than this. Models and 
 enviroments are not detailed at all
  
  Sound: Units say the same thing over and over again in the same voice and music is ok but there 
 is only a few songs that play. Battle noises are fun to hear.
  
  Value: The game is out in a sharware version and its also 10 bucks from blizzard
  
  Replayability: 
 None after you beat it the game is over and there is no use playing again
  
  The Good: ok gamelay and sound
  
  The bad: Graphics, Repititivtness.. no replayabilty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  GamePlay: Well I suppost almost every one has played Warcraft 2. But this time Warcraft 2 Battle. net 
 edition has Warcraft 2 with the expantion. So I don't need to review this game because I have allready 
 reviewed both the original and the expantion which you can read if you go to my profile and click 
 on the two games. Well the only thing new is the battle. net. It is pretty much a system that the 
 Blizzard company set up on the internet, where everyone can get on that system and easily find 
 and play against others. Also it keeps record on how many win and loose games. With that said there 
 is nothing really new.
  Anyways like a said before but for thoughs who do now know. I not a big fan and care little about 
 it but it's an game which will keep you occupied for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devin38
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  warcraft two with a new battlenet server no way. Actualy its true. If you are a fan of world of 
 warcraft that doesnt mean you are going to like warcraft 2. But if your a RTS fan than youl love 
 it ohhhh ya. orc and humans are battling it out agian so be praperd for blood shed and war baby 
 .And its not just warcrat 2 it also has the expasion pack for it. Overoll its a pretty cool game 
 no matter how uotdatted. the fact is if you love warcraft or RTS's than your gonna love warcraft 
 2 battle net eddition ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatrynXX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Not entirely sure why Gamespot gave it a worse rating than the original unless they have a preference 
 over running it in Windows 95/98. While the .net version was probably more tuned for online play, 
 the game itself is more reliable than the original release. So if your getting a used copy, get 
 this one instead of the original release.
  
  This was the last great game in the series. I never liked Warcraft III. That one follows a plot 
 and is simply no longer a unique experience. But both Warcraft and Warcraft II had a certain comic 
 flair about them that Warcraft III missed completely. The same thing sorta happened with Doom III. 
 Gosh I hope Quake IV isn't a remake of the first game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Warcraft II was the game that got me hooked on PC games in the first place. It's a outstanding 
 game that is still adicting, even today. The Battle. net edition includes both the original Warcraft 
 II: Tides of Darkness and it's expansion, Beyond the Dark Portal. Both games offered amazing gameplay 
 that kept ou hooked for hours and hours on end. I mean, how fun is it to send your gigantic army 
 of footmen upon a small hord of orcs waiting in the trees, or unleashing an ary of skeletons made 
 of your former foe's corpses against what's left of a human outpost. It' pretty darn fun. Warcraft 
 II added ships and sea battles to the original and made it much more fast paced. It is a game where 
 the graphics didn't matter, because the game was so awesome! If you can find the battle. net edition, 
 try to play it because it's still a fantastic game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grave_rob
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Another one of the rare games than stand the test of time. If you sign onto battlenet & try to 
 get in a game of wc2 now (in 2006) you'll notice there are still a TON of people playing, an impressive 
 feat when you consider how old this game is.
  
  Upon it's release, a friend & I would play this game everyday. Learning the tactics, advantages 
 (& disadvantages) of both races. Even now (every couple of months or so) I'll still blow the dust 
 off my disk & get a few games in.
  
  If you call yourself a gamer & have yet to play this one, drop what you're doing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20916509067928458071193322800176-Darkside_Devote
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  ahhh warcraft a fine specimin to have a look at today. lets see where to start. well first of you 
 choose between two species. Orcs or Humans. and they both have diffrent people buildings and up 
 grades. online multiplayer is fun as well as a catchy storyline. or just do instant action which 
 is fun where you select the level and everything. it is a good game no glitches if you have a decent 
 computer. (i have a 98 and it works brilliantly.) Plus if you enjoy this (its been out for awile 
 so it will be pretty cheap) you can buy warcraft 3 or any of the expansions for this game (lord 
 of caos and the ice throne) . a deffinite must have if you like stratigic war time games. the computers 
 are hard and smart so its not a walk through the park either. the cheats are fun to use in this 
 game as well. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
