-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warcraft3reignofchaos/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.3, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 12,748 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jul 3, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's just an outstanding game, filled with all the charm, all the detail, and all the lasting appeal 
 that characterizes all of the finest games ever made. 

 Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos needs little introduction, and neither does Blizzard, the company that 
 created it. The worldwide July 3 release of Warcraft III, which shipped about 5 million copies 
 in its first run, seems like a suitably momentous occasion, given that the game itself is both 
 so highly anticipated and has been such a long time in the making. Considering that many have long 
 since preordered the game and that the remaining copies are likely to fly off the shelves, giving 
 a critique of Warcraft III almost seems like a moot point. It's like trying to convince someone 
 whether or not to go see a movie like  Star Wars: Episode II . Fortunately for those who intend 
 to play it no matter what anyone says, they'll find their time with Warcraft III to be very well 
 spent. Sure, Warcraft III isn't a revolutionary departure from the conventions of real-time strategy 
 gaming. But it's as good of an offering in the genre as there's ever been, featuring a superb story, 
 carefully refined gameplay, plenty of depth, the best online multiplayer mode in any real-time 
 strategy game to date, and the excellent production values you'd expect from a Blizzard product. 
 So if you're looking for some validation to go with your preorder, there you have it.          
  Warcraft III is an excellent sequel to a real classic.    

 On the other hand, if you're looking to inform yourself about what's great and what's not quite 
 as great about Warcraft III, read on. As the sequel to one of the undisputed classics of PC gaming, 
 Warcraft III has some very big shoes to fill. The previous Warcraft game, together with Westwood 
 Studios' Command &amp; Conquer, popularized the real-time strategy genre and introduced a number 
 of ideas that remain conventional to this day. And Starcraft, the follow-up to Warcraft II, was 
 an even more phenomenal success. Talk about staying power: Though Starcraft was released back in 
 1998, a lot of people still play it. Can Warcraft III truly live up to this heritage? Yes. It has 
 everything that made both Starcraft and Warcraft II before it the blockbuster hits that they quickly 
 became. Warcraft III has lots of great characters, and its fantasy-themed world has tons of personality. 
 It's got fine-tuned, well-balanced gameplay, it's got a quick pace, it's got some new gameplay 
 twists that should surprise even the most hard-core real-time strategy gamers, and it's simply 
 a lot of fun. For good measure, it ships with the powerful Warcraft III world editor utility, allowing 
 devout Warcraft III players to build their own maps and scenarios, thus greatly extending the life 
 of the game for themselves and for others.   

  Make no mistake: Warcraft III is a real-time strategy game. Originally announced back in 1999 as 
 a hybrid strategic role-playing game, over the course of its development, Warcraft III shed many 
 of its role-playing pretensions and became what by all means is a true sequel to its predecessor. 
 The game relies on many of the real-time strategy conventions you're probably familiar with by 
 now. The goal of a typical skirmish is to start gathering resources (gold and wood) , build up a 
 base, build up a force of various units, and use that force to destroy the enemy's base and to 
 repel any attacks against your position. You control the action primarily with a mouse by clicking 
 on individual units and buildings or dragging boxes around groups of them, and you can also use 
 predefined keyboard hotkeys to quickly perform some actions. So Warcraft III doesn't reinvent the 
 wheel.   

  What it does is let you play as four different, uniquely appealing factions. The human alliance, 
 which comprises elves, dwarves, and humans, returns from the previous Warcraft games, as does the 
 orcish horde, consisting of the brutal green-skinned orcs, the trolls (their wicked cousins) , and 
 a minotaurlike breed called the tauren. The entirely new playable factions include the undead scourge, 
 a mix of evil human occultists and their nefarious zombie creations; and the night elf sentinels, 
 a purple-skinned race of warrior druids. The game reduces the scale of the typical real-time strategy 
 battle, putting you in charge of a relatively small number of powerful units rather than countless 
 weaker ones. Warcraft III also lets you recruit hero characters who start out strong and soon grow 
 even mightier as they gain experience from battle. Hero characters aren't just powerful in their 
 own right -- they can often bolster the abilities of nearby units, making them an essential component 
 of any Warcraft III army. Furthermore, Warcraft III's colorful maps tend to be populated by plenty 
 of dangerous denizens, together with your main opponents. These creatures can bar passage to key 
 strategic locations, and defeating them earns your hero character much-needed experience, as well 
 as some valuable artifacts.           Four unique factions are at your command.    

 Warcraft III adds some much-needed variety to the traditionally slow early stages of a real-time 
 strategy battle. Typically, the initial build-up period in such games is merely a race to get to 
 the best units first. That's somewhat true of Warcraft III, but at least you're not just going 
 through the paces while you construct your base. Instead, in a typical match against the computer 
 or other players, you need to quickly assemble a small force for your hero and get out there and 
 start exploring and fighting, because experienced heroes are far more powerful than inexperienced 
 ones. Exploring the territory and battling miscellaneous monsters makes the early game plenty interesting 
 in Warcraft III, especially since you need to keep checking on your base. Even choosing your starting 
 hero makes for a significant early decision, as each faction has three available -- typically some 
 sort of pure fighter (like the samurai-like orc blademaster) , a support fighter (like the human 
 paladin) , and a caster (like the undead lich) . Later, you can have all three of your faction's 
 heroes out in the field simultaneously -- however, only your first one is free. All heroes gain up 
 to four unique special abilities as they gain experience levels, which can turn the tide of a battle 
 when used correctly. Every hero type is different, viable, and deadly, so even learning which ones 
 your opponents have selected is important, giving you yet another reason to quickly try to scout 
 out enemy encampments.    

 Blizzard's real-time strategy games have been criticized in the past for strictly limiting the number 
 of units that a player could select at any given time. In Starcraft, players would often form half 
 a dozen or more full groups of units and send them off all at once to obliterate the enemy. Not 
 being able to select scores of units simultaneously was a mere inconvenience. But in the context 
 of Warcraft III's concentrated battles, your ability to command only a limited number of units 
 makes more sense. You're limited to selecting no more than 12 units at a time, and the maximum 
 number of units you can have on the field is quite low. You can build a sizable attack force and 
 leave a minimal garrison back at base, and that's about it. So you can't usually win by sheer numbers. 
 Additionally, Blizzard has introduced the concept of upkeep to the formula, which causes your gold 
 miners to generate less income the more units you have. These artificial constraints may initially 
 be frustrating to those accustomed to other real-time strategy games, including Blizzard's own 
 Starcraft, and they do diminish the sense that you're commanding vast armies, because you're not. 
           Many of the night elves' "buildings" can pick up and move... and fight.    

 But in time, most anyone should appreciate the balance that these rules create. Essentially, the 
 low unit count and upkeep system encourage you to stick with a relatively small number of units 
 and to spend your resources on upgrading them wisely. Defensive behavior won't win the day in Warcraft 
 III. You have to get out there and fight and gain experience, and if your units die, you need to 
 make more. You'll either be spending gold on more units or losing it to high upkeep costs in the 
 long run, after all. Even if your hero character is killed in combat, he or she may be revived 
 (for a fee) back at your base.   

  And lest you think Warcraft III is all about rushing your opponent as quickly as possible, rest 
 assured each of the four factions has its own unique defenses. Human peasants can take up arms 
 and become militia, defending their base from any aggressors. Orc peons can dive into their burrows, 
 from which they can toss spears to deadly effect against their foes. The undead have early access 
 to ghouls, misshapen foot soldiers who also double as lumberjacks. And most of the night elves' 
 "buildings" are actually sentient tree creatures that can uproot themselves and literally fight 
 back against any threats. So in practice, the four factions of Warcraft III are nearly as different 
 as they look. They are uniformly similar only to the extent that it makes sense for gameplay purposes -- in 
 that they share roughly analogous buildings and technology trees and have a few similar types of 
 units. So you'll be able to get a basic grasp of any of the races quickly and be able to switch 
 from one to the next easily. But you'll still notice and appreciate the many differences between 
 the four sides, like how the orcs are the flat-out strongest race, while the undead can best rely 
 on overwhelming numbers and subversive tactics. Meanwhile, the humans are the most technically 
 advanced, while the night elves have many ranged units and some devious special abilities. Overall, 
 Warcraft III's four factions are unusual, fun to play, and almost as different as the three factions 
 from Starcraft.   

  Regardless of the faction you prefer, you'll find that Warcraft III's interface truly shines. It's 
 not overly complex, and in some ways, it's even a bit limiting -- for example, it doesn't let you 
 remap the keyboard hotkeys. But in practice, Warcraft III's interface really gets the job done. 
 Or rather, it lets  you  get the job done. Grouped units automatically assemble and move in formation, 
 with the tougher ones tending to get in front. You can easily set waypoints and issue attack-move 
 orders, making your units spread out and engage any enemies on the way to their destination. Units 
 won't automatically get out of the way for each other, which can occasionally cause some problems 
 with unit pathfinding, but this is of marginal concern. You can hit the space bar to quickly jump 
 to any event that's happening on the battlefield, your minimap clearly displays your surroundings, 
 and an icon pops up whenever one of your worker units is standing idle. For that matter, detailed 
 help windows pop up when you float your cursor over just about anything. That's all good, though 
 it's all been done. Warcraft III also introduces the concept of subgroups, allowing you to hit 
 the Tab key to cycle between all units of a single type within a group. Thus, you can easily cast 
 spells and use your units' special abilities, even when you have mixed groups selected. It's a 
 great feature.           Maps are filled with creatures, shops, and other points of interest.  
    

 More importantly, the way the action plays out in a typical match is really outstanding, which is 
 something that's as rare in real-time strategy games as it is difficult to describe. Everything 
 just feels right. You see the hit point meters of enemy units deplete precisely at the moment they're 
 struck by your forces. Hero units, and most units for that matter, can take a beating before they 
 die, which sometimes affords you with enough time to pull them out of a battle and heal them up 
 so that they might live to fight another day. Buildings can withstand a lot of damage from most 
 types of units even for lengthy periods of time, though specialized siege weapons can quickly destroy 
 them. Day turns to night (and back again) over the course of a match, a nice aesthetic touch that 
 also realistically reduces most units' line of sight, while affording you with some subtle strategic 
 opportunities. Your starting base probably won't be enough to sustain the forces you'll need to 
 win, since gold is limited, so seeking out expansion areas and building new bases there is all 
 part of the midgame challenge. And the endgame turns into full-on tactical combat, where the player 
 who best anticipates his opponent and brings the biggest variety of forces to bear will probably 
 win.   

  Warcraft III truly requires you to use mixed forces to succeed. Ground forces, ranged units, flying 
 support troops, and spellcasters, along with your heroes, are all needed for victory. That sounds 
 like a lot, and it is, yet the smaller scale of the battles, the perfect pacing, and the ability 
 to set certain special abilities to trigger automatically all make Warcraft III as manageable to 
 play as it is fun. The best Warcraft III players will have the uncanny ability to micromanage everything 
 at once. But most Warcraft III players will still have a great time using their heads, as well 
 as their reflexes, while not getting bewildered.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (307 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: terminatorwotm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  It's hard to put into words what the Warcraft phenomenon really is. Back in the Orcs & Humans and 
 Tides of Darkness's days, we would never say it would become what it is today. Some praise it for 
 its enormous lore, others for its easy and fun gameplay, others for its myriad of memorable characters...
 
  
  Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos begins telling us the story of the paladin Arthas Menethil, member 
 of the Knights of the Silver Hand, which is commanded by Uther the Lightbringer. Arthas is eager 
 to prove Uther his usefulness and courage by defending the village of Strahnbrad from Orc invaders. 
 Meanwhile, the orcish far seer Thrall has a vision in which the Prophet Medivh eagers him to move 
 to the forgotten lands of Kalimdor in order to avoid the incoming horror of the Burning Legion, 
 a vast army of undead. As Medivh warns other races of Azeroth, the world in which the game's races 
 live, about the Burning Legion, they are skeptical at first, but as soon as a strange plague begins 
 spreading throughout the lands of Lordaeron, they know something big is going on.
  
  The presentation of the game is fantastic already. After the initial cutscene you're eager to get 
 going with playing and know what the jibbalazza's going to happen in Azeroth. Everything works 
 fine in Blizzard's masterpiece: from unique artwork to pinpoint excellent orchestrations. Gameplay-wise, 
 there's no need to go in many words: Piece. Of. Cake. With only your mouse, you can do everything 
 inside the game, but it's always good to get familiarised with hotkeys, since they really speed 
 up your game.
  
  Multiplayer in Reign of Chaos is as rewarding as the single-player campaign. Plus, you've got the 
 free Battle. net service, in which you can join endless battles involving Azeroth's four main races: 
 the Human Alliance, the ancient Night Elves, the Orcish Horde and the Undead Scourge.
  
  As soon as you get finished with Reign of Chaos, rush immediately to the nearest store and get 
 its expansion pack, The Frozen Throne. Even better, order it along with RoC. It will be one of 
 the most gleeful experiences you'll ever have in your life. If even after The Frozen Throne you're 
 looking after the story, its time to pack up and get World of Warcraft, Blizzard's enormously successful 
 MMORPG, which is in its third expansion so far, Wrath of the Lich King.
  
  Warcraft left its footprint on the road of gaming history. And you'll definitely want to follow 
 its way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogue_Kain
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:58 am PT
Review:  When i first played War3 i wasn't much of a gamer, buy i remember i sucked hard at it; i liked 
 it so much i didn't give up and after finishing the game a few times i wanted more. I still play 
 the campaigns from beginning to end. It has one of the most attractive multiplayer modes out there 
 and with all the bonus maps and fan-made maps you will never get bored. 
  The game-play is rather simple and i for one loved the fact that you can only build units to a 
 limit of 100 food units, that's around 10-20 (add or take) troops depending on their level. It's 
 a game about skills, it's not about how many units you have, it's about how you control them.
 
  For me, WoW came about 1 year after i played War 3 and i have to say that this way (War3 first 
 than WoW) is much better than the other way around. It's better to see the "limited view" of an 
 area and know its history first and explore it in detail and have a lot of fun running around it 
 (like in WoW) later. 
  Each of the 4 races available in War 3 ( Human, Orc, Night elf and Undead) has its own unique charm, 
 its own story and representative characters and units. I for one can't decide which i like better 
 (I'll have to go with undead for the moment) and i always change my favorite race in a month or 
 so; it's more fun that way.
  The last thing i will discuss here is the alternation between the races as you follow the campaigns. 
 This is a characteristic to blizzard games, which is to play every race at a time, often having 
 to beat those you've enjoyed hours before.
  All these said, War 3 is a great experience and a "must have" for RTS fans everywhere as well as 
 for RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wreckem406
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Take one of the most innovative RTS games to hit the market in a few years, and add a new graphics 
 engine, a hero system, and some of the best single and multiplayer around, and your sure to get 
 a big hit. This is exactly what Blizzard did with Warcraft III.
  
  You, as has become traditional in Blizzard's games play a single set of missions in the campaign 
 as each of the game's playable races. However more like Starcraft than Warcraft II these campaigns 
 actually line up to create a single story, and it's actually quite a good story in and of itself. 
 Take the classic Orcs vs. Humans approach, but now toss in an ancient war; the demons who invaded 
 Azeroth long ago then yet again later on in history, the second time by creating the orc bloodlust 
 causing the invasion, vs. the Noble night elves who were there to defend the world in its oldest 
 catastrophe, even if they were the ones who brought it about, and have waited eternally ever since.
 
  
  Warcraft III is a classic RTS game, and will at points test your ability. From missions ranging 
 from, the classic build a base and take over your enemies, to taking a small group to an objective, 
 to the nigh impossible defend this point against invasion for thirty minutes, the game changes 
 it up enough to keep the gameplay more than interesting.
  
  And even when the gameplay itself may not be enough, the lively, colorful, yet surprisingly realistic 
 graphics should be enough to keep even the most unknowledgeable gamer astounded by the amount of 
 work that must have gone into the game to get it to look exactly how Blizzard deemed it should. 
 Each campaign generally involves at least one if not more cinematic scenes, rendered outside of 
 the games engine, and each one of these provides some truly jaw dropping moments.
  
  As far as the single player goes, you can control one of four races, the scourge, undead creatures 
 that range from zombies to abominations sewn together from the discarded body parts of your enemies, 
 the night elves, who focus more on speed and mobility rather than straight power, and the classic 
 orcs and humans, the former focusing on raw power, and the latter being a somewhat middle ground. 
 While at times all four races begin to feel relatively close, it is understandable that more differences 
 than they put in would have been impossible to balance.
  
  The biggest feature in Warcraft III is the hero system, each race has its own set of heros, and 
 in a skirmish you pick which one or few you would like to take into battle, not only are these 
 soldiers stronger but they have the ability to carry six special items which give the bonus to 
 their stats which increase their power and they gain experience as they kill leveling up and gaining 
 points to be used to learn new skills or make old skills more powerful. This is a new aspect and 
 a dangerous one to have added to RTS games but in the end, it makes Warcraft III what it is. You 
 take the same few heroes through each race's campaign and you attach to them making the story that 
 much more meaningful.
  
  The other big department where Warcraft III had high expectations was the Online Multiplayer, and 
 Blizzard came through yet again. Like Starcraft, this game uses the Battle. net system to find matches 
 between players wishing to play a regular game, and even features a ranking system and tournaments 
 to help players to separate themselves from the pack.
  
  People have also developed great skill with the included map editor, which lets the consumer go 
 into the game and using a huge set of tools create a map and game within the game itself. These 
 are some of the most popular games on Battle. net, from the ever popular tower defenses, to Defense 
 of the Ancients which has developed into a lifestyle, and professional game for some.
  
  All in all, blizzard produced results yet again, proving that even after a decade they still have 
 that special way of looking at something to make something that was old new and exciting, and I 
 for one will always be looking forward to what they're going to release next.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcdrummer
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:38 am PT
Review:  I like to keep games that are noteworthy around. Sometimes because I rushed through too quickly 
 the first time and I want to try it on a harder mode and sometimes because it's just really good 
 and I know I will play it later. Warcraft III was one of those I played when it came out, had some 
 serious likes and some serious dislikes and thought I would try it again later. Well, I have, and 
 here are a few thoughts. I think it's worth posting a review since the Battlechest still sells 
 well and people that play WOW often go back to dig deeper into the Warcraft lore by playing Warcraft 
 III.
  
  General Thoughts and Story:
  
  I'm playing through on hard mode so some of my comments will be tilted towards that mode. My first 
 feeling was that of fun, that was contained throughout the first 3 missions. The charm that blizzard 
 puts into it's games and the character truly is palpable even as you first begin. The graphics 
 even today look great and the polish is still obvious. It's also really great to see the story 
 unfold and remember some of the places that WOW takes you to. You can see WOW unfolding before 
 you in an isometric view and revisit characters and remember places you have traveled. Through 
 the first 3 or 4 missions the hard mode ranges from not challenging at all to ridiculous. Pretty 
 poor implementation of the different levels of play.
  
  After the first 3 or 4 missions I started getting that old feeling of "oh ya, this is what really 
 caused me to disengage from this game". Silly as it may sound, when you have to follow Arthas poor 
 decisions and help him do things you don't agree with, there really comes a point when I was just 
 trying to get through the missions as I no longer cared if he won or not. You begin to see the 
 story unfold and you feel like you are just being used to push the story to the next chapter/mission 
 so you can see more stupid decisions made by Arthas. I really began to check out here and had no 
 feeling of commitment to the story or the world here. 
  
  This to me was a poor decision in the design of Warcraft III and really cut off what the movie 
 world would call suspension of disbelief. 
  
  
  Gameplay and Mechanics:
  
  When Warcraft III came out there were many other RTS doing so much more with the genre. Warcraft 
 III in this respect was a setback as it was a dumbed down RTS for the masses. I had played Warcraft, 
 yes on a modem spending time getting modem initialization strings correct, Warcraft II and of course 
 many other RTS during this time. I was excited to see the expansions of thought as there had been 
 so many great ideas implemented in games like Total Annihilation, Age of Empires and others. Sadly, 
 War 3 was dumbed down for the masses as Blizzard went for a more broad approach. Business wise 
 this made sense. For many fans of the series it was a bit of a letdown as you found even some options 
 that were available in Warcraft II missing. 
  
  When Blizzard could have introduced something that was truly great like Ensemble studios did that 
 pushed the genre forward with Age of Mythology they went for something different. Ensemble later 
 unfortunately followed the same design scheme of dumbing down their franchise with Age of Empires 
 III and targeted console play didn't have as much luck as Blizzard and eventually disbanded but 
 that's for a different review.
  
  There were some good things introduced like the RPG elements that your heroes had however other 
 games had pulled this off as well and it really wasn't anything new. It did add an additional element 
 to the game though that helped with strategy and depth of play when other parts of the game were 
 seriously dumbed down. 
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  So the game has charm, whit, it's beautiful to look at still after 7 years and it has a story that's 
 mildly interesting. It also is a great game for someone new to real time strategy or anyone looking 
 for some casual fun. The downsides are forcing you to follow a story path that you don't agree 
 with causing you to disengage from the game, missions that are way too easy or way too hard in 
 hard mode and overall lack of game mechanics for an RTS compared to what was available at the time. 
 In a way the whole thing felt like a product placement for the forthcoming WOW. As much as I like 
 Blizzards philosophy and most of their games this one overall was a miss for me. Keep in mind my 
 tilt as I have played many great RTS games and my tilt on the story. If you liked following the 
 corrupt path of Arthas you likely wouldn't be pulled away from it like I was and you most likely 
 should play the Horde if your a WOW player. : )
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darKnight92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  alright so it's 2009 and we've all probably at least heard about this, it took me this long to 
 review the game which i bought in 2003, or at least some time very long ago, cause i was so busy 
 playing it.
  
  the storyline of the four races, orcs, humans, undead, night elves, in accordance to their appearance 
 in the game, is very compelling and the subtle differences of each race makes for an extremely 
 different way of playing, if you wish to win that is
  
  however, each of the race are basically the same so you wouldn't have to be at a complete loss 
 when changing races through the game.
  
  the cinematics that are presented by the end playing through each race is stunning, for then, and 
 perhaps still is, and very detailed so that it makes you feel that playing through was well worth 
 the trouble.
  
  each campaign is long enough and very well made, the difficulty is just right if you play your 
 cards right and by the end of the day, specializing in one particular race is possible with the 
 custom maps that can be played.
  
  now for battle. net, by this time, there would already have been an infinite number of extremely 
 engaging games created by players such as tower defence, vamprisim, hero wars, hero line wars, 
 etc - all of which are free to play and give a different experience that strays away from the real-time 
 strategy game.
  
  all in all, warcraft III can be considered one of the best games there'll ever be for the decade 
 to come which makes it well worth the money for another couple of years, during which you will, 
 WILL, definitely come to love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belwar555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - You get to play as one of the four incredibly unique races, each one supplied with a 
 campaign which never ceases to amaze - one of the most imaginative worlds ever made in a video 
 game. The normal difficulty mode is OK, but if you know what you're doing, you are fine. The hard 
 mode is, well, hard. Each mission playthrough will be different, so dont expect to use the same 
 tactic twice. The fact that the cutscenes between missions (but not the campaigns) are all in the 
 same engine, you are always in the centre of the action, so the sense that the AI is sometimes 
 doing things for you is non-existant. Multiplayer is a blast, again thanks to the greatly unique 
 (and balanced) races. Just like the campaign, you will be playing a different way each time, since 
 it is all focused on single units. In the most tense of matches, even a simple grunt may cost you 
 the game. The only bad point I can make is the lack of a difficulty level in between Normal and 
 Hard - all the normal missions are too easy for me, but they instantly become next-to-impossible 
 one the setting is raised. 9.5/10
  
  Graphics - The game is old, granted, but that doesnt steal the 'wow' factor of all the unique locations 
 you will settle (and destroy) . Cut-down trees will leave behind a stump, the battlefield will be 
 littred with corpses. Each race also looks unique, and each units facecard is done with all the 
 spirit of that character. The fact that you cannot looks across the horizon means you will not 
 see long streches of land in front of your marching army, which can be anti-climatic at times, 
 and there could have been some lip-sync as well as a couple of other shortcommings. All-in all, 
 this isnt a masterpeice, but it more than makes up for that with all the little detail. 9/10
  
  Sound - One word can describe this - epic. From the incredibly detailed (and at times funny) 
 voice actting of the units, masterfull scripts in the cutscenes, and hands-down the most fitting 
 soundtrack ever in an RTS help bring this war-raveged world the spirit is fully deserves. There 
 is not even the slightest thing I can say about it. There is sound everywhere, but it is so delicatly 
 placed that it never seems delibarate, but only natural. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax-QC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  In all the RTS part of the Warcraft series, this game might just be the best. Why, simply because 
 you get to play with 2 new races (finally) and a lot of new units, and because you can create and 
 control heroes, a new concept in the game. Also, you can play in a new 3D environment which wasn't 
 present in the first two WC games.
  
  As I said, the Undead and the Night Elf are the 2 races that are added in WC3. Focusing on ranged 
 and necromantic spells, the Scourge Army can be a really great tool to easily win a game, either 
 by sending an army of Crypt Lords to put on the ground the flying enemies or by annihilating enemies 
 with a whole lot of necromancers and then turning them as your own allies. What's even cooler is 
 that by building food towers (don't remember the name) which provides resources needed to create 
 a character, you can upgrade into defense towers! Two functions in one. On the other side, Night 
 Elves use ranged attack power as their primary asset, with Archers as their primary units. Also, 
 you can move your buildings (only those who are trees... yes... living trees o. O) as you could also 
 do in Starcraft with the Terran Dominion. The living NE units also have the ability of hiding in 
 the dark, making them invisible at nighttime, which represents half of the gameplay time.
  
  Heroes are one of the new adds in the Warcraft gameplay. They are stronger in overall than 
 any other unit, depending on which hero it is, his/her items equipped in his/her inventory (also 
 a new add (to a maximum of 6) ) and its level, ranging from 1 to 10.
  
  These are the following heroes. There are 4 for each race:
  Human Alliance
  - Human Male Paladin
 
  - Human Male Archmage
  - Dwarven Male Mountain King
  - Blood Elf Male Blood Mage
  Orcish Horde
  - Orc Male Blademaster
  - Orc Male Far Seer
  - Tauren Male Chieftain
  - Troll 
 Male Shadow Hunter
  Undead Scourge
  - Death Knight
  - Dread Lord
  - Lich
  - Crypt Lord
  Night Elf Sentinels
  - Male Demon Hunter
  - Male Keeper of the Grove
  - Female 
 Priestess of the Moon
  - Female Warden
  
  Finally, the online gaming is extraordinary, but hard. It is based on fast-paced strategy building, 
 intelligent defenses and quick and strong attacks. You can't just start playing and hope you'll 
 win easily, because most of the people playing are experienced players who know how to beat you 
 hard. There is no training for the online mode, but if you're smart, fast and naturally good at 
 that kind of game, you'll end up knowing tricks of how winning a match in no time. There is also 
 daily WC3 tournaments made by Blizzard Entertainment, even if they're mainly focusing on WoW for 
 the moment.
  
  So, I'd say that for an relatively old game, this one still rocks on and is still worth playing. 
 Good luck and have fun on this really great game: you won't regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: war_cheif
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  warcraft 3 reign of chaos, the next part of the great series of warcraft.
  the game begins like ten years after the last game. the great war between the horde (orcs and trolls) 
 and the  just stopped.
  but a new enemy has arrived...
  the burning ligion!.
  
  Thrall, the warchief of the horde, see a vision of medivh, that tells 
 him to cross the sea to the ancient continent of kalimdor.
  
  Arthas and the humans, discover about the demon invation of the burning ligion. lots of the humans 
 become undead, and arthas decided to kill every man who had poisend and will become an undead, before 
 the they wuold kill other people.
  at the end, arthas decided to go to northrend, and find malganis, the dread lord thet turned his people 
 to the undead. but then, arthas discover frostmorne, the great sword, and become a death knight, the 
 lich kings champion.
  arthas returns to his lands, and kill his father.
  now, arthas will try to summon the burning ligion leader, and start the invasion. will he succeed?
 
  
  at the same time, Thrall land with the horde in kalimdor, meet the bloodhoof turen, and discover about 
 the invasion too.
  
  the human mage, jaina proudmore, see the same vision like Trhall and leads the servivers of lordaeron 
 to kalimdor.
  there, the horde, the servivers of lordaeron and the night elves, join forces against the burning 
 ligion.
  
  join the great war in warcraft 3 reign of chaos!.
  
  the good:
  -good graphics
  -good storyline
  -good multyplayer system
  -good sound
  -good gameplay
 
  
  tha bad:
  -some little problems with the graphics
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElCatto
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3, a game made by Blizzard Entertainment. RTS game, you should definitely buy it. Well 
 I think most of you played it, so who hasn't done that should definitely do it. On with the review.
 
  
  *Story 8/10*
  
  The story is great. It features the Orcs and Humans traveling to Kalimdor, the fall of the Human 
 Alliance and the rise of the Undead, invasion of the world by Archimond and his Burning Legion. 
 The campaign features different parts with different races that you can play with. First there's 
 the prologue that you don't have to play but I recommend you play it. There you play with the orcs 
 two or three missions I think and track the beginning of their voyage to Kalimdor as foreseen by 
 the prophet, than after that the human campaign where you follow Prince Arthas to battle the Undead 
 and save Azeroth (but that doesn't go according to plans) , than you have the Undead campaign following 
 the fallen Prince Arthas and The Kel'Tuzad conquering Quel'Thalas the lands of the High Elves, 
 and the Orcs on their way to save Kalimdor with the Human Survivors and the Night elves to save 
 the world from the Demons corruption.
  
  *Gameplay 8/10*
  
  Gameplay The controls and the interface are good. Like in an RTS games you click things . 
 Things I like about the controls are that they are very easy to manage ( just click ) but some 
 things I don't like about the AI is that when an enemy is near your units just attack them, sure 
 you can press the Hold You Ground button but then they will not attack nobody. Interfaces got ,minimap 
 and other stuff.
  
  *Graphics 7/10*
  
  Graphics are good by 2003 standard which are a little old but they are good. Units and buildings 
 are well textured I just don't like the terrain textures that could have been done better. If you 
 don't like old graphics just new next-gen ones then you shouldn't buy the game. But no matter about 
 the graphics the game is still good and multiplayer is enjoyable and addicting for those who can't 
 for some reason buy World of Warcraft.
  
  *Sound 8/10*
  
  The composed sound is good I think there is one for each race. I like mostly the orc sound. The 
 developers did a good job on the sound so nothing wrong with it. Sound makes a game with a lousy 
 sound the game wouldn't be good. Warcraft 3 has a very immersive sound and nothing is wrong with 
 it.
  
  *Overall 8/10*
  
  Besides the bad stuff which the game has a little you should buy it. And play it online for much 
 fun, and when you get the resources for WoW buy it if you liked the warcraft world a lot and don't 
 want to part with it. But that is your decision. And one more thing We Want Warcraft 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shecra_Namenca
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  I got this game purely because of the box art. I had no idea what to expect. I guess I just had 
 money to burn and an itch for a new game. I found this game really addictive. It's awesome for 
 people who, like me, are into mythical beings and battles you customise yourself.
  
  The controls were easy to figure out, and the actual graphics and effects are pretty good too. 
 To be honest, this is a great game to play at the weekend when you just have nothing else to do. 
 I preferred the online battles and custom games to the actual levels because they give you more 
 freedom to explore and create the game the way you want it, and ROC offers 4 different races: night 
 elves, orcs, humans and the undead, so everyone can find a playing strategy to suit them.
  finally, games that don't involve paying subbie fees! 
  
  But seriously though, this is definitley 
 worth checking out if you've run out of stuff to play. sure, it came out a while ago, but the latest 
 releases are not always the best =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endofzeworld
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'm not criticizing Warcraft III for being a bad game, per se. It's actually an excellent 
 game, but the rating I gave it is a criticism of it being classified as a "strategy" game.
  
  While it looks like a very traditional strategy game as far as the camera position and the 
 interface are concerned, the victor of a game is not the player who can think most strategically. 
 The main feature of the game that detracts from the strategy is the inclusion of "heroes." This 
 RPG aspect is both innovative and original, but eventually heroes can become excessively overpowered, 
 and the winner is the player who has the most powerful hero with the most experience.
  
  Essentially the only strategy a player needs to use is this: spend the game gathering resources 
 and building up the largest, most balanced attack force you can within the unit cap (while leveling 
 up your hero as much as possible) , and then march it straight into the front of the enemy's base. 
 From there, the game is governed from a strictly tactical viewpoint; the players simply have to 
 micromanage their units to use all of their abilities most effectively, and whichever player does 
 this the best will most likely tip the scales of the battle in their favor. While many players 
 may argue that certain more sophisticated strategies could be used, such as attacking the front 
 of an enemy's base with a small strike force in order to draw out their units so that you can sneak 
 some catapults into the back of the base to blow up the buildings, in the end it would have the 
 same result as having the catapults attack the front of the base with the rest of the units.
  
  So if you're the kind of player who enjoys micromanaging units and cool-looking hero abilities, 
 this is the game for you. But if you're a player who wants a game that will challenge you to think 
 differently each time you play, to analyze your opponent's strategy in order to determine the best 
 way to defeat them, and to adapt quickly with different strategies as the tide of battle shifts, 
 you'd be better off leaving this game alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeMaster75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 5/5
  WarCraft III adds two new playable races to the familiar Orcs and Humans we saw in the first 2 
 games: the mysterious Night Elves and the horrific Undead. All four races have enormous flexibility 
 in their gameplay styles, and once again display the "balanced-but-unique" approach we saw in StarCraft.
 
  
  Story - 4/5
  With the storyline for the entire franchise fleshed out , expanded, and tied together powerfully, 
 WarCraft III's got some serious depth to its world. The single-player campaign is intriguing and 
 epic, but few exceptions the characters are shallow and predictable.
  
  Graphics - 5/5
  Six years later, I can safely say that the graphics of this game have aged incredibly well. The 
 character models are detailed, the environments are lush, and the spell effects set the standards 
 for all fantasy-themed games to follow. At the same time, none of the effects obscure the action; 
 you can always tell which way the battle is going at a glance and make tactical decisions accordingly. 
 As another plus, the game is surprisingly well-optimized, meaning that anyone with a reasonably 
 new computer (less than 5 years old) will be able to run the game at highest settings with little 
 to no lag (that includes any computer, not just gaming rigs) .
  
  Sound - 4/5
  The soundtrack for the game is just about perfect: it's memorable, yet it doesn't take your attention 
 away from the actual game. Sound effects are all excellent, and increase your feeling of immersion 
 in the game world. My only gripe here is the voice acting; while it is decent, there's no question 
 it's a notch under what we saw in StarCraft.
  
  Lasting Appeal - 3/5
  As a Blizzard game, WarCraft III is more or less guaranteed to have tens of thousands of players 
 online at any given time. Featuring the most intuitive version of Battle. net to date, which includes 
 a handy quick search button, this is one game you won't be able to put down any time soon. The 
 quick search does not provide balanced matchmaking, however, which creates instant-leavers and 
 makes for some pretty frustrating Battle. net sessions.
  
  Overall - 4/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killingspree303
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos is a must-have for any RTS lovers. The game has got a great story, good 
 gameplay and superb multiplayer over Battle. net. It is also a great sequel to the previous Warcraft 
 game.
  
  First of all, the graphic is pretty good. If you say it looks bad, you should mind that this is 
 an old game. The graphic was a high-quality standard at that time. 
  Second is the gameplay. In the game you can control four races. Humans, Orcs, Undead and Night 
 elf. All of the units are well balanced, and it is just pure fun to play. Even though single-player 
 is quite fun, playing multiplayer matches over Battle. net is even more fun. There you can play 
 both normal and player-made custom maps.
  
  The bad in the game is, well, nothing. I can't seem to find anything bad in this game. Overall, 
 the game is just pure fun to play. But if you don't have the possibility to play multiplayer over 
 Battle. net, you're missing a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 1 was not such a big deal. Warcraft 2 improves Warcraft 1 into a better game. Warcraft 
 2 had two factions; Humans and Orcs. Their structures and units ability were the same. With the 
 similar principles Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos (W3RC) came. Unlike Warcraft 2, W3RC includes four 
 different factions; Humans, Orcs, Undeads, and Night Elves. 
  
  The basics of the game remained the same from its predecessor. Each faction should gather gold 
 and lumber to recruit units or build structures. Each faction do this in its own manner. For example 
 Undeads should build a special structure on the gold mine to harvest golds but Humans or Orcs can 
 go directly into mine and get the golds. The game is based on spending these resources and advance 
 your army to beat your opponents. 
  
  The methodology is the same as all of the RTS, it's rock-paper-scissor. you have long ranged attacking 
 machines, flying birds, melee and ranged warriors. Each faction is master in one of the abilities. 
 For example Night Elves have the best ranged warriors. Some of the units have special abilities 
 which you can use them through out the game to aid your units win the game. For example the Humans 
 Priest can heal other units in the battlefield, helping them to live longer. Each faction also 
 has a hero which is the most powerful unit in that faction. The hero can gain experience in the 
 battles and can spend its experiences to unlock features. These features are very strong in effect 
 while be used in the battle. The experiencing gaining prevents the defensive structure. The hero 
 should move to the battlefield and gain experience to become more powerful. 
  
  The resources are also limited. With more units you have you get less resources. So you need to 
 maximize the utilization of the available resources. Building a large army and keeping them in 
 the base will cause a loss in resources gathering rate. The combination of heroes, various units, 
 various factions and also a resource management strategy make you feel the best in playing W3RC 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SollidSnake_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3.. one of my favorite games? no.. My favorite game! Yes.. I play it since the day it 
 was launched.. after going through the campaign just get online and enjoy one of the best online 
 gaming you will EVER put your eyes on.. Truly a masterpiece.. Environment.. The races.. The story.. 
 The ambient.. The creatures.. The GAMEPLAY.. The graphics.. Everything is amazing. After a delightful 
 campaign just connect on battle. net and enjoy its MASSIVE variety.. Millions of different maps, 
 genres.. ideas.. you can enjoy.. =) . Besides all the game actual advantages.. The universe of warcraft 
 is one of the most (if not the most) spectacular.. I can't really explain how great this game is 
 by words, but i assure you that if you try (AND YOU MUST) you'll understand what I am saying.. 
 Every word of it.. Blizzard still did not have enough spotlight with Starcraft, Diablo and the 
 previous Warcrafts.. Had to launch this Monster.. Oh well.. One of the best games ever.. Conquered 
 my heart x) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  This game is addicting right from the start, the story paces itself perfectly and ends up becoming 
 much more deep and complex than you originally thought, and the 4 sides are so unique you will enjoy 
 playing through their campaigns.
  
  The story is about the humans who have previously fought a war against the Orcs, have noticed a 
 new evil force is threatening humanitys existance known as the ''Undead''. And prince Arthus and 
 his army of knights are out to stop them.
  
  The Undead are an army of creatures who are either dead people resurrected as horrible savage creatures, or 
 creatures that are spawned using an evil form of sorcery. What makes the Undead such a huge threat 
 is they can keep resurrecting dead bodies an unlimited amount of times which gives them a limitless 
 supply of Undead servents and because they are contiously resurrecting dead people and summoning 
 new creatures their army grows greater in size all the time to an overwhelming extent.
  
  The Orcs have previously fought the humans for control of the world and were defeated but they 
 have not forgotten about this. Many of the orcs still hold a grudge against the humans but realize 
 if they want to stop the undead they will have to work with the humans.
  
  The Night Elves are the typical mysterious race who like to keep to themselves and you don't know 
 very much about them. They are very intelligent, and have some of the strongest and most advanced 
 units in the game. They can even make trees and their buildings awaken and use them as giant melee 
 fighters that do massive damage by clawing enemies. The Night Elves can remain invisible at night 
 for a limited amount of time (which gives them their name)
  
  The Night Elves are they key to defeating the undead, but will need the help of the humans and orcs 
 and the humans and orcs aren't exactly liked by the Night Elves that much for cutting down the 
 forest. (The Night Elves live in harmony with nature and that's how they got their amazing abilities)
 
  
  As for gameplay, the missions come in variety from the typical gather resources, build a big army 
 and wipe out your enemys base type thing. Other missions involve holding off a huge swarm of attacks 
 for a time period. Some missions you need to gather a certain amount of resources to win or assassinate 
 a target who is heavily protected.
  
  So there is a lot of variety and different types of strategy will be used.
  
  The 4 races are 
 fairly balanced
  
  The humans are in the middle range with solid offense, defense and building speed.
  
  The undead 
 build very quickly and require less resources to build their units but they have the weakest units. But 
 the Undead can swarm you with bigger numbers earlier on in a mission. The undead can resurrect every 
 dead unit on the screen and use it against their enemy (whether it was friend or foe) and it can 
 turn the tide in battle when you think you have them beaten then they resurrect all the dead units 
 and use them against you and you find yourself heavily outnumbered!
  
  The Orcs have extremely strong warrior type infantry but take longer to build and use more resources. The 
 Orcs have infantry units called Raiders that have giant sword blades specially designed for destroying 
 buildings very easily and ride wolves for extra speed when they want to rush a target. The Orcs 
 have fairly weak defensive structures though.
  
  The Night Elves have the most advanced units but take the longest to build and use the most amount 
 of resources. They have useful and powerful flying creatures such as griffins and chimaera and unless 
 you have good anti-air defense they will wreck a lot of havoc. Their weakest combat unit which are 
 huntresses (which are female elves who ride panthers and fire sharp projectiles) are still more powerful 
 than a lot of the human or undead combat units. They also can build powerful creatures called druids 
 which are equivelent to a level 3 hero. And like I mentioned before they can turn trees and buildings 
 into powerful melee fighters they will destroy enemies easily.
  
  Using the Night Elves in skirmish or multi player sees you at risk from being overrun early, but 
 if you do manage to gain access of their strongest units your enemy won't stand a chance.
  
  The undead and the Night Elves can extract gold from a mine instantly without having to return 
 it to the base, while humans and orcs must walk with the gold they collect and return it to the 
 base and walk back to the gold mine again.
  
  This also helps makes things a little bit more fair and the races different.
  
  I just love 
 the little details in the game, such as how the Night Elves don't damage the forest, when they extract 
 wood they extract it without damaging the tree, while the other races have to cut the tree down 
 and return the lumber to the designated building.
  
  The undead look so evil and use units such as gargoyles, and ghouls (which are fast moving, savage 
 versions of zombies) with giant claws and look like they can tear you apart. The undead even have 
 huge behemoths made out of body parts and will thump smaller weaker units with their giant arms 
 and fists.
  
  I love how the Night Elves leader the Priestess of the Moon rides her white tiger and when she 
 fires her bow the arrows move so swiftly. And it suits the beauty and elegance of the Night Elves.
 
  
  There is other great units like big red dragons that breathe powerful bursts of fire and knights 
 that ride horses and how the humans can upgrade their headquaters into a castle (you have to play 
 the game to see what I mean)
  
  There is so many characters in the story and so many plot twists, by the time you get to the end 
 of the game, you will fee like you've watched many different stories. But the story does all fit 
 well together and some characters die and new characters show up, some characters get captured by 
 the undead and turn evil and fight against their former friends! And like I said the story paces 
 itself right, everything comes into the story at just the right time and you have to play the game 
 to see what I mean.
  
  The game has a hero system, heroes are special units who are the main characters, who are much stronger 
 than normal units and can level up. However they can only level up a certain amount each mission 
 to stop them becoming over powered while still giving you incentive to do the hard work and level 
 them up. Heroes can be resurrected (it will cost you gold though) , can carry items such as healing 
 potions and have special abilities such as being able to cast spells including healing spells (that 
 can heal themselves, another single unit or every friendly unit that is within the spell radius) 
 And many others you can find out about.
  
  Learning how to use spells at the right time is cruicial.
  
  Other abilities heroes have can 
 include wearing items that will increase their stats and the stats of all friendly units close 
 to them. One of the orc leaders named Thrall can make holograms of himself and you won't know which 
 one to attack!
  
  Also to make things balanced, the CPU can keep producing units after it has run out of gold (to prevent 
 you from just playing defensive) but after you destroy one of the CPUs buildings the CPU doesn't 
 rebuild them.
  
  There is many sidequests you can do, some give you rewards or you can do just for the satisfaction. Some 
 sidequests are difficult but very rewarding like killing lots of big, powerful creatures to gain 
 access to a fountain which makes the orcs many times more powerful and you can destroy a base very 
 easily afterwards but the sidequest is very difficul and you'll use a lot of resources doing it 
 so it's a big risk.
  
  And some sidequests can play on your emotions, eg do you want to save a village being attacked by 
 the undead (and have many units get damaged and killed) or just protect your base.
  
  Do you want to eliminate bandits who attacked a family?
  
  The graphics are beautiful, there 
 colorful forest with lush green trees, nicely colored brown wood and beautiful water effects for 
 lakes. The desert has beautiful 3D canyon effects and each unit has a smooth,3D look to it while 
 being very colorful. There is villages with detailed pathed roads and detailed buildings. You can 
 see people walking around too. Everything has a 3D effect, and looks colorful, detailed and great.
 
  
  The cut scenes looked great for their time and it was enjoyable to watch the story.
  
  There is great FMV.
  
  The Undead just look so morbid and creepy while still being a good variation 
 of colors and the evil energy sources they use for spells glow.
  
  The Night Elves have purple skin, no eyeballs, long hair and pointed ears.
  
  The music when 
 you used the Night Elves was beautiful, the undead have a more fast paced, intense music.
  
  Arrows and spears sounded very swift when they moved through the air.
  
  The voice acting suited 
 the races and characters perfectly and the dialogue was great too.
  
  Things I didn't like about the game are you run out of gold quick and it's quite hard at times. Even 
 on the easy difficulty this game is hard so I advise you to play the game on easy first.
  
  Overall-A must for RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Superb production values with an excellent story, graphics, voice acting, and FMVs, different 
 mission variety, four well balanced and unique races, super fun online play, 40+ hours campaign
 
  
  The Bad: Unbalanced difficulty, can't create enough units, everything takes up too much resource
 
  
  I remember when Warcraft came out, but at the time I never had the PC too run the game so now I 
 finally had the chance and I was very pleased. The game has something that most RTS are missing 
 and that's a great story. You play through four campaigns (Humans, Undead, Orcs, and Night Elves) 
 and watching as the Undead try to corrupt the world. What's interesting about the story is it's 
 like playing a game of chess with yourself. Without spoiling anything you basically play one campaign 
 then it leads to the next, but your ironically fighting against what you just did in the other 
 campaign. It's a great change in pace and keeps the story interesting. The game is mainly focused 
 on the four races and they all play differently and uniquely. You have the Humans which are average 
 in everything. They can perform magic and fight with weapons about equally, the Undead can kill 
 off their own units for health and eat other enemies for health, they also can't build on ground 
 unless it's been blighted by a Necropolis building (think town hall) , Orcs have lots of health 
 and are super strong, but use little to no magic and are slow at building things, and Night Elves 
 are very weak but can hide in shadow and move very fast while manipulating nature to their whim. 
 This makes every campaign feel different and won't bore you at all. What's different in WC3 as 
 well are the types of missions you have. You may have some missions where you defend something 
 for a set amount of time, some missions have you wiping out all enemies, some are fetch quests, 
 and others are just you and a few units trying to find something. This tossing things up and won't 
 keep you saying "not another building up and killing mission". Another main pull in WC3 are the 
 Heroes that you use. Each Hero can level up and use 4 different spells to help you win the level. 
 Some spells are offensive, defensive, or passive so they just work by adding attributes or are 
 Auras which apply to surrounding friendlies. These will really help you in a pinch and are well 
 balanced. Of course you have to learn some spells by leveling up, but they are all unique for each 
 Hero you use. You can also buy things from Merchants that are scattered throughout the maps to 
 buy healing potions, protective spells, town hall portals, and even hire mercenaries to do your 
 dirty work. This also can change the way things turn out and is just another great addition to 
 the depth of WC3. WC3 may not be as deep as Civilization or Age of Empires, but it still offers 
 brain work for RTS fans. To eliminate micromanagement WC3 only allows up to 90 units to be built 
 (technically only about 25-30 since each different type of unit takes up more food) you can also 
 only have up to 12 units selected at a time. While this can be a bit of a problem when evading 
 large encampments it still keeps the micromanagement down. I also found issues with the difficulty. 
 Some levels are super easy and some levels attempt invincibility cheats because your units never 
 seem strong enough to most enemies. It may take a level 10 Hero up to 30 seconds to kill a level 
 4 enemy so this is really unfair. The game is also absurdly long clocking in about 40-50 hours 
 depending on how you play. Some levels will finish with only one unit left with a pixel of health 
 so you can see the difficulty is really unfair. WC3 works like any other RTS with building, err, 
 building and having to mine gold and wood to build units. The final issue is that this doesn't 
 work fast enough so you'll be sitting and pinching resources while all the enemies attack you. 
 Once you hit a high or low upkeep this can be a problem since maintaining so many units starts 
 costing you. Gold income is low enough as it is with 10 pieces per worker. Low upkeep gives you 
 7 and high upkeep 4. You can imagine it would take forever to build up a few thousand gold that 
 will only build a few troops. After your gold mine collapses you have to search for more, but most 
 are in enemy sights so this is another issue. Other than all of that Warcraft III is an RTS that 
 all fans must play. The excellent story complimenting the deep but subtle gameplay is rewarding 
 and not to mention the online multiplayer through Battle. net. The graphics are bright and colorful 
 and have a lot of detail that most RTS games don't have. The voice acting is superb and nicely 
 accompanies beautiful pre-rendered FMVs. If you're itching for a great RTS game then look no further 
 than Warcraft III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarCraft-Klown
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 14, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Probably no doubt a way better Campaign than its expansion, but still nothing compared to games 
 like StarCraft.
  
  See what makes this game is the Battle. net Customs... Not the gameplay, honestly melee gameplay 
 sucks for WC3. I love nnumbers and that's why WC3 isn't my flavor. It's micromanagement of armies, 
 bases, and all of such... not nearly as fast paced either.
  
  I'm a fanatic of the speed, and destruction in StarCraft. Nukes, huge armies, and massive Bases. 
 Warcraft, is blizzard's focus taste, not at all what I adhere to. But nonetheless, Battle. net saves 
 it, with games like Heroes & Empires or Footies (screw DotA) I really have interest in the game.
 
  
  WarCraft Graphics, what to say, so cartoony, but they fit so well with the game, it's a 8/10 kinda 
 thing I'd say. Without a doubt...
  
  WC3 is an excellent game to add to your collection, especially if you love Blizzard games. If they 
 keep on striving to make it even better in the Blizz fanbase, then they will probably become even 
 more popular than EA even... Hopefully they do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crushmaster
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos is undoubtedly, by far, the best in the series. I own Warcraft 1 and 
 2, and they are NOTHING compared to this. Let's take a look at it, shall we:
  Pros:
  Tons of sweet units.
  Highly detailed maps, and it's fairly easy to create your own.
  Cool 
 heroes; especially the humans.
  Cool buildings.
  Cool creatures.
  Awesome gameplay; gripping and grittiy.
  Pretty good stories and campaigns.
  Cons:
  It's 
 too liberal. There are women fighting all over the place...
  It's too hard to make your own campaign. Even to this date, I've never been able to, and I've had 
 it a few years.
  The first Human campaign is awful... I mean, the hero turns out evil. Come on! 
  You can't train 
 attack ships on custom games.
  Overall:
  Good buy. This is probably the best computer game I've ever played, by far. The Frozen Throne is 
 pretty good too, so be sure to pick both of them up if you don't already own 'em. Highly recommended 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanvig
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  If you have not bought it yet, it is worth buying it. Amazing graphics and awesome gameplay combined 
 with an extraordinary story makes this game one of the top strategy games. Twists in the story, 
 the side you fight for, all the monsters, different kind of magic, buildings, make this game wort 
 its cost. Strategy lovers would crave to play the game again and again. Players will never get 
 bored with the game pl. Different heroes and the strategy you choose is the deciding factor when 
 playing the game. Every time you play the game, you will find the difference and things happen 
 unexpected. the vital point of the game is to plan clearly and it will pave your road to victory. 
 Players can also check out the skirmish type games with maps supporting even twelve players. Multiplayer 
 is very good. The only negative factor which is alo a very good part in a game is the strange twists. 
 You will never know whom to believe and whom to destroy. But the final objective is to protect 
 Mother Nature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_chief_MN
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  This game has all the control and customization a true school gamer could ever dream of, and it's 
 the best game in the Warcraft Universe to date. WoW is a wonderful high quality game, but it gets 
 old paying so much to sit and grind for hours and hours on end. This is a great game to play offline 
 (single player campaign is quite long and has a rich story) , online (on battle. net) , and through 
 LAN. Since there are so many Hero options (numerous options for each race) this game just does 
 not get old. One other thing that should be mentioned: were you a fan of StarCraft? This game was 
 built on that engine (and highly improved upon) . If you're looking for depth and value for your 
 dollar, Warcraft III is the game for you. There is also and expansion for this game and I should 
 also mention that online play and matchmaking at battle. net is free to use for anyone who purchases 
 a new copy of the game and can provide a valid cd-key. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgkennedy5
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, Warcraft 3 is the best RTS ever made. It makes you think and the storyline is very 
 good. I have to say that having 4 factions plus many neutral factions adds a huge level of depth 
 to the game. The gameplay is great and offers something for people new to the genre and something 
 for experienced player. Battle net is the most fun online I have ever had. It has no flaws. All 
 of the custom games like mauls and hero wars are really fun. Which leads me tot he map creator 
 and Blizzard made it absolutely perfect. Although it is hard to use until you get used to it, it 
 is definetely a great addition to the game. By the time you are doen the campaigns there is always 
 something else to do. It absolutley deserved the title of "game of the year" . Way to go Blizzard! 
 You deserve the title of one of the bets game makers around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game is great. The characters are great, the story is great everything is great. Why with 
 the expansion, this game is near perfect! The heroes are great, leveling them up is a great new 
 feature and this game is full of them!
  
  The graphics in this game are greatly improved from Warcraft II, they are something to be proud 
 of. The sound has been improved so much. They revamped all of your old favorites too.
  
  The strategy in this game is so deep, that no matter how long you've played the game for, you learn 
 new things all of the time. The stage editor has also been improved dramatically from the earlier 
 titles.
  
  This game is great. The expansion is great aswell. This game makes a great addition to anyone's 
 collection. I highly reccomend this game and the expansion to anyone who is into heavy strategy 
 games. Happy Gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Def_Joe_Griffe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III is a nice strategy-game. It's simple to play and good for beginning strategy-game 
 players. I liked the game because it was not too
  realistic and gameplay was extremely fun and easy. However, single player campaign is kind of hard 
 because there's no much peaceful breaks to make some troops as the opponents keep ralding and attacking 
 very often. The storyline is very interesting, as the player learns a lot about orcs, night elves, 
 humans, undead and demons of Burning Legion. Campaign is very short though, which was disappointing 
 because I really liked the campaign.
  
  Scenarios are extremely fun, even wth cheats. There are a lot of massive battles and you can have 
 ally towns on your side to fight against your enemies. There are many maps and nearly all of them 
 are good. Scenarios are also very addictive. Multiplayer is also very fun.
  
  I recommend Warcraft III to anyone who likes strategy games. Although graphics are bad, the gameplay 
 is simple and very fun because it's not too realistic. Warcraft III is bound to keep you busy for 
 a long, long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Just coming off of WC2 (yes very late) , I have fell in love with this game. The game has took a 
 different path but keeping all the elements stills makes this one of the best PC games to date 
 (at least for me)
  
  The game play has been toned down a bit to focus on your army. And not a massive force or people 
 like in the old game. You have "up keep" now which makes you produce your army differently. When 
 you reach 90 you can produce any more. So you will have to play smarter to have a good and effective 
 army. The Story mode is done very well. With good acting and great cut screens. The SP will last 
 10 to 20 hours. The biggest and most new thing is the heroes. They are your most powerful people 
 in the game. You will have to level them up through out the games. This is good for MP.
  
  The Graphics look very good. The stages and level have great detail to them. You can now change 
 views and drop the camera for more detail. The player all look good and move well. When in battle 
 at time the color seems to mix. But it does a good job of keep everything running fast and solid.
 
  
  Sound is perfect. You will hear everything and more when playing this game. When you're using the 
 mini map the sound will change from what going on in the screen. Your army and works all talk to 
 you when a common is given to them. Overall the sound does its job well.
  
  The SP will take a while to beat and then there are custom games you can play with the computer 
 or over LAN/Battle net. You can also make your own maps too. So the replay value is high. With 
 patches and updates the game will never die. So if you're beating up on the computer though custom 
 games or your friend with a LAN match or random people over battle net (free) you won't get bored 
 with this game any time soon.
  
  Over all I love this game and I think it's a must but for anybody who wants to have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III came out almost 6 years ago, as of me writing this. That's plenty of time for most 
 games to age into unplayable due to being so old. Interestingly, that has not happened with Warcraft 
 III. This game still holds up as being well worth a purchase, even in 2008.
  
  Note: I didn't even touch the multiplayer. This review as based completely on the single player 
 campaign.
  
  For starters, the game looks great. Despite the low polygon counts and the quirky animations, it 
 still has terrific character models and building graphics. The graphical quality looks like an 
 early version of World of Warcraft, and for obvious reasons. It looks a little goofy sometimes 
 because of the animations used. Specifically Illidan, who is one of the baddest characters in WoW, 
 has a really odd animation that creates quite a chuckle. At first you wonder if this is even the 
 game guy or not, but the differences get explained through the campaign. The style is quite consistent 
 between this game and it's MMO entry in the series. The spell effects, artwork and prerendered 
 cinematics are all top-notch. I've played too many RTS games where the icons are so similar that 
 you are not quite sure what the button you are about to click will end up doing. That is never 
 an issue here. Blizzard's ability to make every button intuitive is fully intact here.
  
  The sound in the game also manages to match the visual quality. The voicework and music all fit 
 in together and never bring you out of the game. The spell effects are especially noteable for 
 being unique. If you can't think of anything negative to say about the audio, then they did it 
 just right.
  
  Warcraft III is a lot like Blizzard's previous RTS games in that you build up your bases and crank 
 out units to do battle with. My favorite thing about their approach has always been the limits 
 imposed upon players in regards to how many units you can use. No making 300 units and just flooding 
 the enemy. The limits in this particular game have been tightened up a bit. You can't make groups 
 of 12 units for each type of unit in the game like you could kind of get away with doing in Starcraft. 
 With this game you will most likely max out your unit budget within about 30 units or so, depending 
 on how many of the biggies you build. This can be frustrating at first for those of us that are 
 OCD about making maxed out groups of units. Once you realize that this means you can manage your 
 army a bit better, it becomes easily forgiveable. Managing 4 siege tanks is easier then managing 
 12. I like this change to create a focus on picking the right units instead of making the most.
 
  
  The variation in units and buildings is really well done. You can look right at a unit and know 
 exactly what you are going up against, as long as you took the time to read the tooltips and remember 
 what the units can do. None of them look enough alike to get confused. Maybe the buildings sometimes, 
 but that's mostly because you aren't really looking at them nearly as often as you are looking 
 at the units. The buildings look pretty cool and all, but they end up becoming background dressing 
 once you get them built.
  
  The unit types and factions from the first two Warcraft games carry over to this installment intact. 
 The Human and Orc factions both play a lot like they have previously, which is fine. Some subtle 
 differences have been added that make them different enough to not feel like reskinned versions 
 of each other. For example, Humans get 2 types of defensive towers and Orcs get 1. This adds a 
 bit more management on the Human side with them. However, Orcs get defensive structures that pions 
 can run into and shoot from, similar to the bases in Starcraft. These structures serve as the "food" 
 buildings for the Orcs where as the Human food units do nothing but take up space once built.
 
  
  The other two factions, the Undead and the Night Elves, have totally different mechanics. The Undead 
 are a lot like the Zerg from Starcraft. You can only build most buildings on modified ground that 
 stretches out from each already build building. Toss up a base and the ground around it changes. 
 From there you can toss up new buildings and your buildable ground stretches further. This creates 
 a limit on how far the Undead can move right away, but isn't so limiting as to really be a problem. 
 The night elves have a cool benefit where most of the structures are giant trees that can uproot 
 and walk around. They can also attack and do damage. This makes for an interesting tactic of being 
 able to pick up your bases and move them to save resources if you want to relocate. Some buildings 
 will end up being left behind however.
  
  The single player campaign is quite incredible. There are 4 seperate "campaigns", one for each 
 of the factions. They need to be played in order, which makes sense considering they are all basically 
 one long story being told. Playing them out of order, if you could, would truely be a shame. What 
 I found interesting is that I was more interested in the story this time around then I was back 
 when I first bought the game in 2003. I only made it through the first two campaigns back then 
 before putting it down. I wasn't that interested in the story then, but this time around is totally 
 different. Seing familiar characters and names from WoW has resulted in a heightened interest in 
 what is going on. If you have ever wondered why certain characters are in certain positions in 
 WoW, this game does a lot to explain things. The key characters here are numerous. Arthas, Jaina 
 Proudmore, Illidan, Thrall, Grom Hellscream and a few others are all involved in the story. It's 
 just all really cool. The cutscenes alone are worth playing through the game if you have only a 
 slight interest in the play style. Blizzard is easily one of the best companies around for making 
 FMV cinematics.
  
  All-in-all this game is definitely a classic after all these years. I can't imagine Blizzard ever 
 needing to make a sequel for quite awhile, as this game pretty much sets the bar to the point where 
 surpassing it seems highly unlikely. If anything they could just release it with a graphical overhaul 
 and call it good. Hell I'd buy that.
  
  On to the Frozen Throne!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freefadi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Not everyone likes Real Time Strategy games, in fact I'm one of them, but having played Warcraft 
 III Reign Of Chaos I can confidently say that it feels very different than any RTS game you have 
 ever played, it's unique, special and very entertaining. The whole game actually feels more like 
 an RPG than an RTS.
  
  In previous Warcraft games you took command of two main races: the humans and the orcs, in this 
 latest installment however two new races will be available for you to try out: the undead and the 
 night elves. The undead are a bunch of ghouls, necromancers and hideous creatures, and their race's 
 main strong point is their defensive abilities. On the other hand the night elves are pointy eared 
 people with magic as their main strong point in addition to their strong bond with the powers of 
 nature. Of course you will still be able to play as the brutal orcs and the well balanced humans. 
 So the whole game feels huge and long, trust me when I say that this game will take a lot of your 
 time, in a good way of course. 
  
  The story of warcraft III Reign Of Chaos starts as Thrall, the young war chief of the orcish horde 
 witnesses a dream in which he is advised to travel to a far land with his people for the sake of 
 their safety, this serves as an introduction to the game and it is followed by a tutorial level 
 that will easily introduce you into the game, so warcraft players and new comers will both get 
 appropriately involved in this enormous adventure. After this short campaign with the orcs you 
 begin the human campaign which is the longest by the way, and then as the story progresses you'll 
 unlock the undead, orc and finally the night elf campaigns respectively. The change from one campaign 
 to another is brilliantly made in a way that eases you in to playing no matter what your level 
 of skill in this type of games is, so you begin a campaign with a few easy missions and then as 
 you progress new units, and game play elements will be introduced to you in a very smooth learning 
 curve. But don't think that the missions themselves are easy, for although some of them are relatively 
 easy some missions are EXTREMRLY hard, but no worries because they are all fun and a great joy 
 to play.
  
  The controls are very similar to any other RTS game, and as mentioned above the learning curve 
 is very smooth and will easily draw new gamers and Warcraft veterans alike.
  
  I mentioned earlier that this game feels more like an RPG than an RTS, which is correct not just 
 because some of the levels play like Diablo in which you explore dungeons and opening routes in 
 order to reach your goal, although the majority of the game is still RTS stuff like building bases, 
 upgrading them and making armies to defend your base or to assault your enemies' bases. But the 
 RPG feel comes from the whole story which involves different races, backgrounds, magic, demons 
 and legends among other stuff. Another thing is the inclusion of heroes which are the main characters 
 of your race and at some missions their death will mean a failed mission, but in most missions 
 you can resurrect them if they die at special temples, but be warned that this process is very 
 expensive and takes a lot of time. The heroes them selves posses some abilities that can be acquired 
 and upgraded as they gain experience from fighting, which is a very strong RPG element. But really 
 the RPG feel comes mainly from the story and the atmosphere that this game successfully creates 
 to hook you as a player into this game.
  
  Of course a game that huge should look well and Warcraft III Reign Of Chaos does just that, it 
 has beautiful graphics that can even be checked out more closely if you scroll the mouse wheel, 
 for the camera will then descend and-to give you an even more realistic feel-the sounds and voices 
 will get louder as you do. Speaking of audio the game gives you all the appropriate sound effects 
 and a score suited to every race you play as. The voices of the characters really fit their profiles 
 but the voice acting itself isn't very phenomenal, still it's better that most games out there 
 and you will be hooked in deeply in this world so much that you won't care.
  
  The online experience is fun and should be very enjoyable if more players join in.
  
  It's 
 really rare that an RTS game make you interested in it's story, but Warcraft isn't just about that, 
 it has a solid gameplay that merges with it's story and atmosphere. Only Blizzard Entertainment 
 can come up with this degree of greatness in RTS games. So if you're an RTS fan then you should 
 definitely get this, and even if you don't like this type of games, you will most probably like 
 it specially if you're even a bit of an RPG action fan.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zek-foo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is freakin amazing! Both multi and singleplayer are perfect. This probably is the best 
 strategy of all time and I'm sure it will stay that way for a long time. This is a game everyone 
 should own! Even if you don't have a computer. Got to the store and buy it. You can look at it's 
 box and you'll feel the greatness of this game. The best game from Blizzard. if you ask me WoW 
 or Diablo don't come near this masterpiece. I'm not sure if human made this game because of its 
 perfection. If you somehow get bored of multiplayer (don't know how that is possible cause of all 
 the new mods coming out like Dota) you can just create a map by yourself and make an epic battle 
 between races or make some more missions and even make the battle you always wanted in your games ( 
 like LOTR) Like I said an Epic!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armandm3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Ok read this well....
  
  Warcraft III is an amazing game. The story of that game is very interesting and take you deeply 
 in the game that you won't want to stop playing sometimes. The hero are well done and the spell 
 and movements are fantastic. For all the years since Warcraft III have been created and its still 
 one of the best strategy game in the world and i'm sure will remain the best. 
  
  The Graphic are maybe out-dated as it not the same graphic like Crysis, Half Life 2 etc.... but 
 definitely it is a very good one and it have still a good proposal to the players. Even the game 
 is pretty old, day by day the game is more popular due to what is contain is fantastic. Blizzard 
 have been respected for that game as it is a good hitting RTS game.
  
  So if you don't have the game please buy it and play it you won't regret i'm sure you will be addicted 
 to it very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soldaten027
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay, sit down, shut up, and read this review.
  Are you sitting down?
  Are you shutting up?
  By now, I'm pretty sure your reading this review.
  Warcraft III is an 
 amazing game. Yes, believe the hype machine and fall on your knees and worship Blizzard good.
 
  An engaging fantasy storyline, is just one of the many things Warcraft has to offer and by far 
 the thing that keeps me coming back after 4 years. Humanity is in peril, and succumbs to coming 
 tide of death and destruction, only to unite with old foes and new allies to bring the hammer of 
 fury to Archimonde and his denizens.
  The graphics are dated, but they have, if you will excuse me, a MILF quality. For an old game, 
 the graphics are beautiful and still original with a quality that doesn't take itself too seriously, 
 but gets the job done in spades.
  Gameplay is still the fast-paced, hard hitting RTS gameplay gamers have come to love and respect 
 from Blizzard. Streamlined and varied economies can get you armies up to speed and you'll be battling 
 in no time at all.
  So please, do yourself a favor... get addicted to Warcrack III: The Reign of Chaos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noctoural88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  this is definitely a game for the ages. one of the best RTS's I've ever played, but what really 
 makes it great is it's storyline. A genious plotline and believable characters make this game amazing. 
 The Skirmish is it's one flaw. it is a great feature, and it's very fun, but it's easy to get bored 
 with. barely a flaw at all, which is why it deserves every single point I'm giving it.
  the characters are awsome, especially Arathas and Thrall. This game is easily comparable to any 
 great game ever made. sorry for babbling on.
  I give this game a 9.5. nice. This game is great, but as I've said in other reviews, no game is 
 perfect and this is no exeption. Although I must admit, it's not far from it. I'm rambling and 
 rambling and ramling and rambling and rambling and rambling for you! Super duper monkey power! 
 until I return, miantain faith in the gamespot system of minimum amount of characters! Goodbye. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fosterscheese
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos is an excellent sequel to an all time original. The game features 
 four playable races, in an outstanding game filled with fun and adventure. Warcraft III: Reign 
 of Chaos is among the best strategy games ever created. Anyone who likes strategy will enjoy this 
 game more than any other. Many levels are featured, as well as a Campaign, with a well-made story. 
 The game is among few strategy games that also have an online option, as well as balanced LAN gameplay. 
 The graphics of this game are a marvel, having in mind the age of the game. It is also among the 
 first strategies to feature 3 dimensional gameplay, unlike the previous Warcraft games, which had 
 2D gameplay. The music is well made, and a lot of attention and effort has been put on it. The 
 gameplay is fantastic, and any strategy lover will be addicted to this game the very second they 
 start. The game also features a World Editor, where the gamer can actually create his own map, 
 and can play it in-game. It is well balanced, so anyone can enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Strategy games have come a long way, but a very specific element is starting to ruin the strategy 
 aspect of the games themselves, if you find yourself getting bored of just massing and massing 
 until you have outnumbered your enemy then perhaps you should try this old school classic. 
  
  Warcraft 3 is to this date the most amazing strategy game ever created, not because its very 
 flashy, even though the graphics might not be as amazing as supreme commander or any of those new 
 titles, the core gameplay is alot more deeper. Warcraft 3 is a game measuring skill only the most 
 outstanding players will be thrive online. This is one of the first strategy games into introduce 
 an rpg element to the strategy genre, you control heroes who in their turn grow in levels increasing 
 their health, attack rate, regeneration, attack dmg, mana, mana regeneration, and armor. In addition 
 every time a hero levels he gains access to skills, every hero consists of 4 skills, 3 of them 
 accessible from level one and may be upgraded 3 times, but you must choose carefully. 
  
  An example of a hero, the demon hunter an agility based hero, which means he is adept at attacking 
 fast, at level one, he may choose one from these three skills, mana burn, which does damage to 
 enemy mana users, at level one burns 50 mana and 50 health, lv 2 it burns 100 mana and 100 health, 
 lv 3 it burns 150 health and and 150 mana, but if a hero has for example only 20 mana then only 
 20 dmg will be dealt. Other skills of the demon hunter are immolation, which burns his own mana 
 every second but makes him catch fire doing dmg to any enemies around him, and evasion a passive 
 skill. evasion gives the hero a 10, 20, and 30 (at level three) per cent chance to dodge any attack 
 launched at him. Now every hero can unlock his "ult" at lv 6, the 4th skill, these ults can change 
 the games course, an ultimate on its own can sometimes change the outcome of a battle. The demon 
 hunters ultimate is "transformation" which cause him to become a large demon with wings that does 
 "chaos" damage (dmg that cannot be reduced by armor) and makes his attack ranged which allows attacking 
 air and if that werent enough, he gets 500 extra hit points. 
  
  This experience system adds alot of strategy to the game, in other strategy games in a free for 
 all for example, a good strategy would be to just sit back while the other players kill themselves, 
 and later just go in and finish the job to the damaged players, however this xp system encourages 
 players to go out and kill to level their heroes, if that strategy were to be applied in warcraft 
 the player who just stayed back the whole time will find himself facing high level heroes and wonder 
 were he went wrong
  
  In addition to all these hero stats, a good player will usually take his hero around the map and 
 kill "neutral creeps" these creeps are key element in that they give your hero experience and may 
 drop items or tomes that your hero can use to boost his stats or hold on to which will grant different 
 effects, a hero can hold up to 6 items. 
  
  The campaign pull you into a very immersive story were you are taught a little about how to play 
 each race. First you play as humans as the young prince arthas, then as undead, orc and finally 
 as the night elves. The story will you suck you in from beginning to end with a very powerful set 
 of main characters. Once the campaign is done for, then the real game must be played, be warned 
 to don't be discouraged by getting owned numerous times. The online is what i beleive to be the 
 most addicting game experience ever to be released. The ladder system of Blizzard aims to put players 
 with the same skill together, this will allow for everyone to find their match. These games themselves 
 do not consist of massing units, but in using your hero and few units you have wisely, in fact 
 the game encourages having a small army, because when you pass a certain population number, "upkeep" 
 makes you gold gather go down to 70 per cent of normal, and if you go over another number, will 
 be reduced to 40 per cent of normal. A good player will be able to destroy dozens of units by only 
 using one or two units. 
  
  This game is very strategic in that, its not about how many units you have but how you use them, 
 for example, if the enemy has a slow moving army while you have a fast one, you can pick on them 
 from side to side, killing them one by one. Another element which makes w3 one of the most powerful 
 strategy games to date is how all races are full of useful units, every unit in your arsenal is 
 useful with unique abilities. Every race specializes in a certain area, for example humans in magic, 
 while night elves in ranged combat. 
  
  I recommend warcraft 3 to any gamer willing to take some time to learn, and i guarantee that the 
 more you play the more addicted you will become. And just in case ladder becomes too challenging 
 for you, online has thousands of other types of games, from defending helms deep to helping a little 
 kitty outrun huge dogs. OR the infamous DOTA, which is renown in the warcraft universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos is a revolutionary game for RTS games. The game features a (at the time) 
 unique style of play, whereby your heroes level up and gain experience depending on how many enemies 
 they kill. These experience points allow your heroes to purchase powers that give them a boost 
 in close combat, shooting, or healing making them the focal point of most battle plans. The campaign 
 is a great one, where you play through various levels, which are helped by the detail that the 
 graphics take. The graphics are quite amazing for a game this old, although the speech graphics 
 could do with a tweak. The skirmishes allow you to play as one of four races; the savage and brutal 
 Orcs, the proud and valiant Humans, the evil and manipulative Undead, and the graceful and deadly 
 Night Elves. Each army has its own flaws, but they each have their own good attributes. With 3 
 heroes to pick from each race, the skirmish games will give you near endless mirth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 needs as much introduction to even the most casual of gamers as Dark Side of the Moon 
 or Led Zeppelin IV would need to music listeners. Created by Blizzard, it is a RTS game that has 
 the story, atmosphere and finely balanced gameplay that a classic game should have. And like the 
 two cuts mentioned above, this is a game everybody should play, whether you are an aficionado of 
 the genre or not. And that's just the single player component.
  
  The races in Warcraft (well, the Humans and the Orcs in particular) are a Bolshy lot and just seem 
 to want to fight. They have been doing it for centuries and there was no real end in sight. That 
 was until a new enemy, a common one, landed in the world and the campaign of Warcraft III progressively 
 deals with this new foe. There are four campaigns (plus the tutorial)  Humans, Undead, Orcs and 
 Night Elves which all involve standard RTS fare of resource and base building, combat and objective 
 achievement. However, this is far from a standard game with a variety of buildings, units and incidental 
 components to the campaign. The campaign itself is a well developed story full of excellent characters 
 and a couple of unexpected twists and turns. Completing the campaign will involve a high degree 
 of micromanagement, but it is an absorbing piece of gaming as it all unfolds.
  
  Warcraft III looks just fine. Kilmadoor and the surrounding areas are brought to life in a colourful 
 palette of terrain, infrastructure and units. The cartoonish graphics are on the right side of 
 the 'fantasy' look and feel and it's a credit that in the long single player campaign the environment 
 never looks repeated. The units themselves are full of character and personality across all factions. 
 Hunters and collectors look individual and go about their business in a realistic way and the infrastructure 
 units all have their own identity. An Undead base looks appropriately like a pit of doom, with 
 it being one of my favourite sites (and campaign of the game) .
  
  The engine deserves credit as I did not experience any lag or slowdown during some seriously intense 
 and overcrowded battles. And these battles are a sight, as the characters battle it out with bloody 
 and gruesome consequences. The interface is perfect, allowing you to clearly see whether you are 
 winning the battle and units, whether on the ground or airborne, go about their business in an 
 appropriate manner. This is one smooth game to watch as the story unfolds.
  
  The in-mission cut scenes may be the weakest graphical point, with too much zoom on the characters 
 revealing a lack of definition. However, the opening and closing FMV's for the missions are remarkable 
 in today's standards, let alone of half a decade ago. A true highlight.
  
  Each faction comes with its own soundtrack and the music is suitably atmospheric. The voice acting 
 is also very solid for both the cut scenes and the retorts of the characters as you provide orders 
 (My life for the Horde!!!!) The sounds of battle trump this however, as the mix of hand to hand 
 combat, missiles, magic and airborne attacks sound realistic and at times gruesome, adding to the 
 immersive nature of the gameplay. Other atmospheric and environmental sounds are present to provide 
 just that extra bit of quality to the game.
  
  The gameplay is a complete winner. It is a wonderfully developed story with some fine characters 
 and some complex gameplay required for the story to develop. To call this just 'point and click' 
 RTS is wrong. No doubt, there is a lot of micromanagement required, and there is a need to keep 
 alert to the whole map, but there are many ways to complete objectives through the mixing of units.
 
  
  Base-building is required but each campaign starts with an easy level or two to get you familiar 
 with each factions assets. Gold and wood are required in most missions to allow unit development, 
 infrastructure improvements allow better units, as does additional research and the importance 
 of getting your hero some combat experience from the get-go is essential so they can level up with 
 better powers and bigger spells. 
  
  The interface, once learned is both presentable and use friendly. There's plenty of detail in the 
 interface area and realistically you can keep a watching brief over the whole map with this. Hotkeys 
 are available and probably essential, but I never used them!
  
  Most missions involve either attacking an enemy base or defending your own. Whilst it's easy to 
 categorise this as gather resources, build base, recruit army and commence combat, there is a lot 
 more subtlety at play. Scouting the enemy position will assist in determining the combat mix, or 
 whether an attack from multiple locations. There is an art to finding the right 'mix' to your combat 
 squads (which cannot be larger than 12 units) . Aerial units are essential is some missions, and 
 at times you'll also have to battle and defeat 'neutral' opponents as they hold key assets to territory 
 for your objectives. And they are no pushover. Efficiency is rewarded with the 'upkeep' concept, 
 if you mix your units right so not so many are required, they will be more value from the collection 
 of gold, allowing for quicker upgrading.
  
  There are quite a few 'dungeon' runs with a finite set of troops, and I enjoyed these missions 
 a lot. They are combat focussed and require a bit more care for each individual unit, rather than 
 sending them headfirst into battle. There are clearly not as expendable as in the assault missions.
 
  
  However, my favourite were the defensive missions, which required protecting a position (usually 
 involve a base or a town) for a set period (usually 30 minutes) . These were seriously absorbing 
 missions as you tried to have units covering all attack points and ensuring you had the resources 
 coming in early on to replenish supplies. The final mission is a ripper as you fall back on two 
 occasions to hold back a much large force of foes. Victory was not as absolute as the assault missions, 
 however, and on one of these missions, I was left with my hero only running away from the masses 
 for 40 seconds to get to the 30 minute mark. Whilst it meant I completed the mission, it probably 
 wasn't completed with the conviction expected by the programmers. 
  
  Each of the four campaigns is an absorbing piece of gaming. Characters are warmed to, units are 
 learnt and epic battles are won and lost - and at times turned on a single wise tactical choice. 
 Heroes grow stronger, enemies become tougher and the small base built in the first mission or so 
 is a thriving settlement by campaign end. And each faction is unique  whilst I never quite got 
 my head around the moving trees, it was certainly something different in gaming.
  
  And by the time you've defended the hill on the final mission, you have overseen many serious battles, 
 pointed and clicked your mouse to submission and build enough units and buildings to defend Brazil. 
 But it's all so professionally presented and seamless. This is an enjoyable, involving and rewarding 
 game to play with plenty of variety and challenge.
  
  The single player game took me (an RTS novice) over 30 hours to complete. I did my best to complete 
 all missions on the standard difficulty; though I think I completed two on the 'easy' option that 
 is available should you fail a mission in the first instance. I completed the final mission at 
 normal difficulty, which took some work. Whilst you probably won't play the campaign more than 
 once, it is the tip of the iceberg that Warcraft III offers. There is the player vs. computer maps 
 (where the computer is much more difficult than in the campaign) which can provide hours of quality 
 and competitive gameplay. And then there is Battlenet  the multiplayer component that is still 
 going strong today. From Canberra to Darwin to Amman to Pisa  this is still played in homes and 
 in internet cafes across the globe. There is some serious longevity to Warcraft III. And although 
 I've only played the single player campaign and a couple of maps (as the Undead!) against the computer, 
 the $UD49 I paid for the Warchest (which includes The Frozen Throne) is money well spent.
  
  Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos is a classic game. But you don't need me to tell you that. I'm 
 not a regular RTS fan and not one to play for hours on end, but this is a seriously absorbing gaming 
 experience. I've read that other games of the time were cruelly unrecognised (Battle Realms) but 
 I don't know. Maybe the latest incarnations of the RTS are much better (World in Conflict, Supreme 
 Commander) but I don't know. What I do know, however, is that Warcraft III is a classic game on 
 all levels and should be played, even five and a half years later, buy anyone who digs gaming. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying I have never, apart from perhaps World of Warcraft and occasionally 
 Halo, had so much sheer fun playing a multiplayer game. It's even more surprising since this is 
 the first RTS game that I ever played. Actually, second (WCII) . But this game has the whole package; 
 maybe not amazing Crysis graphics, but they are enjoyable to look at, a mixture between real and 
 cartoonish that is pleasing to the eye, cool-looking spells and abilities, incredibly gameplay, 
 great music, UNBELIEVABLE multiplayer ladder system plus... custom games!
  
  The Campaign or offline mode of this game is fun to play. It probably won't take you very long 
 to get through, but, then again, the true greatness of this game lies in its online multiplayer 
 game. Before the days of subscription MMOs, this game came out and luckily has free online play. 
 I don't think I have ever spent as much time on any game in my life as I have with Warcraft III. 
 I have easily racked up thousands and thousands of hours playing online. You can play random ladder 
 games and get random teams, play by yourself, or play with an arranged team with your friends, 
 all of which are incredibly enjoyable and can bring many new friends into your life. Warcraft III 
 is such a great blend of adrenaline rushes, precise strategies, luck of the game, and taking chances; 
 it simply makes you never want to stop playing. I can't even remember how many times I have let 
 my food get cold because I was in an intense game.
  
  I played ladder for a good year or two before I got bored of it, at which point I enjoyed the other 
 great part of Warcraft III: custom games. Players are free to use WorldEdit, which comes with the 
 game and gives access to all of the models and abilities and settings that are used to create normal 
 gameplay, to create all types of custom games. This is truly a great addition in my opinion. While 
 it's not original in the idea of custom games, I think this game has some unique touch to it. There 
 are so many varieties of custom games; they don't take place on the exact same map like many FPS 
 customs do, but you set down every piece of the map, and every piece of AI you want the units on 
 that map to have. I even got absorbed in making custom games for quite awhile.
  
  This game is such a great bundle for a very cheap price. With free online play, and thousands of 
 players online all the time, I've gotten more great playtime out of this game than any other game 
 I've ever picked up (except perhaps the expansion) . I recommend this to anyone that loves RPGs, 
 action games or shooters, or gaming in general. It is such a great game, and truly shows that the 
 PC gaming world is far from dying at the feet of the next-gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III is a great game made by Blizzard. First, the gameplay is really great and fun either 
 on building or attacking enemies. Next is that the AI can be tough to beat and they could defeat 
 you immedietly if you don't act quickly and carefully. Certain stages on the campaign can be easy 
 or really difficult which is frustrating. The factions too are unbalanced includign some of the 
 factions units. The games graphics might be old but its still looks good. The sound is better including 
 the voice acting. While playing the game, I can't remember though if I heard any music or soundtrack 
 at all but the game is still great.
  
  Even though its realesed 5 years ago, the game is still looking good. If you don't have the game, 
 try to find and buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarymovie5
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This is one amazing. Any game that I can go online and play for hours at a time then do the same 
 exact thing the next day is a great game. I love the way you use strategy, gain levels, have records 
 and free tournaments, while still being able to have fun with it. The only problems that holds 
 this game back is the loading times and graphics. The game is also a challenge so don't give up, 
 it will take a while to get used to playing against the unbelievably hard players online. One more 
 pro is being able to play custom games.
  
  Graphics- 6.0/10
  
  Single Player- 7.5/10
  
  Multiplayer- 10/10
  
  Replayability- 10/10
  
  This game will be played for decades 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luiggi_DiMaggio
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  the best strategy medieval game ever, the best campaingn of all times, and the most addictive,, 
 i buy my first pc to play this game, i love it,, and one of the best multiplayer ever too,, play 
 this with friends before the school was more fun to graffitti some wall, ahaha,, the campaign of 
 arthas was amazing, and the elf campaign too,, i loveit kill orcs is such much fun,, the best of 
 all, is you can play this game for months and months, because have 4 campaign of more of ten at 
 twelve hours each,, and the deathmatch with the npc`s more addictive ever,, maybe the only game 
 i love play deathmatch against the computer, obviusly with Age of empires 2 too, but this game 
 , i dont know , have something ,,, 
  
  well no more to say, 
  
  Let the force be with you my young padawan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wardudex
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Warcraft has been one of the best games that i have played. its full of the best a good PC game 
 can offer. It has the color, feel, look and the action needed to make this game endless. Warcraft 
 does have it draw backs, the story at times gets dull or how the order is presented can make it 
 difficult to understand the story. Overall i cant complain I still play this game an ill continue 
 to do so. for yhose who think that this game is for only fans of the series then think again. its 
 a game that all can enjoy not just fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  I think I love this game more than any other strategy. This game is a real hard game for me to 
 play but even that I can't let this game be uninstalled in my PC. I tried all the group of the 
 game and all the heroes but I again loose in simple combats! But I don't throw it away because 
 I think that nothing can let me to leave this legend. I suggest to every gamer that taste this 
 game. Because that any gamer that loose this game will loose his life. It is not important that 
 you play as orc, human, night elf or undead it is important that you play perfect which I can't!!!! try 
 to love this legend and save it in your eternal memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AARON211192
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is wonderful, the units rock, the campaign rocks, battle. net rocks, the factions rock, 
 skirmishes are hard but rock, this game rocks. The four factions are Orcs, Humans, Night Elves 
 and The Undead. If you like pure melee strength, pick Orcs. Their ground units (Grunts and Tauren) 
 are the toughest in the game. Like magic? Pick Humans, they have cool spell casters. Like loads 
 of weak, but cheap units? Undead.. You like stealth and ranged strength? Yep, you guessed it, it's 
 the humans.. Only joking, night elves. All in all, an awesome game. LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL.
  
  Mayonnaise (or Mayo in its abbreviated form) is a thick sauce made primarily from vegetable 
 oil and egg yolks. [1] Whitish-yellow in color, it is a stable emulsion formed from the oil and 
 the yolks and is generally flavored with mustard, lemon juice and/or vinegar, salt, and pepper. 
 Numerous other sauces can be created from it by adding additional seasonings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleodman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll have to admit that this game is much more enjoyable on a system that well exceeds the minimal 
 requirements. The quirky graphics and detail can only truly be appreciated on its maximum settings.
 
  
  Warcraft III gets all the praise it deserves. Long story, plenty of challenging levels and multiple 
 interesting characters to control. The hard setting is a little too psychotic on a few levels (especially 
 those with time limits) but no worries as the normal setting is plenty challenging on its own.
 
  
  A couple of down sides. The cut scenes are OK but not great, and the ending is terrible. A common 
 occurrence with good strategy or RPGs other than those from the Final Fantasy series.
  
  Great replay value. I just finished it again after first buying it 3 years ago. Just (and more 
 so because of my new kick ass PC) as enjoyable the second time around.
  
  This is what strategy games are all about... or at least should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Texlar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I have been procrastinating about trying this version of Warcraft, thinking that it would be a 
 sequel bomb. I was addictively surprised at the added complexity and fierce battles that kept transpiring 
 and continuing to draw you into the compaign. Very addicting. Enjoyed it and will be looking around 
 for a good deal on purchasing Warcraft III. I only tried the single player and went through all 
 four levels available, the first time through it, I died in the underground chambers of the fourth 
 level just at the end of the level. But I still enjoyed getting my butt beat, which made me more 
 determined to play again. After this review, I feel like going back into it. Loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Starcraft has very big shoes to fill in, but Blizzard came our with a great game that just fell 
 a bit short of the previous game's greatness. But just a tiny little bit, at that.
  
  Following what proved to be one of Starcraft's greatest strengths, Blizzard developed 4 races that 
 feel completely different as you play them. They're a little bit closer to each other than Starcraft 
 radically different ones, but still play differently, and that's a great feature. Also, they decided 
 to keep the great storytelling alive, and while the story seems a bit homologous to it's predecessor's 
 one, it's still a good story.
  
  They decided to take a departure from the pure RTS genre, however, with great results. They added 
 some RPG features in the form of heroes, and how they develop new abilities and get new items. 
 While Warcraft III is by all means an RTS game, it still has a lot of refreshing features.
  
  Which bring me to the real downside of the story. As they developed the RPG elements, they 
 also decided it would be better to have small armies that you had to micromanage. Yes, Warcraft 
 III is a game where people with better micromanagement skills will certainly win.
  
  Despite that, it's a great game I can recommend to anyone out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpion48
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  I have many things to say about this game but ill say but i will say it in a simple way, this is 
 a great game if you guys didint buy it yet go to your nearest store and get one, the multiplayer 
 is awesome so is the single player it will take some time to finish the campaigns of each faction 
 so you wont get bored, so what are you waiting for go buy a copy its realy good and its easy connecting 
 to battle net rather than saying check your IP addres or other nonsense. and realy good movie cutsences 
 and if you have Intel graphics card it will run and also if your computer is slow it wont go realy 
 slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eminem_trick_01
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  A game of Warcraft III takes place on a map of varying size, with terrain features like rivers, 
 mountains, or cliffs. In Campaign mode, the map is initially covered with the Black Mask, meaning 
 nothing can be seen in that area until it is explored. Otherwise, areas that have been explored 
 previously but now are not within sight range of an allied building or unit are covered with the 
 Fog of war - though the terrain remains visible, changes such as enemy troop movements and building 
 construction are unseen. Players must construct settlements and bases to capture resources, defend 
 against other players, and train units to use in battle. There are three main resources that are 
 managed in Warcraft: gold, lumber, and food. The first two are required to construct units and buildings, 
 while Food restricts the maximum number of units the player may control at one time.
  
  In previous Warcraft games, there were only two playable races, Orcs and Humans. The differences 
 between each were mostly cosmetic; every Human unit had a corresponding Orc equivalent. In Warcraft 
 III, the Night elves and Undead were added as playable races. In addition, differences between the 
 races was dramatically increased, giving each race certain advantages and disadvantages. For example, 
 Human and Orc units regenerate hit points faster during the day, while many Night Elf units can 
 turn invisible during the night. The types of units and buildings each race can build also vary 
 dramatically. Humans have cheap farms which can be built quickly but provide less food than most 
 other races' corresponding buildings. Orcs have burrows, which are more expensive and slower to 
 build than farms, but provide more food and can be loaded with peon workers to give it a ranged 
 attack. Undead have Ziggurats, which can be upgraded to powerful defensive towers. Lastly, the 
 Night Elves have Moon Wells which can be used to replenish the health and mana of friendly units.
 
  
  Warcraft III adds powerful units called heroes. For each enemy killed, heroes gain experience points, 
 progressing in levels and gaining new spell options (bringing RPG elements to the series) . Certain 
 heroes can also apply beneficial auras to allied units. Heroes can equip items to increase skills, 
 defense, and other abilities. The highest attainable level in a normal game is ten, although in 
 a custom map the player can increase the limit to as high as ten thousand. At level six, the hero 
 can obtain an ultimate skill that is more powerful than the others. Heroes can also utilize the 
 various natural resources found throughout the map, such as controllable non-player characters, 
 and shops containing usable items.. While Hero units were originally created in the second game 
 of the series, Warcraft III greatly expanded the role, use, and strength of heroes. In the previous 
 game, Hero units were only available in campaign mode, whereas they are now in both campaign mode 
 and regular melee games. In Warcraft II, heroes were nothing more than buffed versions of regular 
 units, only slightly stronger in terms of certain stats, and in some cases, had lowered numbers 
 in certain stats In Warcraft III, hero units are exceptionally stronger than regular units. In 
 addition, in the Warcraft II campaign, when a hero unit died, the mission would automatically be 
 failed, which provoked many players to simply leave their hero alone, for fear of failing the mission. 
 While this is the case in a small minority of campaign missions (mostly the ones that do not involve 
 building a base) , Altars could be built by worker units, as means to resurrect a fallen hero. This 
 greatly increased the amount players used heroes in the game, whether in campaign or multiplayer.
 
  
  Warcraft III also introduced a day/night cycle to the series. Besides having advantages or disadvantages 
 for certain races, at night most creeps fall asleep, making nighttime scouting safer. However, 
 the line of sight for most units is also reduced.
  
  Most of the music within Warcraft III was composed by Tracy W. Bush, Derek Duke, Jason Hayes, and 
 Glenn Stafford. The Limited Edition of Reign of Chaos came with much of the orchestral music on 
 a separate soundtrack. The music varies depending on the player's race: monastic music for the 
 humans, ambient and Indian-sounding music for the Night Elves, tribal, warlike, slightly African-sounding 
 music for the Orcs and fast, haunting music for the Undead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard is yet to fail when it comes to making real time stratagy games. The game play is top 
 notch and smooth and the story line is great. What makes the gameplay great is that in scrimish, 
 you have 4 races to choose from, on top of that, each race has a nice selection of heros to choose 
 from. The heros are also great to use because they level up as you use them and you can collect 
 items through out the map to make them stronger or faster, etc. You also get a wide veriety of 
 maps to choose from, on top of the maps that you can download. I would say that the only letdown 
 is that the Ai can be a little frustrating at times, it may just be me though. the game really 
 does make you think and statigize. Over all a must buy for RST players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Damrod14
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III is a great game in turms of graphics, teams and story line, but in my opinion, the 
 instant action and online play are not very good. Sporting nice graphics and a griping story line, 
 Warcraft III is a game that is just made for campain geeks like me. The campains are well balanced 
 in that you cant win with just one hero, but it dose suffer from a dark story line, though the 
 ending more than makes up for it. The only draw back to this game is that the instant action battles 
 are horibly unbalanced. Given enough time, the orc team is unstopable and the entire game mode 
 is built on rushing. I dont know about my readers, but I play rts's for the slow tactics, not the 
  factor. Also, in online play you cant choose who 
 you fight with. Its all randomized which is a pain when your trying to link with a friend over 
 the internet. All in all its not a bad game for some people. However, I shal stick with the tacticle 
 games of old. (Like Age of Empires) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krishna_sarwan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RTS I had played ever... cheers to Blizzard.
  On the other hand, if you're looking to inform yourself about what's great and what's not quite 
 as great about Warcraft III, read on. As the sequel to one of the undisputed classics of PC gaming, 
 Warcraft III has some very big shoes to fill. The previous Warcraft game, together with Westwood 
 Studios' Command &amp; Conquer, popularized the real-time strategy genre and introduced a number 
 of ideas that remain conventional to this day.
  And Starcraft, the follow-up to Warcraft II, was an even more phenomenal success. Talk about staying 
 power: Though Starcraft was released back in 1998, a lot of people still play it. Can Warcraft 
 III truly live up to this heritage? Yes. It has everything that made both Starcraft and Warcraft 
 II before it the blockbuster hits that they quickly became. Warcraft III has lots of great characters, 
 and its fantasy-themed world has tons of personality. It's got fine-tuned, well-balanced gameplay, 
 it's got a quick pace, it's got some new gameplay twists that should surprise even the most hard-core 
 real-time strategy gamers, and it's simply a lot of fun. For good measure, it ships with the powerful 
 Warcraft III world editor utility, allowing devout Warcraft III players to build their own maps 
 and scenarios, thus greatly extending the life of the game for themselves and for others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moogle_eater_89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Reign of Chaos' emmergence in to the video game world is like a passing dream to me, but I can 
 still remember it. The gameplay of this game is polished to a T. Compared to Warcraft II, a lot 
 of technical elements of the gameplay have been ironed out, fortunately. Its only shortcoming really 
 is in the slowdown I sort of experience from time to time, but then again, that may just be my 
 computer lagging, not the game itself per se. But to seal the deal in this matter, I find the artwork 
 somewhat ugly from poor texturing. Entaro Adun! Wait, that's Starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willxcool
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Once again Blizzard can never go wrong it the games that it produce, yet this game Warcraft III 
 Reign of Chaos is another addition from its jewels games that comes out.
  For starters as a fan of Starcraft I really did not like the RPG element that they put in the game 
 play, but as soon I got use to it, the game play really rocks, squeezing more strategy from you 
 than ever and thats where the fun begins
  The game play is the usual collect build and attack is still imputed in the game system added in 
 some NPC monster where you can attack to gain extra exp points to your hero, this time there are 
 new races such as the Undead and the Night elfs, your hero is a crucial unit where it can make 
 and break a game, the Graphics are also well done 3d world, colorful and has some weather effect 
 like night and day raining and so, You can play a single player campaign choosing between the four 
 races available or battle it out on the net Battlenet this is where you can test your skills on 
 hand
  As so the any good things in this game there is little lest to say about the bad for the game is 
 nearly a Perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  IT's already a classic game, so there really isn't much to say. If you like RTS, then go buy this 
 game and the expansion, right now. It's a great game with a great storyline. I will mention just 
 a few things I think could have been improved.
  
  First, I think that while the units for each race in the game is great, it's too bad that it takes 
 the entire game to unlock all the units. The problem with this is that there are many units that 
 you barely get to play with in the campaign, so that's a bit odd to me. This is actually my biggest 
 critique of the entire game. I don't think it's a small critique, but it's not a huge issue either, 
 but noticeable.
  
  The second one is that there is no real ship combat in the game as it was in Warcraft 2, which 
 I find a bit odd. The game works great without it, no doubt, but it is something I missed as a 
 huge fan of WC2.
  
  Perhaps one of the largest problems I have with the game is simply that got released after Starcraft, 
 which in my opinion is just about as perfect of an RTS for  as 
 you could ever get. I LOVE the introduction of heroes that level up and play a huge role in the 
 storylines, but their previous RTS (starcraft) did all the rest of these things better, not something 
 you'd expect from a much older game. Still, WC3 is excellent in these areas.
  
  Worth buying? Of course! It's excellent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  The only time i got into the warcraft world i picked up warcraft 3 and the expansion, and this 
 story is great. i can't believe the whole amount of content behind the warcraft series. warcraft 
 3 introduces much of the mythology and history of azeroth it has an overhead interface and you 
 select your army with intuitive easy controls that makes playing very smooth and clunk free. warcraft 
 involves much more than ordering your army to kill enemies in a click and point affair, there's 
 lots of depth in the missions which simultaneously involves building a base and collecting resources 
 while accomplishing another goal like killing a boss or the other base. the different races really 
 are relevant to the gameplay not just the story. there are obvious differences with each race. 
 the humans are great at tech buildings, defensive maneuvers, the orcs are great at brute assaults, 
 the scourge are great at possessing gold mines, the night elves are gooding at sneaking and their 
 bases are portable. the battles can get really intense, especially near the end stages. but there's 
 still lots of content and story to last more than 50 hours of rts gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreeak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  The warcraft 3 continues story from warcraft 2 and orcs and humans.
  Game have awesome kick ass cinematics and awesome story
  It haves 4 races to play with. Each race 
 have its own unique heroes, units and buildings
  Each race have got its own role in warcraft story. Graphics are very good too
  The best rts ever 
 made. One more masterpiece from blizzard
  The campaign in the game is long and fun, and its very addictive
  There is skirmish too and online 
 play and ofc Network so you can play with your friends in your house for example
  Overall this game will be the best for long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  + The graphics, sounds, and cinematics are just a wonderful work of art.
  + The RPG elements, although not traditional, are a very nice feel in the game.
  - No navy was 
 a bit disappointing.
  - Limited to selecting 12 units at a time.
  
  Warcraft is a household title in my parent's house. I grew up playing the original titles. I remember 
 getting a PC Gamer with the announcement of Warcraft Adventures. It looked like a blend of Warcraft 
 II and The Curse of Monkey Island. Even though the game was almost finished, the canned it. Blizzard 
 didn't want to make an adventure game. So they started on Warcraft III. We were all excited. Finally, 
 in 2002, a month after I moved to Sacramento, CA, I went to Best Buy and picked it up. Glory!
 
  
  Enough about me, the game is what you're reading about. Warcraft III is split up between 4 different 
 races. There's the Humans, Orcs, Undead, and the Night Elves. Each race is almost completely different. 
 For instance, the Humans are your base class, nothing really special, but also beginners will be 
 very familiar with them on first starting the game. The Orcs seem to have more defense. The Undead 
 are basically like the Zergs from StarCraft. They're the rushing group. Even your workers can run 
 down and attack, with great success. Finally, there's the Night Elves, who are really different 
 from all the rest. Their buildings can lift up out of the ground and attack units. Their villagers 
 never cut down trees, so you never break through certain places. Lastly, their units can go into 
 a hide mode, allowing for a quick and easy retreat. With all of this, the game is really well balanced. 
 Another new thing is the RPG heroes in the game. You can level up to level 10 per hero, all which 
 have different buffs and attacks to help you in the course of a giant battle.
  
  The single player campaign is really incredible. If you're playing World of Wacraft, and really 
 want to get more of a feel of where the Warcraft game sets place, you really need to play this. 
 It gives you a feel to what's happened already in the series, as well as what's leading up to World 
 of Warcraft.
  
  The multiplayer is really cool. If you do a custom match, 99% of the time, you're going to download 
 a new map, and the thing about Warcraft's maps: most of them are mods. So you might be playing 
 a Warcraft version of Mario Kart right there just from a 200k map that you download from someone. 
 Aside from that, the ranked matches are really good, but not recommended for beginners. There's 
 some really good newbies out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendonius
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos has a marvellous storyline, alluring characters, stunning graphics, 
 challenging campaigns, addictive game play and a competitive multiplayer platform.
  
  Blizzard are known for their incredable squeals and continual enhancing and building of story lines 
 that run through games. Starcraft and Diablo are proof of this, and Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos 
 is no exception to this quallity of Blizzard's games. The cinematic are awesome and tie in so well 
 to the story that the game play experience becomes even more enhanced. Commanding your hero and 
 units requires insightful strategies as well as a keen sense of the objectives and over all challenge. 
 The different races allows the game play not to become monotonous and makes for a more challenging 
 experience as new tactics are required for each race and subsequent heroes.
  
  As a multiplayer game, Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos is a classic in every way and its continual 
 presence in major tournaments and leagues is testimony to its brilliance as a multiplayer playable 
 game.
  
  The only RTS 'game' in its class that is better and sure to be a classic too is its expansion, 
 Warcraft III: Frozen Throne. If you are looking to add to your game collection of classics, Warcraft 
 III: Reign of Chaos is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Yup, it's well worth the wait for a superb RTS title that Blizzard dedicates to its fans since 
 the classic Warcraft II. If you're still reading reviews, then you probably still has doubt whether 
 to try it. Well, Warcraft III not only has its roots in a standard RTS formula like base building 
 and map-strategy combat, it drew strengths from RPG and action genres too.
  
  The idea of having hero units that gain experience and levels is just wicked enough for RPG fans 
 to have a go in this. Those familiar with Myth II or such tactical combat gameplay will definitely 
 love to play similar scenarios in Warcraft III where you lead your hero unit in winning skirmishes 
 and hunting for artifact treasures. These interesting features made sure that most new gamers will 
 be entertained immediately. The story itself is worthy of a movie plot which brings depth to the 
 hero characters as well. Not to mention there are tons of jaw-dropping cinematics for CG movie 
 buffs to savor. I'm not a Warcraft fan but I really enjoyed myself with what Warcraft III has to 
 offer and dying for more.
  
  It also retains the trademark of having humorous comments from units that are clicked on profusely. 
 Try irritating the female night-elves who give kinky retorts for a laugh.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  I suppose the review's a bit late
  
  Graphics: Still look like WoW wide scale. Blocky and chunky textures but great environment and 
 spell effects.
  
  Sound: The clashing of swords , magic fireballs, and the environment sounds great. Real immsersive 
 3d sounds.
  
  Gameplay: The game's standard RTS affair follow one build for each race and mode and that's all 
 you do for the rest of the time to win.
  
  Races: all 4 races are very unique and no race is similar. Humans gather gold by going into the 
 mine and carrying gold out. So do Orcs. But the Undead first must haunt the mine then put zealots 
 to conspire gold to your sotrages. Night Elves also work similar to the Undead for gold. Undead 
 can't build on normal ground only on Blighted grounds (dead land) . Human's build and Undead summon 
 buildings.
  
  Multiplayer: Still years after people still play this game. Bnet's free and great multiplayer service 
 shines. Though most people follow the same build and it's now filled with either arrogant 13-15 
 year olds who get angry at one small mistake or pissed Koreans. Custom games are filled with maps 
 of defense of the ancients which is hardly fun.
  
  Story: Blizzard took time to craft out the storyline and it pay's off. The game really sends you 
 off the curve with rich lore and plot twists. You start as Arthas prince of the Human kingdom of 
 Lordaron. You have to investigate a plague and find out it's crafted by the Undead who served the 
 Demonic Burning Legion who plan to invade this world. Arthas slowly changes as the evil plagues 
 him and all 4 races are brought into a fray.
  
  It's just a fun game which require patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiNoNaX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Blizzard does it once again, by showing how an RTS should play like. Who would have thought of 
 the introduction of the hero units i surely didnt.
  
  With that said Blizzard re-changes the definition of RTS that they had previously defined!
  
 
  The game is just so flexible, like said before easy to understand and play notoriously hard to 
 master just like all other Blizzard games. It didnt get the Best game of the year award for nothing!
 
  
  Starcraft was always about macromanagment yet this game payed more attention to the micro aspect 
 of RTS. While also introducing 2 new races UNDEAD and NIGHTELVES. I would say that W3: ROC has tremendous 
 balance issues, but that is only natural with a game of such immense power and attention to gameplay. 
 Anything can be done if you put your mind to it. But these imbalance issues have been resolved 
 with the release of Frozen Throne and continous balance patches so that isnt an issue anymore.
 
  
  ROC+Frozen Throne make Warcraft 3 in overall a formidable force in the RTS genre if not the best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scullyy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite games of all time and I still play this sometimes, even after 5 years. Cons 
 and pros below:
  
  Pros:
  - Creat singlepayer with an amazing story
  - Cool characters
  - Insane cinematics
  - The easy to use World Editor
  - Awesome multiplayer 
 with lots of different content
  - Very easy controls and easy to learn
  - RPG elements (Hero lvls, items, and more)
  
  Cons:
  - The scaling of the different things. 
 Units are bigger than buildings and trees.
  
  Everyone should have played this game, even if you aren't that into RTS. The multiplayer has everything 
 from car racing to first person shooting. So go and buy this game now if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo333
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  warcraft 3 is an amazing game and evreone should give it a shot I honestly thinck its better than 
 starcraft
  
  there are 4 races in this RTS the humans wich have alot of technlegy the orcs wich are very strong 
 the undead wich are big in numbers and the night elfes wich have alot of spellcasters
  
  you have to be fast in this game and get out of your base there are two resources wood wich you 
 harvest from trees and gold wich you have to get from varies places around the map but they wount 
 last forever each race has 3 heroes wich are powerful wariours the heros can level up and get new 
 spells or improve igsisting one they can also pick up items the heroes are as follows=
  humans=
  paladins wich can heal your wariors and are pretty good ones themseves arch mages wich 
 cast powerful atack spells
  
  mountin kings wich is a dwarf and a very good fighter
  
  undead=
  death knights wich are like a undead paladin
  
  lichs wich cast spells
  
  dread 
 lords wich cast good spells but also fight well
  
  orcs=
  warchiefs wich cast very useful spells
  
  taren chiftens tarens are large bull peopul and are 
 good at killing
  
  blade masters wich atack well and are quik but not much helth
  
  night elfs=
  prestusses wich is a ranged fighter but also a spell caster
  
  druids wich is 
 the spellcaster
  
  demun hunter a night elf blade master
  
  the gameplay is fantastic if you play the campain its got a very good storyline and some high quality 
 animated cut scences but some times they can be a bit hard to see because there hard to see the 
 missions are very diverse youll never no what youll do with a climatic final mission the campains 
 go in this order first youll do a prolouge as the orcs then youll do a human campain then undead 
 then the proper orc campain and finally the night elfs the skirmish mode also has some pretty good 
 maps but since theres no difilculty level they can get quite hard and if your sick of the computer 
 you can always go on battel net and fight real peopul 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcrosthwait
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  As a long-time lover of Warcraft II, I must admit that this game knocked the wind out of me. The 
 moment I played it I was hooked. The campaign was great, but the defining Warcraft III moment for 
 me was when my friend asked me to play an online game with him. It was my first online gaming experience, 
 and I was blown away. For anyone that hasn't played this game... well... get it. I don't care what 
 new stuff is out. Get it. Play it. The online play is fantastic as well as the campaign.
  
  Gameplay: With awesome units and smooth command of them provides for frustration free gameplay 
 (Unless, of course, you're playing against someone much much better than you. That's the good kind 
 of frustration though, isn't it?) The landscape is important as well, adding new depth to the Warcraft 
 series.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful movies in the campaign add to the addictiveness of the gameplay. The environment 
 design is top notch, and the characters all look fantastic. Half of my time learning to play was 
 spent learning NOT to stare at the all the great detail of the levels.
  
  Sound: The units still have their funny responses (which can get annoying after a while, luckily 
 you can turn them off after your first year or so of playing the game) and the sound effects of 
 the battles are wonderful. The music adds a lot to the campaign, but in the online games I usually 
 turn off the music and let my itunes play.
  
  Overall an incredible game that changed the way players looked at real time strategies. I'm a very 
 proud owner / lover of this installment of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spirosway
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  Way back in 1994, developer Blizzard released what would become the beginning of a long string 
 of PC gaming hits, the real-time strategy fantasy title WarCraft, which introduced many to the 
 world of Medieval-like Azeroth where orcs and humans were constantly in a life-or-death battle. 
 The subsequent year, Blizzard one-upped themselves with the magnificent follow-up, WarCraft II, 
 still considered one of the best PC games ever made. After that, well, it almost seemed like Blizzard 
 forgot about its flagship property as they worked on the StarCraft and Diablo universe-related 
 games, all the while promising to eventually get around to creating more WarCraft titles for the 
 legion of fans. After a WarCraft adventure game fell by the wayside, Blizzard at last announced 
 they indeed were creating WarCraft III. Finally, seven years after WarCraft II was released, Blizzard 
 has unleashed WarCraft III: Reign of Chaos (WC3) into the gaming realm. And was it worth the wait? 
 Yes. WarCraft III enhances the real-time strategy (RTS) formula it helped define while taking advantage 
 of todays superior computer hardware to create one of 2002s best titles so far.
  
  The game is scorching the PC game sales charts, with over a million copies sold already. Blizzard 
 shipped an unprecedented 4.5 million units into the retail market to fill orders, and considering 
 how good the game is theres no reason to believe that WC3 wont quickly sell out by the upcoming 
 Christmas season. Theres a plethora of reasons why WC3 is garnering accolades from gamers and 
 critics alike. All aspects of the game are incredibly well crafted and designed for a completely 
 enjoyable gaming adventure.
  
  I will caution you in this regard though: this game is in need of some serious processing power. 
 According to the requirements, 128MB of RAM are necessary with 256MB recommended. Believe me, the 
 256 are needed if you want to really enjoy WC3. It will run with 128MB, but expect some choppy 
 cinematics and gameplay when theres a bunch of structures and units on-screen at the same time. 
 Most people with the faster Gig/+ Pentium III or IV systems that are increasingly coming standardized 
 with 256MB RAM will get the most out of their WC3 gaming, while people like me (with my 667MHz 
 Celeron and 128MB RAM) will just have to save up for a new PC.
  
  Gameplay enhancements are everywhere in WC3. While the basic  
 RTS tactics still hold true in many instances, there are now more choices than that to garner victory. 
 And now many missions will fail if you spend all your time worrying about building the biggest 
 military. Some missions require speed and stealth instead of an overwhelming troop deployment. 
 To start with, its not just a choice between orcs and humans as in the previous WarCraft titles. 
 Not only do you have orcs and humans, now you can choose the Night Elves and the Undead. The only 
 complaint here is that you must play each race in the order the game unfolds in single-player mode 
 instead of letting you decide which race you want to play. But once you finish the single-player 
 missions by completing each of the four races story arc, you then have autonomy to focus on whichever 
 race you want. A couple of the other new features include the ability to train up to seven units 
 at one time. This is a big time saver as far as training peasants, peons, wisps, and acolytes, 
 which serve as the gatherers of lumber and gold and also provide the muscle to construct your base 
 structures. But be cautioned to pay attention to the amount of resources needed to train the amount 
 of units that you want. Speaking of structures, each race has their own unique structures that 
 comprise their base. The human and orcs are basically the same as before, but the Night Elves and 
 Undead have unique base-building structures.
  
  For instance, the night elves, with their strong ties to the World Tree and nature itself, build 
 structures that are rooted in the magical powers of the land like the Tree of Life, the Tree of 
 Nature, and the Tree of Eternity. (They are a forest-dwelling race, if you havent guessed already.) 
 Another improvement is the restriction on the amount of units you can have at one time, capped 
 by the food limit of 90. This way, one army cant grab an advantage by simply creating a large-numbered 
 force and ignore the other strategic aspects of gameplay that make WC3 a rich and rewarding experience. 
 One of WC3s most welcome additions is the inclusion of the hero class to your races. These are 
 the powerful and legendary figures that lead your forces into war. It is Blizzards attempt to 
 fuse some role-playing game style features into the classic RTS gameplay. WC3's heroes remind me 
 to a certain degree of your Diablo character because you have an inventory of special magical and 
 power items such as rings and mantles. By defeating enemies, your heroes gain experience points 
 to upgrade their specialized attack abilities. However, in another surprising twist to the storyline, 
 WC3s heroes are flawed. Not all the human and night elves are the perfect and virtuous heroes 
 you would expect. On the flip side, the same can be said for the orc heroes, whom you would assume 
 wouldnt have a single good bone in their massive bodies, but that assumption isnt entirely correct, 
 as you will find out. Besides the heroes and basic units for each race, theres tons of Tolkienesque 
 characters throughout the game: satyrs, dragons, huge spiders, furbolgs, ogres, wendigos, enormous 
 wolves, gnolls, murlocs, and golems are just some of the many creatures youll encounter through 
 the various lands of Azeroth. They are non-playable characters that call the landscape of Azeroth 
 home, but in some missions you can actually hire some of them as mercenaries and control them until 
 they die in battle or the mission itself ends.
  
  Graphic-wise, the WarCraft series has undergone a complete transformation, now sporting true 3D 
 visuals whereas the previous WarCraft titles were played using a top-down 2D look. The game has 
 a remarkably similar look to an excellent RTS game I played last year, the largely overlooked Battle 
 Realms. The beautiful and lush environments and character models are colorfully detailed, bringing 
 the land of Azeroth to a vibrant life that must be played on a high-end system to really truly 
 be appreciated. The FMV cinematics are just gorgeous, better than the Final Fantasy: The Spirits 
 Within movie visuals. If you buy the WC3 Collectors Edition, you get a DVD with all the games 
 cinematic scenes combined for viewing. This alone is worth the additional $15 dollar difference 
 from the Standard Edition. The cut-scene graphics arent as impressive as the FMV cinematics, but 
 are adequately done.
  
  WC3s sound, musical score, and voice-acting elements are extremely well done. The voice acting 
 especially is excellent, much better than what is the standard game norm. In fact, theres probably 
 many a Hollywood movie producer that would be envious of the performances of WC3s incredibly talented 
 voice actors. My favorite voice was the 221-years-young dwarf Muradin Bronzebeard, who unfortunately 
 is killed at the end of the human missions. On the control side of the gameplay, WarCraft III still 
 retains the classic mouse-and-keyboard point and click action RTS games are known for. A template 
 for all the hot key commands is located on the back of the game manual, and it comes in handy while 
 you get adept at the main shortcuts that are necessary to effectively control your forces. This 
 is another of the superlative features of WarCraft III that make it such a PC gaming gem. You never 
 have to worry about controlling your army, because with a few keystrokes, you are able to handle 
 both the regular troops and the heroes that are in your war party.
  
  Even though it has no bearing on WC3s actual gameplay, I thought it was worth mentioning how uproariously 
 comical the games closing credits are. Theres coverage of an Azerothian football game, a fictional 
 behind-the-scenes look at filming one scene from the game, and a rock concert by Arthas where you 
 have to make sure you read the subtitles. They are rib-cracking hilarious. Another chucklefest 
 can be had by repeatedly clicking on in-game characters enough times to elicit the jocular catch 
 phrases that have become a trademark of the WarCraft series. It seems that theres at least six 
 or seven for each separate unit, so if youre looking for a lighthearted break from the furious 
 Azeroth fighting, try clicking on some of the characters and see what they say. A big feature of 
 WC3s control is the artificial intelligence of the army under your command. Even without you physically 
 directing them to action, they will react to the environment to give you the best odds of winning 
 any battle. For instance, if you move your grouping of troops to the center of a battle, while 
 your attention is directed to an attack on your town, the now-unattended soldiers will still fight 
 effectively in cases where they arent totally outnumbered. Each member of your force will, with 
 the aid of the games AI, figure out the best chance for victory and attack the likeliest unit 
 or structure that will assist in attaining triumph until you are able to again control them with 
 direct orders.
  
  Add on top of everything else a great storyline that weaves together each of the four races through 
 the entire single-player game. Further detailing the world of Azeroth, the history of each of the 
 main races is told in a fantastically written novella form in the game manual. Theres a new threat 
 to the fragile peace that has settled over Azeroth. Its the Burning Legion, who after thousands 
 of years and with the help of the Undead, plan to enter Azeroth through one of the portals that 
 WarCraft is infamous for and take over the entire world of WarCraft. In a unique twist that becomes 
 apparent as the story unfolds is that the three formerly enemy races (in one form or another) of 
 the humans, orcs, and night elves, must work together if Azeroth is to survive the Burning Legions 
 wrath.
  
  Difficulty and challenge is definitely there, if you stay away from using the single-player cheat 
 codes. Even if you have played many RTS games before, dont expect to just breeze through the game, 
 because WC3s difficulty level even on normal is tough. If you dont use the proper strategy for 
 each particular mission, you will find yourself unsuccessful and re-starting many of the games 
 challenging missions. Each individual mission can take 30-60 minutes, bringing WC3 somewhere in 
 the range of 30-50 hours of single-player gameplay. Your total gameplay hourly figure can increase 
 if you take on the optional side quests that can be fun undertakings, but arent necessary to complete 
 the mission objectives. This isnt quite the 200+ hours you can get out of the RPG Elder Scrolls 
 III: Morrowind, but dont forget about WC3s well-structured multiplayer mode. Online gaming, especially 
 using Blizzards own Battle. net service, will tack a lot of additional gaming time to the whole 
 WarCraft III package, making its higher-than-usual cost (for a PC title) worth every penny.
  
  In fact, WC3s multiplayer has been revamped and honed along with Blizzards Battle. net online 
 multiplayer service to make getting online and into a game ridiculously easy. And not only that, 
 now Battle. net can set you up in games against players with similar skills, so you wont have to 
 worry about squaring off against someone who plays the game ten hours a day and will absolutely 
 annihilate you, which wouldnt bring much enjoyment to novice RTS gamers. This is done using the 
 Anonymous MatchMaking feature of Battle. net that clandestinely checks your record and matches you 
 up with players with a similar record. I am able to log onto Battle. net, choose what type of game 
 I am interested in playing, and get started within five or less minutes. The only other Battle. net 
 experience I have is with Diablo, which was similarly easy to set up and get started in fun online 
 gaming. Battle. net is a huge part of the reason Blizzard has had the success it has attained with 
 Diablo I and II, StarCraft, WarCraft II, and now WC3.
  
  If all the above-mentioned goodness isnt enough, theres also a very detailed and full-featured 
 world editor included so you can create your very own scenarios and 3D maps. You can script for 
 units, magical spells, and events. If youre talented enough with a PC, there is also the option 
 to create in-game cinematics using .mp3 sound files. This is actually the same editor that many 
 of the WC3 developers at Blizzard used in creating the game, so if you ever thought you had what 
 it takes to be a part of a game development team, heres your chance to prove it.
  
  WarCraft III is one of those rare games that you cant really find any problems with. PC gamers 
 that are into classic RTS action cant go wrong purchasing WC3. This is a nearly perfect A+ title 
 of the genre. If you have the system that can handle all the processor-pushing visuals, then by 
 all means pick up the best PC title Ive played so far this year. With the engrossing single-player 
 missions, stellar multiplayer, and the incredibly detailed world editor, WC3 is my early choice 
 for PC Game of the Year. Enjoy it while you can, because with the MMORPG World of WarCraft currently 
 under development by Blizzard, theres no guarantee WarCraft IV (or even a WC3 expansion pack) 
 will ever appear to carry on the award-winning RTS WarCraft universe lineage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sythnob
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 after Diablo 2 is the best game released by Blizzard Entertainment. Powerful Single 
 player and multi player make this game one of the most popular game in net and it's the best in 
 E-Sports Competitions. Very Attractive and Addictive Scenario and game play, interesting Characters 
 like Arthas, Illadin, jaina etc. very nice fantasy graphic, normal sound and very natural and wonderful 
 movie like human ending, normal value and it's perfect environment makes this game best in its 
 time.
  it has nice map, interesting items, heroes with different powers, mythic units Its world editor 
 is so useful. You certainly spend a lot of time on it But it worth to playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pump_man44
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  One of the first things you will notice about the campaign mode of this game is that it does a 
 much better job of getting you involved with the story than most RTS games out there. Although 
 at the start it may feel a bit slow paced, you wont mind because the story is integrated so well 
 with the game-play via short movie clips. Blizzard has made the campaign mode fresh by making sure 
 you don get bored with just playing as one race all the way through, instead you will be playing 
 as the good guys for a few levels then you will be the evil side,,,, and so forth, which actually 
 works very well. But as regards gameplay you cant really fault this game, the different races have 
 been balanced out very well making it fair yet at the same time refreshing to play as the alternate 
 races. Graphically speaking this game is a bit outdated now, but thats not to say it doesent look 
 anything short of briliant. Also when you are finished wth the campaign mode the online service 
 via Battle. Net is brilliant for fixing you up with people of similar skill levels to yourself.
 
  But all in all this game is a must buy for any serious Warcraft or RTS fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huytttr
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 29, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  First off all i would like to thank blizzard for making very good games. When i first picked up 
 this game i thought it was going to suck because it was kinda old game. boy i was wrong. When i 
 first started i didn; t even try the single player campaign because of the ADDICTING multoiplayer. 
 Battle. net is the best. There are many people playing this game sometimes in numbers up to 10,000. 
 There are very engaging and addicting custom games including hero wars (my favorite) , dota, run kitty 
 run, and hero line wars to name a few. The ladder matches are also fun but require a lot of skill 
 to be one of the best. Dont believe the people who say this game is easy. sure it might be on single 
 player but its definitly not on multiplayer. Buy this game and enjoy the many features enbeded 
 in this game. if you found this review helpful please recommend it. ty for your time. FTH=For the 
 Horde 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CashMcL
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 25, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  If you have even a passing interest in the Real Time Strategy (RTS) Genre this is an absolute must 
 own. In fact, you probably should have bought it five years ago. If you have missed the boat up 
 to this point and never jumped on this title, fret not, it is every bit as enjoyable today as it 
 was in the Summer of 2002. For the purposes of review I will break things down into three parts: 
 General game play, Single Player play, and Multi Player game (s) . Both Single and Multi Player games 
 are exceedingly enjoyable, and either alone would likely be more than worth the purchase price.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I will spare specific details on game play such as resource management, hero development, and unit 
 creation, as those are covered more completely in other reviews, and focus more on the subjective 
 aspects of the game.
  
  The first thing to realize about Warcraft is that it focuses more on smaller armies where the player 
 plays a more direct role in their movement and combat. This gameplay is in contrast to, say the 
 Command and Conquer Series, where units are primarily sent into battle and 'do their own thing.' 
 Many units, particularly those stemming from later in the tech trees, have unique abilities which 
 must be controlled by the player. Others have 'autocast' abilities to reduce the workload on the 
 player. Due to smaller armies 'Micro' managing units is an essential part of game play, particularly 
 in multi player settings. The introduction of 'Hero' units adds a huge twist on game play. These 
 powerful units can change the tides of battle, especially after attaining powerful items and spells 
 at later levels. The hero unit adds a slight RPG element to the game while still remaining true 
 to its RTS heritage. Overall gameplay is as good as it gets for RTS games. Single Player:
  
  My comments on single player play will be brief, as I have dedicated far more time to Multi-player 
 play.
  
  The single player game is most certainly rewarding and contains a deep story line enjoyable to 
 longtime Warcraft followers and new gamers alike. The high number of campaigns, along with impressive 
 cinematics and story lines would make Warcraft III a great purchase for its single player alone. 
 That being said the single player campaigns are often just a primer to the game before diving into 
 Multi Player games. Multi Player:
  
  The sponsored 'ladder' multiply is about as enjoyable and competitive as any game I have ever played. 
 The added element of opponent intelligence brings the game up to a whole new level. The competition 
 at low levels allows even new gamers to learn strategy (on which an entire book could be written) 
 at a consumable pace. Those new to multi player games should not expect to win their first few 
 attempts, but the Ladder matching system attempts to pair equal skilled player to ease the learning 
 curve. Custom games, not tied to Blizzards player ranking system, are also immensely popular in 
 WC3. Games such as Defense of the Ancients (DotA) have remained popular for years. DotA in particular 
 allow players to control a single hero unit turning the game into a RTS/RPG hybrid building their 
 characters over the course of competitive games lasting about 30-60minutes. While many 'pure' ladder 
 players argue that DoTA dumbs down play (only controlling one unit) no one can argue the game is 
 flat out fun.
  
  Final Comments:
  
  Go out and buy WC3: RoC along with the Frozen Throne expansion. Play through the single player campaign 
 and then jump into some multi player ladder games. Experiment with some of the Custom games and 
 maps. You will not regret it.
  
  This game has five years under its belt and going strong. This is the game I reach for when flipping 
 through the library deciding what I want to play. Very few games can claim to provide years of 
 entertainment, but Blizzard has done just that with Warcraft III, it is, in every sense of the 
 word, a Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joey2day
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to make it long, because many people have written about this game before. For me 
 this game represents the reason why I play games. It's unfair to say its simply a RTS that played 
 like no other. It has the quality of a book and the excitement of a movie. And guess what? you're 
 in it and it's fun.
  It's been 5 years since it first came out and somehow i felt the need to write this small review 
 about it. Don't play Gears of War or Halo 3 or any of those breathtaking behemoths, yeah sure... they 
 are fun, but in ten years you'll forget about those games, play Warcraft. The experience is amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLeckie
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 4, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  When i first got warcraft 3 i expected to find a unique spin on the RTS genre, and i was delighted 
 with the new changes made, but as i played more i noticed some gaping flaws.
  
  for one the RTS side of the game is terrible and near impossible to play, hell when someone says 
 they're going online to play W3 they will more than likely play DOTA or some other scenario rather 
 than a normal game.
  
  Why? simple there is no stratergy whatsoever, in the way of tactics there is a plethora of options 
 in the form of spells but the problem is that the game is to dependant on these spells, hell unless 
 you are the master of the hotkey just casting spells in time will be a chore as the CPU has the 
 massive advantage of simply effecting the spell in nano seconds while it can take up to one or 
 two for you a massive disadvantage.
  
  also you can not ever field a large army. due to a ridiculasly small population cap combined with 
 the penalty rates for large armies, and when in battle you find that its almost like the units 
 do no damage whatsoever with a normal battle between 2 units lasting minutes or if in a large group 
 they are too short due to the fact that the CPU can boot up its spells and buffs and such in an 
 instant while for you it is a test to see how fast you can uber-micro. The battle are lackluster 
 and boring hell i dont know ho w many times ive rolled in with a large force of powerful units 
 with buffs and all only to be decimated by smaller forces due to the fact that the CPU can simply 
 cast new spells faster and due to poor pathfinding large groups always move foward in large shamling 
 groups instead of any type of formation.
  
  The upside is that the campagin and story are brilliant with the campaign taking advantage of the 
 RPG aspects to make a great adventure which sadly does not translate into MP due to the fact that 
 collecting items and leveling up is a long and difficult process in MP.
  
  the sound is good and sets a nice atmosphere while the graphics have they're own distinct style.
 
  
  all in all if your lokking for an RTS try something else if your looking for a great adventure/RPG 
 game with RTS elements then this is your ticket to happiness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III is a game that can be somewhat immersing. The storyline ties together very well. You 
 can play with four different races, the Human Alliance, the Orc Horde, the Undead Scrouge and the 
 Night Elf Sentinels. Each race has its own units, style of play and heroes. The heroes in this game 
 is what makes it a unique Real Time Strategy Game, all the strategy games I have played up to this 
 one have not had heroes that can level up and have abillites and and can make upgrades to them. The 
 graphics in this game are 3d almost like a play station one 3d but with more distinct colors and 
 characters. The sound really isn't anything interesting but is good for the theme of the game. 
 Warcraft III also has battle. net for online play which adds alot of replay value. Overall, the 
 game is worth your time and can be fun and entertaining as well as challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wideload10
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 21, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  warcraft 3 is very interesting but it can ger a bit borning at some times e. g during some games 
 it get like a routiene just building a base, buliding a army and destorying other players either 
 online or angainst the computer.
  some good points are that once you win a certain amount of games you can change your picture and 
 also make clan, one very neat and cool point is that you can play mini online games, e. g loap is 
 one favroite it main objective is to get a job make a lving and get married or you can be the drug 
 dealer, maifa (my favroite) or the police. another good and favoite game is hero wars the objective 
 is to chose a GOOD hero make men and destroy your opponents. angel arena is a awsome game where 
 you pick your charecter and kik ass!! your can get to lvs of 100,000 some games last for hours 
 and even a day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Those familiar with the Warcraft series will feel right at home with this game. With 
 the fimiler Orc and Human fractions there are two new additions: the Undead and the Night Elves, 
 both of whom play very differently from our two more familiar races. Blizzard has now put a role-playing 
 element in Warcraft 3 which is ok. Each of the four fractions has there own heros with there own 
 special abilities which can help them in battle and help other units around them in battle. In 
 the third installment of Warcraft, the camera can be moved in and out, and down to ground level, 
 but can't be rotated. There is the usuall Single player, multiplayer and skirmish modes which you 
 can play. In the single player the story has been improved and continues the story from the second 
 game. The multiplayer section with no supise has not battle. net but for some reason so many people 
 play this game online. And for the skirmish mode it's allright with the diffrent maps and such.
 
  A major weak point is that Warcraft 3 plays the same as its predecessors. You are still limited 
 to the amount of units you can have in a group. Your total unit limit is linked to how many farms 
 you have, and your resources are dependent on your peons. Also like all of Blizzards RTS games 
 everything feels a big chess game trying to find a weak point or it feels like your just rushing 
 your troops in to the enemy base and utter destroying the base. Yes there is strategy involved 
 but it's not the type of stragegy I am/ was looking for. Graphics: The graphics are good and still 
 look good considering it came out in 2002. The color's are bright and vivid and and the graphics 
 of the enviroment look nice and polished. Also the cut scences are well done, one of the best 3-D 
 cut scence I have seen besides the game The longest Journey since the turn of the centuary.
  
  Sound: I have say that the voice acting in the game is well done and the sound track and effects 
 are also suit the gameplay.
  
  Value: All in all I have to admit there is quit a bit to do in this game. It will keep you occupided 
 for a humber of numbers. But this is a simple strategy game for simple people. But in the end this 
 is not my type of RTS game I will consistantly play. I personally think this game is overhyped 
 and I hear people talk about this and other hyped up games all to much. So it gets annoying and 
 I start to hate it and I don't play it anymore
  I give this game 7.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  When I was a kid I didn't have the opportunity to play all the great pc games because I didn't 
 have a pc. Now, since the age of 5 I was lucky enough to have a NES. Hence the fact that I'm such 
 a huge console gamer as oppose to pc. Don't get me wrong I still love pc games, but personally 
 I love playing 99% of games on my console over the pc. The only games that I can't playing on a 
 console because no one has ever been able to develop the control scheme to fit the genre is RTS. 
 (Hopefully, that will change with the Wii control.. which can do anything in the world because 
 it's all powerful.) Playing a RTS on a gamepad is by far the worst setup possible; trust me, I 
 have tried just about every single console RTS that has been release and they are all god offal 
 for one reason; horrible sense of control. You might have guessed that I play lost of RTS. Well 
 you sir or ma'am are correct; I love RTS; and the king of RTS's will always be in my mind Blizzard. 
 (There hit list includes the classics: Starcraft, Warcraft 1 - 3)
  
  Yes boys and girls, before the Blizzard you know today; you know the one I speak of, the blizzard 
 that is only going to focus on MMORPG's because they make companies billions of dollars richer. 
 Yes, this blizzard once made RTS and damn fine good ones too. Yet with such a great track record 
 they somehow managed to out do themselves over and over again. To me, they hit their peck at Warcraft 
 3 Reign of Chaos. This game sums up everything I love about RTS. Great factions; Humans, Orcs, 
 Dark Elves and Undead. Totally sweet heroes for each individual faction and even awesom-er units. 
 This game had it all; great story, sweet characters and sweeter online play.
  
  Graphics: First of all, I'm not a graphics man, never have been never will be; games like Gears 
 of War or Resistence Fall of Man aren't cool because they look sweet it's the pending gameplay 
 that inevitably places this game in such high regard. This game is no different; the graphics aren't 
 super amazing were your soaks will go flying off in different directions. Yet at the same time, 
 they are definitely good enough to keep most people satisfied. Gameplay: What makes this game so 
 great its two main focuses: 1 Nearly perfection when it comes to balancing each faction. Humans 
 for instance have very cheap infantry that can be produced quicky for rushes; Orcs have expansive 
 infantry units but what they lose in cost they make up with by being badasses on the battlefield. 
 Each faction has this kind of rock-paper-scissors style of units. Like: Human riflemen can easily 
 down undead gargoyle; but crypt fiends can easily down any air units and can still hold their own 
 in ground battles. Each faction is different; which has a kind of double edge sword type of deal. 
 On one hand, each faction is super different so you can see that the developers have placed tremendous 
 amount of time and effort into the small details; which to me goes a long way in saying that blizzard 
 isn't going to cut corners when it comes to rocking out the warcraft franchise. The negative side 
 to all these unique factions is it takes a very long time to truly figure out the different strategies. 
 Personally, I love the fact that I have to actually learned each factions units just to survive 
 in some situations both single player and multiplayer; but to newcomers that aren't use to RTSs 
 and don't want to spending months on one race; this game isn't for YOU!! The second main focus 
 in Warcraft 3 is heroes. Now each race has generally speaking the same type of hero with just different 
 spells. For example, the Humans have an Archmage which obviously falls in the magic category; and 
 uses special spells. Each race has their equivalent type of magic character; Orcs for instance 
 has the Far Seer which is pretty much just like a mage with different spells. Once again, the balance 
 between heroes is nearly perfect as well. No hero fells overly dominate; if two heroes of the same 
 level duel; it doesn't boil down to which hero you have its how good is the user behind the hero. 
 Music &amp; Sound effects:
  The music in Warcraft 3 sounds pretty generic to me; but were the game truly excells is in the 
 voice acting. First off, every unit has multiple lines of dialogue which prevents people from getting 
 sick of hearing their troops because half of the dialogue is totally hilarious. If some of the 
 lines don't put a smile on your face call me up and I will give you something to frown about. Lasting 
 Value: The biggest thing this game has going for it is the lasting value. After playing through 
 the lengthy campaign twice, I began diving into the awesomeness that is multiplayer. Lets just 
 say that Battle. net is one of the best online services around; I never had problems with the server 
 or finding matches or tournments and even clans to join. Overall the multiplayer is just a game 
 in itself. In the end, I absolutely love Warcraft 3, the heroes are sweet, the factions are even 
 sweeter. The campaign is super long for an RTS and even has an extra bonus campaign after you beat 
 the game. The multiplayer is a blast and I would definitely recommend this game to anyone. Even 
 non-RTS fans because the game is so great that I think everyone should experience this game at 
 least once; even if the experience is negative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeDuff
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  amazing just purely amazing this is a perfect game blizzard has shown us whts been happening
  
  wow this is quite amazing this has everything gore storyline good enough graphics sound this 
 has everything
  
  GROUND BREAKINGLY good is wht u will think if u get this game and i also reccomend getting The 
 Frozen Throne aswell WELL worth it
  
  u will not be disappointed with this game this has no flaws. u cannot explain this game in words 
 its just perfect 10 out of 10 is wht this should b getting if u want a great game Get THIS A MUST 
 MUST MUST GET!!!!!!!! DeDuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movin_target
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Well I got this game not to long ago in the battle chest Edition. Ive played it long enough to 
 review both Reign of Choas and Frozen Throne. Ok lets start
  
  Graphics- Theyre pretty good, not really bad but ok but remember this was made in 2002 so it ages 
 well. But the cutscenes look great .7/10
  
  Sound- This game has really good voice acting. It also has some quality music. Though it does kind 
 of get annoying when the charecter your controlling keeps saying something everytime you move over 
 and over. But I guess there are sound options for that .9/10
  
  Value- Well the battle chest was a really good value of 40 bucks for Reign of Choas, Frozen Throne 
 and strategy guides for each game. 10/10
  
  Tilt- Well this was my first RTS game so 8/10
  
  Gameplay- Might as well save this for last.
 
  The game is good, it pulls you in with the single player with the games exellent story, and keeps 
 you playing with multiplayer. There are four races the Orcs, Humans, Undead, and Night elves. And 
 each race has heroes that range from a brutish warrior to a intellegent mage. The thing I like about 
 this, is that the fact when you first play the campeign if you never played an RTS in your life 
 the tutorial gives you a good idea on what to do. Building a base is pretty fun because, say your 
 in the middle of a game, your hero is out with some troops lvling so you can face your enemy, but 
 then your base gets attacked your in the suspence of seeing what happens when your troops get there 
 whether you win of lose. So its fun but the thing is for me I cant come back to it much because 
 it is pretty hard when it comes to the online play. 7/10
  
  Well this review may not of helped anyone because I was just babeling but I tried 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  the game starts with a movie. it shows the humans about to spar with their blood enemies. then 
 only 1 is left from each race. a big fire ball comes from the sky. a fire rock creature rise out 
 of the dust. the 2 dont have another choice but to unite. they both get killed.... and this is 
 where the game begins.
  
  well the you get to choose to start the prologue or start right away with the human missions or 
 just skip it. i reccommend playing the prologue. You get to play with the Enemy Hero. He is lead 
 to war by a mysterious old man who can also turn to a crow. And this same man tries to lead the 
 humans into war.......*suspicious!*
  
  OVERALL: EXCELLENT GRAPHICS, GROUND BREAKING SOUNDS, GROUND BREAKING STORYLINE!
  
  CERTAINLY 
 DESERVED GAME OF THE YEAR FOR 2002!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daytona_178
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  One of the first things you will notice about the campaign mode of this game is that it does a 
 much better job of getting you involved with the story than most RTS games out there. Although 
 at the start it may feel a bit slow paced, you wont mind because the story is integrated so well 
 with the game-play via short movie clips. Blizzard has made the campaign mode fresh by making sure 
 you don get bored with just playing as one race all the way through, instead you will be playing 
 as the good guys for a few levels then you will be the evil side,,,, and so forth, which actually 
 works very well. But as regards gameplay you cant really fault this game, the different races have 
 been balanced out very well making it fair yet at the same time refreshing to play as the alternate 
 races. Graphically speaking this game is a bit outdated now, but thats not to say it doesent look 
 anything short of briliant. Also when you are finished wth the campaign mode the online service 
 via Battle. Net is brilliant for fixing you up with people of similar skill levels to yourself.
 
  But all in all this game is a must buy for any serious Warcraft or RTS fan!
  
  If you found my review helpful please recommend it. Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  WarCraft III continues the WarCraft series and adds what may be the second most important aspect 
 to the series, 3D (the first being Battle. net) . While 3D has it's ups and downs, one thing is certain, 
 WarCraft III is becoming like StarCraft (except StarCraft doesn't have the "ZOMFG ITS A DOTA MAP" 
 n00bs that WarCraft III does) . WarCraft III was a great game, the expansion pack was even greater, 
 but then something terrible happened, a terrible plague struck WarCraft III, this plague was called 
 Defense Of The Ancients, which quickly became the most popular WarCraft III map and turned WarCraft 
 III into "kickban central" since the map takes about 10 minutes to an hour to download no matter 
 how fast your Internet is. The second you join a game that is hosting a DOTA map you will be banned 
 by a gay noob **** DOTA itself is not even an original idea, it is a horrible WarCraft III map 
 (seriously the map sucks, it's only played by the people who lose 11 versus 1 comp stomps on War3) 
 that ripped off a good StarCraft map, Aeon of Strife, Aeon of Strife is a good map though, whereas 
 DOTA is not. Thats enough with the DOTA crap, there are other maps out there. Battleships is a 
 really fun map. Footmen Frenzy is, however Footmen Frenzy got tainted when over 100 versions of 
 it were released and people didn't know which map was which and which ones sucked and which ones 
 rocked. I give WarCraft III: The Frozen Throne 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  When i bought Warcraft I i loved it at the first time i played it and then when i got this Warcaft 
 III i was like SUPERB! ;DD This is amazing game truely the campaining has a great story and troops 
 are coo looking and bases are shineing. I'll love this game and i always will and best troops surely 
 are ORCS!
  
  For this old game the effects are surely amazing only thing that makes a smaaaaaal minus is that 
 units have too much health and they look pretty huge on the map...
  
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  g
  
 g
  g
  great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3.... hmmmmm the name has it's own legend. It started humbly as a small game but with it's 
 third episode it busted everything up.
  Istarted playing it as a begginer in gaming but the gamepleay pleasure got me right away.
  The 
 story starts easilly from the Orc attack on the Alliance towns, the Undead plague decimating Alliance 
 cities and the coming of The Burning Legion. The graphics catchs you in it's spell easily. The eyecandies, the 
 effects, the colors, making the universe look alive. Though it has a cartoonish look it's enough to 
 make you feel what's happening.
  The gameplay is a classic RTS type united with a D&amp; D RPG like type. There are many units which 
 can fit anybody's style.
  The sound I believe, it's the weak point of this game. Though there is a funny easter egg when clicknig 
 many times on the same unit, there could have been better sounds.
  But nothing beats the main campaign. You can play the 4 races in the game (Night Elves rule!) and 
 each of them impresses you in a way or another.
  This is just a training lesson, because the real duels are in multiplayer along with your friends 
 and even family (Hey dad! Your gyrocopters are down and my druids of the claw are killing your riflemen!!!!) !
 
  Blizz showed us quality and now that they're making a ton of money from the WOW: TBC sales we're 
 waiting for Warcraft 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has been renowned world wide for its excellent strategy games. Even since the days of 
 Warcraft I, Blizzard has been a company to remember. When Warcraft II was released, gamers experienced 
 something new... a Real-Time Strategy (RTS) with a story, deep gameplay, and ingenuity! StarCraft 
 took this and expanded it to a new world, raising the bar for RTS's to an entire new level... and 
 Warcraft III raises it again.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) -- Warcraft III has an extremely enticing Single Player that makes you want to keep 
 playing. Elaborate videos and movies show Blizzard's amazing graphics (which I will get to later) , 
 and the in-game cut scenes expand the story immensely. Blizzard made sure that you do not get bored 
 doing the same style of mission over and over again as you see in many games. You do everything 
 from, search and rescue to defend your base to destroy the enemy forces and more. Optional side-quests 
 during a mission only increase the gameplay. You can also set up custom games against the computer 
 to try out new skills, test yourself, or simply get a feel for the game. However, the computer 
 is quite challenging, and there is no option to change the difficulty level. This is where gameplay 
 loses its point. Also, the new hero feature adds a brand new element of the game, that enforces 
 micro-management, rather than just massing units and attacking. Gamers should enjoy it quite a 
 lot! But of course, Blizzard allows you to connect to Battle. net and play against real opponents. 
 The Play Game feature allows you to play against people your own skill level and makes playing 
 online much more enjoyable. You can also connect directly to friends and play that way.
  
  Story (9.5/10) -- For an RTS, Warcraft III features an elaborate storyline that is sure to please. 
 Your missions are not simply for nothing; each one of them progresses the massive storyline, spanning 
 4 races and 28 chapters. A huge tale unfolds as you play the game, and this draws you in farther 
 and farther. The story is not lacking in many parts; it has tales of deceit, war, and of course, 
 a bit of love. Plot twists are not lacking, and this makes the entire game like an edge-of-your-seat 
 thriller.
  
  Graphics (10/10) -- From the very first trailer I saw, the graphics in Warcraft III are amazing. 
 The FMV's are the best I have seen on a computer game in quite a while. They are easily better 
 than that of Final Fantasy X, which is well known for its amazing graphics. The in-game cut scenes 
 are not spectacular, but they are very good for the purpose they serve. People do not move in blocky 
 fashion, and flow throughout the game. Even the gameplay graphics are amazing, every unit and building 
 is done with precision and glory. Perhaps the only downside to this is it creates a very long load 
 time, but it is well worth it. The graphics of Warcraft III are, in a single word, PERFECT.
  
  Sound (9/10) -- Warcraft III also features some amazing musical scores. Each piece of music fits 
 the situation of the game perfectly, and the background music for basic games is very nice. Blizzard 
 made sure that the music adds to the game, rather than simply annoying you. You will never find 
 yourself with low volume while playing Warcraft III. The sound effects are very nice as well. The 
 battle sounds are quite realistic, and the character voices are done very well. And of course, 
 Blizzard has added the 'poking' messages from when you click on a unit repeatedly. You can do it 
 for hours; the sayings are memorably and extremely funny.
  
  Replayability (10/10) -- I can play this game all day. Between the immense single player and online 
 play, Warcraft III never seems to stop pleasing. With the map editor, you can create new challenges 
 for yourself, and basically, do anything you can possibly conjure up for the game. Even once you've 
 beaten all of the single player missions, you find yourself coming back to try it faster, or to 
 complete every sidequest, or find new areas you never noticed. Like StarCraft, Warcraft III should 
 be keeping people playing for years and years to come!
  
  Overall (9.5/10) -- I would put that up as my final score, but alas, there are no fractions. Anyway, 
 Warcraft III is an excellent game. People who liked StarCraft should be quite pleased with Warcraft 
 III, heck, anyone who likes games should be pleased with it. There are very few flaws with the 
 game, and I'm sure Blizzard can come up with some sort of patch for them. Also, if you have a chance 
 to pick up the Warcraft III soundtrack or cinematic DVD, pick them up. They are very nice addition 
 to your collection :) . So, BUY WARCRAFT III! You will not be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feichi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III proved to be one of the most anticipated and popular computer game releases ever, 
 with 4.5 million units preordered and over one million additional units sold during its first two 
 weeks. Reception of Warcraft III was overwhelmingly positive; the game averages a 93% at GameRankings. com, 
 and Universal Acclaim at MetaCritic, based on dozens of reviews. While GamePro noted that WarCraft 
 III doesnt revolutionize the RTS genre , they still praised Blizzard for delivering a title with 
 a well-executed story, drum-tight gameplay and a long shelf life as a multi-player title. Gamespot 
 noted that as with Starcraft, the ability to experience the action from all sides is of great appeal. 
 Most reviewers noted that Blizzard had finally fleshed out the storyline of the first two Warcraft 
 titles, finally giving each side its own motivations and differences beyond cosmetics. IGN, giving 
 the game a 9.3 out of ten, noted that while there's not a ton that's new to RTS buffs out there. 
 But it's done well enough that you either won't notice or won't care. Gameplay of Warcraft III 
 was markedly different from its predecessors. Differences between the races was dramatically increased, 
 giving each race certain advantages and disadvantages. For example, Human and Orc units regenerate 
 hit points during the day, while Night Elf units can turn invisible during the night. Undead buildings 
 can be unsummoned to recoup a certain amount of the resources that went into its construction; 
 Human buildings can have their armor upgraded; and most Night Elf buildings can uproot , being 
 living creatures, and move around the map. Warcraft III had the addition of full 3D terrain and 
 weather effects, never before seen in a Blizzard RTS title. Further diversifying races, Warcraft 
 III adds powerful units called Heroes; each race has four. Heroes can find or trade items to increase 
 skills, defense, and other abilities, and with each kill of an enemy, the heroes gain experience 
 points, eventually resulting in increasing their level and gaining new spell options (thus introducing 
 RPG elements to the series) . Certain heroes also can apply beneficial auras to allied units. The 
 highest level that can be gained in a normal game is level ten. At level six, the hero can obtain 
 an ultimate skill that is potentially more powerful than the others. Another new feature is the 
 addition of creeps, which are computer controlled units the player fights even in multiplayer. 
 They guard key areas such as gold mines or neutral buildings and are designed to act as a resource 
 for the players to kill to provide experience points to a player's hero and to provide hero items. 
 The idea is to force the player to be aggressive instead of turtling up (spending all resources 
 on defenses, rather than attacking) . Warcraft III also introduced the concept of a day/night cycle 
 to the series. Besides having advantages or disadvantages for certain races, at night most creeps 
 fall asleep, making nighttime scouting safer. However, the line of sight for most units is also 
 reduced. Other smaller changes to the gameplay were due to the 3D terrain; for instance, units 
 on a cliff have an attack bonus when attacking units at lower elevations.
  
  Warcraft III's campaign is broken up into chapters; each chapter has the player control another 
 race. Unlike previous Blizzard titles, such as Warcraft II or Starcraft, players are not directed 
 to mission briefings in which plot exposition occurred and objectives are announced; rather, Warcraft 
 III uses a system of seamless quests . Some plot development happens in occasional cinematics, 
 but most occurs in-game with cutscenes. Objectives are revealed to the player during the progress 
 of the map. While the player's completion of main quests is integral to the success of a mission, 
 there are also optional quests which are not initially revealed, but can be discovered and completed 
 without changing the main objectives. Through each race's campaign, the player retains control 
 of one or more heroes, which slowly grow in experience as the levels progress. This experience 
 is carried over to subsequent missions, allowing the hero to grow throughout the course of the 
 campaign. The game's plot is told entirely through cinematics and cutscenes, with additional information 
 found in the Warcraft III manual. The campaign itself is divided into five sections, with the first 
 acting as a tutorial, and the others telling the story from the point of view of the humans of 
 Lordaeron, the Undead Scourge, the Night Elves, and the Orcs. The tutorial campaign, Exodus of 
 the Horde , has the player take command of Thrall, a young Orcish warchief, as he leads his army 
 across the sea to Kalimdor. Later in the narrative, Thrall once again appears, along with his right-hand 
 Blademaster Grom Hellscream, as the Orcs arrive on the shores of Kalimdor. In The Scourge of Lordaeron 
 the player commands Arthas Menethil, a young prince and paladin who unites with the mage Jaina 
 Proudmore in an effort to investigate a mysterious plague, directed by a shadowy cultist named 
 Kel'Thuzad. In Kalimdor, high priestess Tyrande Whisperwind and Malfurion Stormrage direct the 
 Night Elves against the Burning Legion's forces.
  
  Most of the music within Warcraft III is orchestral, and composed by Tracy W. Bush, Derek Duke, 
 Jason Hayes, or Glenn Stafford. Although the music is orchestral, it uses several MIDI sounds, 
 and is in mp3 format. The music varies depending on the player's race, monastic music for the humans, 
 ambient music for the Night Elves, tribal, warlike music for the Orcs and fast, haunting music 
 for the Undead. New themes were added in the expansion.
  
  Warcraft III is undoubtedly one of the best RTS games on the market today even though it was released 
 back in 2002. The biggest appeal of the game is that it has four playable races (more than any 
 other RTS from Blizzard Entertainment) . Each race is unique, has different attributes, and imaginative 
 units. The magic spells of the Heroes and of regular units are spectacular, imaginative and varied. 
 All this makes the battling in the game very enjoyable, and also adds a lot of strategic value. 
 Something to keep in mind though is that most of the time players won't be able to win by creating 
 a large number of units and then overwhelming an opponent. You'll only be able to keep a maximum 
 of maybe 30 units at a time. Also, strong base defenses aren't available so an opponet can level 
 your base with maybe a dozen units if your base is undefended. This makes the game tough to play 
 online. An opponent may also defeat your army on the battlefield and then proceed to destroy your 
 base while you don't have enough units. The campaigns are lengthly and interesting (even addictive 
 because you'll always want to see what happens next because the storyline is very good) . In addition 
 to the main storyline you can learn the backstory of the game, its heroes, and what events took 
 place in the world of Azeroth before the invasion of the Burning Legion began. The graphics of 
 Warcraft III are, in a word, stunning. They may not look painstakingly detailed, but there is a 
 certain charm to the way everything looks. The music for the game is well composed, but like in 
 all other RTS games it doesn't stand out, and it's not catchy. Still, it's a quality piece of work, 
 so it's not a turn-off in any way. The sound effects, and especially the voice acting are great. 
 All in all, Warcaft III is a superb game that will appeal to many for a long time not just because 
 it's a quality game, but also because of its online gameplay on Battle. net. The Frozen Throne expansion 
 pack is a must-have if you're going to buy Warcraft III because it improves so much in the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  It had been some time since I played an RTS, and the mood suddenly struck me. This was one of those 
 titles with amazing reviews, for the most part, that I had neglected to pick up when it first came 
 out. Long story short, I have no problem playing older games (some of my all-time fav's are truly 
 old, running in 2D at 800x600 and even at 640x480) , so I grabbed a copy of WC3 and got down to 
 it.
  
  I have played this game for a handful of hours, enough to know I probably won't be finishing it. 
 Here's what it boils down to: create some troops (infantry, ranged attackers, etc.) , assign them 
 and your hero (es) to group #1 (maybe even form a group #2) , then run around the map with your hero 
 and his lackeys. When you come across enemy forces, instruct your units to attack, wholesale, preferably 
 hitting one enemy unit at a time. If you are lucky they will listen to you.
  
  Can you say superficial ?
  
  Really, this game is tactically simple. In fact there are no tactics. 
 You cannot even assemble your troops into custom formations. Build-select-point-click. Build-select-point-click.
 
  
  Okay, maybe that's too simple. Let's see... explore, point, click, move on to the next battle. Point. 
 Click. Maybe heal a unit or two along the way. Repeat. Rinse.
  
  I started out on the hardest difficulty, and really found battle to be much too cut-and-dried, 
 requiring virtually no forethought or planning. It seems to be a purely mechanical exercise. I 
 suspect the developers left out a pause game option just to ensure that there was at least some 
 sense of urgency, however slight. I have played some truly epic RTS's where you would be sunk without 
 the ability to pause and sort things out, issuing new commands and changing plans, groups, and 
 formations in mid-battle. But in Warcraft 3, a pause game function would be superfluous, even unfair. 
 Battle in this game relies on your reflexes when it comes to pointing and clicking, and perhaps 
 in remembering to heal a unit occasionally, or to throw in an offensive spell if the opportunity 
 begs for it. Oh, there is some management regarding mana and hero health, but really, after you 
 reach level 2 or 3, these factors seem to be of little consequence.
  
  The base-building elements are also very linear and not in the least original. Build some peasants, 
 mine gold and wood, research some technology, build a barracks and so forth. Create a dozen or 
 two infantry and missile attackers, march them out to battle. It's the familar formula, but dumbed-down.
 
  
  About the only thing this game succeeds in doing is in making me want to load up Age of Empires 
 2: Age of Kings. Or Homeworld. AoK blew me away with the multiple civilizations' differing technologies, 
 strengths, and weaknesses. It was true strategy, with compelling complexity. And Homeworld required 
 diverse battle tactics, quick wits, strategic adaptation, and even some measure of luck, in order 
 to survive.
  
  I mean, I am starving for some strategy and battle tactics here. Absolutely starving for them.
 
  
  I just don't get it. How does this game get a 9.3?! Absurd.
  
  On to the visuals. I actually do not mind the cartoonish visuals, which some other reviewers have 
 complained about. The game looks very lively and compelling, especially set to 1280x1024. The artwork 
 in this game is good, as are the cutscenes. The colors pop, and the game runs smoothly (on my system, 
 anyway) . All-in-all, it's very pretty to look at.
  
  But the camera control just plain sucks, for a 3D RTS. It cannot be rotated (except for that pitiful 
 snap-back rotation control they threw in) , and there is no real zoom in or out. You have the choice 
 of bringing the camera down at a ground-level angle, or bringing it back up to an overhead view 
 that is much too close for any hardcore RTS gamer to honestly tolerate.
  
  Indeed, the inability to zoom out far enough -- that shortcoming alone should have forced the Gamespot 
 reviewer to penalize the score significantly. There's just no way this game honestly deserves that 
 high of a rating. No way.
  
  I wanted to zoom out in the worst way. I mean, I was actually getting claustrophobic playing this 
 game. The four corners of my 19-inch LCD monitor were closing in. Lemme see some map!
  
  And I could have lived without the character portraits' ridiculous lip-synching animations during 
 dialogue exchanges. They look like Francis the Talking Mule chewing his oats. Or Mr. Ed. That is 
 literally what they look like. Well Wilbur, let me tell ya, we better take our footmen around that 
 hill.... 
  
  The sound is adequate. The music is nice and appropriately epic sounding. There is a satisfying 
 crunch and clatter when troops collide in all-out melee. Voice acting is okay, too. But if I have 
 to hear a sound plan one more time...!
  
  Hey, Arthas, suppose you and your men hightail it over that 1,000 foot cliff over there?
  
 
  A sound plan! said the prince, chewing a mouthful of hay with vigor.
  
  I really want to like this game. Am I missing something? If I am, somebody please send me a PM. 
 (No hateful tirades, please.) I am honestly bewildered by my own lack of appreciation for such 
 a highly acclaimed title. If I discover my error, I will be happy to rewrite or remove this less-than-gushing 
 review.
  
  (NOTE: Review was edited, in the interest of fairness, for a slightly higher score with regards 
 to sound, which is actually pretty good, and value, which is heightened due to this title having 
 a strong multiplayer dimension as well as being enhanced by the community.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The normal game you have to gather resources and try to build units at the same time 
 . But the true fun of the game is in it's custom maps. There are tons of custom game types that 
 are WAY better than the actuall game itself. Graphics - Pretty outdated - but good enough - they 
 are 3D (also there is a 3d starcaraft model that is used online alot) Sound - Lots of sound effects 
 and good soundtrack Value - TONS of replay value online with the custom maps , it's hard to set 
 up your router and firewall though so you can host a match - i set mine up once and then could 
 never do it again
  
  Good Tilt - so many custom maps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III is indeed an awesome game, and Blizzard did a good job in trying to bridge the standard 
 RTS with RPGs like Diablo II. But, it requires too much micromanaging to play. It is especially 
 hard to play against computer opponents because computers can do all of the little things: cast 
 this exact spell at the right time, get experience for your heroes, etc. Though the Auto Cast feature 
 does help to a degree, it's still hard to cast all those spells. It is especially frustrating that 
 spells are so powerful that, with a hero or a few spellcasters, they can take out a massive army. 
 It's just like: omg, i'm being attacked by 15 knights, there's no way I'm going to survive this 
 one. Oh wait! I have spellcaster 'A' that can cast spell 'X' that will easily take out that army. 
 No problem. The redeeming qualities of this game, however, out weigh the cons. This is definately 
 an awesome game. The map editor is especially awesome, for it can edit almost every aspect of the 
 game.
  Get this game. You will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  Blizzard has made some awesome games during the past. Warcraft, Starcraft, Diablo and even the 
 ultimate MMORPG, World of Warcraft. This review is about one of the best RTS games I have ever 
 played. Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos. I do prefer The Frozen Throne but I really can't be bothered 
 reviewing expansions. This is a spoiler-free review so anyone who has never heard of this game 
 can read this.
  
  Graphics
  Warcraft III does have some good graphics for it's time but I find it a slight blocky and a bit 
 too colourful. I have never been a fan of colourful/bright graphics, I find it too kiddy and I 
 just don't like it. But still good for a 2002 RTS I guess.
  9/10
  
  Sound
  Not bad, but I find it highly repeditive escpecially when playing Battle. Net (I used to be addicted 
 to Battle. Net) the same music goes on and on when playing online games and waiting for them to 
 load, it just gets annoying. But it's good for hearing the first time around.
  8/10
  
  Gameplay
  You could say this is just like any RTS. Same battles, same campaigns. Yeah, yeah all 
 that but awesome Online Play. Battle. Net is awesome! It has been used in most of the Warcraft franchise, 
 Starcraft and the Diablo franchise. You can create your own maps and send them to other people 
 on Battle. Net and spread them around the world. There are many awesome downloadable maps like Mauls, 
 TDs (same thing) , RPG Maps, Footman Frenzy, Survivals etc. You can just simply get addicted to 
 Battle. Net. There are even new races to choose from like the Night Elves and Undead. I quite enjoy 
 playing as the Night Elves. Like Starcraft, there is a campaign for every race so you will have 
 a bit of fun doing the campaigns if you don't have very good internet. Most of the time when i'm 
 playing WC3, I play Battle. Net; not very much these days but I do play every now and then. So yeah, 
 Warcraft III is a rather addictive game and like World of Warcraft, the addiction is hard to break.
 
  9/10
  
  Character Design
  Night Elves rule! That's all I really need to say!
  10/10
  
  Overall
  Warcraft III is one of the best RTS games I have ever played. Maybe even the best. 
 I hate to be against WC fans, but I actually prefer this over World of Warcraft. The Frozen Throne 
 is even better so make sure you get that too. I'd say you buy the Battle Chest for Warcraft III. 
 It's good value!
  9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game is so overrated, but it isnt that interesting, its just another simple strategy game.
 
  It features different races thet you can play, like orcs and humans, but if you really want to 
 try a game in the Warcraft universe try WOW instead, its much better.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Overall decent campaign, not really satisfying but ok
  +Multiplayer is decent
  +Different 
 races bring variety and value to the game
  -only two collectable resources
  -Very stupid AI
  -Uninteresting story
  
  Graphics:
  I hate the cartoony graphics, even 
 in world of warcraft they didnt even use better graphics.
  +Nice art design
  +Good use of colors
  -Way too cartoony
  -Nowhere near other games graphics
  
  Sounds:
 
  +Music is decent
  +Sounds are decent
  Fair enough
  
  Value:
  +Decent singleplayer and multiplayer
  +Skirmish brings more fun
  +Different races and maps 
 add value
  -Stupid AI
  -Boring story
  
  Tilt:
  +Easy to learn
  +/- Overrated
  -No value in the story/campaign
  
  If you like games in the warcraft series, try the latest 
 ones like WOW or its expansion
  Cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesiao
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  As with many real-time strategy games Warcraft III consists of several campaigns, under which you 
 will get to learn every aspect of the story. You progress in the story by watching dialog as you 
 proceed in each chapter, or in cutscenes when things essential to the story occur. Warcraft III 
 is in many ways very similar to Starcraft, it's very fun to play!
  
  You command a hero, and his/her units and town. You build houses to feed more units, and send peasents 
 to gather wood and gold. Your hero can gain levels, and gets some very powerful and cool skills 
 after a while. Your units are easy to control, and they all have different abilities. Having a 
 squad of many different units makes you a near indefeatable army, especially with your hero around. 
 The graphics look very good, and the FMV movies are really top-notch. The effects forthe huge array 
 of spells and skills look really good, and blowing up a sheep has never looked so awesome and explict.
 
  
  There aren't very diverse music in the game, but it doesn't get annoying because it falls to the 
 background when armies come rushing into eachother with swords and spellcraft. The sound effects 
 are really nice though, and in the FMV movies the music is really awesome.
  
  This game is a masterpiece, and together with an online mode it's almost infinitly replayable, 
 this is really a must buy game. If you're not into the campaign you're sure to get hooked on the 
 online features which has an almost uncountable collection of maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bam-bamm
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos is the most perfect PC game on the market. It is fun, addictive, entertaining, 
 impressive, and the story line is very interesting. If you are looking for a game to entertain 
 you while you are bored at home and don't want to pay a monthly fee to pay online, you should get 
 this. All the races are awesome like, the Orcs, Night Elfs, Undead, and Humans. You can choose 
 from 3 magnificent races for each race and choose from a variety of units to destroy your opponents 
 base. Not only can you build an army, but you can build an empire and have towers to protect your 
 great empire. You can have team mates from 2-5, making 12 players all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooM-ftw-
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Masterpiece... that is the word that match with Warcraft3 :Reign of Chaos. The game is stunning at 
 every aspect and can fascinate any king of gamer. First of all when you start to play you see the 
 graphics which are here incredible for a RTS because it works on a full 3D graphic engine which 
 is very well made and the game looks incredible.
  The single player campaign is very well made and it is very attracting because of the great story. The 
 game has some very well introduced cinematics which make the story much more interesting and often 
 attracts you to find out the end of the game. The sound is really nice ,the voice acting is very 
 good and the sound in fights is well made.
  Unlike every other RTS game in this one you have a small population limit ...90 end almost every 
 creature can be build for 2,3,4,5 and 7 population points. If u think that this is a highly negative 
 point for the game..... you are very wrong because the game isn't based on building massive army 
 but it is based on building a smaller army with divers units which has many skills and spells. The 
 idea of the game is not to build a bigger army than your opponent the idea is to control your army 
 better than your opponent. In the game you can summon heroes which are the leaders of your army 
 because they have fantastic spells and abilities that give your army a great strenght. Heroes become 
 more powerful if they kill during a battle enemy's units.
  This game has a very intense multiplayer mod named Battle. net which gives you the opportunity to 
 fight other players just like you. The standard multiplayer has battles 1vs1,2vs2,3vs3,4vs4 and 
 free for all in which u can use one of the four unique and very balanced races: Human, Orc, Night 
 Elf and Undead.
  The custom multiplayer has some mods especially for Warcraft3: The Frozen Throne but they also work 
 on Reign of chaos. The most popular mod is Dota Allstars in which u have to choose one of the unique 
 heroes in the game and fight with other players.
  Even after four and a half years after it was released the game is one of the most popular games 
 and probably it will be very popular many years from now on like Starcraft that has about nine 
 years after it was released and it continues to be highly addictive. It is the PERFECT RTS............ Play 
 it and have fun: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverRao
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay (9/10) - Typical RTS dragbox controls that work well. There are also heroes, who are stronger 
 than regular units and have different skills. You have a campaign and you have battle. net, which 
 has been made much easier, since you just press Play Game. Battle. net then just puts you up against 
 some other player.
  
  Graphics (8/10) - The graphics are pretty good. The cinematics are amazing (as usual) , and the environments 
 look pretty cool. However, the characters look rather blocky. You will often ask yourself, What 
 am I looking at, a block or the main character? 
  
  Sound (9/10) - The themes are pretty nice. The good thing is that it isn't good enough to distract 
 you, but it still sounds good.
  
  Value (10/10) - The different campaigns are fairly lengthy, and Battle. net will keep you online for 
 a long time. The competition and tournaments are great.
  
  Tilt (9/10) - This game is great, even 6 years after its release. Awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordiepordie66
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: Reign Of Chaos
  Blizzard Entertainment
  
  Good Thing: This is the best game you will play, ever! it includes alot to the game, like the wars, they 
 are so much fun and amazing I love it. And the exploring and the fact that you can get a hero and 
 learn powers and stuff. There are four races Undead, Night Elf, Human, and the savage Orcs.
  All these colonies have different things and different upgrades, it dosnt matter on who you play, it 
 all depends on one thing... the Strategy!
  
  Bad Thing: There was no races like Dwarf, Tauren, High Elf. But they included them in each colony. The 
 thing I did not enjoy about this game was the population limit and the whole economics, but overall 
 this game really stands tall! they also didnt add any transport or boat structures in this game. But 
 they give you shallow for you can walk across.
  
  So check it out its called.... Warcraft 3: Reign Of Chaos By Blizzard Entertainment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajarbuckle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 was the first warcraft game I played. With heroes, and 2 new races this game is awesome. 
 My favorite race is the undead because I love using a squad of necromancers to summon skeleton 
 warriors. The other new race is the Night Elves. This race is made up of the sentitels, a group 
 of female warriors, and the druids who are at one with nature. This game has a great and well developed 
 campaign that will make you want more! The campaign starts off with the humans facing the undead 
 and Prince Arthas ( one of the main characters) trying to save his home land, but in doing so, 
 becomes one of the undead himself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davorg22
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Exodus of the Horde
  
  Thrall, Warchief of the new Orcish Horde, wakes from a nightmare warning him that the return of 
 the Burning Legion is imminent. After a brief encounter with the Prophet, and fearing that his 
 dream was more of a vision than a nightmare, he leads his people in an exodus from Lordaeron to 
 the forgotten lands of Kalimdor. In the retail version, this tutorial campaign ends with the orcs 
 sailing to the distant shores of Kalimdor. However, in the official demo, this campaign is extended 
 to detail the journey across the great ocean. Thrall's ships are damaged from a massive storm, 
 having unwittingly passed through the Maelstrom, and he stops at a small island midway between 
 the two continents for essential repairs to the ships. For those who have only played the retail 
 version, the fact that the forest trolls left the Horde after the second game seems like a contradiction, 
 there was apparently no explanation as to how jungle trolls appeared to now be in the New Horde. 
 Sen'jin, the leader of the trolls of the Darkspear Tribe living on the island, befriends Thrall, 
 and passes on leadership of the tribe to Vol'Jin after being mortally wounded by indigenous Murlocs. 
 After holding off the fishy peril for as long as possible, the two races board the ships and sailed 
 onwards to Kalimdor.
  
  The Scourge of Lordaeron
  
  Prince Arthas Menethil, a Knight of the Silver Hand (a group of Paladins devoted to the defense 
 of Lordaeron and humanity) , aided by his former sweet-heart, the Archmage Jaina Proudmoore, investigates 
 a strange plague that is spreading across the lands of Lordaeron. To their horror, they find that 
 the plague turns unsuspecting humans into the Undead, compelling Arthas and Jaina to stop the Cult 
 of the Damned's leader Kel'Thuzad from converting towns over to the Scourge. Arthas proceeds to 
 kill the plague's originator, Kel'Thuzad, then hunt down the dreadlord he serves, Mal'Ganis. Traveling 
 northward to the icy lands of Northrend in pursuit of Mal'Ganis, he aids an old friend, Muradin 
 Bronzebeard, who tells him of a sword called Frostmourne. Arthas obtains Frostmourne, at the cost 
 of Muradin's life, and uses it to defeat Mal'Ganis. Frostmourne slowly corrupts and consumes Arthas' 
 soul, and he becomes the first of the Lich King's Death Knights. Arthas, now enslaved by the taunting 
 voice of Frostmourne becomes a general of the Undead Scourge and the Cult of the Damned, losing 
 the powers of the Light in favour of the darker necromantic powers granted through the Lich King. 
 Leaving the rest of his expedition to die in the frozen wastelands of Northrend, Arthas returns 
 to Lordaeron, slaughters his father, King Terenas and proclaims himself king.
  
  Path of the Damned
  
  With the death of King Terenas Menethil, Lordaeron lies in ashes, and 
 Arthas is met with the leader of the dreadlords, Tichondrius who assigns him to a series of tests 
 that would make way for the return of the Burning Legion. As Arthas completes a series of quests 
 to revive former adversary Kel'Thuzad as a Lich, he kills the Knights of the Silver Hand and destroys 
 the High Elves' kingdom of Quel'Thalas. The Lich then informs him of the Burning Legion, a vast 
 demonic army that has consumed countless worlds before their own. The Lich King agreed to aid the 
 Legion with his undead Scourge, but in truth he wishes for the Legion to be destroyed. Kel'Thuzad's 
 true master is actually the Lich King. Arthas' next task is to, with the aid of Kel'Thuzad, open 
 a dimensional portal with Medivh's Spellbook so that the Burning Legion can enter the realm of 
 Azeroth. Archimonde, the general of the demonic forces, having no more use for Arthas and Kel'Thuzad, 
 places the dreadlords directly in control the Scourge. However the Lich King still has ambitions 
 for them.
  
  The Invasion of Kalimdor
  
  After escaping Human captivity and fleeing to the shores of Kalimdor, Orcish warchief Thrall must 
 lead his brethren to safety and ensure their survival in Kalimdor. With the aid of the Tauren Chieften, 
 Cairne Bloodhoof, Thrall heads north to Ashenvale Forest to seek the Oracle of Stonetalon Peak, 
 clashing with a human expedition who has also arrived upon Kalimdor for unknown purposes. Meanwhile, 
 Grom Hellscream and the Warsong Clan has been left behind to gather enough lumber to build a permanent 
 orcish settlement on the isle, and, in cutting down the large amount of trees necessary to do so, 
 angers the native night elf race and their demigod, Cenarius. In order to defeat Cenarius and his 
 night elves, Grom succumbs to demonic corruption by willingly drinking the pit lord Mannoroth's 
 blood; binding his clan and himself to the Legion's control. Back on Stonetalon Peak, Thrall has 
 reached the Oracle to discover that he is actually the mysterious Prophet. The Prophet reveals 
 himself as Medivh and informs Thrall and Archmage Jaina Proudmoore that Grom has succumbed to demonic 
 control and that the two races will need to join forces to save him, and suggests that Grom has 
 a crucial role to play in the unfolding of events. With the humans' help, Thrall managed to fight 
 his way through the ranks of the Warsong Clan and the Legion and is able to capture Grom and purge 
 him of the demon blood. Grom then has a premonition of Mannoroth's presence in a local canyon, 
 and the two go there to face Mannoroth. The two are able to defeat Mannoroth, but Grom dies in 
 the battle.
  
  Eternity's End
  
  With the coming of the Undead Scourge and Burning Legion as well as the Humans and Orcs, Tyrande 
 Whisperwind and her Night Elf Sentinels fight a desperate battle to save their beloved home of 
 Kalimdor from enemies old and new alike. After realising the situation is beyond the Sentinels 
 alone, she first reawakens her lover, Malfurion Stormrage, and then the Druids of the Talon, and 
 finally the Druids of the Claw. She also decides to free the great betrayer, Illidan Stormrage, 
 who is eventually instrumental in weakening the Burning Legion, but at a great cost. Finally, she 
 and Malfurion join forces with the outlanders Jaina Proudmoore and Thrall to delay the Legion's 
 advance until a proper end can be arranged for the demonic leader Archimonde. The lines were quickly 
 overrun by the Legion and the Scourge, Archimonde pressed on to make his final blow and grab for 
 power - consuming the energy of Nordrassil, the tree of life. But moments before he can strike, 
 Malfurion Stormrage springs his trap. Realising the danger all too late, Archimonde is destroyed 
 in a colossal blast of energy that shatters the tree of life -- but unlike Archimonde, the tree would 
 heal and its roots would once again grow deep. Peace once again came to Kalimdor as the Burning 
 Legion's forces withered away in defeat and the Humans, Orcs, and Night Elves stood victorius. 
 This apparent end would last but for a short while, as the great betrayer, Illidan Stormrage would 
 seek revenge for his imprisonment, and the Lich King, now free from the Legion's grasp, also has 
 plans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamizhim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  WCIII is probably the best rts so far (cuz halo wars hasnt come out yet) well you can either play 
 campaign mode I dont play it but hey dont get me wrong its fun and reasonably long, or you can 
 do Batttle. Net now thats were you can go when you think your good enough to fight other players 
 (I went on as soon as I bought it) and theres reg. battle which is your normal fight with u an 
 your team mates against online players. Another good thing about battle. net is the friends list 
 is really easy to manage and you can talk to people on other blizzard games (im not sure about 
 WoW though) theres a lot more things. I couldnt tell them all lol theres also WC3 world editor 
 where you can make your own game to host online so you and your friends can play and other people 
 can try it too. There are also cool mods and skins to download theres also a script editor. The 
 Possibilities are endless with WC3 World editor
  
  PROS
  -Battle. Net will give you months/maybe even years of extra game play
  -You can download cool 
 mods
  -youre going to be on world editor for a long time, many things to explore
  -cool spells and attacks
  
  CONS
  -The graphics are... a lil worse than great but you can 
 deal with them
  -You could get cursed out on Battle. Net or get called a n00b allooot
  -The lag system is gay and if its you people will get pissed
  -Some times hosting messes up and 
 you have to wait like 3 mins
  
  K those are the best and worst parts of the game its still like an awesome game though: D
  
 
  GAMEPLAY
  -The select move and attack are very easy to get a hold of
  -your group or character will respond quickly to the action you give them
  -You can make your 
 characters fallow each other
  -Almost every custom game you play you will like
  
  GRAPHICS
  -Some graphics are a lil choppy at times
  -Spell looks great
  -Textures are good 
 (grass, dirt, marble, water)
  -Like dead rising some guys look better from far away
  
  SOUND
  -Spell sounds are awesome
  -Voices go great with the characters and monsters
  -Weapons 
 sound good when they hit enemies
  -Music goes good with everything VALUE
  -this game didnt even start off expensive
  -I bought it for like 25 bucks
  
  TILT
  -there 
 was no big tilt for this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I remember the first time I ever played a Real-time Strategy was in Warcraft II. The sheer joy 
 of taing down orcs or fighting with dragons and dark knights was absolutely exhilirating, and with 
 the extensive story within the game everything seemed so good. One can imagine I was extremely 
 excited to hear about a Warcraft III, during the time that I started playing Starcraft. Now Starcraft 
 was amazing as well, but I know not all good things can last forever and I did not know if Blizzard 
 would have been able to pull off making another masterpiece like WCII, SC and SC: Brood War was 
 (from hearsay I assume Diablo I and II were amazing as well) . I was skeptical but being a Blizzard 
 AND Warcraft fan I went ahead and bought the Collector's Edition of WCIII at launch. After spending 
 months upon months of time with this game I now come along with this review, for your viewing pleasure.
 
  
  Gameplay (10/10) : This is truly where this game shines. To begin with, the campaign is extensive 
 and challenging. Each race out of the four has great exclusive characteristics which adds to a 
 wonderful strategy. Now the single-player starts off with a nice slow training mission then as 
 you go through the Human Campaign begins to advance at a nice and stead pace, and you aren't expected 
 to truly know how to play until the Undead Campaign (number 3) . With that being said, the difficulty 
 advances at just the right pace, which means that this game is actually quite accessible to everybody. 
 Not to mention that the story that was introduced in Warcraft and Warcraft II takes a glorious 
 turn in WCIII. Almost in the same way that some movies start off in the first movie with a nice 
 introduction to characters and place and then the next movie in the series opens up the bigger 
 picture (like Pirates of the Caribbean and... I know not a movie, but Halo and Halo 2 as well) . 
 Everything starts to fall together and the story is absolutely brilliantly crafted. The only problem 
 is that you may not necessarily be as attached to some characters if you haven't played the other 
 games, or at least read their general stories. With that being said the story is still amazing 
 and leaves you wanting much more at the end, which the expansion helps with but this is not a review 
 of the expansion is it? So the story shines and and the single-player is wonderfully made, but 
 what about the multi-player? Blizzard did it again. The battle. net system is done beautifully and 
 with the addition of Quick Matches and easy to access tournaments already makes b. net a great system, 
 that is free. Now the multiplayer takes all the skills you learned in single-player and makes you 
 make good use of them. All the maps are made well by the Blizzard team with support of 8 players 
 (I think there is 12 max but I don't want to say something false so I know there is the ability 
 to play with 8) . The multiplayer is extremely fun and satisfying, couple that with the ability 
 to create maps with a WONDERFUL world editor tool and the possibilities are endless. All-in-all 
 this game really has it all, and for its time is probably one of the best RTS games from a Gameplay 
 standpoint. One thing I would like to add is an addition to the RTS formula that really worked 
 well: Heroes. They level up like characters from an RPG and learn various spells that YOU choose 
 to level as you wish and add to the strategy, since they are often used as leaders of armies. Another 
 reason why this game is so good.
  
  Graphics (8/10) : Now don't get me wrong, the graphics are good, but for some reason the 'mushiness' 
 of the characters just seems a little off sometimes. The saving grace for this is the effects and 
 the environments, which look wonderful not to mention the beautifully made cutscenes. The graphics 
 are good the only thing is that because of the 'mushy' character models the game seems a little 
 older in the graphical department sometimes. That isn't necessarily a bad thing though, since that 
 made this game more accessible to more people with bad PCs (like me) . Good graphics, but not the 
 best.
  
  Sound (9/10) : The sound effects are done great and so is the ambience. The music also fits the 
 mood PERFECTLY for each race and situation. In fact, the only reason this section DID NOT get a 
 perfect score is because for some reason something seems missing. As a matter of fact, there is 
 one thing that bumps this score from an 8 to a nine: the great lines said by all the units. If 
 you persist in clicking on a unit over and over again you will get amusing lines that have to do 
 with television shows, movies and even some of Blizzard's older games. It is an amusing change 
 of pace in the middle of a nice long match. The sound is top-notch though and is overall GREAT.
 
  
  Value (9/10) : In truth the only reason this is not getting a 10 is because of the single-player. 
 The campaign is GREAT fun but you likely won't come back to it for a LONG time, and only will to 
 beat it on Hard (there is a secret ending) . After that unlikely ever again will you play the campaign 
 unless a new Warcraft comes out and you want to refresh the story in your mind. With that being 
 said, why is this a 9? Multiplayer. The multiplayer is everlasting, for two reasons. First, a never-ending 
 community so you always have somebody to play with (active Blizzard support goes in this category) . 
 Second, World Editor. Because the World Editor is so well-crafted, not only can you make wonderful 
 multiplayer maps or singleplayer campaigns, but that opens up the doors for EVERYBODY, which means 
 if you look around you can find countless maps to download making the fun longlasting for this 
 game. This is the type of game that you will be coming back to time and time again even if you 
 stop playing it for a while.
  
  All in all this is what an RTS should be like, having all the fun and interest and strategy needed 
 in order to make it interesting and everlasting. I thank Blizzard for making another great game 
 for us to play for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I lost my love of real time strategy with Starcraft. That is not to say that Starcraft wasn't anything 
 but an incredible game. I just overplayed it so much, I burned myself out, and haven't been interested 
 in really playing one since.
  
  However, Blizzard is about the one force in the galaxy that can get me to play another, just because 
 they make such good stuff. Even if I can't stand the thought of playing an RTS, I'd go back to 
 just to catch up on plot.
  
  So, from this perspective, I say this game rocked. I loved it because it was so different. I think 
 a lot of people hated the game for the same reasons I like it. It is smaller scale. It feels very 
 squad like at time. You get a great sense of roleplaying. It doesn't feel too epic and overwhelming 
 all the time.
  
  I just really liked the smaller scale RPG feel to it. Hardcore real time strategy gamers are free 
 to disagree, but from this roleplaying gamer, this was a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  At first I thought Warcraft was a game for big Lord of the Rings fans and fantasy fans. I was wrong. 
 This is one great game for its age.
  
  Gameplay: Similar to most strategy games but this is less complex in ways yet still fun. The gameplay 
 is highly addicting and can be played for hours. Truly a game for any strategy gamer. This has 
 some of the best gameplay around.
  
  Graphics: The animated world looks very nice and the weather looks good too. Overall a nice looking 
 game for a strategy game.
  
  Sound: Pretty good music but the voices are great and the effects are great as well.
  
  Value: 
 This is one of the most addictive video games out there. The campaign is even great. High replay 
 value and worth every cent. Tilt: Though it is very close to other strategy games it is still different. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  If you want to get someone a game with a massive fun multiplayer get the Warcraft 3 and the Expansion. 
 It is a great deal no doubt. You can strategize with no limits you can choose everything who you 
 wanna kill and how you want to kill them. You should be skilled to play the multiplayer or you 
 will suffer in the real game mode. If you want to get better play the campaign and the computer 
 in skrimmages. But if you think you got a good way to kill or destroy try it out and dominate the 
 leaderboards in Blizzard online. Whether you want aa, air, or ground you can succeed especailly 
 with the fun 4vs4!! Story line is great in this campaign and multiplayer even better I don't think 
 there is anything you can not like about this game. Almost Perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mstrchiefpwns
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is amazing in all aspects, but mainly battle. net. User-created games and maps extend 
 the life of this game possibly infinitely until the next warcraft comes out. Games such as mauls, 
 Tower defenses, footman wars, if you've ever played them you know what I'm talking about. This 
 game has one of the best online communities I've ever seen, and their support shows since their 
 dedicated enough to spend time on a new map or game. The RTS component is also the best in the 
 business, and the biggest surprise, is that the Heroes increase the startegy amazingly, creating 
 new manuevers such as harassing and rushing, adding the extra spice the franchise needed. Although 
 the graphics were amazing for its time, the speedy progress of computers have made them look not 
 so special, but they're still great enough to not effect gameplay at all. Any RTS fan with a computer 
 and an internet connection should have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lochsabre
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos is just about the best RTS game you're likely to play. Following Warcraft 
 II, Tides of Darkness (9.3 from gamespot) , Reign of Chaos also receives a score of 9.3 from gamespot 
 because of the improved graphics, gameplay, sound, battlenet and storyline.
  
  The story is set with four different races. Orc and Human, and two other new races called Undead 
 and Nightelf. Each race has its own pros and cons, being a balance to all of them. In the campaign, 
 you start as the orc, who lead you through a short, and helpful tutorial which tells you the outright 
 basics of Reign of Chaos. Then you will play in the order of Human, Undead, Orc (again) and Nightelf, 
 and learn about each race along the way. The storyline is fantastic as you get to play as each 
 race, and see how they interpret the current happenings of the world, and there are loveable characters 
 such as Thrall, Furion and the quite famous, Arthas (look to my avatar) . The gameplay is virtually 
 unmatched at the time, as there are so many options which you may take. Apart from playing the 
 game as very different races (unlike Warcraft II, where Orc and Human were virtually indentical) , 
 you can also hire mercanaries from different races, which give another perspective to your army. 
 There are also Heros who are stronger characters which you take a long time to create at a special 
 building ussually called an Altar . Apart from being physically stronger than most units, they 
 can gain experience and earn levels, they can use techniques and they can carry items. This is 
 SUCH an improvement to the game that Hero's in itself will probally earn 0.5 points of the score. 
 The gameplay of the campaign is superb, in that it allows you to learn the game through tips which 
 come up on the screen, aswell as commands from your main character of the race. When playing online, 
 you'll be require to go head to head in a Build game against other players. This will require you 
 to erect a base, and then to create units to go against your opponents. The tmain hings which win 
 games, are Speed and Choice of units . On battlenet, you can earn avatars from winning an amount 
 of games with one race, and you can have a table of statistics, which go as far as How much wood 
 you've cut to how many times you've used one hero . The gameplay is flawless.
  
  The graphics are perhaps a bit blocky. But considering the size of the game, it can be understood. 
 There overall game graphics are still quite good, as you units have unique movements from the others, 
 and also when they are stationary, they will do random things like drink from a flask or slash 
 at the air with their weapon. The props which have been included are great, with flags, signs, 
 huge rocks and trees, rivers, waterfalls, birds, sheep, frogs. It's all there, to make it seem 
 more like your in the Warcraft World.
  
  The actual soundtrack of Warcraft III is incredible, with long choir like songs, or just a calm 
 wilderness like song. The sound effects of battle are really unmatched, as each weapon has a unique 
 sound and a different sound for each weapon against each type of unit (quite amazing actually) . 
 The voice acting of characters are great too, and you'll often find yourself trying to impersonate 
 each character. All the units have great dialogue with famous lines from almost every unit in the 
 game.
  
  Warcraft III is such a high quality game, that I really struggle to find flaws in it. The gameplay 
 is amazing, the graphics are great, the sound is incredible and the storyline of the campaign is 
 simply superb. I suggest everyone purchase this game. It truly is the best RTS game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rugburn2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 in a quote from the salesman was You ain't never played Warcraft before.. oh man!! . 
 Well he was right! Great fun and massive slaughters to be hold. I can almost smell the musty walls 
 and the winches awaiting me!! The sound of crunching bones, battling swords and death crys all 
 add up to the quality that Blizzard leads the rest in innovations. The game play has an old school 
 look to it until you scroll the mouse and the visuals take on a whole new effect. I was lucky enough 
 to purchase Warcraft 3 used and to my suprize a copy of Frozen Throne was in the back of the case 
 so.. thank you over-worked and under-paid game shop salesman!!
  Let the killing begin!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DialM4Speed
Rating: 1.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  My co worker introduced me to this god awful game. As he descibed it to me I began to think There's 
 Mana in this game? CRAP! Sorry but I am NOT into wizards and trolls... err orcs or whatever ya 
 call them. But he was so high on the game so I took it home to try it out. What do people see in 
 this game? Seriously?? It's just a rip off of command and conquer but instead of using actual weapons, 
 you use rocks and fireballs, with trolls and dragons. Oddly enough several of my co workers are 
 now hooked on this lousy piece of work. Some have moved on to World of Warcraft. I'm struggling 
 to finish this so I can delete it but it just seems to go on and on. So much for listening to a 
 friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfection1000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III is a follow up to one of the best RTS games in history. Ironically it replaces that 
 product as one of the finest RTS games around. In the game you play as four different factions 
 and they all ties up into the game's storyline. They all have a distinct part in how things unfold 
 through the game's storyline.
  
  Gameplay is similar to anyone who has played an RTS in recent memory. You select enemies by dragging 
 boxes around them and click on places you want them to move. The game also makes the every map 
 colourful so its not just you and your enemy fighting on a dull map. The factions play somewhat 
 differently for each other but its not like you'll have to learn the whole game again for each 
 of them. The food system in the game is pretty sringen so you are not allowed to have many units 
 as in other RTS games because you start losing resources when you pass a certain point. Instead 
 the game forces you to use strategy to defeat opponents and not just over whelm them with lots 
 of units. Graphics are pretty good. the enviroments all look really good. the character models 
 may not be that fantasic but they are good. the game looks excellent from an artistic prospective 
 and because of the colourfull maps.
  
  Sound is superb rom top to bottom. The voice-overs are one of the best i have seen in any game 
 to date. The game's fantastic sountrack also helps to immerse you into the game. It definately 
 fits the action and more importantly your experience.
  
  The games single player will last anywhere from 15-20 hours depending on the difficulty but there 
 is always online. you can go on battlenet to play against other human opponents. The game has about 
 40 different maps, lot of variety in the factions and come with a very powerful world editor that 
 lets you make your own maps so the value of this game is pretty outstanding.
  
  The is just a prime example of RTS done right. It showcases just how far RTS game design and presentation 
 quality have come. From its amazing gameplay variety to its fantastic presentation and lasting 
 value, the game will definately wont dissapoint any RTS fan or any fan of game in general. its 
 a remarkable RTS game and it deserves a place i just about anyone collection who like games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Empire-Man
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  The basic scenarios in the game and the campaigns are really quite boring.
  BUT it has a great story. So the campaign isn't boring... But the fighting
  in the game is sucky... 
 the soldiers have too much hp and single fights last
  outrageously long. The level editor is THE BEST EVER MADE. You can
  basically make anything with 
 it, and playing custom scenarios on battle. net
  add hours and hours of playtime to this game. The classic Blizzard humour hasn't gone anywhere, 
 and each unit says funny stuff when clicked all over again. So it's an awesome RTSand still one 
 of... nay, THE BEST RTS ever. Long live the RTS/RPG, hope they'll make WC4 sometime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theaker
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I never played any of the later versions, well i did but only got to like mission 3 then got bored 
 of the poor old retro-ish grafx.
  
  But as soon as i saw this it thought it looked better, the grafix certainly improved and it has 
 an average storyline. The campaign is very straightforward and most of the time you will be doing 
 the same thing, build army and base and blow up enemy.
  The good thing though is that you dont just play as humans and orcs, you can be the undead and night 
 elves too. Showing you many aspects of the story from different points of view.
  
  The real thing that makes tis game last more than just a week like it does on many games, it has 
 a good multiplayer mode. I am not talking about the normal ones that are just build base and kill 
 enemy fastest i mean the custom maps.
  
  there are so many different types of games, which appeal to many different people.
  such as dota 
 which i HATE HATE HATE HATE! but is one of the most popular games next to footman and maybe even 
 sheep tag.
  
  the many custom maps are extremely fun (most of them) and worth playing, if you see this in shops 
 and wonder if you should buy it, 10 pounds aint much for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has been reowned for making some of the most classic games ever made, including the Starcraft, 
 Diablo, and especially, the Warcraft series.
  
  Warcraft 3 is the latest installment in the RTS genre of Blizzard, that pushes everything you thought 
 of an RTS to the limit.
  
  The story opens, in the prolouge mini-campaign, with the Orc Warchief Thrall being visited by a 
 Raven Prophet. He is told to take his people across the ocean to the land of Kalimdor. With little 
 haste, he obeys and goes on a sequence of adventures as he takes his race across the ocean, forming 
 an alliance with the trolls as well. Once you finish that and begin the human campaign, you learn 
 that Lordaeron, the human continent is being attacked by a plague of sorts that turn people undead. 
 This is one of the prime story points that is something I don't want to spoil for you. You have 
 to play it for yourself.
  
  The graphics use a new engine, built from scratch. With the minimum requirements even, the visuals 
 run smoothly and beautifully, even with a lot happening on screen. To top that off, the magic effects 
 look just as spectacular as the weather effects added in. The sound and music is one of the strong 
 points too. The voicework is done magnificently, and the music is something to give you an epic 
 feel, even in small missions of sorts.
  
  Gameplay uses the same RTS formula that has been proven excellent in the older Warcraft installments 
 and even StarCraft, but this has the inclusion of a new feature, heroes. When you build an altar, 
 you can summon a hero. A hero is a special unit that can fight in combat, but also give your troops 
 support, as well as an edge in battle. For even more great effect, all the heroes have a randomly 
 generated name, something that keeps you guessing what's next. The formula for the basic gameplay 
 is simple though. Build a strong base, form an army, and attack an enemy. Repeat if nessesary. 
 There's nothing else to it, except for some special units like the night elf archer and gryphon 
 combination that forms a gryphon rider. Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos is Rated T for Teen, retails 
 for between $9.99 and $39.99 at most stores, and is a must-buy. For anyone.
  
  Battle. net is a free online multiplayer service provided by Blizzard Entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos is the third version of the Warcraft RTS series. We knew this game was 
 going to be good but I believe we got more than we bargained for. There are 4 playable factions 
 this time. These are Humans, Orcs, Night Elves, and Undead. Each has their own unique units and 
 are all fun to play. They also have their own campaigns that included an amazing storyline. Pretty 
 much the Orcs were kind of hired by this dark lord to cleanse the land of Lordaeron, Azeroth, Quel-Thalas 
 and Khaz Modan. But when they fail the dark lord sends the undead to do the work. They succeed 
 and send all surviving humans to Kalimador along with the orcs where they become allies along with 
 the native Night Elves. But not without turning the prince of Lordaeron named Arthas to their side. 
 Anyways the game play is fantastic. I really like leveling up your hero. Soon they will become 
 a powerhouse of destruction. Skirmishes are available for you to play. Battlenet is also here and 
 maybe better than ever. Graphics are fantastic and sound is great too. There is a whole lot to 
 do in this game and that is why this game is so awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance_C
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is legendary, extraordinary and most of all, enjoyable. Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos 
 is a real-time strategy game which beats most of the other games in its genre, by presenting great 
 gameplay and an interesting story. Blizzard is known to create such wonderful games, and this one 
 is no exception. It satisfies the gamer in most areas and that by mere fantasy. The story begins 
 with the humans, where prince Arthas is in charge and where he is about to follow up his father, 
 the King. Further on, you will discover many things and will understand everything, since it is 
 clearly explained. One of the most interesting things here is the story. You play with four civilizations: 
 the humans, the undead, the orcs, and finally the night elves. They will all complement the holes 
 in the plot, leaving you a clear story. When you first play Warcraft III you see the lay out. A 
 very unique one with meteor showers on the back and with moving animations on the front, when you 
 click on an option. In the single player you can choose between two options, which should get you 
 started. You either click on campaign or you can choose for the custom game. It is of course recommended 
 to begin with the campaign first, because it introduces you to the wonderful story of the humans, 
 orcs, undead and the night elves. Also it begins with a tutorial where you will learn the basics. 
 Almost everything will be said in the learning process, but there is one thing the tutorial has 
 ignored, the fact that you can make put your units in a group by pressing ctrl+ [insert number] . 
 This should be noted in every tutorial, if there is any. If Warcraft III is the first RTS game 
 you have been playing or have played, you would not know how to effectively use your units. Luckily, 
 most of the RTS gamers already know that this trick is available in this game as well.
  
  Reign of Chaos is somewhat the same as other RTS games: gathering resources and creating units 
 with the use of them and upgrades are possible of course, making your units stronger and more effective. 
 But this game wouldn't be rated that good, if only the basics are in the game, with no extras. 
 Then, what are the extras which make this game special? The heroes and the special moves. Each 
 civilization has its own three heroes. You begin with one, and further on you get to play with 
 two or three. In the campaign you mostly play with one or two heroes. When playing a custom game 
 or when playing online you are able to control a maximum of three heroes. Each one having their 
 own powers and abilities, which you can choose. Each hero can level up till level ten. You choose 
 which ability to choose or to upgrade. This varies from an aura around the hero, leading to an 
 increase of defense or attack rate in a radius, to summoning temporary creatures which are able 
 to aid you in your battle. But not only the heroes have their special powers, some other units 
 have their own as well. Not as powerful as the heroes', but certainly effective. In contrary with 
 the heroes, the other units cannot level up, but they can be upgraded, so you can still e. g. acquire 
 new abilities.
  
  You begin with a town with resources mostly and you have to gather, food, wood and gold. A gold 
 ne is near your town center, so you can immediately gather gold. Same goes to the wood, since the 
 trees are everywhere, especially around your town. The food controls your inhabitants, by restricting 
 them to a certain amount. The maximum is 90 food, which allows you to create all kinds of units, 
 as long as it stays beneath the 90. When you think you have a sufficient army which is able to 
 defeat enemy units, you can advance. The most important strategy in the game is to level up your 
 hero, since he or she can be a decisive key in battle. So you take your hero everywhere you fight. 
 The hero will level up with each enemy unit it or your units destroys, as long as the hero is in 
 the radius and has participated in the fight. After that it&acute; s just like the classic RTS games. 
 You try to conquer your enemy, by defeating all his units and buildings. Numerous strategies can 
 be used and that&acute; s what&acute; s so unique about this game.
  
  There are two difficulties in the campaign: normal and hard, which keeps you sweet for a long time. 
 And if you don't feel like playing it, just create a custom game and play with or against the AI, 
 or maybe even online. It gets you up in rank and it's fun too... The AI is good as well, it thinks 
 like you do, but sometimes it lacks strategy. It's somewhat the same: attacking you while you are 
 gone, or just straight on. But the AI is sure be better than most of the games in its genre, and 
 especially in the year it came out. It returns with the units when being attacked, when they were 
 sent away and recovering their buildings, use of special powers are not even mentioned. The AI 
 is not perfect, but it is only some steps away from perfection
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good, you aren't able to zoom into your units, but the are 
 quite detailed. You do see the unit in 3D view when selecting a unit. A round portrait shows itself 
 on the bottom, and you actually see him talk as well. An amazing use of the engine. The graphics 
 in the 3D face aren't extraordinary, but the game is created in 2002, so it is not expected that 
 they deliver us a great game, including awesome graphics. The buildings are enormously detailed 
 as well, so nothing bad can be mentioned there. A feature which should certainly be said are the 
 cut scenes. Amazing how it is introduced and shown. Details are rising to the top, especially for 
 a game released mid 2002. But not only the details are great, so is the sound. Wonderful music, 
 great conversations and the voices are clear. If they are not, subtitles appear, so everything 
 has been researched. Nothing more has to said, since everything has been mentioned in this small 
 paragraph.
  
  It just feels wonderful when having this game in your collection. This game should be in every 
 RTS fan's room. But what is expected from a company like Blizzard. You only expect quality games 
 from them. The price of the game doesn't even compare to what you get. The game offers everything 
 you need, when you are playing a strategy game and the experience you get will be bringing along 
 will be saved in your memory forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiagooo19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  Warcraft3 is meant for ppl that like to challenge , the balance in the game is the best i ever 
 seen in a rts, the gameplay is simply perfect , the sound is superb and graphics are overall well 
 done although they a have a cartoonist look. The story of warcraft 3 is so intense that you will 
 probably stay countless hours playing the single player mode, just to finish the campaign as fast 
 as possible. The multiplayer mode over battle. net is simply amazing the most addictive thing i 
 ever played , it has a great balance providing a good competition between players around the world, 
 brilliant!!!. I have spend many hours playing this game and ive had many fun with it , id recommend 
 it to anyone that likes RTS!
  
  
  Overall warcraft 3 is a Masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sow_dwpreX
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III... As to describe a game that already come of two other games with a reputation in 
 the classics of strategies, Warcraft and Warcraft II... What it was waited by the fans of Warcraft 
 was shown by this version.
  
  Bold, pretty, excellent sonorous track, worthy graphical effect of its time and beyond it. A so 
 good jogabilidade how much previous and at the same time the only one with the renewals with the 
 heroes, forms strategies of entreterimento really to leave many of open mouth a game that even 
 though marked the moment of the strategy games being able to speak before of games of the same 
 style and after Warcraft III. To simplify... A Work of art! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is good. there is starcraft, warcraft, dawn of war, company of heros and etc. the graphics 
 is pretty good. i love to use cheats for this game in campain and skrimish. my favorit race is 
 the undead, the living of dead. they are strong but i could get easly defeted but when i use cheats, 
 i win like that! its fun for people who likes RTS. the world of warcraft, its much ilke this game 
 exept this game is a RTS. in this game, there is the heros that level up. i like just to level 
 them and have my body gard and kill wild creatures like rock golem. i think the blizzard thought 
 of that and created the world of warcraft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  SHORT HAND
  this is a game of great importance, it's the first majorly successfull RTS title to intigrate roleplaying 
 into the gameplay in such a way and it does it perfectly , this is a game about small scale conflicts, 
 and the strategy and roleplaying are flawless, the only thing lacking is niaval battles. each race 
 plays differently and each is quite fun. my only problem is i felt like each race needs something 
 more, and if you get the expansion you'll get just what you wanted. but this is still one of the 
 best strategy games of all time, everyone who likes RTS a little is a fool if they don't own this 
 one.
  
  THE GOOD
  BEST RTS STORY EVER, great presentation, BEST RTS CHARACTERS EVER, i thought starcraft was the 
 best but illoden just wont that battle. best implementation of RPG HEROES EVER. and i'm reviewing 
 this game like three or four years after the fact and these things are still true. like star craft 
 and the war crafts before, the multiply sides are perfectly balanced the multiplay is a blast, 
 and the online community is really friendly, visuals are rock solid, and this game plays great 
 on every computer, even macs. simply put it is they new bench mark for this kind of game, the only 
 one to challenge currently is dawn of war, and that games single player doesn't hold a candle to 
 warcraft.
  
  THE BAD
  well, i feel like the elves need a beefier unit, alas they made a expansion that not only met my 
 desires but surpased them so my gripes are no longer justified, sufice it to say if you get this 
 game get the expansion, like brood war to star craft, the expansion is so good it is required. 
 there isn't alot to say other than this is pretty much a must own for any one with a computer, 
 it has beyond low requirements and runs smooth one any machine i've ever played it on. each side 
 has wonderfully unique play styles and i recommend you try the skirmish it is quite difficult even 
 on the easiest setting. the key is that the hero you pick determine how you play so you need to 
 become familiar with the three heroes of each race so you know the tactical options. um i simply 
 love the game it is one i always play, kinda like star craft and home world 2, i can't ever feel 
 like it's outdated i don't know why, maybe because no one has surpased it yet, only met it half 
 way, ala company of heroes, and dawn of war. GAMEPLAY
  fantastic, simply perfect, try it, demo it if there is a demo. or heck buy it you can't be disapionted.
 
  10
  GRAPHICS
  perfect, especially for the day, and the art design pulls it all together. simply unmatched.
 
  10
  SOUND
  the vioce acting is hands down the best, simply fantastic, only equil is company of heroes.
  
 10
  VALUE
  i just wish i didn't feel like i need the expansion to fully embrace the night elves.
  9
  REVIEWER'S 
 TILT
  i loved it same gripe as value, the night elves though balanced didn't feel right till the expansion, 
 then there was nervana
  9
  
  overall 9.6
  get it experience it and embrace it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I have never played a strategy game that is so absorbing, so tactical and so fun as this. Single 
 player is great and engrossing, but its taking the game online where you will find the most enjoyment 
 to be had. The leveling up of your account as you win more games is a novel idea, and the mass 
 amount of custom games on offer make the lifespan of this game almost limitless. I have owned this 
 game for over 3 years, and i still play it every now and again, which is nothing compared to people 
 who bought it way before me and still play it religiously, but this proves that the game really 
 does have superb replayability. Quite simply, this game is essential for rts fans and haters alike.
 
  
  The Good - Lengthy campaign - A blast online - Nice RPG elements
  
  The Bad - Can be hard for noobs online - Could do with being able to control more units at once 
 - Will anything better it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmaster3823
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  this game is an amazing game.
  the gameplay is the best part of the game but the grahics aren't so great.
  the sound is amazing 
 and the story is great. at the begging you don't really understand why you are playing first with 
 the orcs and than you play the humans for three levels and thean the hero of the humans play om 
 the undead army and than the story goes on. the game isn't that long it's about 12 hours. when 
 in the review greg said that they didn't know how you can make a good 3D RTS i don't know how it 
 can't be better than the 2D game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhatanhle2003
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  This is one game you just can't miss. It is so good I've been playing for more than 200 hours and 
 it is still the best game. Although my computer is not the best there is, but the framerate is 
 just smooth. What I say for this game is, it is just plain old school fun. I absolutely love it, 
 I play the game almost every day!!! And you must know that I get bored to games very very easily. 
 LISTEN TO MY ADVICE, DON'T USE CHEAT WHEN YOU PLAY THE GAME. IT COMPLETELY RUINS IT!! LISTEN AND 
 YOU WILL FIND THE JOY OF IT. HAVE FUN AND GOOD LUCK PLAYING IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 7:50 am PT
Review:  Blizzard always hits the target with every game they release, and Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos 
 is no exception. Make no mistake: if you enjoyed the previews versions of the RTS series, you'll 
 love this great sequel.
  
  It's true that the idea of the game didn't change a lot from the original concept, since you still 
 need to gather the same two resources, gold and wood, to build your base and train harvesters and 
 combat units. The single player mode allows you to beat the campaign by adventuring in amazing 
 quests through the world of Azeroth; it's also possible to improve your skills in skirmish games 
 against the AI.
  
  The innovative things aren't in the genre itself, considering Warcraft III is essentially the same 
 game as its predecessors, although with enhanced features. The innovation is actually in the new 
 races and the heroes you can recruit from each one. In addition to the Humans and the Orcs, there 
 is the option to choose between Undeads and the Night Elfs as well. And this time the races will 
 differentiate themselves excessively, making them unique without becoming unbalanced. In Warcraft 
 II the units were pretty similar or equivalent between them, like footmans and grunts. In Warcraft 
 III these same units are very asymmetrical in strength, speed and training cost. The game uses 
 a brilliant fake asymmetry, which keeps the balance between the races without being generic.
  
  The balance between units didn't end yet. As stated above, Warcraft III brought the heroes 
 innovation. They are special units that can earn experience and become stronger over the time, 
 with new abilities and attributes. Each race has three heroes to choose in a custom game; if you 
 play the campaign, you'll control sometimes the ''unique heroes''. These powerful unites are very 
 important to your army and crucial for your success in the battlefield.
  
  The campaign is fine and introduces pretty well the world of Azeroth to newcomers, and you don't 
 really need to play the earlier Warcraft versions to understand what's going on. There is one campaign 
 for each race, so expect around 10-15 hours to finish them.
  
  The graphics may look cartoony and sometimes cute, but the engine can handle a lot of special effects 
 and units moving around without slowing the game down. With the correct adjustment in the video 
 configuration options, you can run Warcraft III on almost every PC.
  
  Multiplayer games are amazing here. The official maps are in good number and with great quality. 
 You may play in Free For All or with teams, including the AI if you want. But on-line matches are 
 the real deal to enjoy the competitive mode. There're a lot of cool strategies with the four races, 
 and trying the out against other players is really fun.
  
  The learning curve is about 10 minutes, and if you aren't familiar with RTS games, you may want 
 to learn from the tutorial. But don't get it wrong: Warcraft III is very easy to learn and it's 
 easy to get into. Now enjoy one more great game developed by Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  Definitely one of the most satisfying RTS in recent history. Blizzard ups the ante from Starcraft 
 to be a great 3D RTS.
  
  Not only does the game expand and improve upon the great history behind Warcraft, its introduction 
 into new areas and incorporation of new races makes this game a great achievement. Each of the 
 races are pretty well balanced, but not direct unit duplicates of each other, allowing for well 
 varied strategies and tactics.
  
  The included map editor (*World Editor) is a behemoth of an application, allowing for mappers to 
 create very complexed and detailed maps for custom games. This has spawned maps varying from Altered 
 Melees, RPGs, Tower Defense, to 3rd Person Shooters. Making literally a limitless supply of well 
 varied custom maps to keep the gamers coming back year after year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbain61
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Single player campaign mode is fun the first one or maybe two times through but after that it's 
 just the same missions over and over. The skirmish mode is a little more exciting but is more useful 
 as a way of familiarizing oneself with the multiplayer maps. Sign on to battle. net and you'll see 
 the really great side of this game. Blizzard did a great job with the mechanics of the online play 
 and the different officially sanctioned modes are fun, challenging, and fast-paced. It is pretty 
 competitive, though, so a little practice is probably a good idea. My favorite part of online play 
 is the custom mode where mods such as Defense of the Ancients (DOTA) reign supreme. These mods 
 are mostly team-based RPGs which are very fun and addictive. The scenario editor included in WC3 
 prolonged the longevitiy of this game by allowing users to create great mods. AND blizzard gives 
 you a place to play these mods on-line. For FREE!! Overall a darn good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owsleyc
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best strategy game of the year. one of my favorite games as all of the others 
 great customs and melees and exported chars from sites that have been around for awhile. this is 
 the greatest game ever for strategy. But one questions why do all the koreans play starcraft when 
 warcraft 3 is so much better than sc?? but i think its best if there stuck on sc because they play 
 the game way too much and they own everyone who plays it. seems to me that most players are easier 
 know than they were before 2-3 years ago 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakotan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I dont know what much to say other then this game beside Age of Myth games are both 
 the most played games on my PC.
  This more then the Age Of Myth games. 
  
  This game has everything you could want in this genre. It has everything I like.
  
  The number 
 one thing is the Story. This game has a wonderfull storry and it doesnt have bad acting to tell 
 it. The twist I never saw it coming with the prince.
  
  This is a must buy for any type of gamer. Yes I have few words when reveiwing but I am simple that 
 way. I dont throw "GREAT" around alot so when I do say it ,I do mean it.
  
  Now turn this off , I have made up your mind, and go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veer-zaara
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics in warcraft 3 are as most people say incredible! Warcraft 3 doesn't ask a lot out 
 of your computer and you get fantastic images! The cinematic video's are in 1 word amazing!
  
  The gameplay:
  Warcraft 3 gives you the option to play with 4 races, the humans, the orcs, 
 the night elves and the undead. All these races have unique abilities, each race has 3 different 
 heroes humans, undead and orcs have 2 melee heroes and 1 ranged hero while the night elves have 
 2 ranged and 1 melee. The Storyline: Each race has it's own unique storyline. Voice acting is superb 
 and the characters are very well written.
  Other:
  Warcraft 3 gives a excellent multiplayer option, and you can always save your battle replays for 
 future watching and improvement.
  Conclusion:
  Warcraft 3 gives a fantastic game experience for those who like strategy games or those who just 
 like warcraft then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auron_xp
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  Well this is a good RTS that manages to involve some RPG elements, and since there is a world editor 
 that lets you create maps, it can last you almost forever. Dispite this game lets you enjoy a long 
 multiplayer gametime, the single-player portion of the game does seem to be as great as Blizzard's 
 other RTSs like Starcraft, it's too easy and too balanced, the races doesn't seem to be as unique 
 as the ones in starcraft. The storyline and the scenes can be interesting, but the characters in 
 Warcraft III lack any personalities at all making the single-player part kind of dull. Other than 
 that, this is still a great long-lasting RTS that can satisfy any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urluckyday
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Originally, I bought this game hoping that it would get me by until another strategy game found 
 its way into my collection, but after playing it, I realized that I found a real treat among PC 
 games.
  I thought that this would be a regular strategy game (building an army and attacking and that's 
 it) , but I was really wrong. No, in this game, you actually build up your armies and create heroes, 
 but it also acts as an RPG as well. All of the heroes have special abilities that can either heal, 
 protect or destroy. Each hero gains more experience for every creature or enemy it kills. It really 
 adds a new layer to the strategy game experience. Great gameplay overall.
  Yes, this is a four year old game, and yes, you can judge the graphics all you want, but just think 
 of this... it's basically a top-down view of World of Warcraft (just a little less sharp looking) . 
 The graphics are very cartoon and stylized, and it works perfectly (just like World of Warcraft 
 graphics) .
  The sound in this game is absolutely stunning. Hear the chopping of trees, the digging of miners, 
 and the pounding of builders in all their glory. Also, hear each different unit type respond with 
 their very... unique ways. Nothing more to say except the music is pretty standard, but overall, 
 the audio is great.
  The fact that Blizzard is still fully supporting this game in both updates and online play and 
 tournaments is absolutely great. No matter what time you are on, you will find someone to play 
 with or against. Overall, the internet play is great (minus a few annoying "waiting for player" 
 issues) .
  All in all, Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos is a great addition to the Warcraft strategy game universe. 
 It is also a great introduction into the World of Warcraft universe. Be sure to check this out! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azirra
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  If you will make a short rewiew about this game you can just say that its great couse it is. Though 
 the gameplay is a bit to slow and the grafics are not so good the campaign is long and just fantastic, 
 Battlenet is a great futiur the the sounds are also great and its easy to learn and play. All through 
 all theres nothing more to say that this game is a long-holding and great great game. It has its 
 problems but its just the classicer over all and if you see this game in the shops then hurry buy 
 it theres nothing ells to say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for the last three years now and it still offers some fun. This is 
 a decent RTS game but to me it lacks that "wow" factor, although it is fun to create mythical beasts 
 and creates to help you destroy your enemies. The graphics in this game are okay and the world 
 maps that come in this game are really rendered well on my computer. You're given a decent amount 
 of sides to choose from and each individually have exclusive units that you can command. I spend 
 most of my time creating my own maps and scenarios I didn't even bother with the other stuff. This 
 game is an okay game for RTS fans and especially a must have for people who are fans of the Warcraft 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HBM
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  2002... Excellent graphics, Excellent Gameplay, Excellent Storyline.... An Excellent game. Warcraft 
 III ROC, is a masterpiece for the strategy genre and something which is still being enjoyed massively 
 today and it is probably because of this game and it's predecessors that World of Warcraft is doing 
 so well at the moment. 
  
  Play as the Humans, Undead, Orcs and Night Elves and play through a campaign with all 4 races which 
 relates with each other and continues the story from the campaign before. 
  
  This game is worth a go for anyone, if you haven't played strategy game before, you must go out 
 and buy this for a good price now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightningsun
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: Reign Of Chaos & The Frozen Throne
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics ofwarcraft 3 are as most people say great! Warcraft 3 doesn't ask a lot out ofyour 
 computer and you get fantastic images! The cinematic video's are in 1 word astonishing!
  
  The gameplay:
  Warcraft 3 gives you the option to play with 4 races, the humans, the orcs, thenight 
 elves and the undead. All these races have unique abilities, the humanscan build faster and can 
 cast invisible, the orcs can use there huises as bunkers and are stronger. The night elves can 
 make building that can do damage to enemies when they are near and can hide at night, they don't 
 need to go back to there town hall to give recources. The undead can build attacking building out 
 of there huises, they can also make skeletons out of corpses. Hero's are very important in this 
 game, you can only make 3 hero's and they can lvl up to 10. Every hero gets 4 abilities that he 
 can unlock (these abilities require mana) , when reaching a next lvl. These abilities can varie 
 to summoning beasts to making an earthquake! Hero's can carry items. These items can be important, 
 if you need to fight and your losing you can use a scroll to transport you back to your base. Or 
 use a mana potion when you are low on mana! There can also give you passive help, a cloak of shadow 
 gives you the opportunity to be invisible when its night this is very useful when your not playing 
 with night elves. This all gives great strategies, do I fight neutral enemies or do I use invisible 
 on my hero and attach the enemy harvesters. There is also always the question about an expansion, 
 do I kill the neutral enemies at that gold mine to make those upgrades and better units? But what 
 if my opponant attacks when im battling neutrals?!
  
  Other:
  Warcraft 3 gives a excellent multiplayer option, and you can always save your battle replays for 
 future watching. This also gives the option to view others people matches!
  
  Conclusion:
  Warcraft 3 gives a fantastic game experience, this is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Any fan of Starcraft or the previous Warcraft games will love Rein of Chaos.
  
  The good
  Gameplay- warcraft 3 is an rts by blizzard entertainment, one of the greatest game companies of 
 rts.
  First you pick 1 of 4 races. These races are. Human, orc, nightelf, and undead. Each race has different 
 units and heroes. What ever the race you pick you start out mining gold mines and cutting down 
 trees until you can make buildings letting you create certain units. Then u use these units to 
 destroy each other. You can play campaign, custom game or online. Campaign has you doing quests 
 instead of just kill kill kill. Custom game is basically kill the enemy. Online is basically custom 
 game but with real people. All the modes are a blast. 
  
  Graphics- the 3d is really nice I like the cartoon kinda look it has some people might not. But 
 you dont need a power machine to run it.
  
  Sound- the music is alright its not the greatest thing ever played. The voice acting is good the 
 fighting is cool
  
  Value- this game is like 30 bucks. Money well spent, you can buy the battle chest for 40 bucks 
 and it comes with the expansion .
  
  The bad
  
  Graphics- nothing that bad. Like a said before some people might not like the look
  
  Sound- 
 the music isnt really the greatest. But it isnt bad
  
  Value- nothing its a fine price for a fine game.
  
  Final thoughts- this game is really fun 
 especially online. Any lover of previous blizzard titles will LOVE this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game so much that I actually got addicted to it for sometime until I found another 
 good game to play. I personaly think if I play the game again I'll be hooked again.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is amazing with lots of new ideas like heroes but I think that it isn't 
 perfect because people always find away to abuse it like Blademaster rushers and if you play only 
 you will know what I mean.
  
  Graphics: The graphics seem a little out dated overall but some areas there is alot of detail.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is quit good in game but you have to love the great voice acting.
  
  Value: I could play this game so many times on single and multiplayer. It has alot and I mean alot 
 of replay value.
  
  Tilt: I just love this game and it has such a good story that you have to play it to understand 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  WarCraft 3 is hands down one of the best RTS's you're ever find
  The single player mode is difficult aswell as entertaining. With 4 playable races in story mode 
 it makes it hard not to find atleast one you dont like
  They are all a bit like, but some are harder than others
  For being a RTS this game has a supprisingly 
 good storyline to it
  The battles can be massive and to the point in the hundreds of units on screen at once
  This 
 brings me to my first problem, it can be hard to keep track of all of your units at once in the 
 BIG battles, such as when overthorwing a town, and because of that you could go in with 50 more 
 units than what they have, and STILL lose
  This game is about careful planning, not hot headedness
  The online is GREAT and FUN
  Though 
 there is a few problems with cheaters
  But back to single player mode
  Each race has it's own trate and skills, Orcs fighters seem to overpower all other fighters all 
 the time
  Dark Elvens magic/marksmen seem to be the best
  Human and Undead seem to be a good mix of in between
  Some levels are to easy and fast, but some 
 are too hard and long
  Some battles, if not careful can last upwords of 1+ hour, but most are 20-40 minutes (longer ones)
 
  All in all this is a AMAZING RTS that any fan of RTS's shouldn't miss
  And if you are looking to get into RTS's than this is a good way to start, but maybe play a few 
 custom games in it before you go up against a tougher than most story mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentGamer4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos is truly amazing. The expansion pack to this game however, ("Frozen 
 Throne") Is a bit better, but this game is still all the same as worth it. But you can get that 
 after you beat this and continue the story with many other features too! Anyway, the campaign has 
 a marvalous story, backed up by a variation of environments, tasks, and different races you play 
 as. The story continues from the first two, but it has progressed to a very nice story that doesn't 
 get boring and keeps you guessing.
  
  The graphics are above average, but everything else is 100% from the gameplay, to the sound, to 
 the value, to the tilt! Don't have internet? Doesn't matter! If you can't play battle. net (even 
 know it is one of the main reasons to buy the game) you can just play 1v1, 2v2, 3v3, or 4v4, and 
 team battles verses (or "with" in the case of a team battle) the computer, featuring great levels, 
 and many other mini games,
  
  Do you have internet? (well, obviously if you're reading my review!) . Amazing battle. net features 
 online chat, playing 1v1, 2v2, 3v3 4v4, team battles with friends, customly made games, great environments, 
 tournaments, and more! Also download customly made campaigns off the web, another great feature!
 
  
  Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos is a wonderful game that anyone who enjoys strategy (real time) and 
 action with a wonderful story, voice acting, characters, environments, and action packed war would 
 enjoy.
  
  I am sure most who are reading this have played the originals and won't need to know this, but 
 just in case, thsi is what the main point of the game is:
  
  1. Set up your base, and build your town and harvest wood and collect gold at the nearest gold 
 mine (s) with you peasants.
  
  2. Train your hero and you warriors as you build your army. 3. Upgrade all you buildings (eventually) 
 and weapons and research new abilitys, etc.
  
  4. Attack the enimies and destory their bases!
  
  This is just the basic fundamentals of the 
 game, but it really is amazing and has a lot of strategy! Definitely a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluenose94
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  This Is A Great Game, First Of All.
  And If You Like The Beginning Of World Of Warcraft Then You'll Love This Game!!! The Difficulty 
 Is Sometimes Easy, Hard Or In Between But Still A Great Game To Play. I Spent At Least 20 To 40 
 Hours Playing This Horribly, Addicting Game!!! The Learning Curve For Me Was About Not Even A Minute 
 To A Half-Hour But Still Coming A Great Game. This Is An Instant Classic, For All You People That 
 Rate This Game Under 8.0 You Are Out Of Your Mind! The Gameplay Is What Holds A 9.0 For This Game. 
 The Graphics Makes It Looks Like It's An Imaginary World But... Real. All Together This Is A Superb 
 Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warnexus100
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 28, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  ok. warcraft. when i first heard about the game from my fiends. goblin tinker ( a neutral unit) 
 was released to spice up the Frozen Throne edition. i got interested in the game when my friends 
 were planning a strategy on tomorrow's 3vs3 tournament taking place in a cybercafe couple blocks 
 from school. i told my friend to let me borrow in which he allowed me to play it for a month.
 
  
  i played the game for 5 hours i have as spare time. the game is great in my opinion when i first 
 have the experience with it. graphics is good but gameplay is even better as you are only allowed 
 a limited amount of units
  on the map. playing with all 4 factions is one of the best moments. 
  
  i didnt buy it when 
 i first heard about it since i was hooked with runescape.
  anyways now i got my own copy of the battle chest. a good price for the battle chest. if u bought 
 ROC u must get FT edition too. its a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 121212121211121
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game for Christmas I didn't know what to expect of it. But in an hour I was 
 glued to my computer and wouldn't leave unless I was hungry. Warcraft 3 has a great story to it 
 as well. You get to play 4 different types of races each with their own campain continueing the 
 story. You can either start off on the proluge with the orges (which I implore that you do) or start 
 off as the humans. Each race gets their own hero (s) to control. When a certain amount of enemies 
 are killed your hero levels up and you get to choose his new abilities. (Every hero has 3 abilities 
 each capable to reach level 3 power. Highest level for a hero is 10.) For the humans your main 
 hero is Arthas. A prince Paladin (Paladins are humans who use the power of the holy light and goodness 
 to give them strength, and carry a huge hammer to kill with.) who is trying to stop orges from 
 attacking his land of Lordaron. However the orges are not his problem, but something that is not 
 living. The orges summoned The Scourge to the kingdom of Lordaron. (In the proluge you play as the 
 orges. Their heros are Thral and Grom Hellscream. They learn that demons are returning to their 
 world and they must escape to the land Kalimdor, a place that they can rest for now.) Now back 
 to the humans, The Scourage is a vast army of the dead. Their ruler is Malganis a Scourage Dreadlord 
 who's only goal is to turn all humans into the undead. Arthas then asks help from his sorceress 
 friend Jaina Proundmore. Jaina is the daughter to the king of high scorcer elves. Their kingdom 
 is friendly with the humans, Jaina russes off to help Arthas. Arthas then learns that The Scourage 
 turns the humans by feeding them a poisinous crop that once they eat they will die, and once they 
 die by The Scourage they turn into the undead. Arthas then gets so frustrated and angry and Malganis 
 that he would kill the infested towns, suspend his high ranking Paldain friend, drives his men 
 to a frozen liar where Malganis and his troops are. Arthas then meets a dwarf friend up in the 
 frozen mountains who tells him of a magical evil sword that he and his men were looking for. When 
 Arthas learns that him and his men are doomed him and his friend journey to get. However Arthas 
 needed to make a choice sacrifice his friend for the sword, or turn back make a stand. Arthas to 
 overwelmed with rage picks to sacrifice his friend for the sword Frostmore. With sword he destroyes 
 Malganis's forces and Malganis himself as well. With the victory he had he became to overwellmed 
 with evil and with that he returned home and murdered his father the king. With that Lordaron falls 
 to rumble and Arthas becomes the very thing he wanted to destroy. (Just like Star Wars) The story 
 then keeps develping and gets better and better. But single player is not the only great thing 
 about this game. Online multiplayer is also a great feature. It contains massive battles, tournaments, 
 and much more as you can play as the night elves, humans, orges, and the undead. Warcraft 3 was 
 definetly worth buying and is probulary worth $20 or less now. You should definetly give this game 
 a chance.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is a game created by blizzard. Blizzard seems to create 3 of the ebst series of games 
 ever. This game is just amazing even though it is a rts.
  Gameplay 10/10
  The gameplay is easy all you have to do is read what it says to do its basacly self explanatory. 
 The single player needs alittle work cause the story wasnt really that engaging. And at the end 
 why does a tree blow up? But neverless the online games rule. Mainly cause you can make you own 
 map. There is so many ideas out there you just want to try them all.
  Graphics 8/10
  The graphics are ok for a rts mainly because you can see a tree fall. Which is alot of detail but 
 if you zoom in the units look like polygons.
  Sound 10/10
  Almost every unit has a special voice acting. So try to click on every unit many times to hear 
 there special stuff. Some are so funny.:)
  Value 10/10
  This game offers so much replay value on online and lets you make you own map.
  Reviewer's Tilt 
 10/10
  I just loved this game and i can never get tired of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:32 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 Reign Of Chaos For PC.
  
  After torturing us gamers for many years with trailers, screen shots, interviews, more trailers, 
 a few more screens, and many a delayed release date, Blizzard's WarCraft III: Reign of Chaos is 
 finally here, but be warned; this ain't your momma's WarCraft. With a fully 3D world for us lucky 
 gamers to explore, two brand-new, completely unique races, and a few RPG elements thrown in for 
 variety, WarCraft III is different from the WarCrafts of yore. Is that a bad thing? Noooo, my friends. 
 Not at all. Let's discuss the greatness, section by section, shall we? 
  
  Graphics : Freekin' awesome. Next section... 
  Seriously, the graphics in this game are extremely 
 solid. The pre-rendered cutscenes are simply breathtaking; after watching these, the amount of 
 work put into making this game as polished and refined as possible is obvious. The in-game graphics 
 are nothing to laugh at either. The game seems to have a twisted-cartoony feel to it; watch the 
 sprightly humans battle the ghoulish undead and you'll see what I mean. The landscapes are superbly 
 crafted - never will you be bored with the same dull sights thrown at you again and again. Instead, 
 the world of WarCraft III is varied and exciting, complete with sky-scraping mountains and beautiful 
 waterfalls. Also, the landscapes don't seem to have the cookie-cutter gridlike feel to it that 
 most other RTS games have - perhaps it's because of the freedom of 3D. The transition to 3D didn't 
 detract from the quality of the units themselves - each unit is easily identifiable from any angle, 
 and when you're in the heat of battle, that's all that really matters. Overall, the transition 
 to 3D was performed flawlessly. 
  
  Sound : Sound in RTS games is funny. I was about to say that the game had the same old sword clinks 
 and orcish grunts as previous games, but then I thought; What else are they going to do? ''If it 
 ain't broke, don't fix it'' comes into play here. While the sound effects do seem to be similar 
 those in WarCraft II, that is not a bad thing by any means. The hilarious comments made by units 
 after repeated clickings are still something to hear; ''MORTAAAR COMBAAT!'', the ready-for-battle 
 phrase said by a human mortar team, is perhaps my favorite quote from any WarCraft game. The dramatic 
 musical score is superb; you'll never find yourself wondering why a certain selection was used 
 in an inappropriate place. The voice-acting is also fantastic (notice a trend here?) . None of the 
 characters are cheesily dramatic, and you can really hear emotion in the character's voice. On 
 the in game cutscenes, the voices don't always match up with the lips of the character in the lower-left 
 corner of the screen, so it sometimes ends up looking like a translated Japanese film, but it's 
 nothing that detracts from the overall quality of the game. Once again, WarCraft 3 aces another 
 essential category! Let's see how it does with.... 
  
  Gameplay : The meat and potatoes of any game. If the controls to the game are frustratingly complicated 
 or unresponsive, or if it's simply no fun to play, then it's not worth buying. So how does WarCraft 
 III stack up in the most important components of a video game? 
  
  WarCraft III uses pretty much the same control scheme as WarCraft II, which means that you should 
 never have trouble controlling your army. The right mouse button is the utility knife of WarCraft 
 III; with the right units selected, right clicking on a burning building will send the peons running 
 to fix it; right clicking on some enemy units or buildings will order an attack, and so forth. 
 You can assign groups to hotkeys, which makes ordering large scale attacks a snap. Zooming in and 
 out is made easy with the mouse wheel - while zooming is basically a useless feature, it sure is 
 cool to get in close and watch a battle unfold before your very eyes. Overall, the control scheme 
 is intuitive and easy to learn; you never lose control of what's going on, and that is what's important. 
 
  As we all know, graphics, sound and the like aren't what makes a game; a 'good' game is one that 
 is simply a lot of fun to play. And let me tell you something - WarCraft III is a LOT of fun to 
 play. The single player campaign has a deep, involving plot, and as you play with each race, you'll 
 see that they all fight for what they believe is right - none of them fight just to play the 'bad 
 guy' or 'good guy' part. 
  'Hero' units are also available in all modes of play. Heros are unique units that are much more 
 powerful than your standard soldier - think of them as generals or war chiefs. Heros can level 
 up with battle experience, enabling them to become extremely strong and versatile units. Heros 
 also have an inventory in which they can carry potions, scrolls, orbs that upgrade their weapon, 
 and much more. A powerful hero unit can really turn the tide of the battle in your favor; just 
 ask the Orc encampment I destroyed with my hero alone. 
  The single player mode isn't over when you finish all four lengthy, addictive campaigns; the Custom 
 Game mode allows you to skirmish against the computer as much as you want. As if that wasn't enough, 
 Blizzard threw in the staple World Editor, giving the player all the tools necessary to create 
 professional-quality maps to battle upon. But wait! There's even more!! The legendary Battle. net 
 internet multiplayer service comes with both versions (Collector's and standard) of WarCraft III, 
 enabling you to battle against fellow War3-ers from all over the world. Combine all of these modes 
 of play, and you've got a game with literally limitless replay value. The Orcs 
  
  The Orcs 
  can hit hard, and anyone that attacks their buildings will take damage as well. They 
 have weak air units, and the peons (The slaves) can take the enemies gold when they hit their structures. 
 Most of their units are ground based and very destructive. One of these are called a raider. Its 
 mounted on a pseudo-horse, which allows the raider to move fast. Other units arent so fast, these 
 include the Grunts and Mages. Mages that are sided with the Orcs usually have destructive spells 
 that can send other fighters on the same team into a frenzy, destroying all thats in their way. 
 Probably one of the more balanced races in warcraft. 
  
  The Humans 
  
  Humans have an outstanding defense, you wont get past their cannon towers unless you have a lot 
 of artillery. This is mostly due the fact they can build strong towers thatll smear about all 
 other units that come their way. They can even call in all peasants to the town hall to attack 
 the enemy. No other race can do this for some reason. Theyre air defense isnt very good, though. 
 Their version of the Orcs raider is a knight that mounts a horse and moves quickly. He hits about 
 as hard and can take out smaller units with ease. Their demolishing crew is a dwarves that fire 
 out bombs at the target. 
  
  The Undead 
  
  Undead are the biggest offenders of making hordes to take out their opponents. Their strong point 
 is in the fact they can summon up huge armies of the undead, and attack their opponent until they 
 fall. The undead have a strong air defense/offense, with a unit called the Wyrm. Wryms breath 
 out ice and can freeze buildings that can become useful against other races defense. Their type 
 of mage is deadly in the art of bringing up the dead, and putting mean barriers around allies. 
 These barriers do damage to whatever comes close to them. While not so strong on the defensive 
 side, they still have some structures that can deal out big damage. As the town hall for humans 
 can call up the peasants to fight, their town hall (Called a Necropolis) can attack the enemy, 
 if they decide to invade. 
  
  The Night Elves 
  
  The final race in Warcraft 3 is that of the Night elves. Their strong point is that they can aid 
 all allies in the middle of battle. They do this by raising the amount of damage a whole army of 
 units do. Their building can uproot themselves and move, which will spare you building another 
 whole town. While their units are mostly weak things thatll get killed quick, with a mage/druid 
 on your team this shouldnt ever happen. Theyll be able to raise up every ones stats enough to 
 where youll take out the opponent. Another thing they have going for them is some super strong 
 air units. They have a griffin, that can be mounted by an archer to do extra damage. Then a giant 
 flying dragon what can breath gas upon enemies. Probably the most diverse race in Warcraft 
  
  Another thing to keep in mind about all the races is that theyre all balanced out. Some of 
 them are more effective against others, though. A Wyrm from the undead will be able to freeze the 
 Night Elves structures so their buildings cant uproot themselves and fight back. This goes for 
 about all the other races as well. Its this balance that makes Warcraft so special. Most other 
 RTS (Real Time Strategy) games usually have one cheap flaw thatll make one race stronger than 
 all the others. Warcraft 3 does not have this. 
  
  WarCraft III is, without a doubt, worth the slightly inflated price. Hardcore RTS buffs don't need 
 any reviews to tell them to buy this game, as they probably own it. This review is just to confirm 
 the growing suspicions that everyone else has - this game rocks. With crisp, exciting graphics, 
 solid sound, an intuitive control scheme, and the best gameplay mechanics of any strategy game 
 to date - this game has got it all. Without a doubt, this game lives up to the legendary WarCraft 
 name. Blizzard, you've done it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Joseph00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  When I think of a real time strategy, the games that pop into my head almost immediately are Age 
 of Empires II and Blizzard's *crafty* games. Warcraft, like Starcraft, puts a modest number of 
 different races to play as instead of a plethora of different races, almost too similar. Starcraft 
 had three VERY unique races, all of which gave experiences like playing three different games. 
 And Warcraft III brings races all very unique.
  
  Men have very balanced units, with good defense and good offense. Orcs are very brutal in offense, 
 but maybe a little bare when it comes to taking hits. The undead can overwhelm with great numbers 
 if used correctly. There's plenty of fun to be had playing each race thoroughly. The campaign is 
 very engaging and worthwhile to play. Even though the heart of an RTS resides within its multiplayer, 
 Warcraft, like Starcraft, manages to give an extremely fun single player as well, having a very 
 involving story and realistic characters.
  
  The looks and sounds of this game are very good. Check this game out if you already haven't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Shadow12
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  This game is such a great experience for me because i loved slice and dicing orcs or mostly the 
 undead..... its also a great multiplayer game you have the experience of destroying your opponent 
 and its a legendary game for anyone who buys 
  
  this game is amazing in a lot of ways...... 
  
  1: This game is just not for multiplayer its 
 even better on the 4 exciting campaigns filled with mystery and war.
  
  2: This game is just plain fun.
  
  3: The multi-player mode is a great experience for hard 
 core gamers.
  
  4: Best in the series. 
  
  5: Great attacking system and heaps of extra missions.
  
  (6) : Its one of my favourites games 
 XD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic game with lots of characters and different rases to chose from. It looks like it was 
 made for RPG fans as well, cause there's a big storyline behind it and a lot of missions with just 
 having a team by your side, where your hero has to make his way through various disasters and abominations 
 and you have to use your skills you obtain in the best way possible to win it.
  Heroes receive experience points by defeating foes, so their power and abilities grow with each 
 level. Tons of magic spells and units for a disposal, powerful artifacts to choose from side-quests 
 and mercenaries to recruit. There's a possibility to have few heroes by your side to aid each other 
 in times of peril.
  You'll like it if you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demo434
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 RoC is according 2 me one of the best games ever made. It was released in 2002 but its 
 still the best game of its genre (RTS) . Age of Mythology comes close but the lack of experience 
 and level of heroes is a little setback. In Warcraft 3 however heroes are the most fun and important 
 part of the game. Having a hero leading ur army is necessary as his spells and aura can determine 
 the course of the match. This makes warcraft part rpg as u can lvl up ur hero equip him with items 
 and learn ultimate spells at lvl 6. The campaign mode is very exciting and the story is pretty 
 good. Once u finish the campaign u can go online on battlenet and play this game with ur friends 
 u can play on ladder and u can play some very creative custom games like footman wars,7 demon hunters 
 etc. They have kept me glued 2 warcraft for so many years. 
  The gameplay is fast, smooth and unlike Age of Mythology u will be involved in the game right in 
 the beginning eg: leveling or harassing opponent with ur hero. The graphics in this game are amazing 
 second only 2 final fantasy. I never enjoy the sound in any game (as it slows down my comp) the 
 replay value is excellent because of the custom games on battlenet and finally I dont really know 
 what tilt means but im sure its pretty good in warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is one of the best rts games ever made. Its is a slower paced, base building game that 
 throws a little rpg elements in as well. Warcraft 3 has a great campaign mode that introduces you 
 to all of the races in the game by breaking it into four separate but linked campaigns. After you 
 finish this part of the game, as with all rts games, you can continue with skirmishes until you 
 master all of the races and even then you can go online and fight others in online skirmishes. 
 The maps in warcraft are greatly detailed and full of creeps and different creatures. to add to 
 the experience, they have improve the game by allowing trees to fall after bing chopped down. there 
 are many little things that have improve warcraft and made it a game worthy of anyones purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagetora007
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Interstellar. No game on PC (except WoW, and maybe Starcraft) can equal this 
 game's superb gameplay, perfect graphics, and just plain addictiveness. This game's gameplay will 
 take some getting used to if you are new to RTS games. Otherwise, there is almost no learning curve. 
 The game has a rich storyline and magnificent cutscenes. The graphics are just a joy to see. A 
 bit blocky one or two times, but otherwise, nothing beats them. The cutscenes have graphics similar 
 to a CGI charactyer in Star Wars. Yeah. That good. If you don't own this game...
  well, let's just say I know where you live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistah_spakko
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  Warcraft III is a very different game than the previous "craft" games. It is a good example of 
 a game that tries something new and succeeds. The main innovation in WC3 is the inclusion of so 
 many RPG elements. The game revolves around hero units, units that are much stronger than normal 
 units. They can use items, they have special abilities, and they gain levels after they have experienced 
 a certain amount of combat.
  
  Blizzard supports this game very much. To this day it is still updated regularly. If WC3 has a 
 problem, you can count on Blizzard to fix it fairly promptly.
  
  The game itself is much more simplistic than most RTS games out there. It tends to favour an "I-can-click-faster-than-you" 
 type of match compared to one comprised mostly of strategic planning. With that said, it is a welcome 
 concept. To most people Warcraft is not a serious or competitive game, and will simply be a game 
 you play to kill some time and have some fun.
  
  The battles in WC3 are also to a much smaller scale. It is very rare to see an army excede two 
 dozen units, and most battles will be more in the area of one dozen units per side (in a one on 
 one match) .
  
  The campaign in WC3 is also worthy of mention; it is simply the best single player campaign in 
 an RTS ever made... However, most of the main characters are cold, and almost seem mean, so you 
 won't really be routing for one side over another like you would have in, for example Starcraft. 
 However, the satisfaction of RTS gameplay and the well written scripts and amazing voice acting 
 makes for a very long, fun and replayable campaign.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  It can be argued whether these graphics truly are good, but I love them. It's one of the things 
 that attracted me to the game in the first place -- eye candy! The cartoony graphics are very cool 
 and definitely complement the gameplay. WC3 is also a very easy game to run on any machine for 
 the most part.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Atmospheric music, phenominal voice acting. The sound effects are also very good, but the highlight 
 is definitely the voice acting. Try clicking on a unit over and over again. Each time he/she/it 
 will say something different. Usually, the longer you click on it, the more sarcastic the remarks 
 become.
  
  Value 10/10
  If you give it a chance, you'll be playing Warcraft III for quite some time, probably on and off 
 until the next "craft" game comes out. If you're anything like me you're hoping Blizzard comes 
 out with Starcraft II rather than another MMO.... 
  
  Blizzard's online multiplayer server, Battle. net, is easily the best online gaming server.... ever, 
 to say the least. The only problem with it is that some firewalls and routers may have a conflict 
 with TCP port 6112, and you may have to open/forward that port to your computer to allow you to 
 play all of the gametypes online.
  
  Also, the WC3 single player campaign is probably the best single player campaign ever in a Real 
 Time Strategy game.
  
  Tilt 9/10
  When I heard about Warcraft III, I thought to myself: "Great, another horrendously overrated Blizzard 
 RTS*. I think I'll stick with AOE2 and wait for AOM."
  Evidently, I was wrong. While it isn't anywhere near as good as AOE2 (Age of Empires II) , Blizzard 
 did a fantastic job with Warcraft III, and it shouldn't be ignored.
  
  *My opinion of Blizzard RTS's has changed since then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quills_GW
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  wELL... i got this game like 5 months ago, and i was too lazy to write a review abt how good it 
 was . but soon i was too impressed with it that i have to write a review for u guys to see.
  well, for those who are looking for a fast-paced and fun gameplay. i can only tell you to press 
 the 'buy now' button. seriously. this is like the best RTS game ever.. cool untis, great gameplay 
 and the custom games on battlenet is just plain fun. so ppl... go get this game... and you will only 
 play blizzard games from now on!!!!!!
  
  - BLIZZARD OWNS ALL 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D12World20
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft lll is by far one of the most addicting games out their for the pc. The games graphics 
 and sounds are breathtaking, and best part is you dont need one of those super performance computers 
 to run this game. All you will need is a standard Pentium ll processor, which shouldnt me hard 
 for pure gamers to have. The storyline to the game has a good concept that is not that hard to 
 follow. It even has an expansion pack that you can have to play even more quests. After some quests 
 in the game it does get a little tricky. Some quests I even found myself playing for more then 
 2 hours at a time. The controls are pretty simple although it does get a little tricky. But dont 
 worry because with keyboard shortcuts makes playing a breeze. So if your looking for a fun battling 
 game with even online play that will run on almost any computer, I suggest you pick this game up 
 and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHAckerReaper
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  The Campaign has a great story line which starts off a few years after Archimonde's defeat at Mount 
 Hyjal, with new races, heroes, buildings, and upgrades to complement the race your working on the 
 most or if you like playing them all, battle. net, features random on line play which allows you 
 to play with people around the continent or world. With the Custom Maps made by people all over 
 the internet, you can play with new styles and some things that have no close resemblance to warcraft, 
 all in all, great game, very fun, the only problem is that were lacking new games on custom maps. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan8494
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III Reign of Chaos is definitely not a disappointment for the Warcraft Series. This is 
 another great game for pc. You can build troops and battle with them. The heroes in this game are 
 great. The troops are also cool. This game is slightly better than Frozen Throne but Frozen Throne 
 has better online. This game has better campaign though. There are a lot of different levels. This 
 game can be hard at times and it will make you very frustrated. This game is hard but it is highly 
 addicting just like the other warcraft games. The graphics are great in this game also. The characters 
 are great. The heroes are also great in this game. Some of them are Arthas and Thrall. They are 
 great heroes with unique powers. This game is a great pc game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  STORY  A Plague of darkness is poisoning the lands causing turmoil & confusion amongst the races 
 that roam these lands. The demons are returning & it is up to all races of these lands to let down 
 their hatred & combine their forces to defeat this evil
  
  GRAPHICS  The graphics of the game are pretty neat, the environments & locations & like none youve 
 seen before, characters & heroes & justified & described very well & the end result is just simply 
 beautiful
  
  SOUND  The musical score as well as the voice actings are just BRILLIANT, if you click on each 
 character & unit they speak up some pretty funny one liners. Each unit has a unique voice description.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY  The gameplay scores very high in my books. It gives you the feel of both Strategy as 
 well as RPG. Heroes are upgradeable and vary in strength, defense, etc. Each Hero has a variety 
 of special abilities that can aid you in battle & that counts. You cannot win the game just by 
 numbers & thats the best part. You HAVE to strategize your attacks & defenses well as the game 
 has an UPKEEP system which means that the more units you have the less resources your farmers will 
 gather as they have to keep up with the requirements. Lots of upgradeables for each units so choose 
 well. The game doesnt support very large armies but that wont bother you as youll be very busy 
 planning your moves. The only let down of the game play is the lack of formations available to 
 your troops others wise its just too good. A variety of units, creatures, upgrades & Heroes upgrades 
 makes it an ALL IN ONE game
  
  PROS  Strong storyline, amazing A. I., beautiful voice actings, cinematics, variety of units, 
 upgrades & Heroes, strong gameplay, memorable characters.
  
  CONS  Lac of formations.
  
  VERDICT  SIMPLY ONE OF THE BEST PC GAMES OF ALL TIME.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is completely great for rog and the graphics aren't very good for today but the sound 
 is really good. The story is mainly about the scourge and the reign of chaos which are demons from 
 hell i guess. The storyline is a lot better than frozen throne and it's a lor funner to play. The 
 multiplayer is great but frozen thrones is better because of all the new units and maps etc. There 
 are four races human, undead, orc and nightelf. Each race has their own advantages and disadvantages. 
 Each race you start out with a base and workers, with workers you buod building to build soldiers 
 and you can build different soldiers with different buildings. For eg. with a barracks you can 
 build footman and with a smith you can upgrade defense and damage and with a grypon place you can 
 build gyphons and other creatures. To build men you need to mine gold and lumber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AINISA
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  This is quite simply one of the best games of all time. From an unbelievably fun, diverse, and 
 addictive single-player campaign to the massive multiplayer fun of the awesome Battle. net, there 
 is something great for everyone with this game. The 4 races are very diverse and it is great getting 
 to know each of them in turn during the single player game, and then taking your knowledge to Battle. net 
 and taking on others in real time.
  
  Battle. net is great, automatically matching you up with players with similar skills so it is not 
 overwhelming for noobs.
  
  All around an A+ game in everyway. I have played almost every major game over the past 7 years 
 and this is one of the top 3 if not the top 1.
  
  I giw 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePatinator
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  WarCraft 3 is a fantastic strategy game. No question about it. Although some may think it as dated 
 now, it still stands as one of the most innovative and entertaining strategy games.
  
  To put it in a simple way, WarCraft 3 is a different sort of strategy, with 4 races that build 
 differently, have different units, different strengths, and different tactics. It's quite reminiscent 
 of starcraft, as all the races have simular characteristics to the Starcraft races, although tend 
 to be strange mixes of the terran, zerg and protoss. In fact, I'd go as far as saying that Warcraft 
 III is just a 3D version of starcraft, set on earth, and without the "Omg Zerg Rush!". (This is 
 by no means a bad thing)
  
  However, I would be slightly wrong, as WarCraft III does have a number of non-starcrafty aspects 
 that make the game all the much better. For a start, there is more emphasis on individual units 
 abilities, and this is accompanied by Heroes, special units who have more health and power than 
 normal units, and who have inventories and leveling up (simularly to an RPG character) . Having 
 these heroes adds another level of strategy to the game, and to prevent them from being overlooked, 
 the maximum unit limit is down to just 90 (from starcrafts 200) .
  
  What this does is emphasise careful base building and effective unit management, as it's hard to 
 pull of a sweaping wave of destruction through shear numbers. It also makes the game significantly 
 harder to pick up and play. You'll need to play through a lot of campaign before it's advisable 
 you tackle the standard deathmatch. The campaign is undoubtadly brilliant, so this is no problem, 
 but as is commonplace in the genre, the difficulty is cruelly steep.
  
  Overall WarCraft III is a very fun, varied game, that is filled with fun battles and an thoroughly 
 thought out set of basics. It still manages to be one of the best strategy games available, even 
 4 years after it's release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvercineplex
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft is a great RTS. The campaign was very well done and the cinematics were amazing. The story 
 line was good and there were a lot of diversity in mission types. The gameplat actually focuses 
 on actual strategy and not just building up a vast army. The campaign is actually a good learning 
 tool for newbies and not just something to beat. The difficulty was perfect. The campaign story 
 was cool. The animations look superb. The sound is great. The online play is amazing. It doesn't 
 take much to learn the basic aspecs of the game. What else can I say... Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sun-Hun
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most addictive of strategy games. Built from the popular WarCraft II, the strategy 
 involved in this game is several levels higher. Besides using the regular humans and orcs, you 
 can now use night elves and the undead as well. Apart from that, each race has three unique, usable, 
 and levelable heroes. When these heroes reach Lvl-6, they can unleash their killer spell/special-move. 
 For the Priestess of the Moon (pom for short) , her move is Starfall (or something like that, it's 
 been years since I last played that game) . For strategy players who are annoyed with controlling 
 huge amounts of troops, fear not with War3 as you control around 1/3 to 1/2 the numbers as with 
 StarCraft. Micro-managing your troops should be easier than before, but that doesn't mean the game 
 is any easy.
  
  The 3D graphics in this game is not too shabby, although if you zoom too close, it may not look 
 too good. The sound is not bad either, but I enjoy the good old music from War2. The multiplayer 
 campaign is a welcome addition to the game which is what motivates the addiction. You'll try your 
 best to become to best, only to find out there're countless others better than you. Once you get 
 trapped in this thought, it may takes months before you can fight off the addiction. Therefore, 
 I only recommend this game for those who can allow themselves to only play 2-3 hours/day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chetjan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This is an all around great game. With an intereguative mix of gameplay and action, it makes it 
 on one of the best game out on the market. The game is very similar to Rise of Nations, yet completely 
 different. If you like Rise of Nations, you'll love this one, and if you did not like Rise of Nation, 
 you'll still love this one.
  
  This game is for any type of player, so not matter who you are I am telling you, go out and buy 
 it. The only downside to the game is the sound. The sound is great, instead of outstanding. In 
 most cases there is a huge variety of sound, but in some there isn't.
  
  GO OUT AND BUY YOURSELF A COPY TODAY. IT IS JUST PLAIN AWSOME!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  I don't have words to describe this game. It's by far the best RTS game ever made and even after 
 almost 4 years since its release, it continues to draw fans from around the world. This isn't a 
 GS recommended game for nothing. Let's get into it.....
  
  The earlier editions of Warcraft were in themselves the best of their time. With huge expectations 
 to be met, its amazing that this game beat everything else and remains to this day the most played 
 RTS worldwide even leaving behind the prestigious AoE series.
  
  The unique feature of this game is that it encourages use of small, well-knit battalions instead 
 of huge armies. This is a feature which can appear a bit uncomfortable at first but when you get 
 more into the game you'll realize its importance. Instead of relying on sheer numbers of units, 
 as in most RTSs, you have to concentrate on upgrading your small battalions to make them as powerful 
 as possible. Only a small number of units can be selected at a time so you'll have to divide your 
 forces into small groups. There is usually so much going on in the game that it really makes you 
 think hard about your strategies. You can't always keep using the same strategy and will have to 
 keep changing it according to the situation. There can be instances where your forces can be clashing 
 against enemy forces on 4-5 different locations on the map simultaneously. 
  
  Every aspect of the game is truly amazing, be it the graphics, sound or overall gameplay. The graphics 
 are simply amazing and the map is dotted with superbly designed characters. The dialog is also 
 great with excellent voice-overs which make every character feel unique. Lets get more into the 
 game now.
  
  The game consists of four factions quite unique in themselves. The human alliance (comprising the 
 elves, dwarves, and humans) , and the orcish horde, consisting of the orcs, the trolls, and a breed 
 called the Tauren (which resemble, to some extent, the mythical Minotaurs) are retained from the 
 previous Warcraft games. The new factions are the undead with their zombie creations; and the night 
 elf sentinels: a race of purple-skinned warrior druids. The Hero units add some great power to 
 your army and the higher you level them up, the powerful they get.
  
  The campaign missions of this game are very well developed and have a fair share of twists and 
 turns. The story line of the campaigns revolves around the life of certain heroes whom you control 
 and see growing more powerful with each level gained. In between missions are the amazing cut scenes 
 which are a real treat to watch. The campaigns are really quite sufficient to prepare you for the 
 single player maps and of course the online play, which is really awesome and allows for tonnes 
 of different strategic experiments.
  
  A game like this doesn't come along every week. You should definitely not miss it. There's so much 
 experimentation possible in this game, that it'll keep you absorbed for hours on end.
  
  Go Play!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UmaSama
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  Wow, where should I begin?
  Well graphics are excellent, sound it's awesome, especially the music, highly immersive, mostly 
 at the end of the game in the final battle, gameplay is extraordinarly easy, and when combining 
 mouse and keyboard you'll get to play at an extremely fast and enjoyable pace. The only flaw (little 
 one) I could encounter concerning gameplay is the fact that when you turn the camera you can only 
 do it by 180, and it doesn't lock there it goes back to original possition, but as I already said 
 it's a minor flaw.
  But the best of this extraordinary game are not the graphics, nor the sound, neither the gameplay, 
 it's the STORY, and what a story, better than most RPG games stories, in fact I liked the story 
 of this game so much that after playing it I managed to get all Warcraft RPG books; well continuing 
 with the story matter, one of the best things about the story is that you get to not only to see 
 all the views of it, but you actually live all the different views, I mean you play the Human part 
 of the story, you play the undead part, the Orc part, and the Night Elf part, and by when the game 
 is over you find that you were part of every single part of this magnificent story, even the "evil" 
 ones.
  So I say that this is the best Epic RTS to be released in a lot of years, (at least untill the 
 next Blizzard RTS production) .
  So if you're thinking on buying this game, think no more... BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hsoj
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Even a friend of mine who is a tough critic for games says its on of his favorite games. 
 I would recomend it to pretty much anyone. The story line is good and unique. Both single player 
 and online play are fun. This game never gets boring with the great campanes and even the option 
 to make your own maps. The graphics arent the best but its a 4 year old game and graphics dont 
 matter that much. The sound is good and so are the voice overs. If you havent played this game 
 before its about time you do and learn what you have been missing all these years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: REd_toe
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 25, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: It is squareish but is it one of the first Rts's to go "3D". So it doesn't look to bad 
 and way better then starcraft graphics.
  
  Sound: It sounds awesome. The Voice acting doesn't suck. The music doesn't sound bad at all.
 
  
  Gameplay: Multiplayer wise its majorly addictive. With random opponent matching so its a fair game. 
 Easy to read ranking. Its nice and balanced between hero and army so you have to count on both. 
 Instead of haveing one Mega unit or one HUGE army. Also Fight pretty much can happen with in the 
 first few mins of the game with the creeping of neutral creatures or harrassing the opponent with 
 your hero at the start, so there isn't a boring 15 min build up of armys then one fight. 
  
  Value: If you love Real time Stragtegy. This game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 24, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that Blizzard was coming out with a Warcraft III, I was so happy. I played the first 
 two, (especially the second one) to death, and needed a new twist on the world.
  
  Graphics- Beautiful. There's no other word to describe it. Wizzing around the map and watching 
 Orcs and Humans battle it out in 3D is astonishing.
  
  Sound- Great. From the background music to the lovable voice acting, the sound didn't let me down 
 either. Very well done.
  
  Replayability. Well, this does have a campaign for all the races, but you do have to follow the 
 exact path that it sets down for you. Not much divientation room, but if you don't mind that, it 
 will have you playing for hours.
  
  Muti-player- Great multi-player. With the addition of new races, this has become more of a factor 
 than ever. You can play, experiment with the hero types, and find your best niche, and fill it. 
 Best played with teams, I would think.
  
  Now we're here to the nitty gritty of the whole thing. What has changed? What is good, what is 
 bad.
  
  The first thing that has changed is the obvious change to a fully 3D environment. Now you can zoom 
 in and out of your units, and watch the from 'ground level' as they fight for their respective 
 race. Great addition.
  
  More races. Addition of the races is well liked. They have added the Night Elves and the Undead. 
 Not only that, the units don't really equal each other as much as they had before. You have to 
 find out what works best for what, and now you can expant your play with the new races.
  
  Creep- neutral creatures dispursed around the map who you can kill for expirience and items. A 
 great way to level up your hero before going after your enemy's base.
  
  Heroes- I thought this would be a great addition. But really it's not. Don't get me wrong, having 
 a Dreadlord to lead my legion of undead isn't all bad, but having everything concenrate on him 
 to take him down faster than a fat kid eats a slice of chocolate cake isn't all its cracked up 
 to be. They could have made it a bit fairer to the players. But really it's not a big deal.
  
  The game is beautiful in every respect. I hated playing on Battle. net I must admit, for the 
 player respect is truely lacking. But if you can slog through the endless messages that you suck, 
 you might want to get into it. I'll stick to my LAN games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffer38
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The first time I saw this game I thought, "It's just another RTS that copies LOTR". That is not 
 the case at all. It has an original story that will keep you enthralled. The story is set with 
 4 factions: The Orcs, Humans, Night Elves, and Undead. Each faction has their own unique buildings 
 and strategy. The story can be somewhat strange as you're switching between different factions 
 that are fighting each other and it can be kind of hard trying to determine who to root for. But 
 then again, it adds to the fun to this game. The multiplayer is really good too. It has several 
 different types of play and a ton of maps. You can play 1v1, 2v2, 3v3, 4v4, and free for all. These 
 games can be hectic and fun. And with the bunch of downloadable maps on GS, the multiplayer's fun 
 can go on for a long time.
  
  Gameplay: With the usual addictiveness of a RTS and exciting multiplayer, the fun will last a long 
 time.
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game are beautiful. The cinematics look like they'll come to life, 
 and the 3D maps are detailed and colorful.
  
  Sound: The sound is good. The sound effects of battle and all that. Even better is the terrific 
 dialogue. It's all in full voice and sounds great.
  
  Value: This game will last you a while with the campaign and then all the online multiplayer options.
 
  
  Tilt/Final Words: What can I say? This is a game you must get for your pc. I believe that just 
 about the only complaint you can give against this game is that it's a "rip-off of Lord of the 
 Rings". I don't believe that, but you still should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _3D_Unknown
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  When date 3 of July appeared in the site of the Blizzard as it dates of exit of the third part 
 of Warcraft, seemed that it was a trick! But after all it was of this! After about three years 
 and any thing in production, with overturns in projecto initial, abandonment of elements key of 
 it equips and other situations, very yearned for game of the Blizzard it sees the light of the 
 day! It is not to also admire that, although its last adjournments for plus some refinings (mainly 
 in the Battlenet, server to multiplayer of the Blizzard) have had about 4,5 million daily pay-orders! 
 4,5 million, my friends! Having in account that many only buy games when they apalpam them (when 
 are in the store) it has that to join plus some! Luck of the Sierra in having one of the most 
 income-producing producers of the market in its catalogue. I also remember that the Blizzard meets 
 at this moment to work in its more ambitious projecto - World of Warcraft, where if estreia in 
 the MMORPGs. The game starts with an introduction where if it observes the perpetual war between 
 orcs and human beings. But strange events start to call the attention. It is before this scene 
 that enters in scene a crow that observes the events. This crow finishes for disclosing to its 
 faceta human being, therefore in the truth she is a prophet, who divulges to the some races the 
 evil that if approaches, commanding to them that they leave for a safe land. He is as soon as the 
 player takes the control of the four available factions, each one with events and diverse consequncias. 
 For this new RTS the Blizzard introduce-in the two new races: the deceased livings creature and 
 the elfos of the night. Together with the human beings and orcs, this total of four races obtains 
 to be different the sufficient to justify that the player plays with all they. By the way, one 
 of the great new features of this new heading is to follow the main ideia of the previous Starcraft, 
 where we are obliged to play with all the races to follow history. The four campaigns thus are 
 followed in a very subtil way, beyond that the following campaign when finished the previous one 
 is only unblocked. The game presents about 35 missions distributed for all they, and plus a prelude 
 that serves of tutorial. In this, we can have the first contact with the resources (wood and gold) , 
 as well as most important: the control of one of the some heroes the one who we go to have access. 
 The construction of buildings and units is also clear in this small course, that in the truth 
 it does not bring new features. Warcraft III Describing the races that are very different ones 
 of the others, start for the human beings. Old known of the players, this race is constituted by 
 paladinos, warriors, elfos, dwarves, wizards, among others mechanical units as zepelins and catapults. 
 Orcs also is familiar, folloied of trolls and a species of called minotauros of Tauren. The race 
 of deceased livings creature or Scourge, as they are nicknamed, is the necromantes and human practitioners 
 of occult acts, that create ominous aberrations as zombies, ghouls and armies of skeletons. The 
 unknown race most interesting and is the Elfos of the night, people who coexists the Nature as 
 if he was one only. These are druidas of color prpura that obtain to transform simple trees into 
 feared warriors. Either which the race that we control, the game has as newness the fact to control 
 three heroes for each side. It is through that the narrative of history evolves and is these that 
 they establish the main dialogues in the game. By the way that the interruptions with sequncias 
 are as much that we arrive they will forget it the ones that we are before a RTS. The ideia of 
 the heroes is not new and already he had been made in Warlords Battlecry 2, where the heroes evolve 
 as if a RPG if he dealt with. In Warcraft 3 it is transferred in equal way. The main hero is a 
 unit that not only presents more values in its attack, but also for all the group of units that 
 we control. Thus being, consonant units that if kills and quests that they carry through, the hero 
 gains points, that accumulated become it capable to pass to the following level of experience. 
 One of the alterations that the game suffered was the fact of that the game vision was to be of 
 the point of view of the heroes. Thus, to be able as the cure, electric rays, to make over again 
 deceased, among others more, they are available and they vary consonant the hero (two heroes do 
 not have the same to be able) . Also it will have an inventory with capacity to carry six magical 
 or useful objectos. Since scrolls of cure the bottles of flow (the magias spend flow, clearly) 
 until rings and necklaces that increase to be able them and objectos key to conclude demands. As 
 I related above, a hero practically folloies its corresponding campaign of the principle to the 
 end, and its evolution in experience transits of mission for mission. The Blizzard for this heading 
 wanted that the players thought about a strategy that did not pass for conquering the infinite 
 maps with armies of units, where the amount were superior to the quality. Thus it is it are of 
 question the player to set to produce it wide sets of ten of soldiers, having the number that found 
 enough to attack an enemy base. The Blizzard took some measures against this. To start it limited 
 the number of food for 80 (the food is the limit of units in a faction, where we have that to construct 
 casinhas to be able to have more units) . As if this was not enough, more powerful units occupy 
 five and six units of food. More aggravation still is the system of invented tax for this game. 
 That is, if we will have less than 40 busy units of food for units do not exist taxes, if this 
 number will be exceeded until the 60, then in each 10 collected units of gold in the mines, are 
 deducted 3 and if to exceed the 60 until the o has limited (80) , then we will have an aggravated 
 tax and will be deducted half of the gold that we pan. To this calls upkeep and is extremely 
 efficient, coming back to lower as the units dies. A player whom he insists on having as many units 
 with upkeep in the maximum will quickly go to deplete a mine without taking off left of its wealth. 
 With this measure he is also intended that the player spends more resources to make upgrades to 
 the units or buildings of what to spend them all in the manufacture of new. Each race has its way 
 to deal with the development of its base and units. If the player well is ambientado with the human 
 beings and orcs, the others two factions do not have nothing to see. The deceased livings creature 
 conjuram its buildings, being enough a diligent unit to conjure several, having only the player 
 who to wait that he is ready. In this race the buildings extremely are protected with electric 
 rays. On the other hand, the elfos of the night are the people more original than a RTS some time 
 had. The wooden retraction in the trees does not pass for its destruction for its attainment, but 
 yes with specters that hang on these, colectando the necessary units without magoar them. Any construction 
 of this people can be disjoined literally from the ground, and being an alive organism, it can 
 attack and obey the commands as to attack an enemy. They are to see a scene in multiplayer:  
 shovel! Or bazas of my base or I make one of my buildings to give one to you murro in the head 
 This race is visually surprising! Another advantage is the fact of will be able to change the small 
 farm of the base for where we want, sufficiently efficient in multiplayer. Warcraft III The control 
 of the units also very was improved. We can form groups of varied units as habitually one becomes 
 in the RTSs, with a simple ones CTRL + number (we can control 12 units of each time) . But when 
 we have this seleccionado group we can thanks to keyboard key TAB still change the some classrooms 
 of units as primary control, without let us leave to control the group all. That is very useful 
 to accede to being able them special of each unit, without let us lose the control of the others 
 all. We can only choose two formations of units, that will be one of the options of the game less 
 used. In general the interface well is structuralized, with the player quickly learns to use hotkeys 
 available to help in the tasks. A mini-map aid-in exploring the scene, alerting perigos or attacks, 
 and loading in Space, immediately we see the zone of the last event. Normally a hero cannot die, 
 being fulcral to the success of the mission, but he is allowed to construct an altar where these 
 are reviveds. Until the considered weakker units they obtain to have determinative papers in the 
 game, as the workers. In the human beings these can be called to the weapons with a bell touch; 
 in orcs these can be hidden in the houses that if they transform into bunkers; the deceased livings 
 creature have ghouls that they are welded deadly that finish for being who apanha the wood; in 
 the elfos of the night the proper buildings are obtained to defend alone. Either where campaign 
 will be, the nature influences the player. The relief is one of these factors, as it is logical 
 units of long-distance shot have reach on of a mount better. But the main newness night in real 
 time is the cycles day/, that less confer more visibility to units and to others. It is excused 
 to speak in the influence of this in the elfos of the night, that obtain to pass almost invisible 
 for the enemies. Also many monsters exist and animals (as dragons and dinossauros) , that even so 
 they do not belong to no faction, tend to make it difficult the player or enemy, in some fulcrais 
 tickets. He is funny to observe the detail where these sleep at night, and we can pass without 
 problems. The I. A is excellent, even so has a repair to make when the units are in more closed 
 points. When a unit is enclosed in the way them others, is difficult this to leave the way, therefore 
 none is turned aside. Pathfinder is very good, in such way that to clicarmos itself for a unit 
 to move for a small farm and this not to obey is because does not exist way for this place. The 
 enemies react well when in they always see them and they attack with what they have, asking for 
 until reinforcements. The missions very are varied and they never annoy the player. If they think 
 that in all the missions will go to have that to start for constructing always the same buildings 
 and that in the next one we will have available plus a new, justifying to start everything of new, 
 they forget! The Blizzard was intelligent (as always) in not annoying the player with this. If 
 the mission will have in account that we have that in them to establish, most of the buildings 
 they are ready, alone we have that to construct the news. But the missions are not this way. In 
 first place, a mission does not have all the daily pay-define objectivos of beginning. Throughout 
 the mission to be - o given objectivos and later exists sub-quests that in them they can compensate 
 with units extra or precious objectos. The missions of the levels consist of defending a base for 
 one determined period of time, obtaining to cross the scene with definitive units, to destroy the 
 base of the enemy, to protect some unit, to look to some objecto or hero, etc. Warcraft 3 graphically 
 is fabuloso! The Blizzard always had a great care in the aesthetic one of its games and this did 
 not run away to the rule. To start the five videos in full-motion that they premeiam the player 
 with the conclusion of each campaign they are the optimum level. It is not to perhaps that to each 
 new game of this publishing company editions appear of coleccionador with offer of DVDs with the 
 sequncias. We can also give to the congratulations for the ticket to the world 3D! This game resembles 
 the Battle Realms very, even so now only makes this comparison. As the game of the Liquid, we will 
 have many livened up sequncias using the engine of the game. Also the vision chambers are seemed, 
 that is, it does not give to make one zoom complete, but yes a chamber landslide, even so in Warcraft 
 is obtained to twirl the scene, but the time to only be to premir the button of the rotation, coming 
 back to the original point when we release it. The scenes are spread for forests, snow, deserts, 
 palaces, grottos, among others more. The units are full of life and very varied, having proper 
 aspects very. When they are stops are not static, moving itself nervously to the wait of some order. 
 The buildings that are very different also for each race meet well done very. When they are to 
 produce, these seem to gain life, illuminating itself with very funny animation's. The dialogues 
 between the personages are given through livened up photographs, penalty that does not have lip-sync 
 to be perfect. The alive colors that had always predominated in the series are affirmed here better 
 that, full of effect of light and explosions never derived to the magias that if can make. The 
 scenes that contain water of the rivers or sea are my favourites person or thing therefore this 
 very are well carried through, the waves beat in the coast creating foam explosions, that seem 
 that we are in the mouth of the hell. The fauna spread for the scenes also is very funny, and can 
 see deer to walk or birds, among others more. I also point out the fact to snow and to rain in 
 real time. A curiosity that having to observe, is the reason to still have bigger units that certain 
 buildings? It will be that the Blizzard does not know what is ratio? The sound could not leave 
 to be to the level. The voices that give to life to the varied personages or units seem to have 
 been chosen the finger. When we seleccionamos a unit or we give an order will count to them on 
 the famous mouths of the custom (remember this: jobs done of orcs) . The melodies are different 
 for each race and are also in great level. When we speak in a game of the Blizzard and in the word 
 to multiplayer, what in it comes them to the head is clearly - Battle. net! This was in such sharpened 
 way (despairing the last months before the launching) that it finished for being almost perfect 
 to receive this heading. With some systems of filters, almost that automatically it is obtained 
 to enter in a game with the ideal characteristics of each player. The system has in account the 
 parameters chosen for the player, as well as the number of victories and defeats that the player 
 presents, looking players with the same characteristics. Also the system of search of friends was 
 remodelled, who we can find in the lobby or a game. The alliances that we can form in a game can 
 be precious in the victory of the map. In a general way what it counts they are the victories that 
 take the player to remain in the top of ranking of Battle. net, one of the ones In terms of conclusion 
 Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos is a heading than more obligator in the coleco of the fans of RTSs. 
 That clearly not necessary to say this, but I am obliged to relieve me it the excellent work of 
 the Blizzard. Without any concerns or limitations in its stated periods of launching, this is one 
 of great the more values of this firm, considered of reference for excessively. Excellent graphs, 
 allies to a magnificent history compel-in finishing each one them campaigns to see what it is started 
 to follow. To play in multiplayer continues to be so viciante as the previous headings of this 
 appraised producing. more quoted tables of leadership of games of the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeraphWrath
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  The single player missions included with "Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos" are a lot of fun, and all 
 the heroes in the game gain levels, use magic, abilities, and can even hold up to six items or 
 weapons. WCIII follows the traditional RTS format in addition to a powerful hero. There are resource 
 penalties for higher populations, and the population limit is very low so this game really isn't 
 for people who want large epic battles. Your heroes gains experience and levels up. He or She also 
 learn magic spells and gains abilities, as well as HP and higher attack. The game play feels like 
 a mix between RTS and RPG. This game is great until you try going online to play a serious game. 
 Youll immediately see what I mean within ten games or so. The balance between the races is terrible. 
 You most likely will see nothing but fast rushes or some cheap tactic or another being used against 
 you (9 times out of 10 it is some cheap hero ability being exploited) . The Night Elves are the 
 most annoying with those huntress rushes. Youll also see lame tower rushes with the Orcs. The 
 most fun I had with this game was playing a user made mod called DOTA ALL-STARS. It is addictive 
 and fun. Those tower building games are a lot of fun as well. If anything the user made mods are 
 the reason this game was fun. There are a lot of RPG and Action mods on the server at any given 
 time. Buy the game and try the mods! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loic54
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  So Warcraft III is kind of in the style of Age of Empires (RTS or Real-Time Strategy game) , except 
 with better graphics and the camera is a little more up close to the players, but it works the 
 same. This game can also explain exactly how World Of Warcraft (a MMORPG or Massively Multiplayer 
 Online Role Playing Game) formed itself. How Humans became alliance with Night Elves, Dwarves, 
 and Gnomes. It also showed how Horde teamed up and why Undead (like explained when you first create 
 an Undead character in World of Warcraft) now kill those who call them as monsters and demons.
 
  
  So the story starts off with Humans debating on something pointless and the king is sitting kind 
 of bored (cinematic scene) and well this black bird swoops in from the nearby window and transforms 
 into a man (since he is a prophet he can do these things) . He is extremely well notified of the 
 future. He tells the king to beware and to defend the city from evil, but he ignores the prophet 
 and doesnt take any precautions. However, a certain planet full or Orc-like creatures, far away 
 from Azeroth and Kalimdor, is slowly falling apart because of the unspeakable evil there. A demon 
 came to that planet and started using the Orcs as servants and slaves and slowly the planet was 
 dieing. Eventually the prophet wanted to help the Orcs escape and made a portal (If you look at 
 the background picture of WoW screen just before you logon there is a portal leading to a better 
 world, that is the portal used) .
  
  So the Orcs go into the World of the Warcraft and find places to live. The Human prince Arthas, 
 who is son of the king, does some quests and missions to help some armies and what not. Unfortunately, 
 some weird food starts spreading around with a weird curse, which turns you Undead in moments, 
 and you become slaves of a certain demon (with no free will) . Later, Arthas begins to show some 
 serious hostile-like ways. He burns down a city to exterminate the Undead to burn their corpses 
 and later after that he has a sudden urge to retrieve a really strong sword, and he journeys to 
 a place that is very cold and icy where a demon is frozen in ice with the sword he wants in him, 
 he takes the sword and goes back home. Afterwards he starts turning evil on his journey back home 
 (it seems the sword was a way that the demon communicated with him and told him to make the world 
 Undead and to destroy everything) . He basically comes and transforms into a whole different person, 
 and he kills his father, the king (in front of everyone) . Soon after that everyone starts turning 
 Undead. The Orcs and Trolls try to escape and so do the Taurens, and (since Arthas was a Human) 
 the Dwarves, Gnomes and Night Elves all try to fight back and rebel against the demons. He later 
 summons more demons to help him and starts killing most of the Blood Elves (which existed long 
 ago and well, dont really exist anymore) . Well, I think wont tell the whole story (youll have 
 to get the game to see it all for yourself) . It later shows how the Undead became to be and why 
 they seek freedom (they were slaves and were turned into hideous monsters, and wanted to be free 
 of control and be normal) . So they rebelled with the Orcs who also wanted to be free, as for the 
 Trolls and the Taurens, they just wanted to fight back and live.
  
  It is a really good game that shows how everything started to be on WoW, and it shows why the Undead 
 are against the Humans and why the Orcs are teamed with the Undead. The game also features a highly 
 addictive free online multiplayer made possible by Blizzard. So you can test your skills and strategies 
 versus anyone in the world.
  
  In the end of my huge review and outline of what this game is about, Warcraft III plus the expansion 
 (Frozen Throne) , is a great way to see how WoW started. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  First let me say, this review is very, very late. I got this game in July 2002, the first day it 
 came out, for my birthday. I also got the expansion the same day it came out which, too, was on 
 a July. Anyway, I am a hardcore Warcraft fan (before WoW, so I am not just some come-along) . I 
 have played Warcraft II, Warcraft III, Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne, World of Warcraft, and 
 read two of the three books in the Well trilogy. This is one of the best RTS' out there, and has 
 a great story that drags you in and never lets go.
  
  Gameplay: Fun, fast, intuitive. RTS' are usually about "get minerals, make an army, strategically 
 use your force to defeat your opponent." This is no different, but it also adds a revolutionary 
 unit, the "hero." Basically, you level up heroes and they can sometimes annihilate half of a small 
 army if they are the right level. This game slacks on nothing, everything is beautiful. Like World 
 of Warcraft, this brings together all the good RTS elements, trashes all the bad RTS elements, 
 and makes a great, polished package ideal for any RTS lover or a person who would like to try RTS. 
 All the units compliment each other, no unit is over-powered, all the races are cool (Undead, Night 
 Elf, Humans, Orcs) . Multi-player is second-to-none (I will add my own attribute of that in later) .
 
  
  Graphics: Amazing. They may not be the best but they are very sweet, and every unit looks awesome. 
 I just love the art style of the Warcraft (and in general, Blizzard Entertainment) series.
  
  Sound: Every unit has individual sounds, Blizzard adds in comedy into everything and it shows. 
 The music is EPIC, and the heroes sound like heroes.
  
  Value: Lots of value, lots of replayability (I will go into detail in multi-player) .
  
  Multi-player: 
 The best. Just the best. You play Online on Battle. net, Blizzards free online service. You may 
 be saying, "What if I do not want to play an RTS?" Well Warcraft III comes packed-in with a free 
 map editor, you can make virtually any kind of map with everything in the game at your disposal. 
 This makes endless replayability (I often play this game's multiplayer when I am not playing a 
 different game) .
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I love Warcraft. I love Blizzard. Simply a masterpiece, no other words can describe 
 it. This game is pretty cheap now with the "Battle Chest" featuring everything you need to keep 
 you busy all up-coming Summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surenintendo
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who has never played Warcraft or Starcraft, this game is for you!
  
  I've never played Starcraft or Warcraft before and I found this game awsome. I love the gameplay 
 because it involves much more fighting, rather than just "turtling" up in a base. The matches are 
 fairly short and very strategic. For example, you could attack with the "hero rush" strategy. Speaking 
 of heroes, In Warcraft III you get can creat powerful units called "heroes", which leads your army 
 to battle. These units will level up as you use them in battle. The best part is that you could 
 resurrect them at the Altar, unlike Starcraft, where you can't let your hero die 
  
  I found the user interface very advance, yet looks simple. If you compare it to games like Age 
 of Mythology or Age of Empires, you'll certainly notice that Warcraft III has a lot of advance 
 options like being able to use "attack move" or see unit's hit point by hovering your mouse over 
 a unit, rather than clicking them. Both of these are very useful in battle when you want to take 
 out the weak unit or go into battle without having to right-click to attack a unit (it's done automatically 
 with 'attack move') .
  
  The campaign was AWSOME! I've never played any game with a great compelling campaign before! The 
 characters' personalities in the story are so detailed and you can witness how some struggled to 
 not let their anger interfere with their main tasks, and in the end got corrupted. The in-game 
 cut-scene were great, since they add more depth into the story. Some even give you bonus mission. 
 Bonus mission is very cool too. You can do it if you want a get a free item, or just ignore it 
 if you just want to rush. But there is more to the campaign, like dungeons and puzzle solving by 
 stepping and switches and blowingup and building bridge. It's endless.
  
  The world editor Blizzard provided us was very very very useful. You can basically change EVERY 
 aspect of the game! Like Tree Tag and Tower wars! Best part is that you could play the map ONLINE 
 on Battle net. The interface of Battle was great and you can find roughly 63 000 players online 
 everytime. The easy-to-use interface was easy enough, you can find match up in a flash!
  
  Game balance-wise is good too. All the races are very different from each other, and I MEAN DIFFERENT. 
 They each have their own way of building a base and gathering resources. They have their own advantages, 
 and disadvantages. I really thought that was really neat, unlike Age of Empires I, where every 
 civilization was basically the SAME!
  
  
  As for Graphics, I have to say that this game had a lot of special effects. Though some units are 
 a little low on polygon, you'll come to appreciate the great animation Blizzard has put in to make 
 this game seem lifelike. With several terrain tiles set, you'll never find the levels boring. It 
 doesn't take the best computer to run this game at max'ed out mode. 
  
  Sound was really good. When people clash each other, you can make out the sound of every orc or 
 human clashing each other. Also the Music was one of the best parts. Every Race has different music, 
 and they suite them just as well. In the Frozen Throne expansion there is new music for every race. 
 The music has a mix of midi and wave sound mixed blended together. Now when you play as the elves, 
 you FEEL like you are playing the elves!
  
  This game has a lot og product value. Blizzard constantly updates their games periodically. In 
 the recent patches, they've included 3 NEW FREE HEROS!!!! They include new special effects and 
 looks and everything, with full voice over and animation. Also people create really creative and 
 cool maps on the editor and share it online, so you'll probably be playing a lot of cool custom 
 games that will just keep you coming back to this game. The possibilities are endless! 
  
  Most people said "be sure to check this game out" , but i say "THIS IS A MUST HAVE FOR ALL YOU 
 RTS PLAYERS!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiora
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 15, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't have a story to tell about this game so lets get down to business. Gameplay is amazing. 
 This has to be THE real time strategy game to play. Controls are some of the best out there. Everything 
 is great and it doesn't overcomplicate the game like most real time strategy games out there. Not 
 much to say here then that they are near perfect.
  
  Graphics are good, but a bit blocky for my tastes. But I guess it wouldn't be Warcraft with these 
 kinds of graphics. Otherwise, beautiful (except for when the sheep explode.)
  
  Sound is good. Great music, strong voice acting, and ultimately hilarious lines when you click 
 on a unit too much. My only beef with the game is the sound of weapons colliding with an enemy, 
 which gets on your nerves.
  
  Value is good, considering when buying the game you get quite a bit.
  
  All in all, one of 
 the greatest RTS games ever made. Blizzard has done it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii26
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III: ROC is the best strategy game ever (next to Warcraft frozen throne) . I loved this 
 game as soon as I started playing it. It was pretty easy to pick up and the online gameplay was 
 great.
  First, the offline content is great. It'll keep you busy for a while as you try to pick up the 
 gameplay and learn how to build properly without losing out.
  Second, the online content is INCREDIBLE. Playing against other people is so much fun but the best 
 part for me is the mini-games.
  I loved the mini games and that's what I spent most of my time on. I love how they have tower defenses, 
 RPGs, wars, etc. It's just incredible and it keeps you busy for such a long time.
  If you like strategys and you love warcraft, than this is the game for you without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 10, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 had shown a lot of potential since it was first released. Create a excellent base camp 
 and control over 70 different units for every 4 races!
  Races include
  Night Elf
  Human
  Orc
  Undead
  All these races have huge and expansive storylines allowing you to perform 
 the numerous optional quest and the main have to be completed quest. You could only move a certain 
 amount of people at a time though this is excellent as this puts the strategy back into RTS! Basically 
 you can easily command numerous units or command them to follow another rubberbanded unit
  
  Summary: Extremely good war game with epic battles and an excellent OST!
  
  also very good 
 multiplayer that includes 4 player death/teamdeath matches! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkyjames23
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 2, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Im a fan of all trhwe warcraft threes and kinda A WOW fan even though i dont own it i dont want 
 to get addicted to it. This is not a s good as Frozen throne because it doesent have as much stuff 
 the campaighns are still sick and there are a crap load of different multiplayer games which are 
 fun and addictive especially games like Mauls, TD, Troy (which i think is in frozen throne) and 
 Angel arena. Recommended even thoughs its now kinda old but not that old as far as good PC games 
 go. Its fun addictive now probably doesent cost that much and i bet a bunch of people who might 
 be reading this own it because this game OWNS NOOBS YO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtalmadge
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Amazing. The custom online games; awesome. The campaign? Schweet! the Units? so many to explore! 
 so many styles of play to go with? you are your own man in this one. Awesome story line, very catchy, 
 very deep. Heroes! have to love the hero additions. This game really really really takes me in. 
 This is the best RTS ever, and no one should doubt it. It takes a little while to get used to the 
 battle net ranking system and it takes a little while to get good enough to start winning; but 
 once you start your winning streak and your path to cool "icon-dom" you really enjoy the game for 
 what it is. Sets the bar to a higher standard, and it will take alot of work to beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarkFusion-
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 1, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  I think what makes Wc the best strategy game in the last few years is the fact the it has one of 
 the most important features a good startegy game needs - STRATEGY.
  Every strategy game that has been released in the last few years was all the same, build a base 
 get the most powerful units, attack, win, and I say BORING!.
  Warcraft has a diffrent type of gameplay which focuses alot on team-work and micro management which 
 means that every thing you do is important and critical.
  You need to really learn how to use every unit and its abilties in order to win a battle.
  The 
 hero system is superb!, 3 heroes per race, equipped with cool looking skills and spells the heroes 
 grow in power using a level system which improves their agility, strength and intelligence.
  The heroes can also equipp unique and powerful items which can sometimes determine the winner in 
 a battle.
  The game has sharp and really cool graphics, the sound is superb especially during the campaign 
 mode and in cinematics.
  In addition, the voice set of almost every unit is suitable, cool and the "pissed" voices are super 
 funny as always (crazy blizzard) .
  The game features a deep, thrilling story with awesome characters and side quests.
  The multiplayer 
 option is one of the best I have ever seen in a game, the level and experience system that each 
 user is given gives you alot of motivation to continue playing another and another game.
  I can easily sum up and say, GO BUY IT! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_ranch
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Original game. When I played WarCraft 2 i fall in love in this game. Reign of 
 Chaos was a strategy what i dreamed for everything was so fantastic. I have finished this game 
 about 10 times and still i didn't get enough.
  
  Good:
  Everything! The landscape was terrific. Camera is great when you look back in this year. There 
 isn'e any bad word about this game. I played about 25 hours a day this game.
  
  There isn't any better strategy then this, what will be impress me. When i heard about World of 
 WarCraft, I wanted it, but after i saw that this game WoW is MMORPG my dream fall in darkness. 
 I recommend this greatest strategy for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannuck38
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard's long awaited game, Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos, was an instant classic to hardcore gamers. 
 Blizzard always draws a crowd when it announces it's gunna make a new game. Starcraft, Starcraft: Brood 
 War, Warcraft II... these are the games that set Blizzard up on the podium long ago. 
  
  Reign of Chaos revolves around a completly new story line compared to Warcraft II. Although initially 
 there is the hatred between the two races Orcs and Humans, the two new races change the Warcraft 
 universe from top to bottom. 
  
  One of the races are the undead. It's primary attribute is the fact that it can create armies from 
 it's dead enemies in battle. Although this idea of creating armies from it's dead foes are a cliche, 
 Warcraft III has balanced this attribute with many austanding others to really give a sense of 
 reality to the game. 
  
  The other race is the mysterious Night Elves. They are not native to the land of Azeroth and are 
 from another continent called Kalimdor which gives real depth to the story because players can 
 expierence another world apart from the battle ravaged world of Azeroth. 
  
  Heros, first seen in Warcraft II, has a much more important role in Reign of Chaos. Each race has 
 three Heroes, ranging from a spellcaster, cunning warrior and a powerful fighter. What is really 
 annoying though is the fact that they can be revived during battle at an altar during battle. Altars 
 are buildings where your Heroes can be revived with a cost. Each race has it's own unique altar 
 but their functions are the same. But this can be annoying to the story because in the campaign, 
 most missions are based on destroying your enemies base. While your doing this if your hero dies, 
 you can revive him as much as you want (if you have enough resources) . But once you have decimated 
 the base, there would usually be a cut scene and it shows the opposition's hero dieing and never 
 to be seen again when they can be revived!!!!!!!
  
  Overall though this game is a must have and if you like strategy games, THIS IS A MUST HAVE, but 
 if you don't like it consider buying it anyway because the story is VERY good.
  
  Have fun playing! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason14yr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  This game, is a masterpiece yet an ok game depending on how you look at it. It has got the goods, 
 the gameplay is magnificent, and perfect storyline, but the sound is just plain crap. Ever orc 
 killed makes the same annoying sound.... uhhhww ahhhhhhh. It just goes to show that the sound isn't 
 very good, especially how they just wack the same and dont switch it up. These are the things that 
 brings this game down. But as for everything else, this is the game for everyone to get and enjoy 
 to its fullest. I would recommend you get it if you want a good storyline and gameplay, but don't 
 expect the greatest. I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonnyboy1219
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Even though Warcraft III came out what now five years ago, I still feel that I can give it a pretty 
 good review. This game is amazing and deserves a good review. 
  
  First let me start out by saying that I got into both Warcraft and Starcraft by being the nosey 
 little brother watching his older brother play online for hours. Ever since then I have been hocked 
 to the series. 
  
  Warcraft III has a great story line that lets you feel apart of the very lives of the main characters. 
 Unlike Warcraft II where the human and orc storylines were basically the samething but with different 
 units, the four unique races in III show different worlds and really teach you the different roles 
 of the various units. 
  
  I really don't have any negative comments except this. I really strong point for Warcraft II was 
 the ability to use water units and comanding the seas was a big part of multiplayer maps. In Reign 
 of Chaos the water could have played a big role. Other then that I had a great time playing this 
 game, and loseing many hours of my life in front of the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marito12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, and Battle. net is very adddictive. This is the best real time strategy since 
 Starcraft. In this game you can use 4 races: Orc, Human, Night Elves, Undead. The only difference 
 with Starcraft is that in Warcraft you can use heroes. Anyone who likes strategy games should definetely 
 get this game. This is Blizzard's masterpiece. Battle. net is the best part, you can play real battle 
 or play custom games. I play on Battle. net when i have time but i play for 4 hours or sometimes 
 more. People who love strategy games you definitely check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slunks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  The Warcraft series is one of the longest and most succesful RTS games in it's genre. And Warcraft 
 III makes this no different. I've been playing game after game trying to find an RTS to this date 
 that competes agaisnt the insanity of what we call Warcraft III. 
  
  And it's not that all other RTS's out there in the gaming world are bad, it's just that they get 
 shut down by this game in comparision. Matter of fact, the only game that I've played that even 
 comes remotely near WCIII is Command & Conquer. Preferably the Red Alert series.
  
  When you boot up singleplayer and run the prologue you are introduced to this extremely high quality 
 cinematic that Blizzard is known for. The main story line, involves you playing a young Paladin 
 named Arthas. Who discoveres that there are undead tainting his lands. But trust me, the story 
 opens up widely. But I couldn't bare with myself if I gave it away.
  
  Matter of fact, the story is so good that I can safely say that it is one of the better storylines 
 out there for the RTS genre. And if not, simply.. the best. In your singleplayer and mutliplayer 
 experiences you will be encountering or playing the Night Elves, Undead, Human or the Orcs.
  
  Each class is fairly balanced and has their strengths and weaknesses. Such as the Undead are 
 strong in base defense if they wanted to be, but at the same time they somewhat lack in high-tech (tier3) 
 end game. If they game goes that long. The singleplayer experience will last you approximately 
 25 hours or so, depending on your skill and difficulty settings. 
  
  So once you think your ready for battle. net (multiplayer) , you just create your account which takes 
 just under a minute and your already set. Once you log in there's a nifty Play Game button where 
 you choose what race you want to be, and what game type you want to play. There is 1v1, 2v2, 3v3, 
 4v4, and Free-for-all.
  
  You click Play Game after selecting your settings and it will automatically start searching for 
 other people who want to play. Which for a 1v1 it usually only takes about 1 minute. And 2v2 and 
 up it can take anywhere from 2 minutes to 10 minutes on a regular basis.
  
  There is also Arranged team, which you and your buddys can play against other people who do AT. 
 And you will be ranked on a seperate ladder for your server ( East Coast Server, West.. etc ) . 
 And then there is Custom game...
  
  Custom games can be pretty crazy at times, as it has wide variety of fun and weird games you can 
 play. Anywhere from "Sheep Tag" when whoever is the wolf has to "tag" the other people who are 
 Farm building sheep. The sheeps use farms to barricade themselves defensivly. And then there's 
 games like "Wintermaul Wars".
  
  There's literally over hundereds of different games that you can play with other people, and all 
 of the games are different from eachother. It really adds some unique value to the game. Also note 
 that Custom games aren't ranked on a ladder.. they are just there for just plain fun.
  
  Yes, just like in any other RTS that you have ever seen or played. You have or build a base, build 
 units and defend your base or go attack your opponents. In Singleplayer it's usually more complicated 
 then that, as it will have many side quests that you will do. Or the main quest will just be straight 
 updefend your base for 20 minutes agaisnt the undead ". Ect.
  
  In multiplayer you start off with a few  a Town Hall which 
 can make more peons, an a limited amount of resources. Also games usually can last anywhere from 
 10 minutes to an hour. Regularly 25 minutes or so. Even though the "rush" strategy seems to be 
 common on battle. net.
  
  What really helps this game is the fact that you have Hero's, hero's are special powerful units 
 that gain levels. And they have skills and such that can really turn the tides of battles. Each 
 race has 3 hero's to choose from, which you train from an Altar that you build near the beggining 
 of the match. And each time you tech up your town hall you can build another hero.
  
  There are also creeps (monsters) around the map, which in multiplayer are very important to "creep" 
 if you want gain levels with your hero's.
  
  To sum this all up quickly, you'll simply love this game if you have any sense in RTS's, and games 
 in general. This is a great classic game and many people are still playing on Battle. net. And the 
 compitition is great, I hope you have fun with this game. Because I have for the last three years.
 
  
  The Pro's
  +Great Singleplayer
  +Easy to get right into and start having fun
  +Multiplayer is truely unique and lasts a long, long time.
  +High quality cinematics
  +Awesome 
 Storyline
  +Intense
  +Classic you'll never forget
  
  The Con's
  -The search times for multiplayer games can be quite long at times.
  -Heman is not a chooseable 
 Hero
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobtheJedi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is the freaking greatest RTS games ever. If you love RTS games and you don't have this, 
 your RTS collection is not complete without this game, even if you use a Mac.
  
  The story begins a few years after the Humans beat back the Orcish Horde. The Alliance has been 
 weakening with no action, so they are caught off-guard when a new enemy arrises, the Undead Scourge. 
 
  
  The main game is broken up into 4 diffrent campaigns, one for each faction. While the Human campaign 
 is (at least to me) seemingly similar to Star Wars (a good guy becomes what he was trying to destroy) , 
 the missions are always engaging and fun. There is even a prolouge about the Orcs which teaches 
 new players the basics and sets up the story.
  
  The 2nd and 4th campaings are for the new factions: The Undead and the Night Elves. The Undead 
 bear a great likeleness to the zurg from Starcraft, in which the faction dosen't have a lot of 
 hardcore strong units, but prefer to swarm your ass with craploads fo units. The Night Elves (my 
 new favorite race) are more of a magic using race that has dosent have buildings but more along 
 the lines of trees that can move and attack and (during night only) can turn invisible. Bet thats 
 a neat party trick.
  
  Speaking of night, Warcraft is definitly a game that has realistic surroundings. There is a day-to-night 
 cycle, which even realistically lowers your seing rate. There are animals that you can blow up 
 (by clicking them rapidly) , and nutral enemys known as "creeps" that you can kill for exp.
  
  Another great factor is the Heros. Heros are, in basic, super units that can carry items and 
 gain experience points for killing enemy's. Each faction has three, and picking which one to start 
 with is the real challenge, because no two Heros are the same. Do you use the one that has awesome 
 melee abilitys? To you take a support guy who can buff up your army? Or a magic guy who can harass 
 your enemys base?
  
  Speaking of Base, it is definitally a great part of the game, possibly the key part to victory. 
 You start with a main base (Town Hall, Great Tree, Necropolis) and 5 workers. The Humans and Orcs 
 have the same old Pesants and Peons and gathering stuff: You run to the mine to get gold and bring 
 it back to the Main building, same with the lumber. The Undead and Elves are totally diffrent. 
 Firstly, they have to either Haunt (Undead) of tangle (Elves) to gather gold, and then they don't 
 have to leave the mine to gather gold. They just stand there and siphon the gold to the base. Cool. 
 Even lumber gathering is diffrent: the Undead have to use their basic fighter unit (the Ghoul) 
 to gather lumber, and the Wisp (basic Elves worker) latch on to the tree and collect the wood without 
 damaging the tree.
  
  Now that thats out of the way, we move on to building stuff, and even there the races differ massively. 
 Peasents for Humans can team up on one building to make it faster, Undead can start a summoning 
 and then leave the building alone while it makes itself, and a Wisp literally turns into a giant 
 tree that can move and be used in base defense.
  
  I could go on about the unit diffrences, but then I would probably make the browser explode, so 
 I'll leave it at this: Warcrafts units are insanely diffrent, and there are multible strategys 
 for each.
  
  Now we go into the most important mode: Online, and it is awesome. Battle. net is totally free and 
 easy to use, so finding a match isn't a problem. You can create a match, join an existiing one, 
 or even just jump into a random match with players at your skill level. There are even clans you 
 can join, and your record makes an impact on the clans rating. Now we know where Halo 2 gets it 
 from. 
  
  All in all, Warcraft 3 is an insaney good game, and will give you tons of playtime, replay value, 
 or even just finally beating that **** online that talks lots of smack but leaves when losing. 
 Greatest RTS of all time? Hells yeah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xzcdzdsf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is a great RTS!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very well, with enviorments, characters, and down to the very last detail, 
 like rocks, sticks, trees, etc. 10/10
  
  Sound: The sound is extremely done well, with great ambience, and music. But, there is the thing 
 with the characters voices, they don`t match the portraits sometimes. but it is still very good. 
 9/10
  
  Gameplay: With the ability to customize maps, online play, and a gripping (and very large) story, 
 Warcraft 3 is a great game. 10/10
  
  Rent/buy: Buy it! its loads of fun!
  
  Overall: Great game, I play it every day, old school fans of warcraft 2, and starcraftwill love 
 it 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III is just one of those games that is impossable to not like. Everything about it is 
 amazingly well done as only Blizzard can do. The storyline in the single-player mode continues 
 after Warcraft 2: Beyond the Dark Portal where the war between the hord and the human allience 
 rages on, but two new races join the frey: The Night Elves and the Undead. Many units from both 
 races were old units moved over to a different race, such as the Orc Death Knight is now undead 
 and the Human ballista is now Night Elf. The combat is as good as it ever was and the graphics 
 are stll quite good for an RTS. The addition of hero units and neteral 'creeps' makes the game 
 a little more interesting. The combat is a little harder than Warcraft 2's and more units mean 
 more enemies to watch out for, but overall, this is an amazing RTS that everyone needs to play. 
 The online play over Battle. net is as tricky as ever, but the overall package delivers. Pick up 
 Warcraft III, you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bane546
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  By far the best Blizzard game to date (even topping starcraft as my all time favorite rts) . This 
 follows the same basic pattern as the first two Warcrafts but adds so much more that this game 
 is amazing. If you even kind of liked either one then pick up this game right now, it is that much 
 better and that good. The storyline is great, kind of tried and true, but I still love it. It has 
 awesome cut scenes that are, more or less, epic in themselves (orgasm) . Redesigned gameplay and 
 a wide variety of single player missions it will entertain for hours on end. The expansion pack 
 is just as good so don't hesitate to pick that up either! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WombatBerserker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III is the greatest RTS of all time. With 4 playable races, 3 heroes from each, a huge 
 campaign, and multiplayer over Battle. net, it cannot be beaten. Each race differs greatly from 
 each other, and the heroes are very different too. Each hero can grow between level 1-10. Every 
 level it gains (from killing enemy units) you chose a power to improve. Each hero has 3 powers, 
 and 1 ultimate power, that can be learned on level 6. The heroes also have inventory slots where 
 they can hold items that do a variety of things. With RPG elements aside, Warcraft III is still 
 amazing. There are tons of units, buildings, and the graphics also look great. Warcraft III belongs 
 with the rest of the greatest games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivion1142
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III reign of chaos is an excellent strategy game that has great single player and better 
 multiplayer. You can choose between 4 teams, orcs, humans, undead and nightelfs. I personally like 
 undead (who wouldn't!) But other teams have different strategies. for instance orcs have their 
 brute strength, while night elf who are not as strong have good stealth and can become invisible 
 at night.
  
  The multiplayer is fantastic. You have ranks, so every time you play a blizzard map you go up a 
 win, then when you hit 25 wins you get an icon. Icons are considered special as it shows you are 
 a good player and people offer you to join more clans. There is also player made maps which most 
 of are very fun. One is called footman wars were you pick a base and units will be automaticly 
 spawned at your base depending on which one you pick. Then it is time for the mass war.
  
  STORYLINE IS VERY COOL. i wont tell you much because it may spoil but you have to defend the undead..... or 
 of course join them.
  
  Overall try it out i think it is just fantastic. There are no cheats or hacks in multiplayer so 
 don't worry about cheaters. If you want to see some cheats look below. REMEMBER THESE ONLY WORK 
 IN SINGLE PLAYER
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Greedisgood 1000000: 1000000 
 gold and lumber
  warpten: instant build
  allyourbasearebelongtous: instant win
  whosyourdaddy: 1 hit kills and invincibility 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Another really good Blizzard game it' so good I thought that this was the ultimate Warcraft game 
 cause it has really cool multiaplyer with an excellent single-player and great voice acting dialogue 
 was really good better than most and I thought gameplay and graphics were alright this is truly 
 the warcraft game to get and if you want I suggest the expansion pack and World of Warcraft sure 
 this game can be harsh on you but you know when you know what you're doing it's really cool I can't 
 imagine anyone saying this is rubbish I mean whats not to like about warcraft it has well not the 
 most popular human race obviously but you'll go up to the undead orc elves in the expansion they 
 have even more races with more elven races whats not to like about that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  The warchest will give you the basic game and the expansion, so both for the price of almost 1 
 so that is great value for your money. The story starts on the life of a paladin. Arthas seeks 
 out evil and fights it. but this story is about much more. what started as a story of stopping 
 evil will be nothing less then a chase for reign itself. So you go through the steps as a Human 
 Paladin, an Undead Death knight, an Orcish leader to end up in one desperate fight leading the 
 wood Elves. Each armies with other looks and some of the same aspects. Each with there own specialities, 
 their own hero's. The hero's you command will grow in abilities and strengths as you take them 
 through the levels, and they are essential in your fight for victory, or sometimes just plain survival. 
 Warcraft 3 is one huge step forward and can make late hours just fly away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters782
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a great addition to the warcraft series. I would definatly recommend this to anyone who 
 likes strategy games. Especially if you are like me, and like to mess around on your games rather 
 than just trying to kill your opponents. With a very flexible and advanced map maker, you can make 
 a lot of fun games to play with your friends/ people you dont know.
  
  The map maker is so flexible, that you could make a Counter Strike style game with Warcraft. For 
 example, someone made a counterstrike map on warcraft based off of CS_Assault. This map shares 
 many of the same qualities as Counter Strike like where you must buy your weapons, save hostages, 
 shoot people using your mouse.
  
  Also, if you like the more traditional strategy play, there is also that option. You get placed 
 in random teams (and you can also chose your team) and you get opponents. Your teammates and your 
 opponents are approximately the same in which they all have a similar win loss ratio.
  
  The campaign has a great story and is very long. The graphics in the cutscenes are supurb and you 
 get to do the campaign as all races. Also, even as you play as your use to be enemies, the total 
 outcome of the game does not change, but just shows you one races side to the battle.
  
  This game is amazing and if you like Strategy games, this one is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodax007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  As a real time strategy game, there is a lot to live up to. "Age of Empires", the classic "Warcraft 
 2", and my all time favorite "Civilization" series. This game does a good job to living up to the 
 standard and beyond. With the easy controll scheme and the fast paced gameplay, you can't go wrong 
 with it. GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  
  The graphics are amazing for the time period. They really don't just concentrate on the heros, 
 they make it so each character has fine detail in the design. I also like how high quality the 
 Cutscenes are. GRAPHICS:10/10
  
  The music in this game isn't as good as you want in a game like this. They have some pretty unique 
 music in AoE II and this wasn't near as good. The sound effects are great, but the quality of the 
 music ruins it. SOUND: 7/10
  
  I don't even have to explain why you should buy it, except that it is better than the demo. VALUE: 
 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zatoman9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  As a huge fan of RTS and the Warcraft series, I have to say that this is one of my favorite games 
 of all time. The game features four races, Orc, Human, Night Elf*, and Undead*, a huge step up 
 from two races as were in Warcraft II. Each race has their own special advantages and disadvantages, 
 making the strategy more sophisticated than ever. Having four completely different races also creates 
 for engaging online and multiplayer play, requiring you and your teammates to work out a plan that 
 will cover all of your vulnerabilities. Multiplayer also features custom games that you can create 
 using the World Editor, Warcrafts map-making tool. Many times these player created games can be 
 the lots of fun, and I have seen many games ranging from Lord of The Rings, to Pokemon on these, 
 but though theyre fun, the game you bought is the game you will play. It is not overly complex, 
 and allows you to control easily, while still focusing the game on the strategic aspect of how 
 you make and upgrade your units, so unlike in some games where you can just pump out units, this 
 game requires you to work as a team with fellow players, or focus on certain strategies if your 
 playing alone. The single player mode allows you to go on various quests taking turns as the different 
 races and doing a set amount of missions so you can complete your entire journey, and start as 
 quest as a new race. Though the single player is good, I would say the multiplayer is really what 
 separates Warcraft III from other games. This is a must have game, and will instantly make you 
 a fan of Real Time Strategies and the Warcraft series. Go out and buy this game that you will come 
 back to time and time again.
  
  *New Race, not in previous Warcraft Games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smilingsamurai
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  When I borrowed this from a friend, that first night I was hooked. I could not believe how fun 
 it was to control small armies of mongruels to glorius Knights. It is a very involving game requiring 
 the player to do most of the work as with most RTS Games (Did not know but still fun lol at the 
 time) Anyway, Im building a P. C. soon and of course, im going to get a copy of a new RTS game. 
 This game started it all for me in the genre and will always play it when I get around to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123625
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 Reign of chaos is most likely the best out of the whole warcraft series. Thats what 
 i think any way. Well to start of it is one of the best strategy games iv'e played in a long time 
 and the story line is excellent the game's about betrayal, trust and the most important bit war 
 of course thats the most important bit in any war game.
  
  So any way's The game is set in the world of Azeroth and is based some time after the second game 
 when the human's defeated the orc's and the humans live in peace so far.
  
  There are four unique races orc's, Humans, Undead and Night elves.
  they are all different and 
 have may skils for example the orc's have massive strength and have the strongest unit's, the Undead 
 are very fast and have incredibly massive armie's, the night evles are good at defending and have 
 good defence maneuver's thats what i think any way.
  As well as the units each race has it's own hero's that have spells, magic and more powerful abilitie's 
 than average unit's. These hero's are normaly the main people in the story of warcraft like Arthas 
 he's the most important person in the entire game. The races arn't only human like the humans have 
 drawf's, elve's and humans and the orc's have trolls and turrans so that's also good.
  
  So the story start's of with the war cheiften Thrall it's basicly a learning and how to do everthing 
 level at first and then you find a mysterious prophet who say's the demons are coming and you have 
 to travel west to the ancient land of Kalimdor and save his people from the flame. It sounds like 
 a funny start but it gets a lot better throughout the entire game.
  You will start primarily as the humans then go on to the undead, orc's and night elves each race 
 has there own mission and objective to do so the over all story is not bad it's great,
  
  Also another feature is the cut scene's they are state of the art graphic's and are very well detailed 
 you will have a couple of scene's to watch at the beginning and you will unlock more as go get 
 further in the game.
  The world of Azeroth is split into three continents Northrend, Kalimdor and lorderon i think that's 
 the continent i'm not sure if any know's tell me thanks.
  
  The unit and structure's well designed to because in order to win the battle against the enimie 
 you'll need to cut down tree's mine for gold while attacking and defending your main base from 
 enimie's but once you get the hang of it's easy to comprehend.
  You have a chioce of stragie's like wait it out and defend until you have enough unit' s and tech 
 to attack the enimie i'll explain what tech is later.
  Or you could attack with your allies on a enemy and crush them with numbers there are just so many 
 things you can do to win it's just really great way of playing.
  
  Tech is a way of making your unit's stronger and getting them abilities for example you put a average 
 foot solider on to an orc warrior and and the orc is likley to win however a fully powered up foot 
 solider with all tech would win.
  
  So with the graphics, sound and gameplay at it's strongest it is a very good video game to play 
 and watch so i give it a 9.4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  This one of those strategy games, where you need to think before you do it. The game is excellent, 
 the hero system is great, I can't think anything what could be wrong with the gameplay, it's like 
 it's perfect.
  Graphics are OK, but the game isn't new, so.. Yeah.
  Sounds are good, nothing wrong with them. Music could be better, but nothing wrong with that either.
 
  The game is addictive from some point. It might be fun for someone to make their own maps or edit 
 soldiers, heroes, etc. to make them better or larger, which might be fun, also naming them different. 
 This is actually fun, well for me it is.
  One of the best strategy games there is, no doubt.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  This Real time Strategy will be enjoyed by all types of gamers, in all age groups. Not only the 
 game is very expansive, long, and good looking, it also feels, sounds, and plays really well.
 
  
  Blizzard has never dissapointed me, Was it diablo 1 and 2, or warcraft 2, or starcraft, all of 
 the blizzard's games were a big hit, i just can't wait for the 2006 game Hellgate: London. Apparently 
 it is a first person Role Playing Game. Back to Warcraft.
  
  Warcraft campaign mode is very large, and pretty challenging, which should keep you occupied for 
 a loooong while, and get you used to the different races.
  
  There are four races: The humans, The orcs, The "Night" elves, and The undead. Most of these races 
 are quite fun and challenging to play, but that said, the undead race just plain sucks. It is hard 
 to control, impossible to do anything with them. The units Suck. The buildings, Suck, well actually 
 that's the ONLY advantage of playing the undead. Their buildings have very good defensive capabilities, 
 most of which are able to shoot. But that's about all, undead suck otherwise.
  
  The other professions are quite unbalanced as well.
  
  The human alliance is the easiest to 
 play in my opinion because of the priests. They just make you invulnerable. 
  
  Out of topic but i want to share my attack build for humans:
  Level 4-6 paladin
  3 footmen 
 or 2 footmen 1 knight
  4 riflemen
  2 priests
  2 mortar teams
  
  That is group number one, use that, and make three times as many units, using the paladin in each 
 group for the holy light spell to majorly save wounded units. This build is promised to win you 
 the game, set 1 of the 6 priests to inner fire skill, and of course max out the attack upgrades.
 
  
  Warcraft 3 is just plain fun. It is very innovative, very fresh, and even though it's like 3 years 
 after it's been released, i still tend to play it, not online but with the computer, i understand 
 online is funner, but... you know.
  
  Warcraft 3, awesome game. 9.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nymphetamine15
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  I was originally recomended this game by a friend years ago when it first launched and wow was 
 i impressed then and still am. Graphics are not the best but are good for its time animations are 
 solid and no matter how many chacters are on screen framerate keeps up and enviroments feel alive 
 with ambience of birds and creatures runing around. Sound is great with every slash of a sword 
 and every explosion the game also offers up some decent voice acting. The gameplay is unbeatable 
 with a gripping story that becomes more emmersive every level. New units are unlocked as you progress 
 and each race has different one but they all kinda do the same things riflemen are somewhat the 
 same as a headhunter for an example. One great thing about this game is the heroes which are basically 
 the generals of your army which lvl up as you progress giving them new abilities and stronger defense 
 and attack which adds an rpg style of sorts. Each race has its own seperate set of heros each one 
 being different with abilities and stats like one hero maybe faster than another while another 
 my be better with magic. The online play is fantastic there are ladder games and there are varity 
 in team sizes you can fight 1v1 all the way up to 4v4 and even free for all which is 1 person aginst 
 all. There also is a great map maker allowing you to make your own games with quests and everything 
 then allow people to download it off the games custom game option. Some downsides to the game are 
 the annoying characters allways saying somthing when you tell them to move which would be ok if 
 it didnt loop so mutch tho this can be turned off but then the characters dont feel alive. One 
 other thing is i wish i could have targeted more units then it lets you i sometimes had a hard 
 time keeping up with everything cause i couldnt just sellect a large group of untis and send them 
 all at once instead i found myself making them follow one guy of the other squad. Overall this 
 game if byfar the best RTS iv ever played and im still playing it years after its launch. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWBKicks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft is a great game for all almost everyone. It takes some thinking to play which some games 
 don't envolve, but even if you want to sit back and chill, it's fun to do that with as well. You 
 start out as humans and fight the orcs and later the undead. when you finish the human campaign 
 you move onto undead, then orc, then night elf. The story is blended to near perfection and every 
 character is highly detailed and animated. The game litterally sucks you in, and you start thinking 
 as the characters think. The sound and graphics are great, gameplay is amazing, and it is well 
 worth it. The multiplayer could stand to be improved, but is fun just the same. I give it a 9.5 
 for giving me hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  WarCraft III: Reign of Chaos is not the same game that was originally presented to us three years 
 ago. It has since undergone both small and rather large changes to become the final product that 
 it is today. In its final stage, it comes to us as a little bit more than an RTS. Some of the little 
 bits are some light role-playing elements that really manage to help the single player game along 
 by connecting you to the main characters that play a part in the story. In multiplayer they can 
 turn the tide of the battle with a click of the button in some cases. The kicker is that in order 
 for them to be of any use at all, you have to get them out into battle to gain experience points. 
 It's a nifty way to do things and turns to a bunch of fun and frustration depending on which end 
 of the stick you're standing. The heroes you'll find in the single player campaigns all represent 
 a type of hero that you'll find in multiplayer. You'll get to learn their awesome set of spells 
 for when you finally get to jump into multiplayer and test out your skills against human opponents 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Blizzard is known for making alot of RTS but each one if unique, beautiful, and pretty great at 
 handling graphics, online, and gameplay. Warcraft 3 is the first Blizzard game to be in 3D. However, 
 this game is great because it is uniquely fresh as if you have never played Warcraft even though 
 you did. The story will only be understanded to the Warcraft fans. Newcomers who take the Story 
 Mode will be happy to know there is a tutorial but then again might not understand the plot. There 
 are 2 stories to this mode, however the Horde's story is the beginning. The story mode tries to 
 be really great but to me is not that good. I don't want to spoil anything but then again if you're 
 a newcomer only go to the story mode to try the tutorial. The online mode which is the famous Battle. net 
 (Blizzard's online community) is added. Battle. net is known to anybody as it was the online community 
 for great RTS (Warcraft 2, StarCraft) . Battle. net is refreshed meaning it looks way better and 
 handles the online better. You can make your own games using the map editor which is sort of simple. 
 The online is sometimes messed up because your router might not accept you making your own room. 
 The graphics are really great even though this game was made in 2002 and compare that to 2006's 
 graphics. They are both the same but this game is unlike any other graphical games I've seen. Sure 
 the sound is a dissapoint, but whats not disapoiting is the tilt and the gameplay. And that is 
 what I think is important. The value, well, you should get this game for online for the good times. 
 There is still alot of people playing it the FREE online and you know.... Give this masterpiece, 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limraz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft is a fast paced , hard game to beat . In short time the enemies will start attacking your 
 almost ready compound , inflicting as much damage they can . The best way to learn is to start 
 a new game and watch how the computer controlled side develop his camp and create new units. From 
 an aesthetic point of view I choose elves because they look pretty interesting to play and a building 
 who fight when attacked is a nice touch. This type of game is not my favorite , since RPG are more 
 fun - my opinion ! - but could prove be a good opportunity to spend a few hours away from real 
 world / 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onikage123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted a phantasy elfs 'n' goblins style strat that wasnt a crock of **** Here is your baby! 
 With the original hero system, amazing storyline and exellent online i reccomend this to anyone 
 with a PC.
  The characters and story are exellent with the classic struggles (humans vs orcs, Elves vs Undead 
 etc.) but its the heroes that take the cake. Now u summon a hero in one of the many structures 
 available and once hes out u can level him up, equip items, learn abillities etc. Also the battles 
 are very satisfying especially online!!! May i say the online is great with many custom made games 
 by fellow gamers, exellent tournaments and its never boring attacking with ur mates!
  The graphics are quite nice during the game and run very smoothly but the FMV's.... oh my god! 
 This was before XBOX and honestly they look almost real... Blizzard really out did themselves here.
 
  The sound is Fine with lots of chinks and very good dialog and the music fits perfectly with the 
 gameplay. Also if u click on a unit multiple times they start to say amusing dialog and quotes 
 I. E the Blood mage says "Im a magic man... ive got magic hands..." its a great little niche!
  Overall an amazing game Gameplay wise, Graphically and in overall production this is how strategy 
 games were born to be made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Warcarft III is probably one of the best RTS on the market. Also, Warcraft III is another realization 
 of Blizzard, the best game studio in my opinion. The races you can select in this game are: the 
 Night Elfs (which are my favorites) , the Human, the Orcs and the Undead (which are the most powerful 
 in my opinion) . Having 4 races to choose from gives Warcraft III a lot of creativity and replayability. 
 The pace of the action is really fast, but can be adjusted to give you more time to enjoy all the 
 action and to rethink your strategies. 
  
  Finally, the single player campaign is good and let you practice all the controls to improve yourself 
 and prepare for the online challenge. Also, some cinematics, like only Blizzard is capable of, 
 increase the quality of the game to a higher level. 
  
  The only negative side to this game, which is more about RTS in general than about Warcraft III, 
 is that you get fed up pretty fast of the same combats in PvP modes. Anyway, this games just rules 
 and that's all that matters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The Warcraft series could often be looked at as a boring, badly-graphiced strategy game in the 
 shadow of Starcraft, though Warcraft III finally took that extra step to separate it from its predecessors.
 
  
  The first thing is, the graphics have majorly improved. They reach Warcraft III's time's standard. 
 The sound is amazing. Part of the interesting thing about Warcraft III is it has those stand-alone 
 explosions and sounds that will make your gut shake. This goes really well with the actual graphics, 
 which also have that surprising effect.
  
  The gameplay is what takes the revolutionary step though. You are given a hero throughout the campaign 
 and may raise the hero in levels. This also goes for multiplayer games and special modules such 
 as 'Doudou' (I think thats how you spell it) . It also adds steps of things you're more likely to 
 see in D2 such as an inventory for your hero and upgrades, weapons, etc. Once again you get the 
 chance to rev up your player throughout the module. The only drawback to these things is there 
 is a strict level limit within the campaigns that can get quite annoying and make the entire levelling 
 system feel rather pointless. The plot hasn't changed alot in Warcraft standard, though you tend 
 not to notice it.
  
  Overall I'd say this game is definitely worth buying if you like Blizzard games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thuch
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  This game has got the best campaign ever made to a RTS game it is that kinda game you just wanna 
 keep playing until you have finished the whole campaign.
  Its great to see how the prince changes through the game and how the orc is drawn to their past. 
 Its story telling at its best.
  But the gameplay of this game is quite onesided its just the same thing over and over again.
 
  The multiplayer quickly becomes boring because theres no differance from game to game. The most 
 boring thing is that the hero has a to big role for an army without one you don't stand a chance 
 against an other army so the hero is the most imortant thing you've got.
  The different raceses is not so different you simply do the same thing it just differnt how cheap 
 and strong the troops are.
  The balance in the game is good but its not so strange because the teams are so similar.
  The 
 graphics is quite good but very good its not the best you could get.
  Warcraft 2 is deffenatly the better game of theese 2 I must say that this games multiplayer was 
 really bad so the game doesn't have verylong gameplay time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killamasta81
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest RTS ever made for PC. Blizzard has really outdone themselves this time around 
 but then again they never dont outdo themselves. Anywho, This game is so addicting and fun. And this 
 is a plus for me because I love medieval stuff. I guarentee you will love this game if youre a fan 
 of Real Time Strategy games in any way you will love this game. The gameplay will seem repetitive. But 
 every situation you encounter will require you to use certain units and certain strategies. Overall 
 this game is the best one besides StarCraft that Blizzard has ever made period. If you dont find 
 this game fun you are a horrible gamer. If anybody disagrees youre either not a fan of rts games 
 or youre just plain retarded. Blizzard PLEASE make more successful games like these. THEY WILL KEEP 
 US ENTERTAINED AND YOULL MAKE MONEY OF THEM!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! So dont stop Blizzard just keep going 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  this game is pretty ffreakin awosme for an rts this game has good graphics and its really fun . 
 u can play as many types of factions that all feature special abillities. The good thing that i 
 like bout this game is all the races are balanced they all have thier strengths and weaknesses 
 which doesnt make the game to easy or too hard . This game has a pretty good replay value to it 
 well to me at least to me having a war with the comp is funner than playing online idk why i tink 
 this but i do.... But over all this is an awsome rts that wil last for quite a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_snake_jr
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best games i have ever played. This is a great game and lots of people 
 will agree. I played this game constantly until i completed it. The game was so gripping i had 
 to go back in to play it, like some people with a good book. It was nice and long with a great 
 radar system (being only to see on the radar what you have already seen) . The online games, battle. net 
 really adds to the game, giving the stuff you learned in 1player mode to put against others online. 
 Also with the map editor feature you can make your own game using everything from the game. There 
 have been great Lord of the Ring games and mauls. I have to say this game is good and i can't wait 
 to get Frozen Throne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos needs little introduction, and neither does Blizzard, the company 
 that created it. The worldwide July 3 release of Warcraft III, which shipped about 5 million copies 
 in its first run, seems like a suitably momentous occasion, given that the game itself is both 
 so highly anticipated and has been such a long time in the making. Considering that many have long 
 since preordered the game and that the remaining copies are likely to fly off the shelves, giving 
 a critique of Warcraft III almost seems like a moot point. It's like trying to convince someone 
 whether or not to go see a movie like Star Wars: Episode II. Fortunately for those who intend to 
 play it no matter what anyone says, they'll find their time with Warcraft III to be very well spent. 
 Sure, Warcraft III isn't a revolutionary departure from the conventions of real-time strategy gaming. 
 But it's as good of an offering in the genre as there's ever been, featuring a superb story, carefully 
 refined gameplay, plenty of depth, the best online multiplayer mode in any real-time strategy game 
 to date, and the excellent production values you'd expect from a Blizzard product. So if you're 
 looking for some validation to go with your preorder, there you have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukeshaver
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite online pc game ever. It is so amazing. i love it sooooo much. I love it. I 
 love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love 
 it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I 
 love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love 
 it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I 
 love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love 
 it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I 
 love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love 
 it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I 
 love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love 
 it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bilbohowareyou
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  One of the most classic games ever made, warcraft 3 Reign of Chaos is diffently in the ' top 25 
 game of all time'. From the first moment you start the game you are presented with the amazing 
 cinematics (wich are now available on DVD) to the last few minutes of the campaigne the amazment 
 and the jo of playing this game never stop's. The tutorial at the start is very helpful and if 
 you've played the game before there enougth story elements to keep entertaining. The plot is very 
 deep and contains a wonderful storyline. The multi-player is good as well with prizes on other 
 seemly every day. Highly recommended, 9.6 out of 10.
  
  By, Bilbohowareyou. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry64
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  Blizzard is known for making alot of RTS but each one if unique, beautiful, and pretty great at 
 handling graphics, online, and gameplay. Warcraft 3 is the first Blizzard game to be in 3D. However, 
 this game is great because it is uniquely fresh as if you have never played Warcraft even though 
 you did. The story will only be understanded to the Warcraft fans. Newcomers who take the Story 
 Mode will be happy to know there is a tutorial but then again might not understand the plot. There 
 are 2 stories to this mode, however the Horde's story is the beginning. The story mode tries to 
 be really great but to me is not that good. I don't want to spoil anything but then again if you're 
 a newcomer only go to the story mode to try the tutorial. The online mode which is the famous Battle. net 
 (Blizzard's online community) is added. Battle. net is known to anybody as it was the online community 
 for great RTS (Warcraft 2, StarCraft) . Battle. net is refreshed meaning it looks way better and 
 handles the online better. You can make your own games using the map editor which is sort of simple. 
 The online is sometimes messed up because your router might not accept you making your own room. 
 The graphics are really great even though this game was made in 2002 and compare that to 2006's 
 graphics. They are both the same but this game is unlike any other graphical games I've seen. Sure 
 the sound is a dissapoint, but whats not disapoiting is the tilt and the gameplay. And that is 
 what I think is important. The value, well, you should get this game for online for the good times. 
 There is still alot of people playing it the FREE online and you know.... Give this masterpiece, 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  It maybe a pain if your job was just gather gold and wood the entire time, 
  rather than wielding a 5 ft sword against your foes. But it aint a pain if your the one commanding 
 that peon to do your dirty chores and sending dozens of soldier off to their death against another 
 huge army.. but then again... it aint real... its WARCRAFT.
  As you may know, Warcraft has been probably one of the most revolutionary games ever made in gaming 
 history. From the very first Warcraft: Orcs and Humans, to Warcraft 2, it great to know that they 
 are all fun. The mainstory of the Warcraft saga, is the invasion of the pesky green orcs against 
 the loyal humans of Azeroth and all parts of the world of warcraft.... err ive forgotten all them 
 lands..
  But now we can all rejoy, Blizzard has once again created another edtion to the warcraft series.... WARCRAFT 
 3!. The story about WC 3 is about another curious yet, very dangerous new race about to arrive 
 into the world... known as the Buring Legion.. Once again there the Noble Humans, the Bloody Orcs, 
 and 2 new races in the game, the Mysterious NightElves and the Deadly Undead. 
  To sum up the new and the old races, Humans are well humans.... there  
 and etc.. theyre a good combination of strength, magic, and all of the basis. Orcs are green, war 
 hungry monsters, who lus t for blood. This race is best for brute strength. Nightelves are mostly 
 mysterious elves that can disappear into the night ( somes can) and specialize in great magic.. and 
 the undead are zombies and all of the horror youve might have seen in horrors movies... theyre specialities 
 is creating a huge army, larger than any race in the game
  Warcraft 3 has made an incredible improvement in pratically everything
  compared to other Warcrafts. 
 The graphics are great, especially the cinematic are something to drool about. The sound and music 
 are great. There loads of missions an great features. And now in WC3 each race can get heroes!! 
 thats right! Heroes are much stronger and have more health and etc than basic units. Each heroes 
 may specialize in magic, strenght, speed and etc.. They can fight, aid your comrades, create havoc 
 and can have levels ups. 
  Ive loved the Warcraft collection and Warcraft 3 is absolutely a must
  have for your pc.!!
 
  
  PROS: Huge improvements ( graphics, sounds etc) , new races, and lots of fun and addictive! AMAZING 
 CINEMATICS|!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  CONS: the gameplay graphics is a little choopy ( but not the CINEMATIC NOWAY!!) . unlike the previous 
 WC3 you have a limit in units to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I had quite a lot of fun playing with Warcraft 3 when I First got it on my computer. Before even 
 purchasing it I noticed that there were four different boxes, each from its own different race. 
 However the main gameplay is very unique and diverse. All the characters in the game have a bit 
 of a cartoonish look to them if you zoom in closely to look at them. Also if you click them for 
 many times over and over again they begin to say some pretty hilarious stuff. Anyway onto the main 
 gameplay itself. It is a pretty linear game that caters to both experts and newbies. I would personally 
 recommend for starters to go with the Humans are they are the ones who are the easiest to use in 
 the game. Each of the sides within the game are greatly balanced with their own diverse array of 
 units that we would never dream up of in our own imaginations. I perfonally favored the nightelves, 
 but that is just a matter of preference. The game also offers those gamers who are not very well 
 with the game as a whole to utilize cheats in order to turn the tables within their own favor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I was originally recomended this game by a friend years ago when it first launched and wow was 
 i impressed then and still am. Graphics are not the best but are good for its time animations are 
 solid and no matter how many chacters are on screen framerate keeps up and enviroments feel alive 
 with ambience of birds and creatures runing around. Sound is great with every slash of a sword 
 and every explosion the game also offers up some decent voice acting. The gameplay is unbeatable 
 with a gripping story that becomes more emmersive every level. New units are unlocked as you progress 
 and each race has different one but they all kinda do the same things riflemen are somewhat the 
 same as a headhunter for an example. One great thing about this game is the heroes which are basically 
 the generals of your army which lvl up as you progress giving them new abilities and stronger defense 
 and attack which adds an rpg style of sorts. Each race has its own seperate set of heros each one 
 being different with abilities and stats like one hero maybe faster than another while another 
 my be better with magic. The online play is fantastic there are ladder games and there are varity 
 in team sizes you can fight 1v1 all the way up to 4v4 and even free for all which is 1 person aginst 
 all. There also is a great map maker allowing you to make your own games with quests and everything 
 then allow people to download it off the games custom game option. Some downsides to the game are 
 the annoying characters allways saying somthing when you tell them to move which would be ok if 
 it didnt loop so mutch tho this can be turned off but then the characters dont feel alive. One 
 other thing is i wish i could have targeted more units then it lets you i sometimes had a hard 
 time keeping up with everything cause i couldnt just sellect a large group of untis and send them 
 all at once instead i found myself making them follow one guy of the other squad. Overall this 
 game if byfar the best RTS iv ever played and im still playing it years after its launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hberghorde
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  OK let'sbegin..... To start with the gameplay: The gameplay from Warcraft is very good and easy to 
 control.
  An other aspect of the game is that you can choose other races what expands you're story missions 
 and the multiplayer missions.
  
  The Com teams in the custom games are pretty smart what's kind a cool and offcourse al lot more 
 difficult than some other RTS games.
  
  The storyline of Warcraft is one of the best items of the games because I like games were you must 
 fight for your country in this place Azeroth where Warcraft IS....
  
  With all these aspects is my dicission: This game rocks!!!!!
  
  Greets hberghorde
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III is similar to the gameplay of Warcraft I & II (and most other strategy games) where 
 you build up a base with adequate defense, then recruit different units to eventually destroy all 
 your enemies (or other quests, of course) . Warcraft III adds on 2 more races (Night Elf, Orcs, 
 Undead, and Humans) , Heroes (which can level and collect items) , random animals to fight (increase 
 your heroes level, can find loot of of them as well) , and merchants (can buy items, hire different 
 units) , and an upgrade in graphics of course. That's quite alot if you ask me. 
  
  The graphics are great, simple as that. Trees flow in the wind, great looking creatures, GREAT 
 looking water, and best of all, very very good effects (spell / building construction / etc...) . 
 Sound, is great, but nothing extraordinary; I don't have much to comment on there. 
  
  You can have up to 3 heroes at one time, all of which can reach level 10. There are basically 3 
 'classes' of heroes, the warrior, the mage, then something unique to the race (Paladin for the 
 humans, for example) . Each hero has 4 unique spells / skills that can be improved when he levels, 
 with the final level giving him his 4th and ultimate spell. There are plenty of spells, including 
 summoning monsters, shields, auras, fireballs, etc... Heroes can also collect items that improve 
 their stats, as well as potions and tomes that can be read (which improve various stats as well) . 
 Heroes are a big part of Warcraft III, and you'll be spending alot of time trying to level your 
 hero and find good items to improve him as well. 
  
  All the races are unique. They never share the same buildings or units, so playing each race is 
 a very different game experience. Races do not have as many buildings than Warcraft II did, which 
 was a bit of a dissapointment to me, but it's enough to keep you entertained. 
  
  Warcraft III is a much different and much better game than Warcraft II. I would definintly recommend 
 anyone, even if you are not a fan of strategy games (well, if you REALLY hate strategy games, then 
 you probably won't like it) to get Warcraft III. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: azn_shorty75
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  this game was very well improved since the 2nd and 1st warcraft series, with many more units, buildings, 
 and even heros to choose from now, this game really brought a huge hit to strategy game fans.
 
  
  though the graphics were a lot better, but compared to many other games, it still wasnt good enough, 
 the units were obviously made of cubes, circles, and triangles and the pictures of the units were 
 too different from the normal units.
  
  with a very fun online gaming system, it brought to roc many more possibilities such as games lk 
 dota, tower defence, or even making characters and using a code to save the character and playing 
 it again by typing in the code! 
  
  this game is soso not that great i would say but is still a pretty good fantasy strategy game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed strategy games, and I have always enjoyed fantasy, wizards, and the such, 
 so when this game came out, I got really excited, this game grows on you so quickly, its about 
 impossible to put it down. I think that it brought together the strategy and magic essence that 
 really brought about a good atmosphere to the game. The game had a great storyline, and its graphics 
 were great for the time, especially considering it was an RTS. Great game, I think that those seeking 
 a game, even to this day, that really delivers the RTS feeling in a game of magic and the whole 
 good vs. evil, this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is an amazing and and an extremely immersive strategy game.
  It has good visuals, excellent graphics and a great gameplay. It keeps you hooked to the pc with 
 its human, undead, orc & night elf campaigns. Even though my favorite race is Night Elves I really 
 enjoy playing this great game.
  The game never gets boring and its replay value is also excelleng. The videos are great and has 
 movie standards. Its also a great game to play online with others or with your friends in a lan 
 network. Overall this is one of the best strategy games I have come across in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiro_HuntT3R
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  The Game, Super Strategy, Amazing and Worthy than anything else. The Game Needs no praising, Playing 
 it attracts the player to play it for a very long time and like for again and again. The Movies 
 are Amazing, I like the Movies very much, I haven't played any other game of it but I am sure this 
 is the best game eva. I like the game so I think you will like it as well but if you dont than Neva 
 Mind, XD!... But I still prefer this game than any other game.
  The Sound is Amazing and Moreover The Game Play is Mind Blowing, It is RPG Plus Strategy and Mind 
 Blowing Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game was by far the best RTS I have ever played at the time, and it stays up there today. 
 The best thing about Warcraft 3, nay, the whole Warcraft series, is the immersive story and universe. 
 You'll often finding yourself saying "Oh, I remember him from WC1!!". The gameplay is great. Custom 
 games allow you to play countless hours playing and practicing and enjoying this awesome game. 
 The campaign is thrilling at overly enjoyable, with a clean and understandable tutorial to boot. 
 I also thoroughly enjoyed just having a laugh with some mates on the LAN, like having peasant wars 
 or sending your best hero into melee. The graphics are revolutionary in the WC saga. The sounds 
 and voices are authentic and crisp, and suitable for their characters. The map editor, also, is 
 another aspect of WC3 i really loved. Making maps for yourself or editing the skins to just how 
 you like them, or pwning them in a custom battle. What I play on nowadays, and something I really 
 love, is the awesome battle. net support. Players being able to create custom maps then posting 
 them on BNet ready to download is an awesome right in itself. There are literally thousands of 
 custom maps which are all playable on BNet. If you want a fantasy RTS that will keep you occupied 
 for years, WC3 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banzino_gothic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  War craft III reign of chaos another masterpiece .since I played war craft I and II. and playing 
 the III is a great thrill and war craft move on a lot since then ,and improved greatly its campaign 
 management and missions one of the best feature of war craft it campaign . new kind of races 
 and new category s like heros and so on .so buying the game is worth it and spending all your 
 free time on it is great to really war craft is a peace of art .and should the best game ever .and 
 it is one of my idol game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  This is a great action game, with plenty to do, weither your contructing your base ready for wor, 
 or seeking on your own adventure gathering a few soilders on the way to help aid you tair down 
 your enemys home town.
  
  It contains 4 Mighty races,
  Commanding:
  Night Elves.
  The undead.
  Horrible Orcs.
  and 
  The nobile humans.
  
  New legend Hero Units, leading 
 your force into a battle with powerful new legendary hero units.
  Gaining experiance and learn new skills, and carry out speical items that air you in your battles 
 and benefits your housing structures.
  
  Living 3D worlds
  
  And a great massive Multiplayer Chaos, crusing your team mates to the ground and burn millions 
 of people on the internet on a battle. net website.
  
  Dare you challenge the true battles ahead and gain your justis reward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerofshadows
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  i have bought this game three times in my life, and each time i hav sold it, regretted and bought 
 it again. It's the only game i hav bought more than once, mainly because i love it.
  The bulk of warcraft is set around its four campaigns, which evetually leads to the unexpected 
 battle for the tree of eternity (or something like that) . Each campaign is based on a different 
 race, and they revolve around Arthus, former human prince, as he tries to lead the undead scourage 
 to ultimate victory. However Reign of Chaos shows that alliances can be formed from the most unlikely 
 people.
  The rest of Warcraft cosists of a single player skirmish mode and online capabilities. The multiplayer 
 mode is where Reign of chaos really comes to life. There are matches based on almost anything u 
 can think of. theres tig, star wars and lord of the rings to name but a few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drblood1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  this game is for pc and pc only but it is one of the greatest game it has free online play and 
 theres four classes night elf orc human and undead i say that undead is the best and funnest probably 
 cause their my favorite and this game has lots of strategies and u can play like lord of the rings 
 on their aliens vs predators heroe wars its real overall should be 10/10 other than bein a 9.3 
 if u like games u control vast armies and that u use many strategies buy this game now u will thank 
 me
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Something3k
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game i have ever played. I played this game for about a year, without using 
 the online gameplay and i didnt get bored. The campaign is good and long, and the countless maps 
 let you never get bored of a custom game. Once i started the online play, the custom games that 
 people have made (such as tower attacks, pokemon etc.) are amazing, like a completely new game. 
 The heros are pretty cool, all with their own unique ability, and if you click on any of the units, 
 they say funny stuff (a hidden extra) .
  
  Overall, if you dont have this game, GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codyjohnson117
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  This is mostly, to me, is enjoyable, entertainment, and more online challening with others. The 
 online part of Blizzard Service is totally awesome and never stop playing! Most of player are pretty 
 much professinal and that's why Blizzard gives you more challenges. Challenges is pretty much important 
 of your skills and knowledge. The graphic, stories, and movie is just pretty much perfect also. 
 Also, it is very easy to use tools and understanding of the meaning. Also online multiplayer is 
 just awesome and different things of game you can certain play that way. There one game that I 
 don't undestand it or get it... So, yeah, I might recommond buy it sometimes because it is pretty 
 much cheap to buy it from it. I also could recommonded you to buy World Of Warcraft too because 
 its almost had the same character and more better stuff. (Which mean more better different way 
 though.) Anyway, its does take awhile to beat the game without cheat all the time. Because it takes 
 time to build, born the footmen, and stuff like that. Like, chopping the trees down and getting 
 gold mines. The reason I rate is 9.5 because it need a ship or boat battles... It also need a oil 
 carrying boat, you know? So, basically, its just depends on story meaning, people, character, and 
 also background. Well, I hope you'll love this game and enjoy it. Its pretty much good to play 
 this game first to learn what is a WarCraft is and then try the new World of Warcraft after this 
 game by the way. I hope you have a good Happy New Year and have a great time. Thanks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is a great sequel to warcraft 2. In War Craft 3: Reign of chaos, if you play in campaign 
 mode, you first play as humans, which the story line evolves around a knight trying to save his 
 kingdom first from the orcs, then the undead. You then play as the undead i think, then orcs, then 
 night elves. 
  
  Gameplay: Campaign is really fun, great story line. The races are cool, a lot of variety, and the 
 creatures you get to control in the races are good also. The map editor is also pretty cool, as 
 you get to play as the big undead baddie who can kill units in one hit. Also, you get to try out 
 the heroes you can't use in campaign or multiplayer, like the big centaur, evil grom, the undead 
 creature with twin blades, and etc. Bad is that in multiplayer or when you are doing campaign lvls 
 on hard, you have to know what you are doing and it requires a lot of depth in the race you are 
 using. Otherwise, if you dont know what your doing like me, you'll get ur butt whooped every time, 
 which is not fun. 
  
  Graphics: Graphics are really cool and great. Smooth frame rate, no problems at all. 
  
  Sound: 
 Fits well with the context. Pretty good. 
  
  Value: At the time i got it, which was 2003 i think, it was 40$ for both frozen throne and reign 
 of chaos. Definetly worth the money if you like strategy games. 
  
  TIlt: Overall, i liked the game, but it really got boring after a while, i really suck at strategy 
 games which require how fast u build stuff, how much depth u need to know about ur race and how 
 to use it, and etc. Warcraft 3 is really fun if your good at it, as the multiplayer is great and 
 stuff, but i was really bad at it, so i didn't like it as much as i would have expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erny_200001
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:51 am PT
Review:  ahh... the warcraft 3 such a great game if your a ture RTS player you will love this game it was 
 one of the first RTS too have full 3D this game gives the buyer the ultimate RTS experience its 
 got great online play great graphics but mainly great GAMPLYE thats why i love the company blizzard 
 they always put game play first and then graphics second this game even has a nice and long campaign 
 I personally thought that the storyline was pretty cool too. if you ever get a chance buy the battle 
 chest it incudes the expanshon with new untis and stuff .anyway wacaft 3 has one of the best mutiplayer 
 online game's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmkj
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:26 am PT
Review:  this game is adds a new twist to the word war! with its many maps and great backround! it has almost 
 great sound it just needed a little more detail but the rest is great! if u have internet, prepare 
 to battle online! it has an online feature that u can do to play matches on people over the internet 
 and it has many other games that u can play over the internet like pokemon but warcraft style with 
 original pokemon song! if u have cheats u can use them on the campain which goes through every 
 race of people. there are four races and they are undead, orc, human, and the elves. all races have 
 4 heroes which are unique in their way like healing, causing 4 times chance damage, or stunning 
 an enemy with a special attack. the heroes can grow up to a level of 10 and they gain experience 
 by attacking other enemies found in the map. its just a fun game in any way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delbonifro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the games i like the most on the computer. The reason for that is because its so 
 hard at some points in the game like surviving for 40 minutes long while fending off a an onslought 
 of undead wariors. But also the game can be slow because your just building the same building over 
 and over again. But the great thing about that is theres four diffirent types of people to choose 
 from. Namely Humans, Orcs, Night Elves and Undead. The other great thing about the game is that 
 the online battles and extra things like watch tower builder. All and all this game is very entertaining 
 and very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaT-4-lyfe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  ok in teh beggining i thought this game was dumb but then i found out how to actually play and 
 now i just cant stop playing this game. Its like a drug. The strategies are crazy n the campaign 
 mode was great. Online you play against other ppl and in custom games they have a lot of different 
 fun games. THis game is tottaly worth buying and it is alot of fun and it will take your mind and 
 wont give it back lol anyway this game is the BEST GAME EVER MADE !!!!! WOOT !!!! yah the best 
 ever well not really but its a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon-Z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft3: Reign Of Chaos has to be one of the most best storylines in gaming history. It makes 
 you feel like your in the game your self.. a 4 way storyline all connected to each other. And also 
 has a great multiplayer with custom games and ladder games but if you want more of that check out 
 the expansion the frozen throne. It is a must have for any PC owner or RTS gamer so go out and 
 buy Warcraft3: Battlechest which includes RoC and TFT with stratagey guides as well. Really though 
 go buy it its one of my favorite games ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steveo486
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to discribe such an awsome deep deep game like this so im not goin to try. The graphics 
 are outstanding and the characters and races are all unique in there own special way. The storyline 
 is catching and sucks you in more and more as you play the game as the different races. sounds 
 are another awsome accomplishment, with every unit having its very own set of phrases and different 
 noises. 
  
  The heores are great and there different spells and wot nots. Value for money..... lets just say 
 iv heard of someone who took 9 months off and on to finally finish the game. 
  
  the only problem is that it drives you insane when your not playing it and takes along time to 
 get over such a great game..... that was untill they realeased the frozen throne!!!! which is yet 
 another expansion of the allready perfect game.
  
  the main storyline is perfect, but the multiplayer game is both repeditive and very difficult to 
 master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furkili
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  Now this is something new, this game is unlike any strategy game I have ever seen... the creativite 
 of the people who made this game is as big as the universe... do you what is a Tauren Chieftain? You 
 will probably awnser this:"What the hell is that?!"-and I will awnser:"It is just another of the 
 amazing warcraft lll creatures... it looks like a minotaur, I don't know... its just pure creativite". Like 
 I said, this game will be long remembered. It has espetucular graphics, it looks like you are in a 
 real battlefield! And the armys you can choose to play whif (Nightelf, Undead, Human and Orcs) , they 
 are all fun to play! The campaign mode is also pretty well alaborarted, if good storyline, and it 
 is fun, but dificult. The sound, well, it is ok, nothing more to say about it. Now the only negative 
 thing I have to say about this game, is that, you get pretty angry wen you loose...= (. And playing 
 online, it is just amazing, even better then the single player mode. I recommend this game to evryone, you 
 will probably enjoy this game greatly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I first started play age of empires then i thought about switching over to warcraft... well it made 
 me really happy. I mean i still play AoE, but this game rocks. Its graphics i think were ahead 
 of its time for the pc gaming. But unfortunaly i had to uninstall it off my comp because it was 
 messing it up for who knows what reason, but i will be putting it back on when i get more RAM and 
 a better video card. Because this game is addicting, the music, sound, basically everything is 
 awesome. Its all what its supposed to be. So if you dont have it, go pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Sound the war horns, my brethren, the time for battle has come! We have waited many moons for this 
 day and, at last, the blood of our enemies will be shed like the hair from a mangy dog. The cry 
 of Warcraft rings true throughout our land for the third time, so take up your steel and prepare 
 yourself - the Reign of Chaos has finally arrived.
  
  It has been a long time since the orcs were defeated. Years of peace have made the Human Alliance 
 weak and disorganized. Because of the humans' pathetic bickering, a new orc war chief named Thrall 
 has risen to power and managed to rally the Horde once more. The elves of Silvermoon have left 
 the humans to fend for themselves and even good King Terenas has not been able to patch the widening 
 rift between Alliance leaders. But all those problems will quickly fade away as a new threat is 
 about to appear.
  
  The story that unfolds in WarCraft III is some of Blizzard's best work yet and I won't spoil it 
 for you here. Just prepare yourself for plenty of action, drama, and of course, strange twists 
 of fate.
  
  Aiding the progression of the single-player story is some of the best CG you've ever seen in a 
 PC game. Characters are really brought to life with this handful of animated cut scenes. Even if 
 you've seen the trailers, you ain't seen nothing yet.
  
  For those of you who have fought in any of the previous battles, you'll notice that the plans remain 
 largely unchanged. You'll need to build up a base to support an army and then proceed to suck the 
 land dry of gold and wood. From there, it's off to train the best soldiers you can and wreak havoc 
 on the enemy. Notably absent are the marine units (as in water, you StarCraft nerds) , but there's 
 a good chance you won't even miss them when you consider the wide assortment of additions.
  
  One of these is an 'upkeep' penalty that is supposed to deter larger armies. As your army grows, 
 a "tax" will take effect that limits the rate at which you collect gold. For example, peasants 
 from towns with only five soldiers can carry 10 gold at a time, while peasants from a castle with 
 fifty soldiers can only carry 4 gold at a time. I guess big corporations aren't the only ones skimming 
 a little off the top these days.
  
  The biggest additions to Warcraft III are the two new races - the Night Elves and the Undead Scourge. 
 If you've already had a chance to read my preview, you already have a good idea what these two 
 races are about. The Night Elves rely primarily on stealth and are strongest with ranged combat. 
 The Undead are best and crashing, bashing, and smashing through anything that gets in their way. 
 Even fallen enemies contribute to the cause, setting things up for one great big Undead party.
 
  
  Each race has a set of heroes you can call upon to lead your army to battle. These super soldiers 
 not only gain experience points for greater powers, they can also collect any treasures that you 
 might find throughout the land. From potions of mana to magical armor, there are plenty of things 
 to discover. But treasure isn't the only thing you'll find out there...
  
  New for Warcraft III are the "Creeps" - neutral units that will attack anyone that happens by. 
 From Dragons to Centaurs and Kobolds to Quillboars, there's plenty out there besides the enemy 
 to keep you busy. These units can often be found guarding treasures or important locations, such 
 as gold mines and neutral buildings where you can buy a few items or even hire a mercenary or two.
 
  
  WarCraft III also features a day/night cycle that goes on throughout the game. During the night 
 cycle, most units lose a small degree of visibility and sometimes you'll be able to catch a few 
 of the neutral units asleep.
  
  Visually, the bulk of Warcraft III won't knock your socks off. The CG is top of the line, but the 
 rest of the game looks merely satisfactory, probably due to Blizzard's aim for low system requirements. 
 But nothing looks overtly bad. Minor zoom levels will allow you to watch from closer up, but for 
 the most part you'll play the game from the classic RTS top-down perspective.
  
  Few games really take advantage of sound as well as the WarCraft series, a trend that continues 
 here. Warcraft III manages to deliver another round of gut-busting, mouse-clicking fun. Just left-click 
 the night away and enjoy the wacky lines that all your units will spit out. The Blizzard crew easily 
 retains the RTS comedy crown.
  
  The flow of the single player game is simple and straightforward. You can start out with a few 
 training missions or just jump right into the Human campaign. Eight or so missions later, you'll 
 move on to another race, until all races have been completed. Despite jumping from race to race, 
 the game's story is able to hold together well and you'll never feel a break in the plot.
  
  Of course, it wouldn't be WarCraft without multiplayer. Thanks to Battle. net's handy functionality, 
 connecting and setting up a game is a piece of cake. You played the beta, didn't you?
  
  The balance in the game is also good, but the Undead seem to hold a slight advantage. Undead "farms" 
 can be transformed into defensive structures that can attack both land and air units. This gives 
 them a defensive advantage since it's so easy to put towers all over the place. The Undead resemble 
 the Zerg of Starcraft and can perform well with rush tactics. This is made possible since the lumber 
 harvester also serves as the basic fighting unit. This "Ghoul Rush" can be defended against, but 
 a player needs to set up proper defenses immediately.
  
  You'll be happy to know that the pathfinding in the game is pretty good. For the most part, you'll 
 be able to send units off to perform tasks without worrying about them getting caught up on something 
 along the way.
  
  Aside from the single and multiplayer games, Warcraft III also comes with a World Editor. This 
 tool allows players to exercise their creativity and put together enough new maps to last until 
 the next expansion - and knowing Blizzard, that'll be a long time.
  
  Blizzard remains firmly on top of the RTS game with Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos. Fans who have 
 waited all these years will agree that it was well worth the wait. Enhanced gameplay combined with 
 a great story and fantastic CG will give even the most peaceful elf a new reason to go to war. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soadrock2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Full Name: Warcraft 3: Reign Of Chaos
  Formats: PC
  Playing Time: 20:47:29
  Players: like 1 - 32 
  
  Warcraft 3 is an outstanding game. Theres no question about it, this 
 is one of the best strategic games ever made, Its good a long story, with good dialogue, and four 
 campaigns with a variety of missions/quests in each. The quests are sometimes hard but other times 
 you can breeze through one, this keeps you guessing on how hard or easy the next quest is going 
 to be. 
  You can play a custom map which is highly fun as you can play against the pc. You can build up 
 your army and take over all the other camps, there are lots of character you can train to add to 
 your army, so theres lots of variety to your game play.
  But no game is perfect, and this one isn't, the graphics are not at their best, and a lot of the 
 character models are blocky, also the gameplay can get a bit boring as you won't really have to 
 move your thumbs and fingers around much. But they are really the only bad points.
  
  Graphics: Not bad but could be so much better, the character models are also too blocky. 8/10
 
  
  Gameplay: Easy, click on this bunch move them there, it won't make you sweat 8/10
  
  Sound: Your army shouting things like war and stuff like that, makes it sound really funny. 9/10
 
  
  Value: One word. Massive. 10/10
  
  This is one of those must have games, my score 9.3/10 but it truthfuly gets 9.0/10, you seriously 
 must get this game, i havent got the expansiion pack but im sure thats worth a look.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramoe
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:52 am PT
Review:  War craft 3 reign of chaos is a good stradegy game you could possibly play on your pc. It has pretty 
 good detail and it has some hard parts in the game. Warcraft 3 reign of chaos has some easy parts 
 you have to play in it too. You have a lot of campaigns you could be able to play and they are 
 all really fun. But it has some good detail and some horrible detail on your teamates and enemies 
 and it is too easy for you to kill someone or have someone killed on your team. But other than all 
 that Warcraft 3 Reign of Chaos is a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mem11363
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Gmeplay: Awesome (when you stick with custom) : The fact that its a strategy game of war is one 
 thing, its got the very likeable thing that keeps you busy on all the resources and soilders and 
 buildings. Of course, its the custom part I like, so as long as I'm doing that I'm happy And finally 
 your able to bring your army in and crush your enemy weather you are the tree loving and rather 
 stealthy night-elves, the best best best race: humans, the bloodthirsty orces, or the vicious and 
 unorganized undead.
  
  Graphics: actually very very detailed, and realistic, and keeps you going.
  
  Sound: lovely 
 to hear the clash of metal, but sickenig to hear the clash of metal and skin.
  
  
  Price: nothing usual really, you get charged 50$ mostly compared to others... right?
  
  
 
  Tilt: adds up to a satisfying game. Hope you liked my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekmazter
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:57 am PT
Review:  This was my first try at the Warfcraft franchise since the original "way back when". 
  
  The creativity in the environments, the storyline, the gameplay is all done in a very smooth and 
 engaging manner that will have you playing this for a very long time. What many have aleady known 
 about Warcraft I have finally realized. This is a great series with replay-ability out the wazoo! 
 Once you're hooked, you're hooked for life and there are many many members out there to conspire 
 with on this series.
  
  I must game for just about anyone looking for Adventure in an RPG type format. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kudos2000
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  I must admit I did expect a lot from this game. Warcraft 2 to me was one of the best games around 
 (until RA2 and generals) , and Warcraft 3 let me down.
  
  To start with the graphics where a bit too cartoony, the animation was good but I could not get 
 a good feel of the characters, in Warcraft 2 fair enough that was cartoony but it ran on a 486 
 and was brilliant to play.
  
  The main problem I find is how restricted you are when making units. With only 90 points to spend 
 a few high priced units you have a small army which really looks pathetic. Secondly with such small 
 amounts of men attacking more than one team is not fun, when they coordinate together well it becomes 
 more of a slaughter then a fun multi player game.
  
  The sounds are not as good as they where on Warcraft 2, many a time did I like to annoy my Peon 
 by continually click on him. 
  
  To me this game was to much of a gimmick playing of its predecessor to raise sales. There are much 
 better games out there if you fancy a strategy game; you can't beat C&C Generals.
  
  My one word of advice would be try a demo or somebody elses game before buying it, you may see 
 it like I do, a big disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mralan80
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  This is the greatest game I have ever played on the PC. You have to play as four diferent races 
 (elves, humans, ogres, and the undead) and the story is just fantastic. The movies that occur when 
 you start a game or get through all the levels of one race are an amazing event that have to be 
 experienced. The different attributes of the leaders of each race are amazing fun and as you get 
 further along, you can turn your leader into a real beast that can take on anything. The different 
 units that you have under control are a mess of fun and pretty easy to control for a PC game. 
 
  The only problem with this game (maybe it's just a problem for me) is how difficult some of the 
 levels are and that you can't get away from the very linear plot. The story is great but a little 
 possibility of horizontal movement from the storyline would make it so one wouldn't have to continually 
 get slaughtered until they figure out a plan for the level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game recently because I wanted to finally get in on one of the best selling PC 
 games and knowing it's from Blizzard, I was confident it would be a quality game. 
  
  At the time of it's release it was an RTS with several original features such as hero units and 
 special abilities. It is somewhat like a role playing game but it's pretty light in that aspect 
 but there is some basic character enhancment. Warcraft 3 has quite a variety of units and tactics 
 you can use in battles among the four races and it is very well balanced. Every race has units 
 that are equivelent to other units in another race without being too similar. You can really notice 
 the different style of each race as well. For instance, humans have more traditional knight in 
 shining armor units and are fast builders. Undead have large numbers and regenerative spells that 
 goes hand-in-hand with their tendency to be hard to kill (since they are already dead) . Orc's are 
 akin to the protoss of starcraft in that each unit is very powerful and resiliant. Brute force 
 is their style. Nigh elves have mobile bases and make heavy use of magical spells and are more 
 one with nature than the other races.
  
  Although the graphics were designed to run the game well on a wide range of systems, they still 
 are quite impressive. Warcraft features vivid, colorful environments that look somewhat cartoony 
 but lush at the same time. Units have a lot of detail and are well animated but unfortunately suffer 
 from an extremely low polygon count making them look very blocky when viewd close-up. Special effects 
 like spells, explosions and aura's look fantastic.
  
  On the audio front the musical score is well composed and makes you feel part of the Warcraft world. 
 Sound effects are loud, clear and crisp and the voice acting is well done.
  
  The gameplay is pretty similar to a lot of other RTS games but a bit different because the focus 
 is on smaller armies where you will be using their special abilities more often than just sending 
 in waves of weak units. It makes the battles intense and more strategically satisfying. The game 
 tries to mix it up by including dungen crawls with fixed number of units and side-quests but it 
 doesn't make that much of a difference.
  
  One thing I was dissapointed with is that this game doesn't seem to stand out from the crowd much 
 anymore. It could be that I'm playing it 3 years after it's release but I thought the game would 
 immerse me a lot more than it did. I did like the story but the CGI cutscenes between campaigns 
 were a big let-down because they were so short and simple. I honestly don't know why this game 
 was so long in development. It is definitely a fun RTS game to play that has a unique flavor but 
 I can easily say I enjoyed Rome Total War and Starcraft much more.
  
  I don't know if Blizzard will ever be able to top the venerable Starcraft franchise unless they 
 make a sequel which I hope they will sometime this century. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Like Starcraft, Warcraft is another thing that Blizzard has made that is popular. Using almost 
 the same game play and style a little, Warcraft III is a pretty fun game. I know that it is very 
 addictive for me. The story line in this game is great like it is in a movie. The game play is 
 fine, but the problem is that it is a little too hard for beginners. When I first played it, it 
 was pretty hard and I lost in my first skirmish stage. But soon I got better in the game and am 
 use to it. The thing I like about this game is the leveling up and the powers that the heroes can 
 use. Not like Starcraft the Heroes isn't really important. In fact you cannot even build heroes 
 in Starcraft. Also compared to Warcraft III and Starcraft the special moves that your units can 
 use are much more useful. In Starcraft most of the moves I barely use in order to win, but in Warcraft 
 III I need to use the special moves from my units in order to win. The graphics in this game is 
 good, but not supreme, but it is okay. Another problem is that I wish that the food limit can be 
 a little hire. I know if there is too many units in one screen the computer will be a little rough, 
 but I can satisfy gamers that has good computers. This game is a better version of Starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levoth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  WarCraft III was the rebirth of the strategic saga of Blizzard. WarCraft III is everything that 
 the other WarCraft games wanted to be. Amazing graphics, intuitive gameplay, a perfect storyline 
 and great sounds... everything is so good that is hard to describe how this game is incredible. 
 Let's make it by steps. First about the evolution that game had since WarCraft II Tides of Darkness. 
 This new game have a totally new 3D engine that works very well with everything in the game. Another 
 point is the progressive story, in WarCraft II Tides of Darkness the story don't follow a line 
 , in WarCraft III the storyline focus a very important person : the Hero. There are also new races 
 in the game : The Undead Scourge , which is an army of dead units that have demoniac powers, and 
 the legendary Night Elves Sentinel , which are the sentinels of the world of WarCraft. The story 
 begins with the returning of the Burning Legion. All the races of the world have to put their forces 
 together to fight against this legion. But this isn't as important as the graphics and the gameplay 
 of the game. The graphics are execellent, the models, the lights and the design of the units are 
 perfect. The gameplay is essentially the same , but now there are heroes in every race. Each hero 
 has its own abilities and magics. Those abilities can be increased by itens found in the map and 
 by killing monsters and collecting EXP points which can be exchange for levels and magics. It is 
 an combination between strategy and RPG , very good. The sound remember Lord of The Rings series 
 , and I think that is because of this that they're so great. The sound effects are worth of a Hollywood 
 production. Everything in WarCraft III Reign of Chaos is perfect. It is really really amazing, 
 if you don't have it yet , buy or download it from web , you aren't going to regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhsoccer14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III is an amazing game, with a great not too hard, not too easy single player campaign, 
 a great storyline and great graphics. This is only the tip of the iceberg. Warcraft III is one 
 of the best online games I have ever played. With an up-to-date ranking system, you can track your 
 progess (and in some cases decline) through the online ladder in Warcraft. Online play has a ladder 
 for those who like to play alone against another opponent (1v1) , in team games (2v2, 3v3, and 4v4) , 
 and also FFA (up to 4 players) . Online play also features custom made games that adds to the fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikemancol
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Im a really big fan of these types of games, and this completely raised the bar for any other games 
 like it. The game has a wide range of different charcters for you to control, all with there own 
 traits. And the story mode is pretty good. I must admit I like the realistic clips that are played 
 at points in the game. But most of all it gives you easy tasks to do, but sometimes it will give 
 you a task which may take a couple of goes. So its not one of those games you can skip through 
 easily. I must say that my favourite part of the game is the quotes that the characters give. My 
 favourite has to be "Frostmourne Hungers" or maybe "Doomhammer" they just crack me up everytime 
 I hear them. And they are said with such emphasis. So overall its a game that I think most people 
 will find fun and its quite addictive once you start playing it. A Great Game
  Peace Out!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacksonfdam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:05 am PT
Review:  Make no mistake: Warcraft III is a real-time strategy game. Originally announced back in 1999 as 
 a hybrid strategic role-playing game, over the course of its development, Warcraft III shed many 
 of its role-playing pretensions and became what by all means is a true sequel to its predecessor. 
 The game relies on many of the real-time strategy conventions you're probably familiar with by 
 now. The goal of a typical skirmish is to start gathering resources (gold and wood) , build up a 
 base, build up a force of various units, and use that force to destroy the enemy's base and to 
 repel any attacks against your position. You control the action primarily with a mouse by clicking 
 on individual units and buildings or dragging boxes around groups of them, and you can also use 
 predefined keyboard hotkeys to quickly perform some actions. So Warcraft III doesn't reinvent the 
 wheel.
  The history is greate, but blizzard must change the quality of the camera positions...
  
  The 
 characters are in the best render... but when you change the camera position, u see some lower quality 
 details....
  
  What more i can say about it.... WOW had this bug tracked and fixed, i didnt find hotfix for this 
 in blizzard site.
  And my Video Card is a ati x1800 512 mb/bits
  =)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliot_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:15 am PT
Review:  This game is the best RTS ever mada, cause has a little of RPG and that is revolutionary!
  It's a very fun game, with a great history and an amazing gameplay!
  It's a little easy but is 
 a very big game.. And you can change the difficulty..
  The grafics are greats. with very detailed forests and characters with amasing special magics.. 
 With very colours!! It's simply beautiful..
  The sound is amasing.. with birds in forests... the characters talks and the sound of everything!
 
  This game is made for the people who love RTS and a little of RPG...
  It was this game who made world of warcraft and that is great for a RTS game!!
  It's lot of items 
 to collect and a world editor what is very funny and easy to control!
  It's a very good made game...
  And its very fun and addictive!!!
  With lot of characters and 
 4 race... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForgottenOath
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The prvious two instalments in the series were the standard for a good multiplayer RTS until StarCraft 
 came, but that was blizzard too.
  
  This third warcraft, Reign of Chaos has a great single player mode, mixing up the action with missionswhere 
 your outpowered, but only need to hold off enemies for a set period of time, and ones that you 
 start with just a base and a hero, but thats the big change in this game is the heroes. They add 
 a whole new strategie to the mix. they can max out at level ten throughout a whole campaign, but 
 when your online they can max out at level ten in one round, but they reset the next round. Thier 
 abilities can give you a bosst when fighting or do serious damege to a oppenent or help you escape.
 
  
  This is a game those of you who have the patience to think will pickl up, but it a slower game 
 and people who dont have patience will not like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulthespartan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  one of the best strategy games of the yesr, or ever. you all from gamespot were absoloutly right.
 
  
  this is definitley one the best strategy games ever, mabey even the best strtegy game ever made!
 
  
  i thought this game was going to be horrible, but i was really mistakened, this game is definitley 
 worth checking out and playing.
  
  if you have a computer, and you don't have this game, get it, it would be a wise choice, my dear 
 friend.
  
  and whoever hates this game, hates good games, and whoever likes guild wars better then this, is 
 a ****ing idiot, and should not be member at gamespot at all. 
  
  thank you, and goodbye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renatomw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:19 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III IS VERY GOOD! Perfect!
  Warcraft III  muito bom! Perfeito! Eu recomendo para todos! O jogo  muito legal, Garante muita 
 diverso. Os graficos so bonitos. E pra jogar ele  muito rox! Os soms so perfeitos. Nada a comentar. 
 O unico problema  que esta custando $99 . Mas eu ja arrumei um completo pra mim^___^ Eu gosto 
  desse jogo. Ele  Rox, Massa. Tudo de Bom. o Demo 
 do jogo  meio veio. mas  bomzim. Melhos ainda  jogar online no Warcraft III! Muito legal  
 Sem comentarios. Muito massa. Mas o que  isso. Isso  review. Eu so to dando uma opinio. Oxeeeee 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  First there was Dune 2. Then there was Command and Conquer and the first couple installments of 
 Warcraft. And THEN there was Starcraft. RTS games just kept getting better and better, but unfortunately 
 the majority of other RTS franchises outside of blizzards and westwood studios were just clones. 
 but THEN came Warcraft 3. Easily the best RTS of all-time to this very day, warcraft 3 not only 
 delivered an exceptional experience we'd come to expect from a good RTS, but revolutionized it 
 in some very important ways.
  
  First, we'll start off with the obvious aspects of any RTS game, that WC3 executed well. Great 
 story? Check. Simple to learn but hard to master fluid gameplay? Check. Awesome graphics? Check. 
 Amazing CGI cutscenes? Hell yeah check. Distinct playable factions? Check. Warcraft 3 had all that 
 any RTS gamer would expect, and executed all of the above as good or better than any previous game. 
 But with the remaining topics I haven't covered, Blizzard switched things up:
  
  Core game Strategy and Multiplayer.
  
  In all previous RTS games it seemed to be increasingly 
 about getting more and more units on screen, just pumping out more and more units to defeat the 
 enemy, upgrading those 100's of units you'd pumped out, or saving up to get the big units that 
 would really clobber the little ones, etc. Warcraft 3 obviously has elements of that, but the HEROES 
 SYSTEM threw the importance of the old "tank rush" strategy right out the window. Sure, maybe you 
 can pull off some cheesy tower rush in WC3 but in 90% of games it all comes down to the "Heroes". 
 Since the release of WC3 other developers have tried to execute a "heroes" type system as well 
 as WC3 but none have come close. By micro managing your heroe effectively in WC3 you could easily 
 make the difference between a win or a loss. I didn't get this at first, but time can be better 
 spent "creeping" with yoru hero or buying items for him then sitting at your base pumping units 
 and building structures like in all the older RTS's. This new focus on less units and more micromanagement 
 caught many off guard, including myself, but took the game to a whole new competitive level.
  
  And that brings us to the multiplayer. Yes, like any other RTS the multiplayer is hands-down 
 as fun as the board game "Risk" when i was 8 years old (1992) . But Blizzard wasn't satisfied with 
 just giving us a network to play on, they gave us the most afvanced stats system and matchmaking 
 system ever implemented at that time, games like Halo 2, Battlefield 2 and other RTS's are still 
 trying to make similar systems work for thier respective franchises. But it all started with Blizzard 
 and battle. net for WC3. Battle. net offers distinctly different modes of matchmaking for solo, 2v2, 
 3v3, 4v4 and free for all game types. They host tournaments regularly for any to join and all have 
 different themes and take place on different maps. ALL stats are kept track of and I mean EVERYTHING 
 down to how much you use certain heroes and your success rate with them, you name it! You could 
 earn icons and prestige from getting higher levels and see yoru ranking on the website and all 
 this extra effort blizzard put in, for no additional cost, was incredible. To this day, nothing 
 rivals it, although many games are trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_forrest
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This is, and will always be the best Real Time Strategy (RTS) game made. But to have even MORE 
 fun, buy it's expansion pack: The Frozen Throne. This game also offers a program where you can 
 mod your own maps and games. The multiplayer is great, because you can share your mods with other 
 people. It also has a ranking system, so before you go into battle you know who your messing with! 
 Overall, this is a true classic and shall never be forgotten. If your interested in the whole story 
 of Warcraft, I recommend buying World Of Warcraft (Wow) to create your own heroe and adventures!
 
  Great job Blizz! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billbobphil
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  
  
  First I have to say Thank you all that have visited my site. I can only send you a thank you e-mail 
 if you sign the guestbook. I am in the process of writing the first 2006 issue. The New Years addition. 
 Heh if you visited my site and you liked it I advise you to tell your gameing friends plz. We are 
 Reviewing very fun and great games this issu. I am reviewing...................
  
  
  Stick Arena: A incredibly addictive game where you play as stick figures with guns.
  Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon 1 and both expansions: Build to your hearts desire.
  Heli Attack 3: Shoot the Heli! 
  Not sure about the others yet but i promise you they will be 
 great every visit you make encourages me to buy a new game. For reviewing purposes knowing my site 
 is being heard.
  
  Thnks Billbobphil Editor in chief 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atelus_Broken
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  Warcraft in general has been overrated for too long. All too often I hear these great things about 
 the game, but when I got a hold of it and actually played it, I was quite dissapointed. I expected 
 more from a game that was made by the creators of Starcraft. I've said before and I'll say it again: 
 Warcraft was a joke that got famous. The graphics are cartoons essentially, and the story is very 
 straightforward and uninspired. Admittedly the races you can play was were itneresting and diverse, 
 but became dull quickly.
  Warcraft II was good on it's own, but Warcraft III is getting full of itself. It even took away 
 the navy option that the second game had. Not sure why...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltfan469
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Good: This game has overall amazing gameplay. The races seem to have thier own unique ways. The 
 heros are very powerful and have unique magic abilities. The campaign mode is very interesting 
 and long. This game can only get boring if you play it for 10 hours straight.
  
  Bad: Their are not enough races. Sometimes when you play on the Internet, you have to be incredible 
 to even win one game. The game is not cheat-proof on the internet. The loading times can sometimes 
 come too often. Can sometimes be a little too hard.
  
  Bottom Line: One of the greatest strategy games of all time. Warcraft III is one of the best games 
 of the year. This game is highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gackt_2305
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2005 9:07 pm PT
Review:  war craft is one of the best game ever! all aspect from this game is realy well prepare, the story, 
 the graphic, the sound, the features and the thrill.
  
  there is something in the game that make this game diferent from other, i feel that i'm watching 
 a movie rather than playing game. a hero in rts? it is such an idea. it makes this game more powerful. 
 there is only one thing that make this game 9,2 = the monster, i think more monster wil be more 
 nice and make this game 9.5. i feel the difficulty is perfect. sometime hard sometime easy but 
 the sometime come in perfect time
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionimia
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game not only has great campaigns but being able to create your own games and sharing is very 
 fun and addicting, after enough experience you can take control of what Blizzard really has to 
 offer, creating custom games is fun, challenging, imaginative, creative, with almost unlimited 
 things to do. The new expansion pack (TFT) has given even more stuff to do and the patches are also 
 a big help towards world editor and the main game and even if you are not good at creating those 
 things you still can just fool around the editor, which puts "craft" into Warcraft 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 10:38 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Blizzard for years and the quality of games they've put out are never less than 
 outstanding. RoC is nothing less than spectacular. RoC is a RTS that delivers, not only the addictive 
 and fun gameplay of other series such as Age of Empires, but also does so with beautiful graphics 
 and a storyline that's easy to lose yourself in. The single player campaign guides you through 
 playing four different races that are involved in ONE story and how each sees the storyline. Each 
 race has its own identifiable abilities and classes that make each a joy to play. The single player 
 campaign is lengthy and exciting and the multiplayer game is equally exciting to log on and play 
 with friends or against the computer. This game has a lot of replay value and the additional expansion 
 and weekly releases of new, user made maps extend that replayability almost infinitely. This is 
 a must have if you are a RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_mage
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2005 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Blizzard games since Starcraft and Diablo was released. Starcraft become well 
 known by its graphics and multiplayer gaming during those years. Blizzard had done it again, another 
 RTS masterpiece. The same with Starcraft, an rts that is very addictive. After you go solo for 
 the campaign, you still enjoy multi-play with friends. 
  
  The graphics are enormous, and still run on my system before I got an upgrade. The heroes are very 
 cool, and you can freely customize a map. The story line are great, and I even read the summary 
 from Blizzard's website. The lightings and color variation are perfect. Nothing can really match 
 up its graphical variety even the games released at present.
  
  The heroes are fantastic with their powers and abilities. Units of different races are well-balanced, 
 they have their strengths and weakness. Overall this is a must have game if you play rts games. 
 One thing that I can say, "Its the Best" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Blizzard. Although Starcraft and Diablo are good games, they can not 
 compare to Warcraft, especially Warcraft 3. That said, I do have some complaints, the campaign 
 is relatively easy, but is a great story, and the multiplayer can be annoying. Noob is by far the 
 most ridiculous "word" ever thought of. And they still call you a noob even after you defeat them. 
 I don't get it.
  
  The graphics are very good, even at today's RTS standard. This new hero system is waaayyyy better 
 than what they had in Warcraft 2. And 4 factions is better than two. The best thing I think is 
 how the races are completely diiferent from eachother, but well balance. Orcs for example have 
 terrible aeral units, but own the land hand-to-hand combat.
  
  This is easily one of the best games out there, and if you're a fan of RTS, you should definitely 
 pick it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Saddler200
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  great game sound, graphics, gameplay, and almost everything aboat it is excellante.
  first with the sound superb excpecially the orcs and the undead and music is great and thats all.
 
  graphics are top notch but the bodies couldve staid? owell the graphic on the characters are excellant 
 and the textures are good to and its easy to pick up and then there was something i didn't like 
 when you put in god mode when you put that on you kill everybody in one single hit thats pathetic! 
 and thats all that i will say good bye
  
  THE END 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robinwilld
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 came out a few years ago I think I got it the week it came out. Since then I have played 
 it for hours on end. In the game you may play as four races The Human Alliance, The Orcish Horde, 
 The Night elf sentals, and the creepy yet popular Undead Scourge. All four races are available 
 in campaign mode and for online play. Campaign mode makes you go though Levels just like most RTS 
 games. The real fun is Battle. net online play. Where you go agents, other players for ranks or 
 you play custom games that anyone can make. In order to make a custom game you must use the World 
 Editor. This only requires minimal skill to use and is you have any questions on it you may simply 
 ask someone online who knows what there doing. The only big down side I saw was the textures for 
 the graphics. The skins were not bad though. Overall Warcraft 3 is a very fun game and I would 
 suggest it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoNRiFLe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I love RTS games. I liked the hole plot, Warcraft III carries a good story, the movie 
 scenes where breath taking, for instance when Arthas returns to the castle. The graphics are a 
 bit choppy, characters look all squared but the inviromental graphics are just outstanding. Defenetly 
 a big leap from where Warcraft II left off. 
  The only thing that threw me off was the online gameplay, I've been playing on Bnet since the early 
 days of Warcraft, and I must admit I totally dispise random matchmaking... It never works. You always 
 end up with teamates who are noobs or people who don't really care and sometimes leave mid game. 
 It happens a lot, kinda like in Halo 2. Otherwise Warcraft III is outstanding, I spent hours playing 
 it and I'm moving on to Frozen Throne soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilegaloffspring
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I was a late bloomer for WC3 but once I finally bought a worthy computer to play it on WC3 is one 
 of my favourite games ever. Unlike the games before it WC3 has four different races to choose from 
 and if thats not enough for you once you get online and realize how many gamers are out there to 
 challenge you will never get enough. Online gaming was never my thing before but WC3 keeps your 
 score and you gain experience as you continue to improve your skills. This way other can know you 
 are not one to trifel with on any board. All that said and done WC3 is Flawless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilfred_Owen
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2005 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3, one of the best RTS games ever made, is a very good game. It features a good story, 
 nice multiplayer feature, and races that are well done and at times evenly balanced. The graphics 
 on this game are very well done and make the game look crisp and clean. At some points though when 
 you zoom in it kinda looks a little botched up and you probably won't be using that feature to 
 much. The controls for the game are well done and shouldn't take you to long, though with the introduction 
 of heroes you may have to get used to using them in conjunction with you units. The races for the 
 most part are pretty even though it seems the night elf can get units much faster than the orcs 
 or any race for that matter but if you can figure out ways to avoid being beaten (I ain't tellin 
 you how) like that then you'll do fine. The story for the most part was well thought out and executed 
 providing a few little twists here and there. The characters are typical Blizzard made to where 
 somebody will remember them and like them a lot. For it online play, its free battle. net and online 
 play there is always a game going on. You normally don't have to wait long and has ladder and non-ladder 
 as well as custom made games which make the experience last longer. Sometimes the online normal 
 play people just decide to screw it up and backstab or leave which really killed the overall online 
 experience. It does provides levels however for online which matched up pretty well for the most 
 part. It also keeps up to date records of your victories and on battle. net it gives detailed stats 
 from the levels you play the most all the way down to how much gold you've gotten total from all 
 the games you played.
  
  If your only even remotely interested in RTS games or a hardcore fan of the genre Warcraft 3 is 
 a must own for your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winnazdaluza
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I am going to review this game honestly and I will not compare unfairly to any other game I have 
 played.
  This was one of the first strategy games for me to play. Personally I was Impressed by the games 
 story which really had me drwan into the game and had me playing all the difficult levvels in anticipation.
 
  
  I like the fact that you use a very powerful hero but are limited to a small party, This makes you 
 open to several diffrent ways of strategy for example if the hero is powerful enough you can perform 
 "the all powerful rush" technique, or if you can muster enough troops quickly you can try to swarm 
 your opponents. The are other techniques like trying to seige your opponents slowly by first destroying 
 their structures one by one and keeping up the heat. The arew several diffrent strategies you will 
 develop while playing. -- It is most satisfying to find a really simple strategy and making your 
 enemies fall very fast.
  
  A Time factor is also added in some levels especially advanced levels, so you will have to figure 
 out the most efficient way to get rid of your opponents fast (before they dispatch you first!!!)
 
  
  At the same time you are supposed to explore the map for new and powerful items that shall help 
 make your hero stronger or shall help give your troops an advantage. So in some maps this can be 
 a challange and many a times I had to play the map five to six times to figure out THE BEST strategy 
 to use then finally hit the level restart button.
  
  The levels can be challenging but the story and fmv sequences make it worth it. I do not think that 
 the game was in anyway unfairly balanced ,I think the developers did a good job. It's uniqness 
 does not make it bad, rather just challenging. I found it a very fun game to play. I am almost finished 
 playing it but I have not tried out the online multiplayer mode. But I do think that the single 
 player campaign was worth the money I spent on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakshin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2005 3:15 am PT
Review:  When I went into Warcraft 3 I was expecting a lot, really I did, the graphics are nice and polished 
 making it look very good. The single player campaign is very rewarding from the story to the gameplay 
 it is very good and solid, but mostly you just go around make a big army and kill everything that 
 has a pulse. 
  
  Adding hero was a mixed blessing, as in some cases, your heros can almost godly strong. By upgrading 
 stats and buying new weapons, items, and armor which is fun in a rpg kinda sense, but not being 
 to see that new sword you got or that axe kinda takes the lust out of buying new weapons or armor. 
 The other side to heros are that they can be super strong, like I said earlier, which can also 
 go for the enemy. Coming up to an enemy who looks steroid induced comes with problems, as in some 
 cases it will be impossible to defeat an enemy after they are godlike.
  
  Multiplayer is very good giving you end less hours of play, say good bye to your loved ones because 
 you wont see them for a looooooonnnggg time. Creating maps, ranking up, and making clans is very 
 fun. There are hundreds of multiplayer maps and games that are very very good. From footies which 
 revolves around constantly spawning troops at your base which you use to destroy the other team, 
 it also uses heros. This is what is wrong most of the time the games online are all about heros, 
 and any and all ranked games are gone making very hard to rank up. Community on Warcraft 3 is very 
 rude and some times removing new players because they might not be good. In which most maps they 
 use heros as the central theme of the game, and in most situations, if you don't know the map your 
 pretty much screwed. All in all it is a very good game if they just lower the hero use a little 
 lower and actually strategy it could be a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Just coming off of WC2 (yes very late) , I have fell in love with this game. The game has took a 
 different path but keeping all the elements stills makes this one of the best PC games to date 
 (at least for me)
  
  The game play has been toned down a bit to focus on your army. And not a massive force or people 
 like in the old game. You have "up keep" now which makes you produce your army differently. When 
 you reach 90 you can produce any more. So you will have to play smarter to have a good and effective 
 army. The Story mode is done very well. With good acting and great cut screens. The SP will last 
 10 to 20 hours. The biggest and most new thing is the heroes. They are your most powerful people 
 in the game. You will have to level them up through out the games. This is good for MP.
  
  The Graphics look very good. The stages and level have great detail to them. You can now change 
 views and drop the camera for more detail. The player all look good and move well. When in battle 
 at time the color seems to mix. But it does a good job of keep everything running fast and solid.
 
  
  Sound is perfect. You will hear everything and more when playing this game. When youre using the 
 mini map the sound will change from what going on in the screen. Your army and works all talk to 
 you when a common is given to them. Overall the sound does its job well.
  
  The SP will take a while to beat and then there are custom games you can play with the computer 
 or over LAN/Battle net. You can also make your own maps too. So the replay value is high. With 
 patches and updates the game will never die. So if youre beating up on the computer though custom 
 games or your friend with a LAN match or random people over battle net (free) you won't get bored 
 with this game any time soon.
  
  Over all I love this game and I think it's a must but for anybody who wants to have fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMoogle
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2005 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This may be my longest review yet, but for a game as deep and amazing as WarCraft III: Reign of 
 Chaos, a long review is what it deserves as I go over every detail both the good and the minimal 
 bad.
  
  'Storm, earth, and fire... heed my call' says the Orc Shaman as he emerges from the Spirit Lodge. 
 Yes, this is a fantasy world. Welcome to the World of Warcraft (not the game) , or Azeroth if you 
 will. In this game you will play as one of four races, or factions, each with differing units and 
 structures as well as stats and abilities. The four groups are: the Human Alliance, a fragile group 
 of humans and other humanoid races ruling over various sections of the continent of Lordaeron; 
 the Orcish Horde, green-skinned people who appear brutish and unintelligent but are in fact wiser 
 than most humans; the Night Elf Sentinels, nocturnal humanoids who have lived and protected the 
 word for thousands of years and fought the Burning Legion in the War of the Ancients; and the Undead 
 Scourge, agents of the Burning Legion sent into the world to clear a path for the warlock Eredar 
 known as Archimonde.
  
  Each race has its owns heroes as well. The Humans have Archmagi, Dwarven Mountain Kings, and the 
 Paladins of the Silver Hand. The Night Elves have the Keepers of the Grove, the Demon Hunters, 
 and the Priestesses of Elune. The Orcs have Far Seers, Tauren Cheiftains, and Bladesmen. Lastly 
 the Undead have Death Knights, Liches, and Dreadlords. Each of these have offensive/defensive spells, 
 auras, and/or passive abilities. For example, the Keepers of the Grove have the Thorns aura which 
 grants surrounding friendly units the ability to reflect damage taken onto the enemies. Heroes 
 are very useful and every army should have one. Their abilities can change the tide of a whole 
 battle.
  
  Heroes also level up and carry items.
  
  WarCraft III consists of four campaign courses, one for each race. The storyline that flows with 
 it is superbly crafted and plays out well with the excellent voice acting and CGI cinematics at 
 the end of each campaign piece. You will get addicted and find it hard to pull away from the campaign 
 not only because of the story but also because its just plain fun.
  
  The multiplayer portion of WarCraft III is definitely not some "tacked on" extra, its another game 
 in and of itself. Online multiplayer battles can be chosen at random, thus allowing you to more 
 easily get into a game. You can also use the powerful (yet complicated) World Editor and build 
 your own maps to play on, for multiplayer or single-player.
  
  As every game should, the music in WarCraft III is amazing. An epic soundtrack for each race accompanies 
 you as you battle to the death with your foes. It fits perfectly with the good vs evil setting. 
 You can literally feel the struggle to protect or destroy the world in each race's music. Well 
 done.
  
  Blizzard constantly updates WarCraft III to ensure that the playing experience remains fresh and 
 is as good as it can be so that the player is always satisfied. These updates can be annoying at 
 times when Blizzard releases many, but usually (if you have a fast connection) , the updates won't 
 trouble you at all.
  
  The addition of Creeps, or neutral "monsters", has greatly added to the experience (literally) 
 of battles. No longer will you fight your opponents without worry, now there are dragons and such 
 out there who will attack any of your units on sight. Your heroes can use these beasts to gain 
 experience as well as gold and magic items. Most creeps guard neutral structures or extra gold 
 mines, so killing them and securing the area is often an excellent strategy.
  
  The only downside to WarCraft III is its slightly subpar graphics (in-game that is) , but there 
 are quite a few units on-screen at once so its understandable.
  
  All in all, WarCraft III perfects the WarCraft formula and is easily one of the best strategy games 
 out there. Its easy to run on many PCs and everyone with a capable computer should buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2005 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game is the Age of Empires killer! Forget all other RTS titles, nothing will ever surpass 
 the greatness of Warcraft 3!
  
  Warcraft 3 is part of the Warcraft series, and continues the story started all those years ago. 
 The first two Warcraft games were phenomenal, and Warcraft has a lot to live up to. And like all 
 Blizzard games, Warcraft 3 is exceptional.
  
  The war between the Orcs and the Humans continues to rage, yet Warcraft 3 changes the whole Orcs 
 vs. Humans scenario quite early in the game. A new race of beings, the Undead, have begun to wreak 
 havoc and try to release Demons into the realm. The story is long and winding, and will take many 
 twists before the end. 
  
  Gameplay is fantastic. Fighting and army building is incredibly fun, and the introduction of Heros 
 is awesome. Each of the four races, Humans, Orcs, Undead and the Night Elves, have 3 distinct hero 
 units, all of which are quite well balanced and original. It's excellent that your Hero can level 
 up, gaining new spells and abilities, and they can also carry items. RTS and RPG gameplay are mixed 
 very well here. The heros even have their own names!
  
  Warcraft 3 is superb. This is RTS at the very peak of greatness, and no one should miss this game 
 - you'll hate yourself for it!
  
  I strongly recommend Warcraft 3, and it is one of the all time classics of gaming greatness! 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devouring_One
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Over the last few years RTS games seem to have lost some of its appeal by having several games 
 copying the styles of older RTS games. But Warcraft 3 is game that avoids this by changing the 
 style of RTS games. Sometimes when game developers attempt to change the style of gameplay of traditional 
 games, it usually turns out bad, but Warcraft 3 is a game that succeeds by adding new features 
 to RTS games.
  
  As it turns out Warcraft 3 is a very unique game that combines the style of RTS and RPG games into 
 one type of gameplay. So you feel like playing an RPG most of the time but in an RTS style gameplay, 
 which feels kind of, like Diablo. But what makes this very different is that it still retains the 
 RTS style by having you gather resources and build up your base and units to attack your opponents. 
 Warcraft 3 is not the same game it was as its previous two games Warcraft 1 and 2. Unlike the past 
 two games, there were only two races; Orcs and Humans, but in this game there are four playable 
 races and a number of new ones. Orcs and humans are still in the game but the two new playable 
 races; Night Elfs and The Undead add a whole dimension of gameplay by having races play an integral 
 part of the game. This all of the sudden feels like Starcraft.
  
  But what makes this game much different from Starcraft is that you no longer just attack with units 
 because now you have heroes at your disposal. Heroes are your super units that you can build to 
 level up during a game to increase its power like in RPG games. Losing your hero doesn't mean you 
 lose the mission since you can resurrect them by rebuilding them. This improves on what Starcraft 
 did in the past since having hero units felt like a liability. Even though they were strong, having 
 them killed in a mission will automatically cause a failure in the mission.
  
  Heroes play a major part of the gameplay since using or not using them can really change the momentum 
 of the game. Heroes actually balance out the gameplay a lot and the game even encourages you to 
 use them, since having more units sort of put taxes on your resources in a way call upkeep. Even 
 though you may a huge army, you can actually lose to a small army with one hero depending on how 
 high a level it is. So having more units and resources doesn't necessarily mean you will win the 
 game. The graphics of the game are very good but felt a little cartoony with the fantasy setting 
 and color. But the best part of the graphics is the movie scenes, which look absolutely amazing. 
 The music in the game puts you in the mood of each race your playing as, and the voice acting is 
 impressive. You will find a lot of replay value in this game especially with the extremely powerful 
 World Editor and free online play that comes with this game. You can actually make games that go 
 out of the ordinary RTS game or even games that don't even seem possible in this engine.
  
  With the addition of the RPG style gameplay of Diablo, and the RTS gameplay of Starcraft, Warcraft 
 3 should be consider not only as an innovative game that changes the style of RTS games, but also 
 a game the rejuvenates the genre of RTS games. Warcraft 3 will probably one of the best RTS game 
 for years to come and should be consider as one of the best games of 2002. This is definitely a 
 game that RTS style gamers should get, and a game that should be tried out by anyone who plays 
 PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonixMan
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 3, 2005 2:03 am PT
Review:  By now I'm sure everyone who reads this review will have played Warcraft III, and if they haven't 
 then I think it's safe to say they'll read Gamespot's review before touching mine with a ten-foot 
 ugly stick. But that's fine by me, saves a lot of hassle on my part. Basically, I'll quickly run 
 through the most important parts of the game, spending extra detail on the negatives. Since we 
 all know whats good about Warcraft III, is there anything bad about it?
  
  So here we go, into the depths of my badly constructed, mostly impromptu review. I hope you enjoy. 
 
  
  Graphics. 
  
  Amazing, for it's time of course (this review is a few years late) but on the highest settings, 
 which most gaming computers should run with ease, the game is a joy to watch. I was disappointed 
 with some of the later FMV's though, the earlier ones seemed more detailed and... 'proportioned'. 
 The in game cut scenes, which were a novel idea, were pulled off rather well. However, there is 
 definitely room for improvement in the cut scene department
  
  One thing that stood out to me (about the graphics) was the map terrains. Lordaeron gets summer, 
 winter and spring and it really adds depth to the game. You know you're in the same area but it's 
 different non-the-less. Northrend, Kalimdor and Ashenvale also have their own terrain and each 
 is instantly recognisable and beautiful in its own way. The same applies to the dungeons in the 
 game, which will be mentioned under the campaign section. 
  
  Gameplay. 
  
  Pretty darn good. One main thing holding it back from a 10 is that I personally think Warcraft 
 III focuses too heavily on micro-management. Starcraft had a slightly skewed focus in that a huge 
 army will almost always win. In Warcraft III the focus is who can micro-manage the best and I can't 
 say I appreciate seeing my huge armies wiped out by nothing more than spellcasters. Between Starcraft 
 and Warcraft III would be perfect, but it was not to be.
  
  The other main problem I have with the gameplay is how the race traits seem to be taken directly 
 from Starcraft. The Undead can Summon buildings (Protoss) and must build on blight (Zerg) . Ghouls 
 are basically Zerglings and Grunts are basically Zealots. When a wisp creates an ancient, it is 
 consumed (just like the Zerg) but the buildings can uproot and move around (just like the Terran) . 
 This is just to name a few... After playing the game a lot... You begin to think that Warcraft 
 III doesn't bring much new to the table.
  
  Campaign (story) . 
  
  The campaign isn't bad, but after beating the Starcraft campaign, you get the feeling you've down 
 it all before (Arthas = Kerrigan anyone?) . You have your assortment of survival quests, dungeon 
 quests (no base) and your standard 'build your base and kill his'. Nothing wrong with this of course, 
 and the fact that you have a constantly levelling hero adds to the game. But, the campaign does 
 leave a lot to be desired. One of the biggest gripes I had were missions I didn't want to do. In 
 a certain race campaign, you basically kill off the elves and their towns, and set up my favourite 
 city from Warcraft II for destruction. I didn't want to do that!! It gets annoying how easily your 
 opposition is beaten. I mean, I overan Quel Thalas with 50 troops. And even on hard, I still got 
 the feeling that I was attacking a small town, not the capital of Elf-dom. You'd expect this battle 
 to be epic in scale... not 50 units as I said.
  
  Another gripe I had about the campaign was the structure. In Starcraft it is obvious that they 
 planned the campaign so that every race would fight every race at least once, to give you a complete 
 feeling when finishing each race. Warcraft III does no such thing. Each race focuses on one enemy 
 and you'll be lucky to fight another. As the humans you will never fight the night elves, and as 
 the orcs you never fight the undead. I know it doesn't fit into the story but as I'll say later, 
 the story simply isn't worth it. The same problem arises with hero's. You will be given one hero 
 to take to level 10, and you'll be lucky whenever you're given another one to use. You don't use 
 the Dreadlord at all in the campaign and the Demon Hunter is only used once. It's quite dissapointing. 
 
  
  That being said, the campaign does have its highlights. Optional quests are a common occurence 
 and reward players who complete them, promoting exploration of the entire map, not just your enemies 
 base. I was also wowed by the atmosphere and environment. Blizzard did a really good job with the 
 towns, villages and windmills... It really feels like an RPG in a strategy world. And it's awesome... 
 The dungeons are much the same, the production values are huge and it really shows. The difficulty 
 is perfect. Normal for casual players, hard for talented players, and easy, since some people struggle 
 with the micro-management aspects of the game. Warcraft III scores extra points for hiding the 
 easy option until you lose on normal, making sure no one just rushes through the campaign without 
 experiencing it
  
  Pity that the story is pretty darn crap if you ask me. Every race seems to have it's own form of 
 bastard who gets power hungry at some stage (or is just plain annoying) . Each race also has a calm, 
 responsible and caring hero who clashes with the bastard at different points in the story, it all 
 gets rather repetitive. Then theres these demons who come to destroy the world... Not much happenening 
 there... And this prophet who runs around telling people what to do. You get the feeling it's supposed 
 to be epic... but until the very last level, it doesn't feel epic at all. 
  
  Multiplayer. 
  
  Battle. net is awesome. The ladder system of random matching based on levels 
 is genius. But they didn't stop there. Blizzard stuck in a ladder system for arranged teams too. 
 Genius! Why couldn't they have this is Starcraft... 
  
  The only resounding problem is the community. No one seems to talk in Warcraft chat anymore!? Not 
 to mention that Blizzard games are hounded by the biggest cheats/hackers/losers the gaming world 
 is ever likely to see. I feel sorry for Blizzard since they brought it on themselves, by making 
 the best online games. Punishing them for such an achievement is just not cricket. But such people 
 always seem to slip under the radar and Warcraft is just as full of them as Starcraft ever was. 
 
  
  Of course, LAN games are as you'd expect. Mighty fun and incrediby addictive. The races are very 
 balanced so the best person will usually win, no matter what races are facing off.
  
  Sound. 
  
  The tunes are rather catchy (as always) but i get the feeling that Starcrafts music 
 was better. Once again, each race has it's own preset tunes and they're all appropiate. The voice 
 acting is awesome in general, but the campiagn needs work. You get the feeling they tried to put 
 too much acting and emotion into the script. Pauses between sentences for that emotional sigh get 
 really annoying after awhile. However, the standard voice responses for clicking on a unit are 
 great, as always in Blizzard games. The sound effects are also great, no hassles here. 
  
  Summary. 
  
  To sum up. The game iteself is great, but you get the feeling you've done much 
 of it before. Starcraft brought the RTS genre to a completely new level, Warcraft III does little 
 to add to it other than adding hero's and an extreme amound of polish. The game is great, no doubt 
 about it. But it's not quite the best strategy game ever... It just doesn't have the same effect 
 that Starcraft had. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotageClock
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I gave it a nine. Its fine, but nothing special. Theres not many pathfinding problems 
 so its fine. Not much to critisize or praise here. 
  
  Graphics: A little bit blocky, but luckily runs pretty well. The animations are done very well. 
 The worlds looks really nice too. Each level has a lot of detail put into it. 
  
  Sound: Every clashing of the sword and death cry, and the music. All fit in nicely, but they are 
 not phenominal. 
  
  Value: You will play this game a lot, considering batttle. net and the custom maps that the community 
 creates. It is the soul of blizzard. 
  
  Tilt: I tilted it to a 10 because of all the fun you can have with it. Its got a lot of stuff to 
 do, three campaigns, a pretty good story. Sadly, armies "disappear". You can't keep your army after 
 you finish a mission, you always start a level with a set amount of grunts or knights (or whatever 
 race you are)
  
  There are four races in the game. They are balanced okay. Orcs are very very good in my opinion. 
 Grunts are slightly too overpowered in my opinion, but the game is still balanced enough. 
  
  THe game itself will definatly be worth the price. The campaign give you agood 15 hours in 
 total, and then the multiplayer will give you at least 30 hours of fun (if you give it a chance) . 
 The game is great, go pick it up if you like RTS. I must warn you though, when I was first on battlenet, 
 I got my ass handed to me 5 times in a row. Competition is tough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  This is simply the greatest RTS of all time! Maybe one of the best PC games! So, what makes this 
 so special? Well let me start of with the cutscenes! Some of the best FMV I've seen! The gameplay? 
 Sweet, immersive, amazing! So many different units and I love the new character classes! This is 
 an awesome story-line! Its fun to play just a custom game or to play the real game! Also, the multiplayer 
 is fantastic! This is a great, great game, that anyone who has tried Warcraft or any other RTS 
 will fall in love with! Great game! I love it, now I have to go back, its just so addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Placebos005
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a MUST have. i would say in my opinion that it is the best in the series.
  This has everything that wc2 has andten times more!
  
  Awesome graphics and equal units on 
 each race and also compliments to warcraft 2 is the music on the humans and orcs. 
  
  The two new races (the undead and the elves) are also really good.
  Personally i like the elves 
 more but the undead have that ever so wonderful ressurection ability to create soldiers from fallen 
 soldiers. 
  Also new in the game is the Heros ability. This option gives you the ability to make a hero and 
 build up their levels to make them stronger and also achieve more abilities.
  The creep functionailty is a bit annoying though but makes sense.
  basically, in order for your 
 hero (s) to gain more experience - you have to be in as many battles as possible. 
  
  the only downside to this game is that you only have up too 100 men with the expansion. pack. which 
 sucks cause thats not too many men, but it does force you to use ur resources to the max.
  
  I would recommend getting the battlechest for this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDOderus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. My friend got me to buy it because he said how good it was, and he was coming 
 down to visit for the weekend so I picked the battlechest up and when we started playing I was 
 in love. Now its not the greatest graphical vision to ever grace gaming but it is very nice looking 
 and just so much fun to play. I believe the sound is probably one of the best parts, behind the 
 cinematics which really help bring the story around. I also like the tutorials that are in the 
 game, because me being new to the game and not playing a lot of these type games in general it 
 really helps to understand what the controls are and how I can control my army.
  
  This game is a good addition to my collection and if you enjoy these types of games or liked starcraft, 
 you will really enjoy warcraft 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwisdom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos is a gamers dream. Selling millions within it's first month, it seems 
 that writing up a review on the game is invalidated - it's already a huge success. But for the 
 few who haven't played and enjoyed the adventures in Lordaeron - I have 2 words for you. Buy it.
 
  
  For no other game in the genre features as rich a story, or as masterful as action as you will 
 find here. Released in July 2002, the game was easily one of the most anticipated in pc gaming 
 history. The sequal to the critically acclaimed Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness, it is easy to see 
 why.
  
  The game is not a fantasy sucked out of other entertainment mediums - but has leanings towards 
 J. R. R Tolkien's works. This is easily identified by the location names, as well as character names 
 and even in the look of the game. It has a real "Lord of the Rings" feel to it - and the game benefits 
 as a whole from this.
  
  Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos has a balance of gameplay which is second to none. It's initially 
 promising campaign delivers on all counts - first by providing an intuitive tutorial, and then 
 by providing a story, that again mimics "Lord of the Rings" - and adds in it's own ingenious and 
 genuinally exciting touch.
  
  Shipping with the campaign alone would be enough, but Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos adds more. Part 
 of the game is also devoted to battle. net, developer Blizzard's own online service - a well equipped 
 and easy to navigate piece of software which will have you happily playing up to the wee small 
 hours, and then right into the next day.
  
  Replay value? The game has it in spades. Providing a rich and interesting storyline is one thing 
 - keeping the production value, gameplay and most importantly - the gamer's interest up is another. 
 This is well answered, with varying missions that will require some degree of latitude thinking, 
 no campaign mission plays out the same - you wont feel the repetitive bug begin to itch.
  
  That being said - the game is not perfect. At it's heart lies a well balanced strategy title, with 
 four different warring factions, each with their own story and units vying to rule the lands of 
 Azeroth. The differences in the gameplay styles for each of the races make playing the game a joy 
 - but not easy on newcomers.
  
  Especially in battle. net. I recommend playing through the Campaign at least first, as the game 
 has many seasoned players online - and each has a way of playing that suits them. This of course 
 means that learning strategys can become important - and if you are not quick on your feet, (or 
 in this case with your mouse) , you may find matches over sooner than you would have liked.
  
  However, for those who stick around, you will find an incredibly well balanced game, with a 
 fine-tuned gameplay that makes each experience different - and that gives back as much as you put 
 in. You will be suprised and pleased when your strategies work out, and have a real feeling of 
 accomplishment when the small army you have been secretly training stomps all over your enemys 
 base.
  
  Making sure the game doesn't make it all about the size of the army, a tax system has been introduced. 
 You are now taxed more with the more units you own, with less gold being hauled out of your friendly 
 neighbourhood gold mine than you would like. This requires you to really think out your strategy, 
 making the game reward good players.
  
  Graphics are sumptious - with a very pleasing look and shine. It has a real fantasy feel, and while 
 the game is blocky, it has the charm to win you over. As well as this, characters exhibit personality 
 in their appearance and mannerism, so you aren't squinting between units trying to discover who 
 is who.
  
  The units themselves look great, and are animated well. You can of course zoom in for a close look 
 of the action, and even with many units on screen at once, the game suffers from no slowdown. The 
 minimum specs on the game are laughably low as well, so the game can be played from pretty much 
 any computer.
  
  Sound is really excellent - especially in combat. Voices have been done exceptionally well too, 
 with the characters sounding as they should. However occasionaly the voices sound like they have 
 been spoken like they were read off a script, rather than naturally, but this is a small argument.
 
  
  Effects and music are amazing in this game - with both excelling and exceeding my expectations, 
 especially for a strategy title. However, if you are going to be playing on a single map for almost 
 an hour, which does happen, you would want the music to be interesting, drawing you into the action 
 and at the same time not being repetitive. Thankfully the music is just that.
  
  Clashes of sword upon sword are exciting and great to listen to. Support for surround sound is 
 appreciated, with the ability of making you feel like you are in the middle of a battle simulated 
 well. Ambient effects and background noise are well done, further bringing you into the world.
 
  
  Overall - the game is everything you want in a strategy title. Featuring four different races, 
 a new kind of gameplay mix that works really well, and an interesting story that brings together 
 all these components just makes the game a must-buy. Truly great, Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos 
 is more than an expansion, it is a true sequal that adds a some new features to the strategy gaming 
 world, and improves upon everything else that has come before. Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhame
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 18, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III single-handedly introduced me to the RTS genre.
  ... and I'm not disappointed one bit!
  
  Being someone who found RTS games boring, stupid, nerdy, 
 etc. I was told if I were to ever enjoy an RTS, WC3 would be *the* game to try it out on.
  
  I've been told I'm a "Builder" in RTS games and WarCraft III does not disappoint. Except for 
 the 'Ages' types of RTS games, WC3 is my favorite game to Build in. Each upgrade has a very specific 
 and powerful weight in the balance of things. -I like that! 
  
  Blizzard's desire to balance out races and characters is obvious and well done.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  The Campaigns were phenomenal. Super-long (tons of value) and serves as a massive tutorial quite 
 well. Other RTS games have, and do, do that but WC3 does it well - with good storyline.
  Functions of the game are very logical and very customizable - which is a major bonus. It doesn't 
 get too bogged down with details either.
  
  Graphics:
  Well, Blizzard is Blizzard. Blizzard makes Top-10 games - always. They do not make Top-10 graphics 
 engines, however. Or even Top-100, arguably. WC3 is very 'rich' in its color schemes but some horribly-designed 
 textures look maimed on certain polygons. It runs a tad bit slower than it seem like it should 
 for what you get visibly - but not super-slow. However, since RTS games are not known for their 
 graphical superiority, I still give it a 7/10.
  
  Sound:
  I'm skeptical of most games' sound effects. Many games rehash samples from other, older games... it's 
 just a very uneventful, uninspired category to report on. Yes, WC3 has funny things each character 
 says the more you select them... other than that you don't notice sound too terribly much in the 
 game, and I don't respect that. 5/10.
  
  Value:
  Being that I've played this game for so much time I cannot possibly consider NOT giving it a 10/10. 
 
  
  My Tilt is an 8/10. It's a Top-5 RTS game without a doubt but not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madterps
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  Undead, night elves, orcs and humans battle it out in the ultimate battle for the world in this 
 epic third installment of the Warcraft series. The game starts off as Thrall receives a vision 
 that he should leave the land for another peaceful place. Then the focus shift to Arthas and Uther 
 trying to drive off orcs then undeads from the land and Arthas ultimate journey into the north. 
 The game shift focus once again onto the undead, their cause to overrun the world of man. Finally, 
 the night elves' resolution to keep invaders from their land. At the end of the game, a surprising 
 resolution that leave the world in peace.
  
  This is Blizzard's storytelling at its best, as it shows the heroes obessions, dreams and their 
 downfalls. Some of the most tragic figures in videogames are here, but I won't say who, that's 
 for you to find out. 
  
  The storytelling is not only here to tell the epic struggle but also to help the player get comfortable 
 using each race. Every race has its strength and weaknesses, the Orcs have very melee units like 
 Taurens, but they have very bad technology. Humans have the best technology, but they have no answer 
 to the Taurens or more powerful melee units. Undeads grunt have the ability to consume corpses 
 for health regeneration, but the undead have weak ranged land units. Night elves have the advantage 
 of not being seen at night, however they have to have another unit on a hippogryph to make a strong 
 air unit.
  
  The basic management system of RTS games is here in abundance. Good, wood and population limits 
 are all something you have to watch for while making more units. Be quick to build an army or you'll 
 be overrunned. Don't forget to build an extra barracks or two just in case, you'll not regret it 
 later in the game. 
  
  There is a slight unbalance in the gameplay however, as Troll Witch Doctors can cast healing spells 
 that can last very long and at amazing rate. Plus they can throw long ranged fireballs at enemies, 
 making them overpowered. And if you can build a Night Elves army fast, the enemy will have almost 
 no answer for your rushing. Nevertheless, this game is very fun and the gameplay is pretty good.
 
  
  You finally beat the campaign mode and managed to beat the computer on every level, now try to 
 beat opponents on Battle. net. This is one of the best features in this game, free access to Battle. Net. 
 It's amazing how many people plays Warcraft 3, you're sure to find an opponent of your caliber. 
 
  
  If you managed to beat everyone at Battle. net, give yourself a hand, watch the hilarious ending 
 or enjoy a game or two in War Chaser. Alot of fun can be had as you fight Diablo 2 style to level 
 up your character. 
  
  Graphics in this game is not up to par with some of the other RTS games like AOM, but it's decent 
 enough. The sound is the best part of this game, as you get to click on units like grunts and get 
 hilarious results. This is one of the funniest RTS you'll ever play, in line with the trademark 
 Blizzard humor.
  
  Warcraft 3 is a very good game, however its unbalance is the problem in it not receiving a higher 
 score. However you look at it, this game has the play to draw you in. You'll spend hours playing 
 this game against the computer or against other players. Plus it is just plain funny in that wacky 
 Blizzard way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2005 2:15 am PT
Review:  This game continues the epic Warcraft series where Warcraft 2 left off. The humans have scattered 
 the remaining orcish forces and encounter new enemies. The singleplayer will keep you entertained 
 and on the story is very easy to follow. The computer AI is very challenging during certain missions 
 but the majority of the time you will be able to defeat it with ease. 
  Fortunately, blizzard is generous enough to supply us with an unlimited amount of human challenges 
 with their free internet services. You can choose to either play a 1v1, 2v2, 3v3, 4v4, or a FFA 
 battle with other people from around the world. If you have trouble or dislike playing those types 
 of games, you can choose from multiple custom games. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game are great. Every character is highly detailed down to the patterns 
 on their shields. Buildings have great details, the clock on the human town hall actually turns. 
 Day and night are depicted by the environments darkening during the night. And corpses will appear 
 on the ground.
  
  Gameplay: Every race has its advantages and disadvantages. Each race requires multiple strategies 
 in order to win. 
  
  I recommend getting this game if you are into a multiplayer game that is very challenging. It is 
 worth the money and you will be entertained with this game for a long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8wnec
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2004 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Although it has incorporated many of the same controls and styles of the Starcraft games, it is 
 a whole different beast. Graphics now being 3D, being able to rotate and zoom in, is a nice facelift 
 for Blizzard. It's almost like them giving us a glimpse at what Starcraft 2 might be like. There 
 are 4 different races. It gotta be pretty hard to make each one "equal" but different to the others 
 for a balanced game. But it seems they have pulled it off again, not having an early C&C rts. Its 
 learning curve is moderate being a RTS you have to learn what to build and when. 
  
  The multiplayer is great. You have an equal chance of getting rocked or rocking someone else. Skirmish 
 gives you a chance to hone your skills so you can unleash madness online via Battle. net which is 
 free. 
  
  The sound is nice, graphics are good whilist anti aliasing is a must for any zoomed in shot. Overall 
 this game is worth the buy for you who would like a change from the age old Starcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radone232
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 19, 2004 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is just an awesome game. The replay value is endless. The characters are great. The 
 gameplay is perfect. The interface is very easy to use. You can create a game or play online with 
 no problem. If you like RTS games this is still the one to beat. There currently as of this review 
 is no better one. I also think overall it is the best game ever made.
  
  Gamplay = superb
  Graphics = excellent, I love the character models and the interface design 
 but it is not a FPS so the graphics can't get at 10, becaue compared to when a new game like half-life2 
 comes out they just are not doing as much cool stuff.
  Sound = "demon blood is thicker, then, well, regular blood" -'nuff said
  Value = if you could 
 give an 11 then it deserves one
  Tilt = 10 baby, for sure
  
  Learning curve, haha - how about an endless learning mountain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 12, 2004 7:37 pm PT
Review:  With a game like this, playing the campaign really gets boring after a while because it's just 
 so easy. Missions to "collect 2000 lumber" get incredibly old. Naturally, a game like this is meant 
 to be taken online to play against other players.
  
  I found the initial learning curve to be very steep online. You'll often find yourself pitted against 
 opponents using methodical strategies that are simply about destroying you with speed and efficiency. 
 Why? To bump stats up of course. If you play in 2 on 2 and 3 on 3 modes, you'll also get barked 
 at a lot. I got called n00b a lot in my first day playing. So, not enjoying that much, I learned 
 the text book strategies (hero rushing, grunt rushing, tower rushing, leveling, race to go airborne, 
 etc) . After that I found myself becoming a formidable opponent, but what for? The game became entirely 
 boring.
  
  I raced up the ranks to around level 12 in a matter of a few days, then became so completely bored 
 with the same tactics over and over so I simply stopped playing. There's little to know thinking 
 involved here. I find it ironic that a game that's labeled a "strategy" could be so incredibly 
 limited in the actual amount of strategy that goes on.
  
  The amount of name calling, and juvenille chat attacks that go on are even worse than most FPS. 
 If your life consists of more than just building your stats on an online game, look elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sassinator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2004 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. Once you start playing, you can't stop! 
  Though the graphics are a little boxy, they are very colorful, which I think more than makes up 
 for it. Clicking repeatedly on any of your minions makes them say really funny things. :) The story 
 isn't THAT great, nothing original, but it's enough to keep you partially interested in it. 
  The gameplay is definitely Warcraft's strong point. The different races (elves, undead, orcs, humans) 
 are all very different but surprisingly equal. Depending on which part of the campaign you are 
 on you get to be a different race and hero (or heroes) and build different types of buildings. 
 Even though a lot of the buildings serve the same essential purpose, they all look suitable for 
 the race and each set of buildings get special abilities (such as defense) depending on what group 
 you are currently playing. Blizzard also made it so that every-so-often you get something new within 
 a race, which makes things more interesting just before you get bored. 
  There is a significant amount of micro-management, but not enough to be frustrating. I wouldn't 
 recommend trusting them to fight well on their own though... I died a few times after leaving the 
 computer. The game also gets progressively harder and there are several timed missions where you 
 have to keep someone held off for X amount of minutes or something like that. There are a couple 
 of missions that are pretty hard, and I wish there had been more pre-rendered cutscenes. Overall, 
 I'm not COMPLETELY sure how long it ended up taking me to finish it, but I enjoyed every minute 
 of it. 
  I want Frozen Throne!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2004 3:49 pm PT
Review:  
  I have always been a fan of Blizzard seeing that every game they come out with I end up playing 
 not because its Blizzard - but because they are good games. I started on Warcraft II way back when, 
 and I can't even tell you how addicting that game was. That lead me onto starcraft and diablo - 
 both also very addicting - but Warcraft was a game I always enjoyed and anticipated for a long 
 while. 
  
  Warcraft didn't start perfect. Neither did starcraft or Diablo. Whenever a game by Blizzard comes 
 out, you always have to give it a little time before you decide to love it or hate it. That is 
 why i like Blizzard - their patches are usually fair and they to some extent monitor their users 
 as well as almost always offer an expansion and updates. The Frozen Exapansion really makes this 
 game twice as better as it speeds it up and allows for more reversal and changing of strategy's 
 on the fly - yet the core is still WC at its best and without that the expansion would be nothing.
 
  
  The storyline is supurb, on the same ground as the starcraft campaigne. Blizzard does a good job 
 at introducing the untis and characters in a tutorial that is completely immerged in a wonder story 
 with cut-scenes and all. I wish more games would do their tutorials this way while leaving options 
 for those who are quick learners to use their skills differently. 
  
  The game itself is done well too, a wonderful 3'D engine that doesn't take away from the game. 
 4 playable races. A new "Hero" system that does take time to adjust but completely adds a new layer 
 of depth to strategy and combat. A lot of people complain about this system when they aren't used 
 to it, but its much like any real battle. You have to protect the leader - the leader is stronger 
 in their own way with Charisma benefits (or in this game Aura benefits or special skills that just 
 wipe out normal units) and a good leader only gets stronger in battle. It causes you to have to 
 micro manage better which in turn, takes skill (something a lot of games lack these days) to keep 
 your hero alive to earn more experience. You can also have up to 3 heros all gaining experience, 
 although they level slower than a single hero, if you can keep them alive long enough then you 
 get a monster of a team.
  
  Warcraft forcus's more on control than other RTS. A lot of other RTS have you just massing millions 
 of units and unleashing havok and whoever happens to win wins. Warcraft limits what you can make, 
 and as your unit's number increase past 40 and 70, you get taxed (upkeep) so you gain instead of 
 10 gold per second, it gets reducedd down to 70 and 40... this choice tends to lead onto battle 
 heavy decisions. You are then forced to always have to scout, and if you keep a small army in effort 
 to get more resources, you have to run units away after skirmishes to heal so you can use the extra 
 money on upgrades and what not. This also gets rid of the - hiding in your base while waiting for 
 200 units - strategy that most RTS end up boiling down to. 
  
  I can see how some people don't like the faster paced side to this game (because of these new additions 
 - rushing is a very common strategy) . Yet, Warcraft is a game that balance and goes along all those 
 ancient sayings - a good defense is a good offense - all actions have reaction - and so forth... 
 as you get better in the game you realize that if you can scout out a rush, then you can easily 
 defend allowing you to counter and attack the other person. I am now a fairly high - leveled online 
 person with about a 50% win rate, and I love it when people rush me now because I know in what 
 ways that helps me counter and come back and win. 
  
  There are many more elements to this game. Creeps (monsters on the map) give you gold and experience, 
 so they are like a new kind of resource. There are shops and items you can hold and use, so you 
 can get various effects and bonuses based on items. 
  
  in addition to all this new core gameplay stuff, there are also a lot of users who create their 
 own content to play online from the included "Edit World" application that allows you to create 
 your own maps and scripted events, even cut scenes. This has really grown since the first days 
 of warcraft and some of the user games are just really fun to play (Some of the tower wars, Micro 
 wars teach you how to control units really well, and even DoTA is a fun change to the normal warcraft) .
 
  
  All and all Warcraft has way too much replay value - and i mean that because I'll always keep going 
 back to it until there is a WC4 or SC2... this game is a good buy for anyone and don't say that 
 about many games. 
  
  The only negative I would say is that what people say about the Blizzard Users is true, there ARE 
 a lot of younger people playing that sometimes ruin your online fun (especially at lower levers 
 with people joining your game and attacking you instead of the enemy) However Blizzard takes time 
 and does do their best to prevent hackers. Battlenet is the online service right now to beat - 
 they are one of few companies that actually ban cd keys for cheating which is really a good thing... 
 there will always be hacking and cheaters, but at least they do their best to prevent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassin23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 27, 2004 5:28 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is a Blizzard strategy game so you know it'll be good.
  
  Graphics- The in game visuals have a very bright and artistic look to them. Very suiting for this 
 game. One of the best looking strategy games for the time. The cinematics are probably the best 
 I've seen too. Blizzard is the king of cinematics and this won't let you down. Just perfectly fitting
 
  
  Gameplay- Warcraft 3's gameplay is kind of like a mix between the earlier games and Starcraft. 
 Finally they've moved away from each race being a replica of one another, and now each race is 
 fully fleshed out and totally different a la Starcraft. And now there are more than just 2 playable 
 races, they infact doubled it to 4, adding lot's of variety. The resource management is lot's like 
 the earlier games, but the ugrades adds lots more to it. The biggest thing though is the Heroes, 
 each race has 3 heroes that you can level up to make stronger and get new moves and they are all 
 very well balanced and add lots to the gameplay. The 90 supply limit is nice too because it makes 
 small skirmishes instead of huge battles which takes a whole different type of strategy. It also 
 has a great story which is darker than the earlier ones, but also much better.
  
  Sound- Blizzard's games always have great scores and Warcraft 3 is no exception. The amazing score 
 is accompanied by good battle sounds and unit voices. Blizzard puts lots of time into there games 
 and it really shows off in the sound.
  
  Value- Warcraft 3 is a easily worth the money. The campaigns are long and fun, and you can also 
 play custom battles against AI enemies (or allies) . But the games real value comes from the multiplayer, 
 that like Starcraft and previous Warcraft games is on Battle. Net. So you can play a ranked game 
 against other equally balance players around the world, or you could play one of the custom games 
 that use there own custom rules and are like a whole different, and they can get pretty crazy. 
 You'll find yourself playing Warcraft 3 for a long time after you buy it.
  
  So in the end Warcraft 3 is a perfect strategy follow up to Blizzard's masterpeice Starcraft. If 
 you like strategy games you have to get Warcraft 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabid_Possum
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2004 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I have played many rts's, from starcraft (also a masterpiece) to age of empires to command and 
 conquer generals. I bought this game for $40 during the summer of 2002, and this is all i played 
 until the summer of 2003. I don't know how many hundreds of hours i spent building my base and 
 attacking with hordes of footsoldiers, but this game has the best value of any game i've ever played 
 or heard of. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10
  
  A very easy to use interface with great hotkeys that actually make sense (f = footsoldier) , unlike 
 a lot of other games i've played. The 4 factions you can play as are all so balanced that you will 
 never see while playing on the internet more than 3 of the same race when playing a 3 vs. 3 game. 
 A lot of the more experienced players choose random as thier race because all of the races are 
 equally good, the player is good at all of them and it doesn't let the other players see which 
 race they're going to be before the game starts. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 10
  
  Beautiful character models that look great even while zoomed up close. Everything in this game 
 moves, to the buildings being built to the characters sitting idly by waiting to attack. 
  
  SOUND: 10
  
  Everything you click on has a sound (or 5) that they make. Even buildings. 
 The voices in the campaign mode are great, as are the battle sounds of swords slashing against 
 armor or flesh.
  
  VALUE: 10
  
  Like i said, this is the only game i played for an entire year. After the lengthly campaigns, there 
 are internet games, not to mention the games other people have created using the map editor (comes 
 w/expansion pack) such as lord of the rings (very fun) .
  
  TILT: 10
  
  Funnest game i've ever played. Buy it if you're even remotely interested in rts's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2004 12:46 am PT
Review:  Warcraft is currently the most successful real-time strategy franchise on PC. The first two Warcrafts 
 radically pushed the limits of the genre; the third one does the same by introducing more depth 
 instead of numbers, by adding a few role-playing elements and otherwise improving the RTS gameplay 
 in several aspects. WC3 has four factions, in addition to the already familiar orcs and humans 
 there are undead and night elves. The single player campaign is made up of 7-9 missions with each 
 faction and revolves around a human hero who in his relentless quest for power decides to change 
 sides in the middle of the game, comfortably allowing you to play another race with him in charge. 
 Keeping in mind that the real purpose of the single player campaign is to prepare the player for 
 battles online, the 30+ missions are too much and new units get introduced too slowly; the same 
 tactics could have easily been taught in 15 missions. With a difficulty level lesser than hard 
 the campaign is also rather easy; it is advisable to play with hard level because if you fail to 
 win you are allowed to try with an easier one. Warcraft III must have been the first RTS to display 
 cut-scenes with the game engine (right picture) - zooming up to your otherwise little hero looked 
 pretty impressive back when the game was released in 2001. Now about gameplay. The focus on the 
 qualities of units instead quantities brings more depth to combat and production. For instance, 
 the maximum number of food units supplied by farmers is limited to 99 which enables to have only 
 around 40-50 fighting units around at a time and forces you to be more careful with what to produce. 
 Additionally, the concept of upkeep (decreasing the resource output of a gatherer after a certain 
 number of units has been reached) supports smaller and more efficient empires. To be able to do 
 more with less units, one can now shuffle between grouped units (with Tab key) without degrouping 
 them which is good for using units' and heroes' special powers. The second major innovation regarding 
 the RTS genre is how the "early game" is not the quiet process of building up a base any more. 
 Heroes need to get out there and gather experience with their small band, for experienced heroes 
 make much stronger fighters and can greatly increase the strength of nearby units. Even scouting 
 around to find out which path of development your enemies have chosen for their hero (es) is important 
 to know (there are three basic types in every race: pure fighter, group supporter, and spellcaster) , 
 for then one can start assembling an according counter-force. To further enhance the early game, 
 gold resources near base are limited so often you would have to plan on expanding your base near 
 a new gold mine which can be a nice mid-game challenge of its own. Also, the switching between 
 night and day enables to use strategies of stealth. As mentioned above, the best battles take place 
 online on Blizzards Battle. net servers: there are player clans and automated tournaments; ideally 
 you can easily enter games with players whose win/loss record is similar to yours. The maximum 
 of 12 players are allowed on each map and a game usually lasts under 30 minutes, making it ideal 
 for multiplayer. Warcraft III's expansion pack Frozen Throne was released a year later and its 
 outstanding quality and popularity can be proven by the fact that it was beta-tested by 40,000 
 enthusiasts. Frozen Throne shipped with four more single player campaigns, tweaks in gameplay (inclusion 
 of naval battle, overall cheapening of units to speed games up) and a powerful World Editor which 
 enables to create not just skirmish maps but complex scenarios. As Blizzards next step, a MMORPG 
 World of Warcraft is in development.
  
  
  18/20 - Based on 15 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - One of the first RTSs to display full 3D graphics.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY 
 - Easier because there are less units to manage than usually.
  2/4 PACING - About twice less than 30 levels could be spent on to play all races what is the real 
 point of a single player campaign of Warcraft anyway. 
  4/4 INNOVATION - Less units rather than more, RPG elements, improved shortcuts, remarkable online 
 community.
  3/4 IMMERSION - Super-immersive when online, single player campaign is too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigma8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 23, 2004 4:41 am PT
Review:  This game has been out a while, so I'll try to make this review to the point. The game has excellent 
 graphic direction, runs very well on current equipment (as of Fall 2004) , great sound, and is quite 
 stable in my experience. Gamewise, the content is top-notch, although it suffers a bit from portraying 
 epic struggles with only a handful of combatants on-screen. This is no doubt due to performance 
 limitations in the 3D engine. Blizzard did a good job of adding a play mechanic called "upkeep" 
 to discourage players from hording large armies, but while such a thing works very well gameplay-wise, 
 it doesn't make a lot of sense when you see what's going on in the cinematics. There should be 
 thousands out there. Not half-dozens.
  
  There are four factions (alliance (human) , orc, undead, night-elf) , and sadly the alliance faction 
 suffers a bit for being the "tutorial" faction, where concepts are explained in-game via easier 
 missions with simplified objectives. It's true that each faction tries to start out slow and ramp 
 things up by the last mission, but the alliance missions build up to their climax more slowly than 
 the other factions. So you won't have as many epic alliance missions as you perhaps will with the 
 other factions.
  
  The plot is a bit predictable, but it's very well done with excellent voice acting and reasonable 
 complexity to keep things interesting.
  
  As with most RTS games, there are several non-resrouce collecting/building missions, where instead 
 you start out with a group, and more or less must maintain that same group for the whole mission, 
 leading them around on what amounts to a dungeon hunt. Given Warcraft 3's new emphasis on hero 
 characters, these missions are a lot more fun than previous RTS attempts at the same type of mission, 
 due to the fact that the missions frequently contain valuable powerup items for your heroes that 
 they can bring with them from mission to mission, not to mention that the hero characters are quite 
 sturdy, and you scarcely have to worry about instant death from around the corner at all times.
 
  
  The only RTS fans that might take issue with this game are those who insist on having large-scale, 
 many-unit battles. Warcraft III rarely has more than 30 units onscreen at once, and beyond that, 
 there's usually not much going on. This is enforced by low build limits. The units tend to be more 
 powerful, so battles still have some lasting power, and it gives the player the time and opportunity 
 to worry about more tactical issues than he would if it were just an issue of throwing a bunch 
 of grunts at the enemy, with some ogre mages tossed in for good luck. Unit balance is excellent, 
 and battles are still quite exciting, and arguably more interactive, for the reasons stated above.
 
  
  Also, the difficulty in this game ramps up predictably (and micro-ramps up within each faction 
 as well) , but the range is ridiculous. The first missions are ludicrously easy, whereas the last 
 missions (and the very last mission) can be very difficult. It's not insurmountable, but the difficulty 
 of the last mission did frustrate me enough to shelve the game for nearly a year (only because 
 some new games demanded my attention, of course) .
  
  And I can't mention enough how great the presentation is for this game. I sometimes would just 
 stare at the menus, since they were so well-done, slick, and polished. Definitely a "buy" if you've 
 managed to avoid it all this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 8, 2004 5:04 pm PT
Review:  that's right, I don't find any lasting appeal from the Warcraft franchise to be worthy of the RTS 
 Hall of Fame at the side of Starcraft and all. Don't get me wrong: the game is professionaly done, 
 rich characters and story, great SP campaign when playing the first time, but I don't know HOW 
 or WHY, all of this become tedious after a month of gameplay. Many of my friends were playing Starcraft 
 for 3-4 consecutive years until recently, some others have played Diablo II for a year, but none 
 of them were interested to play a Warcraft game such as this one more than a couple of months, 
 and for my part within a single month. The lack of level design and DIVERSITY doesn't help too. 
 Maybe this environment lacking ( don't get me wrong again, I talk about diversity I know it's richly 
 detailed with vivid colors ) is TOO CONTRASTING for my taste next to the very detailed characterization. 
 I'm more enclined to admire a good equilibrium of both the characters and the environment when 
 RPG elements are implemented within an amalgamized game. That said, I recognized the value and 
 interest by the mass of gamers, but not at the level of excellence I have hoped. 
  It's definitely more difficult to make a lasting fantasy strategy game than a realistic one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrumpyMcNasty
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 8, 2004 10:47 am PT
Review:  Where to start enthusing about what may be the finest game ever produced for the PC (or Mac for 
 that matter) ? As a longtime fan of the original Warcraft: Orcs and Humans, then an avid player 
 of Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness I have to admit that, despite the superior quality of both of 
 these titles and the murmurs of approval I was hearing all around about Warcraft III, I picked 
 up my copy with more than a little concern that not only would it not live up to the hype but that 
 it would sour my whole experience with Blizzard games. Yes, the hype was that frantic that I even 
 went out and upgraded my video card to be sure I got the best possible experience!
  
  So I loaded up the game, hummed and hawed at the opening cinematic (we'd all seen flashy cinematics 
 before) and then proceeded to play the game from the beginning. I was immediately pleased with 
 the look and feel of the game. At the same time very similar to the previous chapters but sufficiently 
 different to justify the few 'tutorial' style levels at the beginning. I was also suitably impressed 
 with the sound and the beautifully rendered units, buildings and scenery. While not as pretty as 
 some games out there they seemed perfect for a game set in a mythical, mystical land. It all looked 
 good but what happens when we have two, three or even four armies all pummelling each other onscreen? 
 Would the sound become choppy, the graphics slow? I expected the worst as I proceeded to explore 
 the quests of the Warchief Thrall and Prince Arthas.
  
  It wasn't until I was in the midst of my first major battle (having just about beaten back an earlier 
 horde of the undead and saved the game, just in case) that I realised I had become so immersed 
 in the story that I had forgotten about the potential for lag, chop and crash when major melees 
 ensued. That's not to say I was reminded because it happened. Quite the opposite! I had to pause 
 the game just to see how many of the little undead critters, bowmen, axemen and grunts were onscreen 
 when I realised my machine hadn't slowed up one iota. In fact the only thing that was struggling 
 was yours truly!
  
  Now, having finally finished the campaigns that shipped with the game, had my rear-end toasted 
 on multiple battle. net outings and gone back to the beginning just to enjoy the story again I can 
 happily confirm that this game may indeed be flawless. Buy it. Now. What are you doing sitting 
 there reading this when you could be off at the local emporiium buying Warcraft? 
  
  Oh, and with all this praise being heaped on the game you may wonder why it doesn't get a perfect 
 10? Well, as I said it the beginning it MAY be the best game ever. But then there's The Frozen 
 Throne. You see, the Reign of Chaos is only the beginning..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luoluo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 17, 2004 8:28 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best PC game I have every played!! I have always been a fan of strategy games, 
 and have also ventured forth into action/adventure and RPG's -- there are actually enough elements 
 of all three in my mind to make this a very engaging and addicting game play experience. It's challenging 
 to keep several things going on at one time (hero battle on the frontline, protecting the home 
 base, etc.) . The first time I loaded it on my PC, I stayed up until 3 AM playing! The storyline 
 is truly compelling, the voice-acting is well done, and the game controls are very intuitive and 
 easy to use. The whole package together (graphics/sound) is aesthetically very pleasing, as well. 
 I also like the inclusion of a strong female heroine in the main storyline. Don't play this unless 
 you are ready and able to sit down for a long stretch of time and be immersed in the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smaqaho
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2004 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Believe it or not, this is the first Blizzard came that I have come to play. I lived through middle 
 school hearing all the ranting and raving of suck Blizzard creations as the Starcraft series, Diablo 
 2, Warcraft 2, and so on. I simply ignored all the hype and continued playing my Command and Conquer 
 games (check my game collection for more info on these gems) . So now that I am in a lull for gaming, 
 I thought I would pickup one of the best games of last year and try it out. I am extremely impressed 
 in all areas of this game and now know why everyone hails Blizzard as a reliable production team. 
 
  
  The gameplay is what you could expect from a strategy game, except it is perfect in all its ways. 
 Other games I have played of the genre usually miss a beat somewhere, but Warcraft 3 is on the 
 ball in all aspects of gameplay. The single player game experience is split into 5 chapters, a 
 tutorial and then 4 story driven sections split by which race you utilize. The humans, orcs, undead, 
 and night elves are used in this game and all add a different touch to how the game works. The 
 story is awesome and is actually very interesting and thought provoking. The gameplay is simply 
 awesome, and I bought and enjoyed Warcraft 2 because of this.
  
  The graphics are on par with the rest of the strategy games in the genre. The special abilities 
 utilized by your heros add a nice touch but nothing special for the actual game experience. The 
 cinematics on the other hand are amazing, movie theater quality at least.
  
  The sound is nice and unique to each race with music and commands. Not much to say here, but it 
 is great.
  
  The value is here in the multiplayer availability. The single player is best played once or maybe 
 twice, but battle net is top notch for the the multiplayer experience. It is quite fun and refreshing 
 to play with fellow human players against either AI or competing humans.
  
  A great game, my first Blizzard experience and loving it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alec-Eiffel
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2004 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard is well known for making slick and polished games, Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos, is no 
 exception. It is the second sequel to Warcraft: Orcs vs. Humans. Many jaded gamers like to use 
 the "the previous games in the series were better" expression, unfortunately for them, they would 
 be considered foolish by many for saying such a thing. Warcraft III provides for some of the most 
 in-depth and immersive gameplay to ever come from the Real Time Strategy game genre. In both the 
 multi player and single player aspect, the game follows through in every way imaginable. It uses 
 what was done right from its predecessors, and recieves a well deserved layer of polish. And on 
 July 3 2002, the RTS genre was changed forever.
  
  This time around, however, Blizzard encourages you to enjoy and dive into the rich and glorious 
 single player campaign. All four of the games races are filled to the brim with variety and depth. 
 The races are the Humans, the Undead, the Orcs, and the Night Elves, all of which differ in every 
 way concievable, right down to their methods of gathering resources. The story is of epic proportions 
 and gives you the feeling of redemption and vengeance for the evil that sprawls in the lands of 
 Azeroth, Kalimdor, and Lordaeron. There are troubles brewing in these lands. Uther Lightbringer 
 of the Paladin order, Jaina proudmoor apprentice of the leader of the Kirin Tor, Antonidus, and 
 King Tearenas own son, Arthas have been dispatched to investigate this new threat. Soon they report 
 that this new plague goes by the name of the undead scourge, lead by the Lich king, Nerzul, whose 
 been brought back to life by the demonic forces. With the Lich King in power, the Burning Legion's, 
 a tribe of powerful dreadlords, plans will follow through and create a Reign of Chaos.
  
  The initial cutscene explains the events that occurred in Orcs vs. Humans, showing the Prophet 
 Medivh unleashing the Horde into the lands of Azeroth through the Dark Portal. The game starts 
 you off as Thrall, the Warchief of the Orcish Horde. Thrall is a powerful, yet noble and honorable 
 leader who shows no fear in showing off his mettle. You learn of the actions that one of your military 
 advisors has taken, and Thrall is enraged. This is a pretense to the real Orc campaign, but it 
 also offers as a tutorial as well. As time goes on throughout the game, your Heroes (Thrall for 
 example) will gain experience points and levels that can be used to choose new powers to help you 
 out in your struggle to take out The Burning Legion. The first true campaign is held with the Human 
 Alliance. You control Arthas, a Paladin officer and a follower of the Light. Arthas is the soon 
 to be king of the Human Alliance. He only does what he believes is right for his people, even if 
 it means he has to betray himself and his friends. As the story unfolds, you will learn more about 
 Arthas' brash actions.
  
  Once you have completed the marvelous and awe inspiring single player campaign, it is necessary 
 that you hop into the balanced and well executed multi player. There are dozens upon dozens of 
 different possible methods for you to go about trying to claim victory over an opponent. You will 
 almost never win with a straight "build a base, summon a large army, and attack the enemy" tactic, 
 you have to be creative, especially with the games minimal person-per-squad cap. And with the evenly 
 matched races and Heroes, there is never a time when one race is significantly stronger than another. 
 There is a "Play" option, which allows you to play (obviously) a random game with up to eight players 
 at once while Battle. Net tries to make the teams as evenly matched as possible according to rating. 
 Which brings up another point, ratings are based around a win/loss ratio and which game type you 
 play. If you play a Free For All match and win, the increase in rating points you have is going 
 to go up more dramatically as oppose to a Four vs. Four match. Admittingly, if you do continue 
 to lose, it becomes frusterating, especially when your rating level begins to fall. The saving 
 grace is the games Custom Map Games, thanks to the detailed map editor which gives mod makers access 
 to every model shown in the single player campaign. It can truly make for some creative and ambitious 
 custom games.
  
  Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos, is by no means revolutionary, or innovative. But the sheer fact that 
 it can mantain all the core elements of a great Real Time Strategy game, and still be able to offer 
 a fresh look at the genre, is just a remarkable feat to behold. It is something that only veterans 
 like Blizzard are capable of accomplishing. Its slick and intuitive interface allows for easy and 
 simple gameplay that satisfies both new comers to the genre and the warhorses of Real Time Strategy 
 games.
  
  Visually, Warcraft III is NOT a showpiece for the PC. Then again, it has an colorful and artistic 
 value that even low end systems could run smoothly and still have somewhat of an aesthetic appeal. 
 Though the models are created in 3D, the maps are still in 2D, albeit very detailed 2D environments. 
 But what Warcraft III lacks in in-game graphics, it makes up for in Cutscene graphics. They are 
 incredible and they really add to the entire Warcraft experience. You will watch a cutscene in 
 between the transitions of races. They are a site to behold.
  
  On a technical standpoint, the sound is a bit better than the graphics. The musical score is outstanding, 
 and the voice overs are detailed and full of life. Yet, you will still encounter SOME rehashed 
 sound clips. Each race has there own tone that is followed by each and every unit that makes each 
 sect unique. Especially the Night Elves, with their soft yet piercing voices. The same can be said 
 about the Undead Scourge, who's raspy tones can be bone chilling at times. Riveting sound is apart 
 of every great immersive game, and the same can be said for Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos.
  
  Warcraft III's single player can take anywhere from 30-40 hours to complete, all of which are 
 well worth your while. But as mentioned previously, it doesn't stop there, Online Multiplayer offers 
 hundreds of hours of pure entertainment. There is too much fun to be had with Warcraft III: Reign 
 of Chaos. If you are even remotely interested in the Warcraft franchise or Real Time Strategy games, 
 then Warcraft III will offer to you one of the greatest gaming experiences in years.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockskin
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2004 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III is definitely my all-time favorite strategy game. It is great in so many ways. The 
 gameplay, the graphics, the storyline are all great. You will not want to stop playing this game.
 
  
  The gameplay is really fast. If you dont creep you will be dead within ten minutes of playing. 
 The winners of this game are basically people who level up their heroes to the highest level first. 
 If you fail to do that you will be in trouble. The 4 races which are the Night Elves, Orcs, Humans, 
 and Undead are all powerful in their own way. Learn all of their weaknesses and strengths if you 
 want to survive in the online world.
  
  The offline storyline is very impressive with awesome CG scenes. The voices are well done and the 
 campaigns are fun and yet offer a nice challenge to beginners and advanced players. I would suggest 
 finishing the offline campaigns before venturing in the online world.
  
  The graphics are very impressive for a strategy game. Compared to other strategy games, the graphics 
 in Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos take the cake. You will need a somewhat fast computer with a nice 
 graphics card if you want to enjoy all the effects to its fullest extent.
  
  Online, you will want to definitely lose many games before you can win some. Its very fast paced 
 in the online game. The user created games are also great to play. I spend a lot of my time playing 
 those when I dont feel like playing regular games.
  
  Warcraft II: Reign of Chaos is definitely a great game to play. If you havent tried it you, you 
 should. You wont be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: living420
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2004 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been a very diligent and faithful fan of blizzard since the original Warcraft, the very 
 adictive and fun game that was very ahead of its time and paved the way for every stratigy game 
 to follow. My favourite game of all time the Starcraft/Broodwars, a masterpeice that was perfectly 
 balanced. so obviously I was extreamly excited when Warcraft 3 came out, I skiped school and went 
 to the store before it was even open, I picked up my reserved copy and ran happily home. As i played 
 the game I did apretiate the greatness of this game, but there was a hole, something missing. The 
 game was great by any other standards, a 9.5-10 on any normal scale, but by my expectations of 
 blizzard it was a slight miss. The whole hero system threw it off for me, it made the game so much 
 more complicated than it had to be, creeping and and extreame level of microing made Battle. net 
 imposible for anyone who wasnt a expert to enjoy a fun game. this is not to say i didnt keep playing, 
 I played and played to become a expert, I was a very high level player, midway up the ladder, but 
 still i felt empty. The games victory is in no way based on stratigy as the genre says, if fact 
 if you perform any stratigy but the "fad" strat you will be called a newb (slang for beginer) , 
 you are limited because of poor balancing to use units that are at the time the best. So the victory 
 goes to the person who is the best at microing and leveling . All that said, this game is worth 
 buying 100% and im not by anyway saying it is not a great game, but by Blizzard standards it just 
 didnt have the starcraft feel, if starcraft 2 has heros i will be a very angry Blizzard fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousGeorge
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2004 9:50 pm PT
Review:  It has been a full year. Instead of reviewing based on my first impressions from the first few 
 months of gameplay, I am basing this on having completed the experience and replay value. The production 
 values of this "software" is unparalleled in the gaming software world. I am skeptical I will see 
 anything like this again, since news is much of the original Blizzard staff has chosen to follow 
 new paths away from Blizzard Entertainment. The story telling, the in game movies, the gameplay 
 itself, are head and shoulders above anything I have seen, and with the original blood leaving 
 Blizzard, as I have heard reported, I am "very" skeptical Blizzard Entertainment will live up to 
 the standards of their founders (apparently "their" standards must exhausted them to the point 
 of pursuing interests away from the company they founded) .
  
  I have quit playing FPS (first person shooters) almost altogether. As for the accolades of WCIII, 
 I give it a ten, because I am skeptical Blizzard or anyone else can match the symphony of production 
 values this well again. This one is a collectors item. I cannot think of another game I have played 
 that is.
  
  So if "quality of production" and replay value count for you, take my perfect score for this game 
 no more seriously than pretentious expectations of perfection from the critics you scored this 
 game less that "superb". Now that it is available packaged with the expansion pack for under $50.00 
 USD, you shouldn't regret taking a chance on this RTS game. Comparing it to other RTS is a mute 
 point. It is cerebral and easy to pick up at the same time. For example, do I "really" have time 
 to sit down and learn the ins and outs of Age Of Empires II or Age Of Mythology? I have other things 
 to be so "serious" about. I mean, who "really" has time to be a consumate gamer? The founders of 
 Blizzard are consumate software engineers too. Try being both! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2003 6:50 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is usually called a real-time strategy game with some RPG elements. I found that the 
 game combines a lot of elements, but in a mediocre way. The strategy in the game ends up being 
 kind of simple and shallow, and so do the RPG aspects. Its hard to not recommend this game though, 
 since it is still fun to play, thanks in large part to all of the eye candy. Still, I couldnt 
 help but be slightly disappointed in the game that I heard so many great things about.
  
  Make no mistake about it. This game looks and sounds awesome. Each map is beautiful to look at 
 and sports all sorts of bright colors and features. The various units in the game are animated 
 brilliantly and in stunning detail. No two look alike, and that is saying a lot. Watching your 
 groups move across the screen is, by itself, a treat. The human Gyrocopter spins and buzzes around, 
 the undead Abomination slowly lumbers, and mounted warriors gallop with their horses. Buildings 
 share the same attention to detail. The real experience, however, comes when there is a battle. 
 Watching the units bash on each other while spells spray fire and lightning back and forth is a 
 delight. The great sound has a lot to do with this. All of the bashing and crushing sounds and 
 explosions give you the feeling that there is World War 3 in your living room. The games voice 
 samples range from chilling (for the undead Banshee) to very amusing (for the orc Peon) , but they 
 are all great. There aren't any C+ voice acting performances in this game.
  
  The single-player campaign leaves a lot to be desired when you get past the production values though. 
 The campaign crosses all four of the games races and takes you through a bunch of small missions 
 that last about 40 minutes, on average. It's kind of hard to get into the story, since you aren't 
 playing from the same side the whole time. I like the heroes being the centerpiece in the game, 
 but you get no freedom in choosing them, and not much freedom in developing them. When you advance 
 a level, you upgrade one special ability. Each hero has only three or four special abilities or 
 spells to choose from. There isnt much thinking or planning for you to do. 
  
  The whole concept of gaining levels in the game seems kind of pointless. So do all of the aspects 
 that spoil the games strategy, like the way that your army, resources, and advancements disappear 
 when you begin each short scenario. You start off on a map, build all of the available upgrades, 
 and then go complete your objective in about 35 minutes. Then, you go to the next map, and you 
 have to research all of your advancements again and repeat the process. The addictiveness that 
 you get from gradually becoming more powerful isnt there. It just doesnt seems like there is 
 much to do in this game. You build up your army, which is more like a platoon since it is limited 
 to a small size, and then direct it to a spot on the map. I found it impossible to get wrapped 
 up in this game, since the usual strategy game flow is nonexistent. 
  
  The size of the game makes it more like a tactics game (ala Commandos or Freedom Force) , but 
 the inability to slow or pause the game limits how much you can micromanage your units in battle. 
 So, what you end up with in the end, is a combination of strategy, tactics, and role-playing that 
 is simple and shallow in all of them. That is why I never felt compelled to play this game for 
 more than an hour or so before playing something else. Thats not to say that I didnt enjoy it, 
 because I did, but it wasnt the addictive time-sucker that I wanted it to be. I dont really agree 
 with all of the accolades that are being heaped upon this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elader
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2003 8:47 pm PT
Review:  When Warcraft III was first announced, I was excited at the prospect of playing an updated version 
 of my favorite RTS of all time, Warcraft II. I enjoyed Starcraft, and thought the improvements 
 in that game were incredible, but I have a love for fantasy. I am a swashbuckling, dragon slaying, 
 spell casting, sword slinging hero through and through. That is why Warcraft was always my pick 
 over Starcraft.
  
  I was looking forward to many of the same improvements, such as unit queuing, bigger group sizes, 
 and the like being in Warcraft III. I felt the hero feature was going to be a great addition, and 
 was thrilled at the prospect of a hybrid blend of the RPG and RTS genres. All of that, combined 
 with the promise of six (!) playable races. That was enough to have me anxiously awaiting this 
 game.
  
  Then the delays came, along with news that by the time the game would hit shelves, it would be 
 down to four races. Also announced was the restructuring of the RPG elements in the game. I began 
 to fear the worst. Would the game be as good without the extra races? Would it still blend all 
 of the elements together into a masterful game? The answer quite simply, is yes.
  
  Warcraft III is easily the best RTS game I have ever played. It ranks up there with the best games 
 I have ever played. Starting with the first single player mission, and continuing on through the 
 end of the final campaign, I was hooked. Warcraft III manages to keep you hooked. 
  
  The story in the single player campaigns is top notch. The character development is absolutely 
 amazing. The heroes definitely seem real, but at the same time are larger than life. This is evident 
 by the end of the first campaign. Blizzard's team has created characters that you will come to 
 identify with. You will love them, or hate them, but you will feel for them. It's amazing. The 
 story is wound together through Blizzard's trademark rendered cut scenes. These are high quality, 
 and it's easy to see why they released a DVD with these on it.
  
  Graphically the game looks very nice. Bright colors are mixed beautifully in the fantasy setting 
 to give the game an extremely pleasing look. New to the series is the ability to zoom in and out 
 on the map, thanks to the new 3D engine. Spell effects look good, and all of the units in the game 
 are modeled very well.
  
  The game play is top notch. Large battles can definitely get hectic, but the designers have done 
 everything imaginable to make things easy for the player. From group hotkeys, to sub groups within 
 groups, it is all in there. After some practice, you will be slaying enemies, casting spells, healing 
 your units, raising dead units, and using your hero abilities all in the blink of an eye.
  
  Sound is another bright spot for Warcraft III. I thought the music was great, especially in 
 the cut scenes. It really gives you a feel of what the emotion is supposed to be. Sadness, fear, 
 tension, anger, and hatred are all represented beautifully through the soundtrack. Music aside, 
 the sound effects are also done well, though nothing there that will blow you away. The trademark 
 Blizzard humor is in though. Continually select the same unit and you will receive a number of 
 different witty comments.
  
  Multiplayer is done through Blizzards online service, Battle. net. It's been very stable in my experience, 
 and has a great matchmaking system that pairs you with someone of equal playing experience. There 
 are multiple ways to play, and you can choose to play in sanction, ranked games, or in custom games 
 that aren't ranked. Clans are also supported, further encouraging Blizzard's online community.
 
  
  All of this combined makes the game an incredible value, and the online component gives it a great 
 deal of replayability. However, Blizzard has seen fit to ship the game with an editor, so the legions 
 of fans can create their own content. The editor is also well done, providing the means to create 
 anything from custom maps, to whole campaigns complete with cut scenes and the like. This adds 
 even more to the replayability of the game, as there are tons of downloads available now.
  
  Warcraft III is definitely worth the money, and it may be in that small number of games that 
 I would classify as "must-own". If you are a RTS fan, an RPG fan, or just a gaming fan in general, 
 go get this game. If it's late, go to a 24 hour superstore and get it. You'll be up all night playing 
 anyway.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyro
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2003 8:44 pm PT
Review:  From begining to end Warcraft III's story will suck you in and make you wander what happens next. 
 The graphics is a stuning marvel on it's own but the gameplay is what makes you want to buy this 
 game. Blizzard has also continued it's legacy of free online play over battle. net with much more 
 options and control then Blizzard's previous two games, Starcraft and Diablo 2. Then theres map 
 editor it is most amzing editor for any RTS/RPG game avalible and is simple you use. The only downside 
 is that campaign eventually ends, and it ends with a not so epic ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsylvester
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 5, 2003 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for a few months now, have finished through all the campaigns and have 
 tried my hand at skirmish mode and online. The campaign mode and story is very fun (be sure to 
 check out the hilarious cinematics when you finally beat the Elf Campaign) , although it's really 
 hard to think of this as a strategy game. It's more of an action/RPG in which you level up your 
 heroes and create support units in the tired, old RTS fashion of building and maintaining a base. 
 In skirmish mode/multiplayer it really boils down to who has the fastest hands.
  
  I love the graphics in this game: very colorful and lush. The sound is also excellent, but that's 
 to be expected in a Blizzard game by now.
  
  In a nutshell I'd have to say I'm a bit disappointed that the gameplay turned out to be Starcraft 
 with even more limited units. If you want to play a great RTS, try out Kohan: Immortal Sovereigns. 
 You'll be able to enjoy much more thoughtful play in an RTS format.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultra_gamer
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 5, 2003 10:29 am PT
Review:  This is a good game but...... not a good strategy game. I'll tell you why. Even though this game 
 introduces so many new things to the genre, has a campaign full of life, and a good multiplayer 
 service. It still lacks the strategy element that many other strategy games were able to do. For 
 example, when you play the game you feel that you are just creating every single unit just for 
 the hell of it. I found that the lesser units don't really have anything special to do except hit 
 the enemy repeatedly, so there's no strategy with them. The spellcaster and heroes are kind of 
 similar, except that you will find yourself leveling your hero like in diablo and gathering items. 
 When in battle you will get annoyed because the winner of the battle will likely be the one who 
 can summon the spellcasters and heroes spells the fastest, you call that strategy? The faster clicker 
 wins the game? That is not what rts games are all about. When I heard this game was coming out, 
 I got it the day it was released, I imagined it to have so much strategy and controlling reasonably 
 good sized armies, well the strategy component was not satisfied with the way the units are designed 
 and the upkeep system and food limit forces you to control small armies. This game does not revolutionize 
 the genre all it does is combine things already created from others games. If you like creating 
 spells and then switching to someone else to do spells, or level up heroes, with an interesting 
 campaign than this is the game for you. If you want a game where strategy and tactics are important 
 and you control a good sized army and use the terrain to your advantage, stay far away from this 
 GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spyder220
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2003 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This is quite simply one of the best games of all time. From an unbelievably fun, diverse, and 
 addictive single-player campaign to the massive multiplayer fun of the awesome Battle. net, there 
 is something great for everyone with this game. The 4 races are very diverse and it is great getting 
 to know each of them in turn during the single player game, and then taking your knowledge to Battle. net 
 and taking on others in real time.
  
  Battle. net is great, automatically matching you up with players with similar skills so it is not 
 overwhelming for noobs.
  
  All around an A+ game in everyway. I have played almost every major game over the past 7 years 
 and this is one of the top 3 if not the top 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whosjohnny
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 2, 2003 2:48 am PT
Review:  Wacraft 3 could be great if Blizzard had anticipate the immature attitude of its members on battle. net 
 and for some reason or another, seems to attract a lot of hacker and cheating within its community. 
 Granted, Warcraft 3 is a painsfully crafted strategy game with innovation with the concept of Hero. 
 You cannot deny the uniqueness of that design but what Blizzard failed to anticipate is human nature 
 and exploitness of loopholes. Massive AOW abuse, hero rushing, (Sleep with creeps, Demon Hunter 
 hashing on wasps) . Are these consider strategy? Or just cheese? It doesn't take a rocket scientist 
 to figure out cheese wins game no doubt but if you have no choice, in just about every given situation, 
 that to rush or be rushed, and on some maps, never get to see the light of day to building ANY 
 army or TECH enough to see real battles. Micromangement of units in the early 5 minutes game of 
 waiting to see which Hero die first so you can get experience, OVER AND OVER AND OVER... what's 
 the fun in that? I have read reviews and watch replays of level 20+ of above in just about every 
 possibilities and played multi-game extensively. In the end, not so much as to give up because 
 I can't play, I do not get a sense of enjoyment as I have in Total Annihilation even when I lose. 
 Good RTS game can be defined as follows: When you lose, you don't feel cheated, it's very important 
 barometer. When you lose, you know why you lost, given some mistakes strategically that you've 
 made, which could have turn the tide in your favor. In Warcraft 3, most likely than not, when you 
 lose, you lose by CHEESE. That to me is NOT a definition of a good RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackbar
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun to play at first, but it was than one of the worst games ever created. This game 
 was never really fun, the game engine was only used to play custom games which were fun to play. 
 The game has many strategies, that all deviate from the same strategy. You can do various things, 
 but you will always die, if you do not quickly expand and rush. Micro-management is too tedious, 
 and it seems impossible to beat this game by simply swarming, since the units are overly specialized 
 and the food limit prevents the making of many units. This means that you have various ways of 
 attacking, though few strategies of winning. This game is also not focused on units, like an RTS, 
 but is rather focusing on heroes who can destroy various units and are champions on the battlefield. 
 This means if you have a strong army, but not a strong hero, an enemy with a decent army but a 
 very strong hero can completely destroy your army. This means that you can't win unless you spend 
 much time building up a hero, who will level down (except in the campaigns, but those were not 
 that much fun) when you start a new map. You are creating the perfect warrior, only to have to 
 do it over and over again.
  It is like playing an RPG where you must level your characers, over the same levels, and teach 
 them the same skills, over and over and over again.
  This game is for RPG gamers only becose it hase no strategy in it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
