-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warcraft3thefrozenthrone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  2, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 9.1, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 12,505 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jul 1, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Frozen Throne is an impressive expansion pack for a remarkably good game, and anyone who enjoyed 
 Warcraft III needs to get it. 

  The sign of a truly great expansion pack is when, having played it, you realize you could never 
 go back to the original game. After all, truly great expansion packs don't just add new content -- they 
 add real depth, and fundamentally make the core game better. Blizzard Entertainment knows the drill 
 when it comes to delivering these sorts of products. Its follow-up releases for 1998's Starcraft 
 and 2000's Diablo II were so effective and so good that many, many people are still playing both 
 of those games today, all these years later. Given Blizzard's track record with expansion packs, 
 it's understandable that fans of the company's games would have very high expectations for Warcraft 
 III: The Frozen Throne. Last year's real-time strategy game was a very tough act to follow on any 
 number of levels, and yet Blizzard has delivered a terrific, full-featured expansion for Warcraft 
 III that makes an already outstanding game significantly more so.  

          The Frozen Throne features four single-player campaigns and completely revitalizes the 
 skirmish and multiplayer gameplay.     

  To say the least, there was a lot to like about Warcraft III in the first place. The game's single-player 
 campaign delivered an interesting and engaging story told from four unique perspectives, its online 
 multiplayer mode was the best in the real-time strategy genre, its four distinctly different factions 
 featured numerous viable strategies and tactics, its gameplay was focused on action and rewarded 
 skill and practice, and its powerful scenario editor let you design your own missions or entirely 
 new gameplay modes using the game's great-looking 3D engine. Basically, The Frozen Throne adds 
 to and improves on every single one of these features, and more.  

  If you enjoyed Warcraft III's single-player campaigns, you'll be pleased to know that The Frozen 
 Throne offers at least as much if not more single-player material. The campaign picks up where 
 Warcraft III left off, in the aftermath of the banishment of the burning legion. The renegade half-demon 
 Illidan and the death knight Arthas are at the center of the story, as both of these power-hungry 
 characters are seeking to take control of a world already ravaged by conflict. You play the campaign 
 missions linearly, just like in Warcraft III, starting with the night elf sentinels, then moving 
 on to the remnants of the human alliance, and finally taking control of the undead scourge. There 
 are more than two dozen sizeable missions in all.  

  The campaign missions offer remarkable variety from one to the next, and it's not a stretch to 
 say that these represent the most skillfully designed single-player scenarios in any real-time 
 strategy game to date. Recognizing that many players have long since grown weary of the standard 
 formula of having to build up a base, raise an army, and then attack an entrenched enemy, Blizzard 
 accordingly included this formula in only a few of The Frozen Throne's campaign missions. Some 
 of the missions grant you access to multiple armies, each charged with its own important objectives. 
 Many missions feature clever variations on familiar strategies. Some limit the types of units you'll 
 get, which may prompt you to develop a newfound appreciation for some of Warcraft III's less-intuitive 
 strategies. All the missions are story-driven and seem plausible enough in the context of the game. 
 The campaign packs in a lot of surprises, perhaps more so in the mission design than in the story 
 itself, and it offers a significant challenge that will help bring you up to speed on some of The 
 Frozen Throne's new gameplay additions.  

          New heroes such as the blood mage add depth and complexity to Warcraft III. And they're 
 just plain cool.     

  The plot of the campaign is sufficiently epic, and the superb voice acting and memorable character 
 designs effectively drive the story along. But this isn't the greatest story ever told for a couple 
 of reasons. There's actually a lot more buildup than resolution in what ought to have been a culmination 
 of the previous game's storyline. Furthermore, The Frozen Throne's plot just doesn't give you anything 
 to latch on to -- there's no single central character, and since you'll be playing both as and against 
 numerous characters over the course of the game, you'll sometimes find yourself wondering exactly 
 whom you're supposed to be rooting for. It's an interesting approach to be sure, and it's similar 
 to what Blizzard did with the stories of both Warcraft III and Starcraft: Brood War, but the real 
 issue is probably that none of The Frozen Throne's characters are particularly likeable -- they're 
 charismatic yet despicable, good-natured yet foolishly nave, or vengeful to a fault. Then 
 again, most real-time strategy games -- and most games in general -- don't even try to create such 
 complex characters, so the fact that you can even criticize the finer points of the game's story 
 speaks to its impressive depth.  

  The orcs are conspicuously absent from the main campaign, but they're central to a bonus campaign 
 in which you play as a half-ogre beastmaster who befriends the orcs, who've just settled in a new 
 land. This campaign plays less like a real-time strategy game and more like Diablo, as you'll persistently 
 control just the beastmaster and his small entourage while exploring a map and its surrounding 
 areas, completing quests, gaining experience levels and better gear, and more. All this is actually 
 quite entertaining, though the bonus campaign isn't balanced as well as the core missions, and 
 it becomes pretty easy pretty quickly. Also, enemies will respawn on the map after a while, and 
 it can be tedious to have to slog through the same underpowered foes every time you have to backtrack. 
 The bonus campaign is fun anyway, and the cliffhanger ending promises more of the same in the future. 
     

  The Frozen Throne adds three beautiful new types of environments that look even better than the 
 original game's maps, several new units to each of the game's factions, and new abilities for some 
 of the original units. Many of the new units are designed to counter particular strategies -- specifically, 
 to counter spellcasting units -- and each faction's air force has also been bolstered by at least 
 one new support unit. So while the night elves' faerie dragons or the humans' spellbreakers won't 
 replace your frontline troops (though the night elves' gigantic new mountain giants certainly might 
 in the late game) , adding a few of them to your army can make a big difference. In one of its most 
 meaningful additions, the expansion also introduces a fourth hero character for each side, and 
 these are featured prominently in the campaign -- you'll gain an appreciation for most all their 
 powers in the single-player mode and can then use these powerful troops in multiplayer matches. 
 Though each of the new heroes is very likeable in its own right, the undead's crypt lord, which 
 looks like an enormous stag beetle, is probably the most impressive. All the new units also sound 
 great, and some have some very funny things to say when you click on them repeatedly.  

          The improved artificial intelligence makes The Frozen Throne quite fun to play on your 
 own, but Battle. net is still where the real action is.     

  On top of all that, numerous new neutral units and buildings figure prominently in the expansion. 
 Some fans of 1996's Warcraft II were slightly disappointed when they realized Warcraft III had 
 no naval combat, but now, in some scenarios, ships are available. Just like in Warcraft II, you'll 
 have access to a troop transport, a destroyer, and a battleship. The naval combat is as simplistic 
 as ever, but its inclusion is still a nice touch. More importantly, in some scenarios you can recruit 
 a number of neutral heroes that normally aren't accessible to each faction. The four sides can 
 also build a new type of structure from which they can purchase hero items, such as potions and 
 magic scrolls, as well as items that are specifically useful only to their faction. Considering 
 how much depth there was to be found in choosing from or choosing combinations of the three heroes 
 per side in Warcraft III, having many additional such characters and all these other things makes 
 the gameplay even more interesting and more complex.  

  The Frozen Throne also features numerous gameplay balance adjustments and interface tweaks, though 
 almost all of these are now available in a downloadable patch for anyone who owns the original 
 game. Many units and buildings have lower costs than before, making the early part of a Warcraft 
 III match go by even faster as you quickly muster a respectable force. New early-game defensive 
 structures are available to discourage hero rushing, a popular tactic in the original Warcraft 
 III. The upkeep system has been adjusted to let you marshal larger armies without incurring a penalty 
 to your income, and the unit limit has also been increased slightly. The system used to determine 
 how different weapon types affect different armor types has been overhauled to better balance ranged, 
 melee, flying, and spellcasting units. Several difficulty settings are available for skirmishes 
 against the AI (which fights like a pro at the toughest setting) , whereas the original game didn't 
 offer any difficulty levels at all and was pretty punishing for more-casual players. All these 
 changes are in fact improvements, though they do cater to more-experienced players (there's also 
 an option to play The Frozen Throne with the original Warcraft III rules, if you wish) . Whether 
 or not you're an advanced player, online matches still tend to not last longer than 30 minutes, 
 making Warcraft III the perfect real-time strategy game for both quick sessions and marathons. 

  Online multiplayer over Battle. net is also improved, thanks to the implementation of player clans 
 and automated tournaments, as well as some other minor improvements. Now you can gather up nine 
 or more of your friends and form a clan on Battle. net, which allows you to have your own private 
 chat channel and your own internal rankings systems and lets you compete against other clans on 
 a dedicated clan ladder. Tournaments, meanwhile, adjust the rules of the game and strictly enforce 
 a 30-minute time limit. Blizzard has also included numerous new multiplayer maps, as well as a 
 few fun multiplayer scenarios based on popular user mods. Battle. net is running as smoothly as 
 ever, and at this point in time, just after the expansion's release, you're virtually guaranteed 
 to find fierce competition at all hours. The best Battle. net option remains the arranged teams 
 mode, where you and one or two friends can quickly get into matches with teams of the same relative 
 skill level.  

          One year later, Warcraft III is better than ever, thanks to The Frozen Throne.     

 
  Not only does it play better, but The Frozen Throne also looks and sounds just as excellent as 
 Warcraft III did a year ago. The new units and map types are colorful, dynamic, and highly detailed. 
 There's new music for all the factions, and the new tracks fit in well with the original themes. 
 New intro and ending cinematics that are on par with the high-quality Warcraft III CG sequences 
 bookend the campaign. The Frozen Throne also features an improved version of the world editor utility 
 that gives scenario designers more and better options for creating complex and original new scenarios, 
 in addition to straightforward skirmish maps.  

  All things considered, The Frozen Throne is an impressive expansion pack for a remarkably good 
 game, and anyone who enjoyed Warcraft III needs to get it. It's more expensive than the average 
 add-on (and requires the original game to play it) , but it offers much, much more. Blizzard Entertainment, 
 due the commercial success of its games, is in the privileged position of being able to spend seemingly 
 as much time as is necessary to create highly polished, long-lasting computer games and then support 
 those games for a number of years. And judging from this latest game, the company seems to be taking 
 full advantage of that position.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (346 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lethalhazard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:09 am PT
Review:  Keep in mind, this review is written for Warcraft III and it's expansion pack, since most people 
 buy both at the same time. There are separate game-play styles in this extraordinary RTS. Such 
 things are singeplayer, multiplayer, custom games, melee games, and the list just goes on. This 
 review will feature singleplayer, multiplayer melee, and multiplayer custom.
  
  Let's kick off with the storyline. It is extravagant. It feels, in a way, similar to J. R. R. Tolkien 
 themes. The world is epic, and there are many quests and side-quests to do. Playing through the 
 original and expansion will sum about 20 hours of gameplay through singleplayer. This may not include 
 all side-quests. The storyline seems to focus on corruption of several characters, and the forces 
 that wish to take control of the war-ravaged planet of Azeroth. 
  
  The Orcs and Humans are bad and good, with several subfactions that ally each other. Such as Jaina 
 and Thrall's. A demonic force headed by Kil'Jaeden, and ultimately Sargeras, is attempting to take 
 Azeroth. This faction is dubbed The Burning Legion. Without ruining the story, all of these factions 
 collide with eachother and you play different ones through the game. This includes Humans, Orcs, 
 Undead, and one that you'll find later in the third campaign which I won't ruin for you.
  
  Gameplay is very strategic. Online melee involves a ton of micro, and having watched players such 
 as MyM] Grubby, the game takes a ton of skill to be any good at. As for Singleplayer, it doesn't 
 take too much unless you're playing on hard mode. You just defend and build up, then swarm. Pretty 
 much does the job for most encounters. 
  
  As for custom maps on multiplayer, the gameplay is so varied I can't even describe half of it. 
 You'll have to check it out on your own. Many different genres are created by the userbase every 
 day, including RPG-type games. You'll have to check this one out for yourself. A lot of people 
 buy the game just for the custom side. Imagine, if you have played Counter-Strike, the custom maps 
 such as surfing or roadwars. It's sort of like that, in that it takes advantage of the gameplay 
 mechanics and changes it into an entirely new game.
  
  The art design is wonderful. It keeps things not-too-distracting, but also makes for some gorgeous 
 environments. At the time. It still looks pretty nice. Blizzard did a wonderful job on atmospheric 
 areas, such as the swamp-like Felwood. It is a very corrupted forest, with greenish slime water. 
 The characters look somewhat over-exaggerated and "cartoony." Their muscles are large, and they're 
 vicious. Some are comedic, such as goblin sappers.
  
  As for sound, the soundtrack is wonderful. The ambient environments are excellent, also. Both of 
 the sound-types combined create atmosphere for each landscape type. From creepy dungeon, all the 
 way to bright forest. The sound is a wonderfully developed feature of the game.
  
  Some complain the multiplayer doesn't match up to Starcraft. Perhaps it's melee mode doesn't, but 
 the custom maps are much better with a larger variety of options and styles. I, for one, have no 
 complaints for this game other than a sometimes buggy Battle. net. Blocking and unblocking ports 
 manually through firewall and internet is a hassle, and hasn't been fixed yet. Even though it's 
 been years.....
  
  All-in-all, this game is one of the best, if not the best, RTS made. Try it, and develop an opinion 
 on it. I guarantee most of the time, people will be satisfied. Thank you for your time reading 
 my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow-Seeker
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is made by Blizzard, starcraft, warcraft, you've probably heard the name 
 Blizzard before. This game is amazing, ecpecially for it's time. First of all you get 4 races Human, 
 Night Elf, Orc, and the Undead! The games campaign lets you play these races or you can just go 
 to custom game. By the way the campaign is awesome! Plus you Elite HEROS, which are definetly a 
 highlight of the game. There are many heros to play as, and choosing others races lets you play 
 as even more. Then of course you have Blizzard. net, some people buy the game just for this. On 
 Blizard. net you can play games against other players, by connecting to the internet, or you can 
 play custom games. (Custom games are games that players make that use the games characters to make 
 other games, such as using the characters to make a dodgeball, pokemon, or even chess game!) The 
 custom games are my personal favorites, and my favorite ones are Titans Land and God's Land. So 
 look out for those custom games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike12348
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  overall like a 9.7 graphics arne the best but its old. editor is nice and simple. battle net is 
 stable and fun. campaign delivers a rich story line later crushed in WOW dont get it if youve played 
 this. probly not set up for fourth. a couple of the newer things need to be balenced a bit but 
 nothing realy that noticible. many of the custom games online add fun to the whole game like TDs 
 and DOTA (i dont find it That fun) the cutseen at the end is nothing like ive ever seen befor. 
 well now ive seen better but you know. pretty good on any computer. faceing computers in skirmishes 
 isnt fun becuse you have to be like an aisian to win (NO OFENSE) sry if it did ofend you but all 
 aisians at the tech camp i go to just freakin rock they can like keep there mind on everything. 
 ok sry of topic a lil bit just a lil. Defently worth geting
  Ehem"Night elfs"ehem"hot"ehem
  
  -your fellow gamer Mike1238
  or Aldaris (in warcraft)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owned3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is great it's campaign has many good scenarios and some cool cutscences but it was the 
 multiplayer the custom games were great, entertaining and there's more then just DOTA there's castle 
 fight, castle defense tower defenses, undead assault zombie killing games, and a whole bunch of 
 other stuff thanks to its great editor. It was fun to play wether you were to lazy to get a modern 
 game or you got tired of your new games and you wanted to come back to it lasted me 100s of hours 
 I got it in 2006 and i sometimes play it today when i get tired of my new games.
  
  it isn't the usual build base, make army attack entrenched enemy base it has heroes now which give 
 you new strategies and gaining level's by killing creeps gaining items resaerching upgrades but 
 unfortunately there's no naval battles for anyone who liked naval wars well there is in some campaign 
 scenarios but none for skirmish so if there's water you won't really get to go in it.
  
  Anyway if your looking for a great cheap lasting game this is it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradmasterofff
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is one of my favorite games. The map editor is particularly fun and allows for great 
 games to be made. Maps such as these can be played on battle. net making them playable by everyone. 
 This has lead to be becoming quite addicted to this greatly entertaining game. The maps on battle. net 
 have such a variety that it's like playing multiple games in one. There are tower defenses, castle 
 defenses, survival maps, rpg maps, maps based on popular things in media such as naruto. There 
 are riddle maps, mazes, and tricky maps. There are many different kinds of maps designed through 
 the use of the map editor which allows quite a bit of customization.
  
  Overall Warcraft 3 is definitely one of my favorite games overall. It's pretty much the only RTS 
 game that I keep playing. If you enjoy story elements as well, then Warcraft 3 has that too. Warcraft 
 3 is quite an impressive game in my book, and I hope that it remains popular for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caio_vp2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  With many hours of fun and frustration this expansion packs everything you need. From minigames 
 to a wonderful and exciting story. The gameplay never ends since you can download other campaigns 
 and RPGs for it. Warcraft has the graphics, sounds, stories and characters that will make you never 
 want to stop playing. The dificulty is amazing, as it starts out at a good pace but ends in a outraging 
 battle that jumps right at you. The fun never ends since you can play online with your friends. 
 The single player fun is over? Go on and play the multiplayer games with your friends. You can 
 complete quests or even beat bosses on the RPGs made by fans or by Blizzrd. Every single detail 
 was put carefully by blizzard to make your gaming experience the best posssible. I can assure you 
 that this is the BEST game, Blizzard has made until today. And I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Frozen Throne is the first and only expansion to Warcraft 3 and it is alot better than the original 
 one, with a more interesting history, better multiplayer and online system. The history starts 
 after Reign of Chaos with Illidan running from his watcher and jailor Maiev Shadowsong, in this 
 game you will see more places like the Broken Islands or Draenor better known now as Outlands
 
  The multiplayers is fantastic, when you enter Bnet you wont want to leave it because you will 
 try to get the best points with wins, there are more strategies now involving with the older units 
 and the new ones, one example is that alot of undead strategies will add statues of obsidian because 
 these great guys can heal hitpoints or mana making your units survive more in the battle. If you 
 dont have it and want to play the best rts experience then get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darKnight92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  since i've done the review for warcraft III, i might as well finish this as well.
  
  warcraft III: the frozen throne is an impressive expansion pack to the original game, despite the 
 game still going strong at the point of its release. (expansion packs are usually meant for reviving 
 struggling core games, not with warcraft III though)
  
  so the expansion helps tie up all, at least most of all, the loose ends of the original storyline 
 to help the player of the core game gain a form of closure perhaps.
  
  despite that, it is rather disappointing that there aren't as many cinematics in this game as the 
 other which makes completing the various campaigns much less gratifying.
  
  nevertheless, the addition of new structures, heroes and units help provide more number of strategies 
 for players to experiment with as well as balance out the different races more evenly.
  
  to sum this out, the expansion pack is worth it if you've enjoyed the first, want to have more 
 maps to play and wish to know what happens to the characters as well as if you wish to have more 
 games available for you on battle. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lannyboy334
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Warcraft games since I was not but a tike, spending majority of my '01 summer 
 playing Warcraft II, continuing on to Warcraft 3: RoC back in '03, and then Warcraft 3: TFT in 
 the summer of '04. Over time I have continued to play this, my favorite game of all time, for absolutely 
 ridiculous amounts of time, putting in a total of 1000 hours split nearly perfectly between WoW 
 and WC3 in the last year and a half. I have played this game and the non-expansion for somewhere 
 around 2000 hours, so I know it in and out. First of all is the campaign. People really knock on 
 the Warcraft universe' topsy turvy lore, but the tale told in Warcraft 3 and TFT is one of the 
 best of all time, going deeper than the black and white concepts found in other Blizzard games, 
 where sometimes a character may expectedly play the good guy or the bad guy for a bit. Just about 
 every character in WC3 does something that is not a good decision, from Malfurion to Whisperwind 
 to Illidan, but they all have their high points. The graphics are really triangular, with very 
 rough edges, but I personally find no fault with graphics of this quality, just like any Blizzard 
 game, they have their own artistry, and it works just fine for me, these 5 years later. If every 
 developer could make a game as quality as this, I would take these graphics every time. Sound is... 
 Sound, this and that beating on that and this, everything you click on has a sound effect, and 
 in true Blizzard tradition, if you keep on clicking on a character it will eventually say something 
 really funny or quirky. And then the multiplayer... I have only actually beaten WC3 and TFT once, 
 it is the multiplayer that keeps me coming back for more. I have put away hours of my life facing 
 other human opponents in skirmishes and such, but the real high point is the sheer amount of creativity 
 that can be employed from the games expansive world editor. Everything from psycho crazy games 
 like sheep tag to roleplaying games where you can build any scenario or terrain you want, to Defense 
 of the Ancients, the most famous and well known TFT custom map, where you strategically level and 
 equip a hero of your choosing from the 90+ heroes. Overall, the whole game is just amazing, and 
 if for some god forsaken reason you have not consumed at least a hundred hours of your life into 
 this game, well, you are simply missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sporosx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is made to play forever! You play about 1-2 hours for a level, in exception of the 1st 
 ones... The factions have great units and heroes and characters. The storyline was amazing, Unique! 
 It's one of the best games ever!!!! The Orc Bonus campaign is awesome, you play the act for much 
 time and enjoy it, as the rest of the Game! Like the chapter with the Dimensional Portals, I mean 
 it was the best chapter of the game! Well that's what I think. Even if Arthas would be the lich 
 king for true, without a horse would be great, cause sometimes I'm bored to see the horse all the 
 time. But this game is... Unique!!!
  
  the good
  -good storyline
  -good multiplayer system
  -amazing characters and factions
  -good cinematics
  -the credits 
 song rules!
  -the levels are just right, 1-2 hours of gameplay is the best way to have fun!
  
  the bad
 
  -Some levels are difficult 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curio03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing and revolutionary. This is the world's first RTS game to combine RPG elements 
 into it! Blizzard has again done a fabulous job in incorporating this in this expansion.
  
  The story line continues and the plot is great! This game has a really good and mysterious ending. 
 You MUST play the campaigns of this game!
  
  The normal games are really competitive too. It combines its RPG elements very well into this RTS 
 game. The hero is basically the unit that can gain levels and is like an RPG character. You fight 
 your way through against your opponent, and once your destroy his base, you win!
  
  The Battle. net, which is the multiplayer part of the game, is the most amazing part about this 
 game! Not only do people play the normal game, they also play custom games. More people play custom 
 games on Battle. net. Dota, a custom game by Icefrog is the most played game. And this is what makes 
 this game very popular. Warcraft 3 is the most popular online RTS in the world!
  
  Overall this game is really good. I would recommend this game to anyone who has wc3 or is interested 
 in the rts genre. The campaigns are really fun to play, and the story is exhilarating! You don't 
 have to play the normal game in this game, you can also play custom games, like dota. So this game 
 is basically like an all-rounder game, you can do anything! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III and it's expansion pack The Frozen Throne are RTSs (Real Time Strategy) which have 
 you as a commander over an army of troops. Usually playing the role as a various hero from the 
 storyline you complete quests, level up your hero, build up bases and armies, and also defeat your 
 enemies. Obviously the third game of the series it has a large story of many characters of varying 
 races that it expands on.
  
  You play as many different heroes from all of the races at war with each other but the main character 
 in the game is Arthas heir to the throne of Lorderon, kingdom of the humans. Striving to prove 
 himself and become a paladin (a hero who wields the powers of light in the name of justice) he 
 heads to the outskirts of his land where there is rumored to be a deadly plague spreading. On arrival 
 he finds the plague to be much worse than expected to be there are under ravaging the lands and 
 slaughtering the living. Arthas swears to destroy this undead scourge plaguing his lands and follows 
 them down trying to wipe them out of existence. Although this is how the story begins it ends up 
 unfolding into a large battle to save the world from an impending force of unfathomable power.
 
  
  The story of The Frozen Throne is a continuation of Warcraft III's, which further expands of the 
 story creating an amazing and in-depth plot. Unfortunately any insight into it would spoil the 
 whole story for you so I will refrain from talking about it. Now being a computer game obviously 
 online play is very important and Warcraft III can be played both ways. With an amazing world editor 
 you can make custom maps that can be played competitively online by everyone or at home by yourself, 
 this editor allows you to change the very fundamentals of the game transferring it into anything 
 that you wish as long as you have the skill to create it.
  
  The gameplay is very fun with a good strategy based combat using various units and races to form 
 armies. Through this system you can counter the various combination that you will face from the 
 4 races you can play in the melee game. These races are the humans, orcs, night elves, and undead 
 and each of these races has its own campaign in the storyline that allows you to progress the story 
 as different heroes of different sides of the conflict.
  
  The heroes of Warcraft III play a big role in both gameplay and story, in the game your hero has 
 a variety of skills as he gains levels allowing you to build them up how you see fit and granting 
 you skills that can win the tide of war. Mixing units and picking other heroes that support them 
 is vital to strategy and conquering your enemies. Graphically Warcraft III and The Frozen Throne 
 look fantastic with many cool units, animations, and astounding cut scenes. Using slightly less 
 detailed skins on small models it allows not only the customization of changing anything in the 
 world editor, but allows your computer to skill run it well even when you could possibly have a 
 hundred or more units on screen.
  
  The music of the game is very similar to the rest of the series a large variety of epic battle 
 themes that are fantastic as well as the many voices of all the characters throughout the game 
 and during the campaigns. The large thing that truly makes Warcraft III amazing and put it far 
 ahead of any other RTS is the online play combined with the world editor, this allows for limitless 
 possibilities with custom maps. I would rate Warcraft III and The Frozen Throne a 9.8 out of 10 
 for a fantastic game and story with the best replay value of any game I have ever seen. I would 
 suggest anyone who owns a computer to play this game especially if you have the internet the custom 
 maps online are endless fun and endlessly different, if you also hold interest or play World of 
 Warcraft this is a must play to truly understand the story of the entire series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drenomeir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This and the original Warcraft III is one of the most addicting involving games i've ever played! 
 The story is deeply involving and the game itself is a must have. When u read this go and get the 
 Battle Chest. Trust me those hours of complete boardim could be solved by buying these two emmersing 
 computer games. I love every thing about it... especially the cheats... they are o so good. lol. 
 But dont bring this game up with the ladys, they're gonna find u to be a nerd. I know by experince. When 
 your done reading this review I want u to go out to the store and...
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: war_cheif
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  warcraft 3, the frozen throne, the expansion to the great strategy game: warcraft 3, reign of chaos.
 
  at the last game (reign of chaos) you'll meet arthas, thrall, sylvanas, and other famous heroes.
  at the expansion, you will meet a new hero: the prince Kael'thas, the leader of the servivers from 
 the great high elves nation.
  now, without a home, without the sunwell, the prince and the other elves start looking for a new source 
 of power and magic.
  the alliance, starting to hate the elves, and send them to missions that they can't do. in a middle 
 of a mission, when the prince know that they are going to die at the battle, the found the naga. the 
 naga helps them to defet their enemys, and tells them that 'lord illidan' will give the power they 
 seek.
  the elves, call them selve 'blood elves', and join illidan and the battle against the lich kinng, who 
 betraid the burning ligion.
  at this time, arthas, the lich king's champion, get a masage from the lich king that he has to come 
 back and fight against the king's enemys (illidan) .
  
  join the battle between illidan and arthas, in warcraft 3, the frozen throne.
  
  the good:
 
  -good 3d graphics 
  -good sound
  -good multiplayer system (battle. net)
  -good story
  
  the bad:
  -not difficult enough
  -too short (like 45 hours) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  This game's success proves its own worth. Even now in 2008, people are playing DOTA and enjoying 
 it thoroughly.
  
  I'm not sure why this game is so great. It might be the fun races/classes and gameplay. It might 
 be the balancing and the epic storyline. Or maybe it's its high customizable options in terms of 
 map making, which resulted in DOTA, a highly evolved and addictive multiplayer function. Mmm... well 
 maybe its all that.
  
  Warcraft III is one of those games that you just have to buy, that is, if you want to play it, 
 because the multiplayer options are irresistible. This is one of those games in High School, when 
 you need a graphic card upgrade, just so you could make it work.
  
  I'm not sure how much value this game holds in the present day. Still high, but not as high maybe. 
 But like a war-veteran still strong on his feet, who used to have the world at his feet back in 
 the day, Warcraft III deserves its share of praise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Multiplayer: 10
  Storyline: 10
  Impression: 10
  
  Score: 10 (9.8 real)
  
  Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne, being the expansion 
 of one of the greatest games ever, had a lot to live up to. And I'm very pleased to say that it 
 turned out better than expected. An expansion can only be called great, when not only does it add 
 more to the original game, but adds it in such a way that makes the gamer feel he's playing a totally 
 new game. Blizzard Entertainment has delivered an expansion that has made a mark for itself and 
 made an already great game, even better. 
  
  This expansion has added a new element to each of the original game's unique features. For a more 
 detailed explanation of Warcraft III : Reign of Chaos, you can read my review for it. Now on with 
 the review ....
  
  The single-player campaigns of the earlier game were unique as they told a brilliantly designed 
 story, and fortunately Frozen Throne is no different. The story picks off from where the original 
 game left off. The Undead still control most of Lorderon and other races are trying to build new 
 homes for themselves. The central characters are Illidan and Arthas who we know from the original 
 game, and are trying to take control of the already burning world. The campaign missions, as in 
 the earlier game, move from one race to another and in succession you take control of the night 
 elf sentinels, move on to the human alliance and finally the forces of the undead.
  
  The campaigns are, yet again, well developed and have great voice talents. They are a bit more 
 on the RPG line and you do sometimes feel you're playing Diablo, but still they, at the end of 
 the day, end up doing what they're planned for and you can easily master the game's basics because 
 of them.
  
  As it is an expansion, the game adds new units and heroes to each of the factions. To the kitty, 
 add more items and spells and another unique feature - buildable shops, to stock up your units 
 with items. Also to be found in the expansion, are numerous neutral units and buildings. Overall 
 gameplay has also been improved with many little tweaks to every feature.
  
  Graphics and sound of the expansion are also just as good, if not better than the original game. 
 The maps are well-detailed and colourful. The dialog is also fantastic and gives it an edge over 
 other RTS games. 
  
  Coming to the online play, let me say it's just fantastic. What the expansion has done is, that 
 because of its new units, it has provided a counter-strategy to every previous strategy. So if 
 you thought spell casting was enough to make you a champion, think again, as many of the new units 
 have been specifically developed to counter the spell casting ones. As a result, matches have gotten 
 longer and require more skill and practice. There are also many new multiplayer maps for you to 
 play on.
  
  In the end, I think I'll be justified in saying that this is one of the best expansion packs ever 
 made. If you have played the original game, there is no reason for you to hesitate in getting the 
 expansion. It has added more life to the original game and it really is a must-have for any gamer. 
 
  
  Go Play!!
  
  The Good:
  -Every bit is good. 
  -Almost perfect
  
  The Bad:
  -A few extremely minor problems at graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 had so much going for it, and it delivered on so many levels, the game play was fun 
 and deep, the graphics for its time was top-notch, and its biggest hat-trick was its storyline 
 and cinematic's, and i can happily say that the Frozen throne does not dissapoint, even for an 
 expansion, this one could have been a standalone offer and still hit it out of the park.
  
  For a RTS of its time, warcraft 3 was deep but not too hard, and varied enough so that you could 
 go back and sit through repeat plays just to see every aspect of this glorious game.
  
  What really wins me over and makes me want to keep on playing through the game is for the cinematics 
 that are spread out in the game, they are so well realized and executed perfectly that they put 
 some Hollywood animators to shame, go buys this now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiko_lazevski
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  War craft 3: The Frozen Throne its one big name in the history of the strategy gaming and the whole 
 PC gaming at all. 
  
  When you start playing this game you can't stop. You can't describe it whit words its just one 
 Amazing Masterpiece whit incredible game play and story witch are the best in the strategy world.
 
  
  Can't stop talking. Blizzard have the pleasure to be so happy lol. They have a lot of good games, 
 but this is awesome. The World of War craft a. k. a. WOW is nothing if War craft 3 isn't there. Great 
 game!
  
  Im playing this game five years and i will keep playing cause i can't stop. Amazing Single player, 
 ten times better on-line gaming makes this game one of the best. Best wishes to Blizzard, 10 to 
 them, but 9.8 to their War craft 3. That is all.
  
  - - - -   k i k o _ l a z e v s k i,
  S k o p j e,
  M a c e d o n i a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vhiznu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Warcraft, short name but easy to remember...
  The genre is Real Time Strategy.... with a fiction world full of fabled creature...
  this is the 
 first reason for me to play this game.....
  not much RTS game with a good stroyline-graphic-gameplay that i know....
  but when i look inside 
 this game...... only one word to say...... marvelous!
  It's offering a very great story.... a full fmv with a high quality intro and ending (trust me... its 
 awesomely look alive!) .. and a very simple gameplay even for a beginner player on RTS!
  
  Another plus point.... after you understand the game.... you can create your own world / map... off 
 course with your own storyline! (we can call this mod) so there will be lots of people creating 
 their own world and story for you to play...
  
  What about a multiplayer part ? well up to 5 vs 5 people can smack each other with their own favourite 
 race on their favourite maps.. Humans, Elves, Orc (this one is my fave) , undead!
  Lots off unique creeps (this is what they called for another minor race) to fight for money and 
 experience... claim for your new goldmine... destroy their hometown... create hordes of your fav soldier 
 or monster....
  Hire your hero.... leveling-up for greater magic and ablility... and dominate all of your enemy!
 
  
  Blizzard as the creator still supporting this game... with a new patch periodically... a better game 
 will be created in the future....
  DotA... for instance... like em...?
  
  What else do you expect...? 
  be careful tough.... it's very addictive.. heheh
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SollidSnake_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  If the series Warcraft 3 became one of my favorite games with Reign of Chaos, this expansion made 
 it rise to the big skies and obtain the Big King's place (xD) . The gameplay didn't change too much 
 (as in every expansion pack) , had just some few additions (which made it even greater :) ) the visuals 
 effects just had some innovation regarding the new environments and new characters and their abilities.. 
 The Storyline was absolutely mind-blowing.. A great addition to the storyline and one of the great 
 achievements of this expansion pack.. The other one was the new heroes and units added to the game 
 and their abilities.. Magnificent :) . And the other victory.. was the Battle. net.. with the new 
 units and new additions the possibilities and variety in maps, game modes, genres, etc etc, were 
 exponentially increased! A game as great as it could be.. An unmissable experience.. A Masterpiece. 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles194
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Warcraft revolves around a fantasy universe in the medeval times were man kind is being threatneed 
 by orcs but the real danger comes from an undead invasion or the scourge that is swiftly wiping 
 out all pockets of human resistance claiming Prince Arthas as there undead champion even though 
 he has sworn to kill them all. Then the elves ancient enemies of the undead wake from their long 
 slumber to fight the udead tide. The game has three campaighns that happen in a certan order plus 
 an extra campaign for the orcs because they have no real campaign in the expansion. The game also 
 includes an unbeatable world editor that people use to make so many interesting coures online that 
 will make you coming back for more. The game has no real problems so i have given it a ten. The 
 four factions the elves, humans, orcs, the undead and the bonus races you are able to play in single 
 player are all balanced out. They have the same basic structure but they all play equally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Shape1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  For maximal fun, put on very hard. Listen to me, dont use cheats. Its better this way. I just love 
 the Undead. This is the game for A grade!!! Try DotA, its cool. And one more thing that you must 
 know: ALWAYS download new maps from Battle. net! What to say next? Kids, make new maps for older 
 to play on them. To be a real GAMER you must play this game and won it on very hard!!! And REAL 
 REAL gamer is the one who won both games (reign of chaos and frozen throne) . Now, the question 
 is what to do when you won the game... Simple! JUST MAKE THE MAPS ON THE WORLD EDITOR!!! That is 
 very good tool for making maps for Warcraft III. You can even make them based on stories of Richard 
 A. Knaak (I maked map about Sunwell Trilogy) . You just spended a half hour reading my review. And 
 you could be on gamespot looking for other reviews... See ya in next review!!!
  1Shape1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefan933
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  The struggle for Azeroth and the conquest of the Scourge continues in this sequel of the Reign 
 of Chaos. Arthas is weakened by the diminishing powers of the Lich King who calls him forth as 
 his Champion. The former High Elves join sides with Illidan and his Naga army , hoping to rebuild 
 thier shattered homeland. The Nightelf Warden Maiev is also on the trail of the Demon Hunter , 
 but not to join him, but to imprison him. The Orc Campaign features the building of Durotar and 
 the orcish city of Orgrimmar. All in all it's the same well known game, but with a twist in the 
 tale. The Multiplayer features a new addition and that of a new series of mercenary heros such 
 as the Beastmaster. The game is simple and the plot is original, which make this game a must-have 
 and definetly a must-play. Great ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  It has been 5 years since The Frozen Throne came out, or 6 since the original Warcraft 3 came out... 
 so the fact that I STILL play this game is truly impressive! I have logged over 500 ladder matches 
 online, and probably thousands of custom games. It's safe to say I've played this game for 1000 
 hours, although closer to 1500 would probably be the better guess.
  
  So what makes Warcraft 3 so awesome?
  
  Maybe it's the incredibly diverse gameplay, with 4 
 races to choose from, and hundreds upon hundreds of user-created custom games available. Maybe 
 it's the incredible balance between all classes. Maybe it's the fact that you can play it for 10 
 hours straight and STILL not get tired of it at all. It never gets dull. Bored with 1 race? Switch 
 to another. Bored with regular matches? Play some custom games. Bored with custom games? Play through 
 the game's incredible campaign. Frozen Throne's campaign is definitely on a whole other level compared 
 to other RTS's. Even compared to the original Warcraft 3 I would still have to choose Frozen Throne. 
 The storyline is absolutely incredible, the mission objectives are diverse, and the levels as a 
 whole offer a level of challenge that you will love.
  
  I cannot urge you enough to buy this game. It simply must be played. Whether it's single player 
 or multiplayer, you have to play it! Without a doubt one of the greatest games that has ever or 
 will ever be released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedudeguardian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome. it almost never gets boring if u play online. even if normal games get boring, 
 you can always play custom games which are a lot more fun. people are constantly making new maps 
 and they are a lot of fun. this game is the best strategy game in the world. it is a lot better 
 than starcraft. the graphics are awesome and the sounds r also very cool, like when the peon talks.
 
  all though i didnt enjoy the campaign mode that much, i loved the online game play. DOTA is so 
 much fun and there is so many heroes to choose from and master. seriously if u likes strategy games 
 this game is a must-have. GET IT.
  LAN is also very fun. theres so many things to choose from in online custom game. you can play 
 anything you want from naruto to dbz and bleach. people make maps for everything. i personally 
 like playing the anime games like naruto is very fun. peeple work relaly hard on those maps and 
 the skins look really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkStormrage
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  i still play it for like 5 years
  the graphics are kinda weak for nowdays but the game , the playability , the history , the online 
 multiplayer
  man ITS PERFECT
  its a must play game the online experience was one of the best i have ever seen
  its a game that 
 easy to learn and hard to master
  if u playing it send me a massage on warcraft
  i m almost everyday there
  my nick is iLLiDaN.
  well i think thats all i have to say but i 
 need to write 100 words
  so i m going to fill some space , by telling im doing it
  wow i need to write more 300 letters man it ll be a hard journey so i ll tell the warcraft history
 
  in later game, the burning legion was crushed when the humans , orcs and night elfs fought together 
 againt then
  but the night elfs did a terrible thing in order to defeat then 
  they let Illidan scape
  now hes playing to rise the nags race from the sea and conquer the world 
 for his master kil'jaeden 
  while that arthas , the ex-paladin , the undead lord , the king (he was prince , but he killed 
 his father) its trying to free hes master the lich king 
  so there ll be a huge battle betewen they , while illidan grows stronger each day , arthas get 
 weaker each day , cuz he need to g to lich kings altar
  play the game and u ll know how its end 
  well i think now i have 100 words and 800 letters 
 
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popo136
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Many long waiting game ends with a disappointment result. Warcraft 3 is really not that kind of 
 game.
  Since the release date several years ago, Warcraft 3, especially Frozen Throne is still worth to 
 play. Enriched with custom Map that can be found in the internet (or self-made map, thanks to Warcraft 
 3 World Editor off course) , you can define how to play this game.
  Warcraft 3 is a complete game. Warcraft 3 has different game play, compare to the other RTS. It 
 has the right composition between RPG and RTS and MMORPG (not many game can successful in merging 
 two or more genre in one game) .
  You can play it as real time strategy game or even as a role-playing game. You can play it as a 
 single player game (against computer) or even play it with your friends as a multi-player game. 
 As a multi-player game, Warcraft 3 can be played between pc and mac user flawlessly, via intranet 
 or internet.
  
  Afterall, Warcraft 3 is a must-have game for everyone who love to play RPG and RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak9
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  At first those games that like to just amass big armies and beat the oponent through superior force 
 will find themselves cripled witht the upkeep system. Frozen throne Expands upon a spectacular 
 story to put it into an even deeper state, the campaign has a new set of chapters dedicated to 
 the orcs and this is a very different game than the other campaigns reign of chaos and frozen throne 
 offer because it makes the game into a role playing game and by the end your four heroes will be 
 able to push back vast armies on their own. 
  
  The real thing that is amzing about the game though is the multiplayer, the reason i rated this 
 game very hard is not because it is hard to do on single player but because of how impossibly deep 
 the multiplayer is. By looking a pro replay as a newcomer one might not thing it to be hard to 
 do because the pros dont do anything special with their build or units, the real difficulty however 
 is in individually moving around your units. A true professional will never lose a unit and after 
 playing all these new strategy games like world in conflict and such i have to say they still have 
 a long way to go if they hope to match up to the frozen thrones infinite depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarCraft-Klown
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Really I'd say this as I would say is RoC, just better, you know?
  It's not about graphics, or the Melee anymore with WC3, because Melee without a doubt sucks, and 
 the graphics, I already covered...
  
  But The Multiplayer... Haha yeah, more capable, more stuff to mess with, I mean how did we get games 
 like Ultimate Melee? We did it by pushing the limits and breaking them with the TFT Mapmaker, with 
 the new units, and even our own tastes... New Models, triggers, and all the sounds... Put it all 
 together and you got a masterpiece. But hey, tastes are tastes, keep pushing it though, and maybe, 
 just maybe we will find something we all can get into.
  
  Love the multiplayer, hate the Melee...
  Why? Don't ask me...
  It's A matter of management.
 
  Huge numbers is better than Spell Strategy, and hero basis.
  I'm just saying, sheer power   magic,
  Lore, it's just not what I'm seeing...
  When I wanna 
 mess with hero's I play Diablo II or WoW...
  
  I'm sure many agree, and as for the "Upkeep"... Jeez what a waste... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crushmaster
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne was a very nice addition to Warcraft 3, adding some useful features. But, it's 
 not a perfect game. Thus, let's take a look at it:
  Pros:
  New maps added; very good ones, at that.
  Cool new neutral buildings; tavern, marketplace, etc.
 
  Cool new units; spellbreaker, batrider, etc.
  The campaigns added were rather nice, particularly the orc campaign and the human campaign.
  
 Cool new heroes; the Crypt Lord and such.
  Cons:
  Women are still fighting all over the place... literally.
  You still can't buy fighting ships 
 on custom games... a very, very bad move.
  Overall:
  Like I said, a great expansion to a great game. It's worth the money, as you will doubtless spend 
 many hours playing this marvelous game. By far, one of the best games I've ever played. Highly 
 recommended, two thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarltheafro
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game, Warcraft III the frozen throne, is one of the greatest add-ons ever seen to any game, 
 not only does it feature new units and heroes, but also the world editor has greatly improved making 
 it a far superior game in multiplayer aspects than Reign of Chaos, I thought online was going to 
 be boring at first, I liked the campaign and blizzards's scenarios, but I didn't know I was in 
 for a huge surprise, A lot of people were playing it, and it had some great maps, All better than 
 blizzards's custom maps, and I enjoyed one of those maps the greatest : DotA, If you are a fan 
 of addictive games, a bit of melee, rpg and adventure, you should definitely buy this game, for 
 all others, this game is a great buy too.
  furthermore, if you think the graphics are going to be pretty bad, because it is an old game, blizzard 
 has made this game for a wide range of computers, the animations, spells and visuals, are just 
 amazing with any graphical setting, this game even works fully compatible with vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  I have been playing TFT since it came out and now my account on Azearoth has 8 icons including 
 the Warden. This game is so special to me because i have sticked with it longer than any other 
 ones and will continue my endless hours on Battle net. My brother plays it, so does my boyfriend. 
 And I really feel it like a world.
  
  Consider it a RTS, Warcraft 3 TFT has done so well everything that you don't event want talk about 
 few minor bugs any more ( and these bug will soon be fixed in patches) . It has colorful and lively 
 graphics. The storyline deserves to be part of the lengthy and interesting history started in previous 
 version. This is where u can find many unforgettable characters who have their own lives and style 
 of war ( for me Illidan is simply the best) . And the single player campaign is so great that we 
 can play it again and again despite knowing that how it would end. 
  
  But Multiplayer is the part where this game outshines others of its genre. Because here you can 
 play against or watch many kinds of strategies. You will have the satisfying feeling of beating 
 one "imba" strats that some bastards abuse on Battle net (like massing human tower :D) . Or you 
 can get horribly outraged seeing you newbie partners feeding opponents. If you ever watch or play 
 in tourney, you can discover some nearly unbeatable players thanks to their creativity. They can 
 do what others respects only because TFT allows them to do so, even now when the game is becoming 
 dated after 5 years since it released. 
  
  Well there are so much to say about TFT that I'd better don't say anything else at all. But if 
 you play on Battle net, we can meet sometimes at Azearoth gate. My account is Lovely_Beauty (/stats 
 me please) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedy931
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm glad to see that I can finally review games, because I reached Level 3. I'm so happy now.
 
  
  But still Warcraft 3 is amazing game, what makes it so amazing? That there is MANY different maps, 
 melee, RPG, TD etc... You can choose what you want to play, and Battle. net is amazing too, they 
 made it so cool! I like it.
  For real I can say that this is my favourite game. I prefer to buy this : P
  
  Difficulity 
 in campaign is very good, it's not so hard and not so easy. And of course you can download more 
 campaigns from Internet, that makes Warcraft 3 to almost perfect.
  
  Still the graphics aren't so good, but playable still.
  
  About the World Editor, that is very 
 great, you can do almost anything what you want! You can make own scripts, models, sounds! That's 
 simply amazing.
  
  Hope you like my first review all time to here.
  Reviewing games is fun, I'm contining it!
  
  Regards:
  ~Speedy931 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hagge15
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Note: review for warcraft 3 and warcraft 3: the frozen throne.
  
  Humans and orcs have battled for hundreds of years, but now they have discovered a new powerful 
 enemy.
  
  Warcraft 3 (or WC3) is a challenging strategy game that doesn't make you want more. I know because 
 I have played this game for several years.
  
  The campaign is pretty hard for beginners and often results in cheating, but its still fun because 
 of the great cinematics. You can even make stages with the world editor, which is a extremely powerful 
 and advanced tool that nothing can beat!
  
  The internet playing is even better, where players hosts their own powerful stages, it can be everything 
 from hide-n-seek to a 10 minute cinematic. The possibilities are endless!
  
  The only problem is that everything has tiny, tiny bad stuff which gives the game -1,5 points
 
  
  
  
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The characters say very fun things if you click them several times, but the battle sound often 
 sounds wrong or comes after the punch..
  
  Graphic: 9/10
  The graphics are really good for its time, but makes the game lag in big battles on battle. net.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Also very good, but the campaign are too hard for beginners especially on the frozen throne.
 
  
  Controls: 9/10
  Totally ok, but it is hard to control large armies.
  
  
  Final score: 8,75/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestarwarsman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  its a great game i cant really rate the difficulty of the game because it depends on ure play style
 
  i am not good at role playing (campaign) or the online blizzard maps (the normal game, tornement) 
 i personally like the custom game play where anything can happen and where people get to showcase 
 their great maps, bad maps, sadly porn, and test ideas for new maps also their are channels that 
 connect to all blizzard games which means you can talk to people on starcraft, diabblo, or the 
 original warcraft 3 which is kinda cool cause i don't know any other company that does that so 
 i give it a 10 and yes i do have a life so you can stop thinking that i have none and that i know 
 nothing about the game because i have put/wasted 7 years of my life playing that game and many 
 others so stop downloading that porn buy the game and have fun with if you feel the need to continue 
 downloading just don't do it while playing or someday someone will find your address and strangle 
 you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  This game is great. The characters are great, the story is great everything is great. Why with 
 the expansion, this game is near perfect! The heroes are great, leveling them up is a great new 
 feature and this game is full of them!
  
  The graphics in this game are greatly improved from Warcraft II, they are something to be proud 
 of. The sound has been improved so much. They revamped all of your old favorites too.
  
  The strategy in this game is so deep, that no matter how long you've played the game for, you learn 
 new things all of the time. The stage editor has also been improved dramatically from the earlier 
 titles.
  
  This game is great. The expansion is great aswell. This game makes a great addition to anyone's 
 collection. I highly reccomend this game and the expansion to anyone who is into heavy strategy 
 games. Happy Gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petrit18
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  man i can tell the game rules arthas and the others this is cool grafix is good playing lust as 
 much as you want the first time i played the game i didn`t like but then after two or three games 
 i jus wanted to play i didn`t stop the pc for days only for playing warcraft and beat my friends 
 so i can give people out there a tip keep playing warcraft is really good enjoy it i like the most 
 of races the orcs because of the traurens they rule of the game man blizzard don`t take this as 
 an offense i don`t like the other races only orcs man man man man i can tell the game rules arthas 
 and the others this is cool grafix is good playing lust as much as you want the first time i played 
 the game i didn`t like but then after two or three games i jus wanted to play i didn`t stop the 
 pc for days only for playing warcraft and beat my friends so i can give people out there a tip 
 keep playing warcraft is really good enjoy it i like the most of races the orcs because of the 
 traurens they rule of the game man blizzard don`t take this as an offense i don`t like the other 
 races only orcs man man man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simsis
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  This is really ultimate game. I downloaded it, played it, then played it on net, and then for the 
 respect to the game and for it's goodness I bought it. Now playing online and just can't stop. 
 There aren't so many good games out there, but blizzard games are really worth playing. I rarely 
 play games so long because they get boring. But this one has so many maps and mods that it's never 
 enough. I couldn't decide how to rate it. WC3 has great graphics and good balance. Music is really 
 good. I like it. The campaign for SP is very good and long to give enough gameplay. But the gameplay 
 isn't the best. I've seen better ones. The storyline is very easy to understand, so anyone can 
 understand what's happening. The mood is just right only because of movies and things happening. 
 Last but not least is the story and it's actually good. But I would like something better. In overall 
 this game is great and even greater because of the MP and those great mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anguille02
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  I never wanted to play WC3 because of the hype and the bad/horrible graphics but finally decided 
 to give it a go. I am currently finishing the campaigns of the Frozen Throne and here's my verdict 
 after many months of playing:
  
  - Graphics: better than on the screenshots: 7/10
  - Sound: good music even if it's the best i've heard, sounds are ok 8/10
  - Campaigns: campaigns 
 are long... gives a lot of gameplay for SP 9/10
  - Scenarios: this is the best aspect of the game... very different missions 10/10
  - Mood: thanks 
 to excellent movies, the mood is there from the beginning. 9/10
  - Interface/gameplay: very average... many RTS games are better 6/10
  - Balance: excellent 9/10
 
  - Story: there's nothing interesting in the background story.... very weak and boring 2/10
  
  My score is then: 7.5
  
  My final words are: WC3 is very good RTS, average in gameplay 
 but excellent in the scenarios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armandm3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Frozen Throne is the best expansion pack of warcraft. It have a great storyline even as the original 
 one 'Warcraft 3 Reign of Chaos.' This expansion pack give a better go to play online as the format 
 to map have been upgrade to a better feeling. Now you can play a variety of map as example Hero 
 Siege and Dota Allstars, two fantastic popular maps which are played by practically everyone. More 
 and more maps are created to give you a better pleasure of that game. This game and the expansion 
 is one of the best from Blizzard.
  
  Graphically it haven't change from the original one but the gameplay have definitely and the story 
 for campaign are better. To know what the feelings you get with that game can't be explained but 
 only by playing it. It is very attractive and addictive game. 
  
  Moreover the game have also a custom mode where you can create your own map and difficulties. The 
 heroes and cryps intelligence have been re-analysed and now the the difficult in the campaign is 
 better giving you great sensation while playing. That make the game to be more attractive as you 
 want to make the best
  
  So if you haven't played it till now, go for it its a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazynotstupid
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is revolutionary ! I've been playing it ever since it came out -- that's almost 5 years 
 now. There's absolutely nothing this game can't offer to a RTS fan. But even non RTS fans like 
 it simply because of the way the campaign is built with excellent characters and a classic tale, 
 not to mention the superb graphics and sound. 
  
  For me Frozen Throne doesn't just end with the campaign or even the RTS game. This game left a 
 lot of scope for custom maps which is one of the reasons I believe this game can never die, at 
 least not before Blizzard comes up with its next RTS Warcraft game. In fact even after 5 years 
 I don't think it would be too terrible if they just come up with another expansion of Warcraft 
 3, one that picks up from where Frozen Throne left off. Entirely changing the game could actually 
 backfire since the existing version has gotten in to the blood of some people like me. 
  
  This game is a measuring stick with which all new RTS games are judged today. Some like Warhammer 
 4000: Dawn of War and Battle for Middle Earth 2 did very well but failed to match the incredible 
 depth of Warcraft 3 : The Frozen Throne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007-wolfenstein
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  BEST GAME EVER please get it its fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun 
 fun fun fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SsJay_Frieza135
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  To say the least, there was a lot to like about Warcraft III in the first place. The game's single-player 
 campaign delivered an interesting and engaging story told from four unique perspectives, its online 
 multiplayer mode was the best in the real-time strategy genre, its four distinctly different factions 
 featured numerous viable strategies and tactics, its gameplay was focused on action and rewarded 
 skill and practice, and its powerful scenario editor let you design your own missions or entirely 
 new gameplay modes using the game's great-looking 3D engine. Basically, The Frozen Throne adds 
 to and improves on every single one of these features, and more. If you enjoyed Warcraft III's 
 single-player campaigns, you'll be pleased to know that The Frozen Throne offers at least as much 
 if not more single-player material. The campaign picks up where Warcraft III left off, in the aftermath 
 of the banishment of the burning legion. The renegade half-demon Illidan and the death knight Arthas 
 are at the center of the story, as both of these power-hungry characters are seeking to take control 
 of a world already ravaged by conflict. You play the campaign missions linearly, just like in Warcraft 
 III, starting with the night elf sentinels, then moving on to the remnants of the human alliance, 
 and finally taking control of the undead scourge. There are more than two dozen sizeable missions 
 in all. The campaign missions offer remarkable variety from one to the next, and it's not a stretch 
 to say that these represent the most skillfully designed single-player scenarios in any real-time 
 strategy game to date. Recognizing that many players have long since grown weary of the standard 
 formula of having to build up a base, raise an army, and then attack an entrenched enemy, Blizzard 
 accordingly included this formula in only a few of The Frozen Throne's campaign missions. Some 
 of the missions grant you access to multiple armies, each charged with its own important objectives. 
 Many missions feature clever variations on familiar strategies. Some limit the types of units you'll 
 get, which may prompt you to develop a newfound appreciation for some of Warcraft III's less-intuitive 
 strategies. All the missions are story-driven and seem plausible enough in the context of the game. 
 The campaign packs in a lot of surprises, perhaps more so in the mission design than in the story 
 itself, and it offers a significant challenge that will help bring you up to speed on some of The 
 Frozen Throne's new gameplay additions. New heroes such as the blood mage add depth and complexity 
 to Warcraft III. And they're just plain cool.
  The plot of the campaign is sufficiently epic, and the superb voice acting and memorable character 
 designs effectively drive the story along. But this isn't the greatest story ever told for a couple 
 of reasons. There's actually a lot more buildup than resolution in what ought to have been a culmination 
 of the previous game's storyline. Furthermore, The Frozen Throne's plot just doesn't give you anything 
 to latch on to -- there's no single central character, and since you'll be playing both as and against 
 numerous characters over the course of the game, you'll sometimes find yourself wondering exactly 
 whom you're supposed to be rooting for. It's an interesting approach to be sure, and it's similar 
 to what Blizzard did with the stories of both Warcraft III and Starcraft: Brood War, but the real 
 issue is probably that none of The Frozen Throne's characters are particularly likeable -- they're 
 charismatic yet despicable, good-natured yet foolishly nave, or vengeful to a fault. Then again, 
 most real-time strategy games -- and most games in general -- don't even try to create such complex 
 characters, so the fact that you can even criticize the finer points of the game's story speaks 
 to its impressive depth. The orcs are conspicuously absent from the main campaign, but they're 
 central to a bonus campaign in which you play as a half-ogre beastmaster who befriends the orcs, 
 who've just settled in a new land. This campaign plays less like a real-time strategy game and 
 more like Diablo, as you'll persistently control just the beastmaster and his small entourage while 
 exploring a map and its surrounding areas, completing quests, gaining experience levels and better 
 gear, and more. All this is actually quite entertaining, though the bonus campaign isn't balanced 
 as well as the core missions, and it becomes pretty easy pretty quickly. Also, enemies will respawn 
 on the map after a while, and it can be tedious to have to slog through the same underpowered foes 
 every time you have to backtrack. The bonus campaign is fun anyway, and the cliffhanger ending 
 promises more of the same in the future. he Frozen Throne adds three beautiful new types of environments 
 that look even better than the original game's maps, several new units to each of the game's factions, 
 and new abilities for some of the original units. Many of the new units are designed to counter 
 particular strategies -- specifically, to counter spellcasting units -- and each faction's air force 
 has also been bolstered by at least one new support unit. So while the night elves' faerie dragons 
 or the humans' spellbreakers won't replace your frontline troops (though the night elves' gigantic 
 new mountain giants certainly might in the late game) , adding a few of them to your army can make 
 a big difference. In one of its most meaningful additions, the expansion also introduces a fourth 
 hero character for each side, and these are featured prominently in the campaign -- you'll gain an 
 appreciation for most all their powers in the single-player mode and can then use these powerful 
 troops in multiplayer matches. Though each of the new heroes is very likeable in its own right, 
 the undead's crypt lord, which looks like an enormous stag beetle, is probably the most impressive. 
 All the new units also sound great, and some have some very funny things to say when you click 
 on them repeatedly. The improved artificial intelligence makes The Frozen Throne quite fun to play 
 on your own, but Battle. net is still where the real action is.
  On top of all that, numerous new neutral units and buildings figure prominently in the expansion. 
 Some fans of 1996's Warcraft II were slightly disappointed when they realized Warcraft III had 
 no naval combat, but now, in some scenarios, ships are available. Just like in Warcraft II, you'll 
 have access to a troop transport, a destroyer, and a battleship. The naval combat is as simplistic 
 as ever, but its inclusion is still a nice touch. More importantly, in some scenarios you can recruit 
 a number of neutral heroes that normally aren't accessible to each faction. The four sides can 
 also build a new type of structure from which they can purchase hero items, such as potions and 
 magic scrolls, as well as items that are specifically useful only to their faction. Considering 
 how much depth there was to be found in choosing from or choosing combinations of the three heroes 
 per side in Warcraft III, having many additional such characters and all these other things makes 
 the gameplay even more interesting and more complex. The Frozen Throne also features numerous gameplay 
 balance adjustments and interface tweaks, though almost all of these are now available in a downloadable 
 patch for anyone who owns the original game. Many units and buildings have lower costs than before, 
 making the early part of a Warcraft III match go by even faster as you quickly muster a respectable 
 force. New early-game defensive structures are available to discourage hero rushing, a popular 
 tactic in the original Warcraft III. The upkeep system has been adjusted to let you marshal larger 
 armies without incurring a penalty to your income, and the unit limit has also been increased slightly. 
 The system used to determine how different weapon types affect different armor types has been overhauled 
 to better balance ranged, melee, flying, and spellcasting units. Several difficulty settings are 
 available for skirmishes against the AI (which fights like a pro at the toughest setting) , whereas 
 the original game didn't offer any difficulty levels at all and was pretty punishing for more-casual 
 players. All these changes are in fact improvements, though they do cater to more-experienced players 
 (there's also an option to play The Frozen Throne with the original Warcraft III rules, if you 
 wish) . Whether or not you're an advanced player, online matches still tend to not last longer than 
 30 minutes, making Warcraft III the perfect real-time strategy game for both quick sessions and 
 marathons. Online multiplayer over Battle. net is also improved, thanks to the implementation of 
 player clans and automated tournaments, as well as some other minor improvements. Now you can gather 
 up nine or more of your friends and form a clan on Battle. net, which allows you to have your own 
 private chat channel and your own internal rankings systems and lets you compete against other 
 clans on a dedicated clan ladder. Tournaments, meanwhile, adjust the rules of the game and strictly 
 enforce a 30-minute time limit. Blizzard has also included numerous new multiplayer maps, as well 
 as a few fun multiplayer scenarios based on popular user mods. Battle. net is running as smoothly 
 as ever, and at this point in time, just after the expansion's release, you're virtually guaranteed 
 to find fierce competition at all hours. The best Battle. net option remains the arranged teams 
 mode, where you and one or two friends can quickly get into matches with teams of the same relative 
 skill level. One year later, Warcraft III is better than ever, thanks to The Frozen Throne.
  Not only does it play better, but The Frozen Throne also looks and sounds just as excellent as 
 Warcraft III did a year ago. The new units and map types are colorful, dynamic, and highly detailed. 
 There's new music for all the factions, and the new tracks fit in well with the original themes. 
 New intro and ending cinematics that are on par with the high-quality Warcraft III CG sequences 
 bookend the campaign. The Frozen Throne also features an improved version of the world editor utility 
 that gives scenario designers more and better options for creating complex and original new scenarios, 
 in addition to straightforward skirmish maps. All things considered, The Frozen Throne is an impressive 
 expansion pack for a remarkably good game, and anyone who enjoyed Warcraft III needs to get it. 
 It's more expensive than the average add-on (and requires the original game to play it) , but it 
 offers much, much more. Blizzard Entertainment, due the commercial success of its games, is in 
 the privileged position of being able to spend seemingly as much time as is necessary to create 
 highly polished, long-lasting computer games and then support those games for a number of years. 
 And judging from this latest game, the company seems to be taking full advantage of that position. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game is really awesome and its one of the best for the pc, this game is so fun because you 
 can make your own games online and let people download, later on the games get out and everybodys 
 hosting them, the good thing about that is, 1: it's really fun to make your own games, terrain, 
 you can even control if it rains at what time and if you want like a zombie to kill somebody after 
 5 minutes.. 2: There is a bunch of new games online everyday because so many play it and make maps.. 
 theres always something online new to play.. they like remake games like resident evil on warcraft 
 3, which sounds dumb, but its not, because they do such a good job. It's fun thinking that you 
 are actually creating a game, and it feels good when alot of people play it because your name is 
 on the credits.. 
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milosbeli
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Well what to say about this game. Ive been playing this game since it came out and im playing it 
 till now. Let me talk abit about campaign. Awesome story , awesome characters , graphics , environment 
 everything is just perfect. I passed the campaign with all races. Just love playing and upgrading 
 heros :) . Well thats all i can say for campaign : perfect !!. Let me move on to Battle. net. that 
 stand for playing online. Belive me when i say this , this is a whole new game when you playing 
 it over the internet. Ive been playing over the internet professionally for like 4 years. Its absolutely 
 amazing. When you have like 100.000 people playing the same game :) There are different playing 
 types , from solo 1vs1 , to 2vs2 , 3vs3 , 4vs4 , and Free For all , and then there are tournaments. 
 There are 30 icons , 5 from all races and 5 from tournament. First icon -25 wins , second -150 
 , third -350 , fouth -750 , and fifth -1500. and there are for tournament, 10,75,150,250,500. Well 
 enough said for me :) ) now you can play it and love it ! GAME BEYOND ITS TIME AND BEST GAME FOR 
 PC ! Play it and you will LOVE it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 was a lovely game to play. Warcraft 3: Frozen Throne is even better. Not only can you 
 play with the same type of game you used to, which practically revolutionised the levelling up 
 hero idea, but you can also play with some wicked new units. The Humans get the Blood Elves added 
 to their army, brilliant spell casters with a terrible curse. The Orcs get some fun units, such 
 as the Troll Priest, and the bat rider. The Undead get some help form the carrion leftovers on 
 the battlefield, and the Night Elves get some new brethren to help them in their quest to fix the 
 mess they have caused. The new campaign still acts like the old one, where the player goes through 
 several levels, building bases and levelling heroes, but there is a side campaign about how the 
 orcs and the trolls allied with each other, and there are some new mini games that can be played. 
 With a variety of new maps, and the ability to create your own, you can have potentially endless 
 fun with this game, even if you have completed the whole campaign, the skirmish missions will have 
 enjoying this game for a long time after you have completed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locked-On
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Out of all PC games, Warcraft 3 The Frozen Throne is one of the best I've played ever since it 
 came out. I've never got bored of it and I've been playing it ever since it came out. Its simply 
 amazing and versatile Map Editor and the fun battles combined make this game legendary.
  
  The campaign of the game will last enough for you to enjoy it and even play it again sometimes. 
 Although newer Warcraft players should obviously play Warcraft 3 Reign of Chaos' campaign as a 
 quick tutorial first, this game's campaign adds a lot of new stuff, such as the secret Tower Defense 
 level in the Human Campaign.
  
  Perhaps the best thing about this game is the World Editor. Not only can you create your own, neat 
 maps but you can use the Trigger Editor to create very unique games from racing to a first person 
 shooter. Devote a few days' time to learning about triggers and you can create your own unique 
 game. Also, another good thing is the Object Editor, also one of the features in the World Editor. 
 You can manipulate almost every aspect of a unit; what it looks like, its abilities, its hitpoints 
 and mana, and much more. You can also create your own custom units, abilities, doodads, and more. 
 Combine this with the Trigger Editor and you can create your own neat triggered spells that can 
 be amazingly eye catching or can dominate the entire map. If you're into modeling and animating, 
 you can import your models into your maps and use them as your own custom units.
  
  The game doesn't cost a lot either, you don't need a lot of money to buy the game but I say the 
 game's worth a million dollars more. All of its features are worth an unlimited amount of games.
 
  
  Overall, this game is just simply amazing in its ability to allow players to completely alter the 
 gameplay of their maps and enjoy the fun with friends and family at home or online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FernadoCR
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  its one of the best blizzard games i like to play it all the time, its one of the best sci-fi RTS. 
 When you learn how to play it very well, its not too dificult and you start to like it as one of 
 your favorites, the first part is not as good as its expansion, but better play it first to follow 
 the entire story. its a very good multiplayer game too. The new units, heroes and very good cinematics. 
 one of the bvest ever made games, but play it and feel it by yourself.
  its one of the best games of the gaming history, so enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlDurdy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  At first, many people think that Warcraft 3 is a RTS... well, yeah... it is. But this game has 
 many ways it can be played.
  
  Of course, you can play the RTS, which I am not very fond of, but I still bought the game.
  
 
  This game has a whole other face, the custom maps, one of the most popular; DOTA (Defense of the 
 Ancients) is one of the best. You control heroes and go down lanes fighting other heroes in a five 
 vs. five brawl. The heroes all have different abilities used to kill each other, which makes this 
 game a blast.
  
  Another custom map type I like is the Tower Defense type, such as Element TD or Shopping Maul TD. 
 In a TD, You build towers and upgrade them as they kill creeps. Some TD games have you maze the 
 towers, and the creeps will walk through the maze of the towers to get to the end. Others, like 
 Mauls, have the max amount of people in the game, all mazing together to kill off the massive creep 
 waves that come. Mauls are usually only fun when everyone knows what they're doing, or if your 
 with a bunch of friends. TDs also have the game setup where there will be lives that the player (s) 
 will have, as players "leak" the creeps that get by there towers, the live counter will go down. 
 Obviously, that isn't good.
  
  But of course there are a whole slew of other custom games ranging from mazes, to many other stupid 
 games but, you should definitely not miss out on this classic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemanha
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 its one of the best games on the real-time strategy genre. It offers hours of fun, 
 both on multi an single-player modes. The large number of units let you create different strategies 
 to break your enemies. You can send dozens of footman and knights supported by spellcasters and 
 siege engines, or you can amass various units of a same type and rush your enemy early on. 
  The campaign mode has a well ellaborated story line that can be seen by different perspectives, 
 since you can play using each one of the 4 different races on the game. The single-player mode 
 also let you play a skirmish against the computer, which adds a lot to the replay factor. The game 
 also features a world editition mode, that allows the player to create his own maps, campaigns, 
 and even units!
  The multiplayer mode is the most popular amongst the players, since you can play against players 
 all around th world to measure your own abillities.
  Warcraft 3 its one of the most addictive games I ever played, because it offers many things that 
 makes us want to play more and more. 
  Well done Blizzard! I hope that Starcraft 2 will be as good as this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tung-R
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ( or the best Expand for the warcraft 3 original) This game alway take me 
 an hour to play. Although there are many new game RTS ( Command and C, Warhammer 40K,... ) , but 
 i still like play Warcraft 3 much, because the trategy of this game is perfect (not only heroes 
 and spell are most importan) . There are many Mods of Warcraft 3 as: D-Day, Dota-allstar, and many 
 RPG mods from warcraft 3, but only Dota-Allstar was choiced in champion: Warcybergame ( WCG) , WEG, 
 WSCG,... Despite the graphic of warcraft 3 was old ( it isnt shapeness) but the effect in graphic 
 is still. Blizzard Entertaiment is one of the best studio i like best. I dont know Blizzard will 
 product Warcraft 4?? i hope warcraft 4 still follow successfull of Warcarft 3 ( if Warcraft 4 product) . 
 But in 2008 we will have Starcraft 2 ( the famous RTS of Blizzard) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleodman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne is a worthy expansion game to the original in terms of value and getting closure 
 on the story. There are a lot of new characters and races to control. I just did not find it as 
 enjoyable as the original game. It tends to drag on it my opinion and the story line's continuation 
 is not as engaging this time around. At multiple times throughout the game, it feels very crowded 
 and overly busy. Still a nice expansion to have. The extra bonus game is completely lame and has 
 the feel of amateur production. I had to almost force myself to finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirhc88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  A game that goes beyond what it was meant to be is probably the one you are reading about right 
 now. Warcrft 3 the frozen throne is the perfect expansion pack to one of the biggest hits coming 
 from Blizzard Entertainment. 
  
  Strengths: The game appeals to all gamers, wither it be a newbie trying out RTS games for the first 
 time, or hardcore gamers who are seeking the next challenging game. Trust me the game isnt easy..
 
  The game also features solid network capabilities which help in multiplayer games across a lan 
 network. Here you can play either the frozen throne or one of the many wacky maps that can be downloaded 
 from the interent which can range from addicting tower defences to exciting hero duals against 
 your mates (DOTA maps) 
  
  Weakness: NOt much to say here except that the cartoony graphics tend to be compared to that of 
 C&C but thats not to say that they suck!! Plus the new controls from blizzard are a bother the 
 first hour or 2 of play but after that you'll be sailing along the game with clicks and hotkeys.
 
  
  IN short Warcraft 3 the frozen throne is a perfect game to set and play when you have nothing to 
 do on a boring afternoon or probably have something to do but you dont seriously care and you still 
 want to play a fun game to pass the time.
  
  Multiplayer value, CRAZY MAPS AND MODS, and a challenging story. Need I say more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanjeev3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III, the actual skirmishes against computer are a little hard because the enemy produces 
 a large army and goes around with that army in a group. But the campaign is awesome, I must've 
 done it thrice. I can still come back to this game whenever. The graphics fit the game, the gameplay 
 is great and the atmosphere keeps you playing. 
  
  The multiplayer aspect of this game is great. Minigames such as DOTA and Run Kitty Run add so much 
 more to do to this game. Its defiantly worth your money. Its kept many people playing since 4-5 
 years ago. A game with so much longevity.
  
  I would highly reccommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drunkman123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne: With a soild campign that is enough to settle just about every 
 hardcore Warcraft Fan, But.. the Real power is in the Multiplayer.
  
  With Daily Tournaments, Obsever Modes, and some hard gameplay ensure even in a public match. also 
 there is Custom Games Where player games in the thousands. Some showing where w3 can look even 
 better with realistic models also.. the most popluar of them is dota a game you are sure to enjoy 
 for hours and hours.
  
  W3 also has a very powerful map reaching almost every ascept of the game which insures w3 beyond 
 its limations.
  
  Overrall W3 is a great game which could last years and even longer with a new map just about every 
 day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne is the first expansion pack for Blizzard's excellent RTS Warcraft 3. The expansion 
 adds in all the standard stuff you'd expect from an expansion, but it also improves just about 
 everything about Warcraft 3. Make no mistake- this is the game Warcraft 3 should of been.
  
  When we last left off, the world of Warcraft had been saved from the demonic Burning legion 
 led by Archimonde. Archimonde is now dead, and the world is busy recovering, but there is still 
 foul business afoot. The story focuses almost exclusively on the new Night Elf character Illidan 
 in one way or another, even though you only briefly play as him. He appeared in the original campaign 
 briefly, but we didn't get to know much about him. The Frozen Throne expands this character quite 
 a bit, and makes him much more interesting than he was originally. This story hops around much 
 more than the original story did, but still manages to be more interesting at the same time, as 
 its no longer the good old "save-the-world and armageddon-prophecy story".
  
  The new campaign is slightly shorter than the original campaign, but its much more entertaining 
 as a whole as its scenarios are much more widely varied. They're a bit more challenging too, basically 
 requiring you to have quite a bit of experience from the original game. But even with that experience, 
 it'll take you a short time to get used to all the balances and changes the Frozen throne makes 
 to the gameplay.
  
  The actual gameplay is unchanged, but there are hordes of balances, tweaks, and additions. You've 
 got a few new units for each faction, including one new hero unit each. There are also new creeps, 
 new neutral structures, new abilities, and a horde of usable neutral heroes that can be trained 
 at the neutral tavern structure. Add in all the balances that Blizzard has done, and Frozen Throne 
 feels much sharper than the original ever did. This all makes the skirmish mode much more entertaining 
 than the original's skirmish mode, especially since the new maps are extremely well made. The AI 
 has been vastly improved as well, with 3 new difficulty levels that can be chosen for each seperate 
 AI. The AI is much more efficient, organized, and cooperative this time around, commonly rushing 
 to defend their allies bases when they're attacked.
  
  Graphically, the Frozen throne of course doesn't really change anything. The new units do look 
 decent however, and animate nicely just like all the other units generally do.
  
  With all of these improvements, the Frozen Throne is a must buy for anyone who enjoyed Warcraft 
 3 to any degree.
  
  Pros: Masterfully adds in new features and makes many tweaks that make warcraft 3 play and feel 
 sharper than ever before. New campaign and storyline much more interesting than the original's 
 campaign. Vastly improved AI.
  
  Cons: Won't change the minds of those who hated Warcraft 3.
  
  Recommendable for: If you liked 
 Warcraft 3, the Frozen Throne is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmah1337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best computer game i have. I have spent countless hours playing this game. Why? 
 becuase it keeps on giving. Not only can you play normal Warcraft 3 games but you can also create 
 your own game. Great for people who want to start coding video games but arnt to good at it. That 
 is a great place to start. Also the fact that there are custom maps makes Warcraft 3 a superb place 
 to play games online. With battle net you can play with up to 12 people online. Custom games go 
 from Tower defences to Hero games. Also RPG's are online. Its amazing how many games are in one. 
 I find that this game never gets boring due to the fact there are tons of games on Warcraft itself. 
 I find this a very good investment in my money. Anyone who doesnt have it should try it or just 
 plain buy it. Its not that expensive and i must say its really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullton_35
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Wow, its just great. Though you have some people who say it sucks but they haven't played this 
 awsome game!!! if your looking for a great all rounded strat then try this game out!!! if you get 
 bored of single player then go online!!! get into a clan! its great fun with many many great custom 
 games!! So don't dis this game unless you give it a try, because you can really get into playing 
 this like myself. If your also WoW fan and you don't know the whole story then get this game and 
 find out! everything will fall into place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samorc
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  quality gameplay good balancing great game from Blizzard. Custom gaming online has never been better, 
 this is only possible because of the level editor which is a great edition to this game. All round 
 good game ive spent loads of time on this. Wish blizz would make a warcraft 4 i prefer this to wow 
 which is overated. i got this game when it first came out and am still playing it now . Still i 
 think i might have to ditch this for hellgate london which looks to be a very promising game. i 
 will be suprised if gamespot rate it under 8 . 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  I think I love this game more than any other strategy. This game is a real hard game for me to 
 play but even that I can't let this game be uninstalled in my PC. I tried all the group of the 
 game and all the heroes but I again loose in simple combats! But I don't throw it away because 
 I think that nothing can let me to leave this legend. I suggest to every gamer that taste this 
 game. Because that any gamer that loose this game will loose his life. It is not important that 
 you play as orc, human, night elf or undead it is important that you play perfect which I can't!!!! try 
 to love this legend and save it in your eternal memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owner900
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I've never played a strategy game better than this one Blizzard is one of the best companies ever! 
 they have made the most fantastic games ever like Warcraft 1,2 and,3. they have also made a newer 
 one called World of Warcraft. You will have so much fun playing this game it may be a short game 
 but when you finish the original you will want to pop in the expansion and continue the fun. you 
 will start the cutscene first (which are so good) the once it is over you can then start playing 
 the first level and then the next and the next and so on. You will have fun with the map maker 
 and create your own campaign and melee maps to play on the real game. have fun playing it! (: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Undead_Arthas
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  When I first played WC3: RoC, I was new to the computer and didn't know about expansions, only sequels. 
 When I learned that there was an expansion, after being hooked on RoC, I immediately went out and 
 got this when I had the money. After just a few minutes of playing, I knew this was going to be 
 epic, I was right. The new units slaughtered, storyline was amazing, hell, even the music was good. 
 Then when I went into online play I was sucked in for good. I would stay on for large amounts of 
 hours at a time, not just playing meele (WC3 speak for a regular 'official' battle) , but custom 
 games, and good god, the custom games literally blew any other computer game I ever played out 
 of the water. After much confusion, I finally found the world editor, the thing that allows you 
 to make custom maps. This just made me love the game even more. I mean really, the ability to make 
 your OWN games and play them with other people, how awesome is that? You could also add your own 
 custom music, units, abilities and spells, land scape, it was literally limitless. I suggest this 
 game to anybody, even people who aren't big big fans of the RTS genre, because with online play 
 this takes some parts of the full out strategy and replaces it with just plain fun.
  
  Overview:
  
  Graphics: Great graphics for its time. The cut scenes at the begging and end of 
 each campaign seem realistic and are beautifully made, just like last game. Regular game graphics 
 are pretty good, though sometimes it looks like cardboard cut-outs were pasted onto paper-mache 
 models, but they're still good enough to enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: Great, immersive, and sucks you into the game. Single player campaign is a bit more challenging 
 than most would expect, with quite a few twists and turns to the objectives. You WILL be playing 
 this for hours at a time, even on single-player.
  
  Sound: Not many catchy tunes here, but they set the tone of the game. Fair sound quality, sometimes 
 it will seem a bit less then realistic when a metal sword hits a piece of wood and it makes a metal-clashing 
 sound.
  
  Storyline: Compelling storyline that makes you remember all the good parts of it and takes you 
 into Warcraft lore, read ahead for further details ***SPOILERS! SPOILERS!***
  After the battle with Archimonde on Hyjal summit, the races seemed to have gone back to peace. 
 Yet as we know, that will never happen in Azeroth. Illidan has taken the skull of Gul'dan and become 
 a mix of demon and night elf. He now commands armies of naga, serpent people who are deformed night 
 elves. Else-where, the high elves, now called blood elves, have allied with the humans trying to 
 subside their addiction the the magic Arthas took away from them when he destroyed the Sun Well. 
 The scourge, still holding power, continue their reign of terror. Arthas keeps hearing the call 
 of Ner'zhul, the lich king. Sylvanas though, knows she can use this to break away from Arthas. 
 You'll have to play the game to find out each races fate, and the orcs, being a 'secret' campaign 
 have a new ally in which I won't be revealing
  
  Online play: Amazing, astounding, incredible. Those are the only words to describe it. You can 
 choose to play either a regular game, which is classic meele, or a custom game, games created by 
 players. Since it's easier to describe them in separate I will.
  
  -Meele: Well, in meele, you will need the original strategy elements to this game to succeed. You'll 
 also need a good sense of teamwork to prevail over your enemies. If another player on your team 
 is giving you a hard time, or both, then simply leave them to die and join a different game, as 
 this actually does happen a lot.
  
  -Custom: Custom games, in my own opinion, are much better than meele. It's not just the same thing 
 over and over, there's a long list of custom games that are hosted daily on this game. One of the 
 more popular ones being DOTA (look it up) . I personally don't like this one very much, but nonetheless 
 it is one of the most hosted games online. You can also make your own games to play, and even better, 
 if you can't come up with your own idea, you can use other peoples ideas as a bit of inspiration, 
 just as long as the not the exact same game. Although making your own games can be incredibly difficult 
 if you don't know what you're doing, there are online turoials that explain what to do and give 
 examples. The only downfall of custom games is that you have to download each map you don't already 
 have, this will lake a while when you're in the game lobby because not everyone downloads at the 
 speed of light. But don't worry, all of the games to download on WC3: TFT are completely safe and 
 virus free as they're owned by Blizzard on of the software, so viruses cannot be planted onto them
 
  
  This game still is my favorite, and I've had it for about 2-3 years (I've had Warcraft in general 
 for 6 years) . I don't think this game will die down anytime soon, and although it certainly isn't 
 as popular as WoW, it is much, much better and a better investment as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  While the original Warcraft III remained true to it's RTS roots, the expansion's single player 
 campaign doesn't. It feels more like an RPG with RTS elements than the other way around. And it 
 feels great. It also has a lot of new sub-races , derived from the original 4, but that feel refreshing 
 and new anyway.
  
  On the multi-player side of the scale, the expansion brings new items, heroes and (obviously) units 
 to play with. All this comes at no price to the great game balance exposed by the original game, 
 as it seems they really spent a lot of time researching game balance, as usual.
  
  If you already own Warcraft III, this i a must. If you don't, what are you waiting to go and purchase 
 the battle chest? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GraphitePanther
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  What can one say about Warcraft III and Warcraft TFT that hasn't already been said before? Well 
 perhaps no one has discussed the magnitude, simplicity, and diversity of this game's multiplayer. 
 The exceptional multyplayer expierience doesn't stop with simple skirmish or ladder matches, but 
 rather it extends to literally thousands of custom games. Nearly everything is automated from the 
 second you log on to battle. net, from updating your computer with the latest patch to the seamless 
 download of any custom game without even logging out or searching the internet. While any network 
 is going to have some trouble keeping everyone's gameplay running smoothly in any multiplayer game, 
 battle. net is a time-tested network you can rely on. And finally one of the greatest multiplayer 
 issues this game overcomes is having a large dedicated community, there is no lack of people to 
 play with. I invite you to enter an engrossing world with so many hours of entertainment, here 
 is a timeless classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  i dont no why u giving it very good reviews... its just my opinion .. this game doesnt worth ur bucks.
 
  The battles are slow and boring.
  The graphics were very sharp, the game play was hardcore (almost to much to enjoy) , and the story 
 well I really didn't care for it. without cheat codes, this game is very hard.
  Graphically, Warcraft III was right. Nothing speciall, and nothing bad.
  Value:
  Surprisingly, 
 you will get a lot out of this game. The skirmish games are great for replay value, and you'll 
 also want to follow the deep story of the campaign. That, and you'll want to master the four races. 
 But the main value of this game is online play.
  sound:
  Sound is definitively one of the best of the game. There&acute; s a lot of sounds and things troops 
 and unit say to us and we won&acute; t hear our peons saing Lumberjack twelve times when we make 
 them go to harvest lumber.
  Everything else in the game is fine.
  overally this game is moderate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I like the game! It was really nice experience to play game of this kind! I love blizzard! Their 
 games are always awesome! Even the game is old alreday I wtill enjoy playing it once in awhile!
 
  Good game, fun to play, very nice in myltiplayer! I am from Bulgaria and was maybe more than three 
 years when I played the game for a first time and loved it! I like playing with Orcs the most-they 
 are very strong and have really good abilities! Love the gameplay! just decided to write a quick 
 review right now!
  I hope there is people over the whole world who enjoyed and keep enjoying the cool Warcraft 3 TFT 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne is a great expantion for a already great game. The use of the Naga was fun, as 
 limited as it was, and the new heros were fun to use. The only let downs were, like Reign of Chaios, 
 you cant create you own navy, you have to depend on the stations set up on the shores, and you 
 dont get the naga as a new race, you only get to use them in the campain missions. Other wise the 
 new campaigns are welldone and the bonus campaign is just plain fun. The only thing about the bonus 
 missions is that you have to download the last two parts of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malavos
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  What is a rts? Well, it&acute; s a game you play and enjoy building a lot of constructions, fortifications, 
 walls, mine some gold, another resources and kill the enemy. Well. Think better. All rts are all 
 the same. Im Warcraft III that changes. One of the pioneers in using heroes, but better - with 
 inventory, skills, level, like a rpg. well. In this expansion, all come in double. The 4 races 
 are back, now with more units, one new hero per race. Some new creeps and buildings. And talking 
 about single player: Arthas is coming forth. So wait new things and have nice sieges, balanced 
 races.
  
  Ah- and the better thing, even losing, or winning, you always have some fun. =P
  
  GG to all 
 o/
  
  Hiei-Kun on azeroth (So n00b omg)
  
  Blizzard owns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noventus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  I have had this game for many a year now and I still think it's easily one of the best RTS games 
 ever made, yes it has a great story that really pulls you in and cut scenes that were jaw dropping 
 for it's time and fantastic gameplay but where the real meat of the game lies and what has me playing 
 it to death still despite having many new exciting titles such as company of heroes and medieval 
 2 is the brilliant multiplayer and map editor, this game has got by far the most flexible and user 
 friendly map editor I have ever come across and a system that allows you do download other peoples 
 maps that other people have made and hosted simply by joining the game, I know similar things have 
 been done for other games in the past but none quite so well and effortlessly, the map editor along 
 with the download system has resulted in many truly addictive games created by talented gamers 
 that will have you hooked for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Haha, Warcraft III loves turning their celebrated heroes to the dark side faster than Anakin Skywalker 
 to Darth Vader. The new heroes had awesome powers that refreshes your tactics from the first game, 
 and check out the drunken panda, he's funny. The single-player campaign is surprisingly beefy for 
 an expansion's worth that will certainly deprive you of at least a week of sleepless nights.
  
  New units for everyone that are both useful and colorful. Also check out the funny and classic 
 comment from the Orcs' Batrider. Basically I play this for the sake of the story and cinematics 
 and I'm not disappointed cos everything that's outstanding in the first game still rocks in this 
 expansion. An ace grade expansion amongst expansions.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahadlameh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  you must focous n your heros and carefully.
  we can choose random hero and cgang heros.
  another important thing is items. you can mix that to creat some powerfull item. you must learn 
 about items.
  Warcraft III : The frozen throne is on of best games.
  
  this is best a game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this is best a 
 game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this is best 
 a game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this is 
 best a game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this is best a game. this 
 is best a game. this is best a game.
  
  By Ahad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamafan3414
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I got this game from request of my friend because he has it. I was glad that I made this decision, 
 because this game is really fun. The campaign is a great add on from the first game and the online 
 is amazing..... Should I say it..... WOW? Ha just kidding. But yeah this game has many different 
 modes for online including ranked, unranked, clan, and custom. They also have many tournaments. 
 They have a website that keeps track of everybodys stats and it is a really nice feature. This 
 game can keep you entertained for hours upon hours and guess what...... Its Free! I know for all 
 of the college students that is a sigh of relief. Ha but it is great that it is free. I mean they 
 dont even have an upgrade for money.... its all free. The controls for this are really easy..... 
 Infact it is pretty much just your mouse and key shortcuts. Very Easy. The graphis for this game 
 are good and the sound..... Well I just listen to iTunes so ha. But yeah I defintly encourage anybody 
 on a tight budget to get this game because it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiNoNaX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  If you put aside the balance issues ROC had problems with, who would have thought that this ex-pack 
 would add so much to Warcraft 3.
  
  What makes this an excellent expansion pack is that it addresses all the fualts with ROC (even 
 though there werent to many.) New units, new heroes and resolved the amazingly bad imbalances of 
 ROC. Just what an expansion pack should do.
  
  In ROC each race had a certain tactic that could be basically repeated over and over again with 
 success.
  
  UD: Tri-Hero Mass ghouls with dual aura
  NE: Fast tech for Talons for mass cyclone (no dispel) with mass archers
  HU: Fast exp mass gryphons 
 or mass casters
  ORC: Thrall harass with mass casters
  
  This expansion removes all of that. It requires a good mix of many units to play on a competive 
 level now and there is no given strategy written in stone now to win. With the new units also helping 
 to resolve balance issues
  
  It just adds more icing to the cake with one helluva cherry on top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samfreak
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III is indeed a great game. But I'll be honest, it is hard. But once you get the hang 
 of it you will love the strategies. It's great because it has a challenge to it. It is still one 
 of my favorite strategies up to date, but it will be wiped out when Starcraft II comes out. I still 
 think the mods/maps are the greatest thing about the game, though. It is definately the best Warcraft 
 yet, although Warcraft II is close, but that one is more retro. The game is a must-have! I prefer 
 you buy the Warcraft III battle chest, it is worth it's money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phubbadaman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  When World of Warcraft first came out, I was playing it all the time. Later I moved in with my 
 girlfriend and money was tight and time to waste was non-existent. So how can I replace all the 
 time I spent playing WOW, why, play WC3 online for free!!! The single player campaign mode is good 
 enough to purchase this game anyway, but by going online, you can play this game for hours. When 
 I first started to play online, I played the usual battles, but after awhile, I moved into the 
 custom games and re-discovered the excitement this game could offer. I usually play DOTA, defense 
 of the ancients, a game with teams of hero's defending their bases. This game has everything you 
 need to keep you busy online without the montly fees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McHenry2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  i don't play the legit game much, usually custom scenario games that other people created but boy 
 are they fun, there's many versions of risk, simant, whos the alien, where one random person is 
 the alien and you have to find out who, survive from dinosaurs in jurasic park with 6 others building 
 up your defenses, this game never gets old playing all those scenarios!!!!! downfalls are
  you have to wait for people to download maps, can take 10sec-2min
  you can only control 18 units 
 at once
  
  there are also cool war scenarios where you can roleplay world war 2 which are a blast research 
 technologies in civilization scenario, boy makes me want to play it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajh20
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  it was the time of bizzard entertainment to profe that they are leadind statagy game makers in 
 the gameing world
  
  the reign of chaos and the frozen throne are differnt type of statagy games of my time. i like 
 the way the disign the heros and solders. the campain of the game is amazing. the story of the 
 campain is the best story. i did not like to go anywhere when i was playing war craft. the movies 
 of game is realy amazing. the graphic of the game is most beautiful.
  
  i mostly like to play multiplayer in warcraft. its most interasting than the campain. many of my 
 friends are like to play maltiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper5030
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I know we all have our opinions, but there are some facts of life. When I first got WC3, I thought 
 it was crap. It was so different from Starcraft, C&amp; C, and any other RTS game that I thought 
 it was a ruined attempt to combine RPG elements with a RTS. However, after I started playing it 
 a little more, especially on B. net, I began to realize that this game is quite... amazing. I mean 
 so balanced, creative, dynamic, and different that I find it hard to believe that human beings 
 could have created it. I think Blizzard had some extraterrestrial help making this game game cuz 
 it blows away anything else in the RTS world. I've played 'em all, up to Supreme Commander, and 
 still nothing comes close. Now to be honest, I haven't had the opportunity to play Warhammer, yet, 
 so I could be wrong about it being the best, but unless some more aliens came down to help with 
 that game, I don't think it could beat it.
  
  By the way, the beings that made this game were also smart enough not to go so much with a realistic 
 look that could go outdated quick with new shaders and stuff, but with a more artistic look that 
 still pleases the eyes today. It came out 4 years ago and look at how awesome it still looks!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BirdofP
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  Its from Blizzard so as expected this is a must have. It is the expansion to Warcraft 3: Reign of 
 Chaos and the story is a good followup for the campaign of the parent game.
  
  It has three campaigns:
  The Night Elf campaign following a Warden trying to catch the fugitive 
 Illidan Stormrage
  The Human Campaign following the Night Elves struggle after the events of Reign of Chaos with them 
 becoming independent and changing their name to Blood Elves
  The Undead Campaign continues to follow Arthus but now he is trying to save the Frozen Throne and 
 his master from destruction.
  In place of an Orc campaign it has a mini RPG following two heroes instead of an army.
  
  It 
 doesn't bring anything new to the table in terms of gameplay but it adds to the hero system by 
 adding a new hero to each faction as well as neutral heroes that can be found on some maps at a 
 tavern you can also instantly resurrect your hero for a price at the tavern.
  The Items system also benefits from a new building for each faction that you can buy hero items 
 from and the town center can now upgrade units to hold items all but a few can only have two slots 
 and use is still limited to heroes but you wont have to worry about not having space for all you 
 extra scrolls.
  
  The graphics are the same as Reign of Chaos which are decent,.
  The sound is good and the new voice actors are every bit as good as the returning originals. As 
 always the music is good.
  
  Multiplayer is the same as Reign of Chaos with the new addition of neutral heroes and the ability 
 to buy items at your base and you allies base provided they have the proper building. Each race 
 having distinct item options so you will have to shop around to get everything.
  
  The campaigns do get old as is true of most games but the smashing multiplayer will bring you back 
 for more.
  
  As is Blizzards fashion the game features the perfect balance of multiplayer and single player 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandeepc0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  This is one expansion which does justice to the original game. The addition of neutral heroes adds 
 even more variation to the gameplay. The new units and some new abilities of existing units are 
 very well thought off and add a lot of strategy components. Add to that the numerous and frequent 
 patches released by Blizzard in response to user feedback, whether to fix bugs or just to re-balance 
 the races. The storyline of the campaign is good, builds up the story from ROC nicely. But the 
 real fun is Blizzard's battle. net service. Playing the campaigns or even custom games against computer 
 can not even come close the play that goes on on battle. net. Infinite strategies, some really good 
 and innovative and some lame can all be experienced in a couple of days' play on battle. net. This 
 game is a must-have, must-play for all the RTS lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XGaidenX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Blizzard's Warcraft III was already an excellent game to start off with. Once The Frozen Throne 
 was introduced, it got even better. Outstanding graphics and a gameplay that continued on with 
 Warcraft III made the player feel that the game is one long saga in the Warcraft world. The story 
 starts off with a chase then the birth of a new hero in the second campaign. Brilliant cinematics 
 that always seemed to be specialty of Blizzard's technological genius shows between campaigns and 
 fills in or continues on the storyline leaves you feeling very satisfied. The graphics and the 
 sound are tremendous and fits exactly to what you would expect in a world of magic. Units may not 
 move according to where you may wish and especially larger units get jammed easily but it just 
 makes sense
  : big things get stuck. This makes the game more realistic and increases appeal.
  
  Overall, an 
 excellent, definitely addictive game worth your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed it but there are a few problems.
  Excellent graphics and sound.
  This game will keep you playing for hours....
  One problem is in the campaign you get to play 
 for the naga for only a few missions.
  Why don't they add the Naga to the races, Blood Elves too.
  Come on, only 4 races, Undead, Humans, Night 
 Elves, and Orcs, truly there are other races in the campaign people would really like to play.
 
  
  The earlier game, Warcraft 3 Reign of Chaos had a better campaign.
  Here the campaign gets a little bit annoying, especialy when you find out there are more races 
 that you can't play for.
  And the campaigns story is all mixed up. Also in the earlier game the campaign was actually longer.
 
  Still this game is fun and will keep you occupied for a long time. Now the cheats they have, amazing. 
 After I beat the campaign, which was kind of easier than in the earlier game, I tried using cheats. 
 Guess what, one cheat gives you one hit KO and you can't be killed, while my second favorite is 
 TenthLeveltaurenChieftain which turn on The Power of the Horde song.
  I enjoyed this game and I think you will really enjoy it too... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I know this game is a little old, but it's still damn fun. I can't say not to this game. My favorite 
 army has to be the Undead or the Orcs. I play WoW yes, but when I am letting my characters rest 
 I play this game. The story was great and you learned so much lore for WoW. Skirmish was quite 
 fun, but I wish there were more armies. Online can be a pain because everyone believes they are 
 pros. What ever I let anyone into my games because I like showing people how to play and teaching 
 them whats best. Even if I get stuck with noobs I am confident that we can win because all you 
 need is skill and teamwork to win the games. Probably my favorite online multiplayer game is Hero 
 line wars, Hero wars, and Hero siege. In those you need 100% teamwork because you can't win all 
 by yourself unless it's 1 vs 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1211212112
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  From the creators of Warcraft - Orcs and Humans, and Warcraft 2 - Tides of Darkness ( +expansions 
 ) , comes the next installment from the Warcraft saga. Warcraft III, both RoC and TFT, are remarkable 
 money, attention and fame grabbers. Blizzard has done a hell good job making a... well... this is 
 where the problem lies. For Warcraft is, due to the explanation, and review, an RTS, but a lot 
 of players simply don't feel that way. I am one of them
  Warcraft 3 is a huge disappointment as an RTS, however, the glade graphics, and terrific voice 
 acting has made it a huge succes.
  Although not very original ( we have all seen, and read about so many Orc 'n' Undead VS Human 'n' 
 Elf fights, that it is just old-school ) , Warcraft has managed to present it in a way that simply 
 catches you, and won't let go.
  Also, the thing that really lures the players, are the special scenarios. Of course, almoust every 
 Warcraft player has heard of DOTA ( Defence of the Ancients ) , Footman Frenzy, LOTR Modified maps, 
 etc etc, and thats what brings 20% of the charm in the game. The scenarios are great, and very 
 interesting and intriguing for both their storylines, and both the sence of freedom that builds 
 up in the players mind. The freedom, and epicness of the scenarios simply is a huge plus for the 
 game, what else is there to say?
  So, overall, the Graphics are very nice, although a little childish, but then again, who cares, 
 the sound is epic, exept the unit responses of some units ( Somethin' need doing? Wha'? 'Be happy 
 to. Yes milord!, etc etc ) , but the music is nice, and the voice acting, as mentioned above, is 
 awesome, the gameplay... Holy **** you just can't stop playing, and that would be that.
  
  Although half a drug as WoW is, Warcraft is twice the game WoW will ever be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokyou
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard is known for their awesome expansions and this is a fine example. Frozen Throne adds much 
 new content to the old Reign Of Chaos. It depicts the chaos after the events in Reign Of Chaos. 
 The aftermath of the events in Reign Of Chaos resulted in this superb new expansion: Frozen Throne. 
 You can play as the Night Elves, Undead, Blood Elves and there is also a bonus campaign which haves 
 you playing as the Orcs. The game is unique in a way that the story is told from different perspectives 
 and the game will never have you playing only as a single hero or race. There are also a considerable 
 amount of missions that take up quite some of your time. The story is believable and you will find 
 yourself get caught up in the events.
  
  The heroes have some very unique skills and I'm sure that after playing for awhile, you will find 
 one that suits your playing style best. There is the tanker, damage dealer, healer and many others 
 to play with. The expansion leaves you marvelling at just how much new content Blizzard has managed 
 to squeeze in. The graphics are still ok and the sounds are not too bad. The voice acting for the 
 characters were superb though. You can really feel their anger, hate or whatever feelings they 
 are supposed to portray. Overall, this is a great expansion to an already great game: Reign Of Chaos. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorMazzi
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 10, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  amazing gameplay grapics arent bad storyline is astonishing aswell if u got warcraft 3 this is 
 a must get my ratings out of ten -- gameplay-10/10 graphics-9/10 sound-9/10 value-10/10 a perfect 
 game with near 2 no flaws i not sure if there is anything wrong with the game blizzard hav polished 
 warcraft 3 up nicely to create The Frozen Throne . it is well worth buying you will not b dissapointed 
 Cheats 4 any1 who wants em the usefull 1s press enter den type in these codes
  never die - Whosyourdaddy
  fast build- warpten
  gold- greedisgood (u get 500 i think) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadeInFinland
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This unique RTS is amazing. With low computer requirements, this game has amazing graphics and 
 amazing gameplay. The Frozen Throne expansion continues the story after Warcraft III: Reign of 
 Chaos, adding new never-before-seen units, and buildings, renewing the original game's mysterious 
 characters, and continuing the well-defined plot and storyline. Making this expansion superfluous 
 next to other RTS games.
  
  The game's World Editor is simple and detailed, letting the player create their completely unique 
 terrains, characters, story, triggers, buildings, spells and buffs.
  
  Even today I still play the game on the Multiplayer version. The custom games are fun to play, 
 and many new ones are added in the expansion, and available on the Blizzard website. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mukut
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game I've ever played. Well in the strategy division of course. Graphics 
 are amazing and the sound quality is great. The enemy A. I. is cool. Even the easy level enemies 
 may be a pain coming at you with huge armies at a time and coming back even before you are ready 
 ( if thats easy imagine insane ) . Spells and items are cool and the new hero's and units make the 
 game more fun and makes a need for a new strategy cause whatever you thought in : The Reign Of 
 Chaos, isn't really gonna help too much. The new maps are also pretty cool and the new campaigns 
 are awesome. There is even a new species of creature. The NAGA. Aquatic sea serpents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gromth
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  frozen es uno de los mejores juegos de etrategias tiene una buena historia de principio a fin, 
 y lo mejor son los heroes y la gran jugabilidad q tiene es algo q en otros juegos no tiene y estan 
 que asimilan la misma forma.
  frozen es uno de los mejores juegos de etrategias tiene una buena historia de principio a fin, 
 y lo mejor son los heroes y la gran jugabilidad q tiene es algo q en otros juegos no tiene y estan 
 que asimilan la misma forma.
  frozen es uno de los mejores juegos de etrategias tiene una buena historia de principio a fin, 
 y lo mejor son los heroes y la gran jugabilidad q tiene es algo q en otros juegos no tiene y estan 
 que asimilan la misma forma.
  frozen es uno de los mejores juegos de etrategias tiene una buena historia de principio a fin, 
 y lo mejor son los heroes y la gran jugabilidad q tiene es algo q en otros juegos no tiene y estan 
 que asimilan la misma forma. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Anyways the new Warcraft Three expantion pack, the human have to save all of Azeroth 
 from the forces of darkness, players must evil uncharted lands and battle dangerous new enemies 
 while uncovering the schemes of these nefarious beings. Anyways the expantion brings back everything 
 from the oringinal and adds some new units and buildings or eles it would not be a expantion pack. 
 Graphics: Ok the graphics have not really been improved at all, it's pretty much the same as the 
 original. The colors and effects are nice but the blocky looking units annoy me.
  
  Sound: I have to say the sound is great. The sound effects are well done. The voice covers are 
 also well done during the cut scencs and when you click on the units and they respond.
  
  Value: All in all I have to say this game is a simple RTS game which will keep you occupied for 
 a while since there is new maps to play on in the single and skirmish mode and also in the multiplayer 
 part of the game.
  
  Personally I don't like this game because 1.) it's way over hyped and to many people play this 
 game still for some reason. 2.) There are other great game to play outthere 3.) This type of RTS 
 gaming is not my thing. I prefer the Total war Series and the game Company of Heroes.
  All in all this is just an OK game, there is nothing particually special about it beside the story. 
 I give this game 6.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YummyYummyYum
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game for the computer :D i've ever played and it is really addictive but 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 reallyreally really reallyreally  
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zturdn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne is just amazing.. it's probably the greatest game I've played. I started playing 
 a long time ago, then I quit, but it always comes back, I always start again! So it's really good. 
 The Blood Mage I haven't really played that much I've tested that hero and it spices up the Humans. 
 The Warden is not really my cup of tea, I think it's so alike the Demon Hunter. The Shadow Hunter 
 from the Orcs is my favorite hero, he's cool and he's got very nice spells, I use many strategies 
 with the Shadow Hunter. The Crypt Lord from Undead has the best summoning spell, I think, because 
 it's auto, but it spends so much mana, but otherwise he's pretty nice. The Neutral heroes are awesome, 
 I think they spice the game up the most, most of them are good, some lack of good spells, but have 
 great stats, and some lack of good stats but have excellent spells. So that is what I like about 
 Frozen Throne the most, the heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_dusk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:50 am PT
Review:  [This is not a review for the frozen throne alone, it is a review for warcraft 3 and the frozen 
 throne]
  
  Warcraft 3 is an amazing game and the frozen throne is an amazing expansion. This simply brings 
 real time strategy games to a whole new level.
  
  Warcraft 3 continues where warcraft 2 left off, and likewise, the frozen throne continues where 
 warcraft 3 left off. The story of warcraft is a long and complicated one. And a very good one. 
 However, you don't need to play previous games in the series to understand the basics of the plot, 
 the story presented in-game, via videos, in-game cinematics or just the gameplay itself is enough 
 to both understand and really get into.
  
  The graphics in warcraft 3 aren't perfect, but they are entirely like-able and much better than 
 the 2D sprites in previous games. Most of the time, (since you can only have 12 units selected 
 at a time) you will focus on small-ish forces of powerful units and not large groups of weaker 
 units like in games such as the age of empires series or starcraft.
  
  Warcraft 3 also introduced a gameplay system that was very unique for its time (It was so successful 
 several other games have adopted simialer systems including rise of legends and the lord of the 
 rings) which made use of unique heroes that could level up, leran abilities and even had inventories 
 for items you picked up like in RPGs (which made it easy to make RPG mods in the level editer as 
 well) You may be thinking that this would ruin the whole idea of a strategy game - but it doesn't. 
 It changes it, but does not ruin it.
  
  There are 2 entirely new races but the 2 old ones (orcs and humans) are so different that they 
 might as well be new anyhow. The other 2 are undead and night elves, and they both fit into the 
 plot perfectly. All 4 races (of course) have their own ups-and-downs and it's only a matter of 
 preferance which one you play. In the campaign, you play each race one at a time (like in starcraft) . 
 The plot isn't so simple as good vs evil, in fact, you don't know who to root for sometimes, especially 
 in the frozen throne. All the characters in the campaign are unique and all have their own personalities 
 as well, but none of them are very like-able (like gamespot said) . (although I find Malfurion the 
 most like-able)
  
  Blizzard went all-out with warcraft 3. hey releases a fantastic level designer, one the world has 
 never seen the likes of before. This editor is capable of doing amazing things and bending the 
 rules of regular warcraft to make all kinds of games as long as you know what you're doing. The 
 capabilities of the editor are almost limitless, you can use custom models, music, units, terrain, 
 doodads, cinematics, icons... You name it.
  
  You can then play regular games or even games you made online with up to 11 different players (12 
 total)
  
  To summarize, Warcraft 3 is an amazing game that blizzard took a long time to perfect and if you 
 like real time strategy games, previous warcraft games, other blizzard games or just want to buy 
 a really good game ten GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The orc, undead, human, and night elves are back . The Burning Legion has been finished off, but 
 is Illidan up to no good? The story begins when Illidan is reviving the Lost city of the night 
 elves. The Night elves have been turned to fish like creatures. The story might not be as great 
 as Warcraft 3: Burning Chaos, but the new modes definetely make up for the losses of Story. There 
 are 4 new heroes for each race. And in here you can play the all famous DotA (defense of the ancients) . 
 The game has defintely improved graphics and quality of their work.
  
  Overall this game is not as equally good to the first one , but definetely worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeDuff
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  amazing gameplay grapics arent bad storyline is astonishing aswell if u got warcraft 3 this is 
 a must get my ratings out of ten -- gameplay-10/10 graphics-9/10 sound-9/10 value-10/10 a perfect 
 game with near 2 no flaws i not sure if there is anything wrong with the game blizzard hav polished 
 warcraft 3 up nicely to create The Frozen Throne . it is well worth buying you will not b dissapointed 
 Cheats 4 any1 who wants em the usefull 1s press enter den type in these codes
  never die - Whosyourdaddy
  fast build- warpten
  gold- greedisgood (u get 500 i think)
  
 
  my score 9.8 superb game a must hav game if u liked warcraft 3 reign of chaos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warnexus100
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Okay. I bought WC FT 9 months ago. i bought the battlechest edition. it had 2 strat guides,1 manual, 
 wc catalog, wow trail cd and the 2 disc of ROC and FT. For only $30! i only play weekends, getting 
 my solo rank up. the custom games are good. to name a few maul wars, footmen frenzy and fan-made 
 rpgs, hero duels, anime wars. i like maul wars because you get to kill monsters for gold and you 
 use the gold you got to buy powerful monsters to overwhelm your opponent. custom games are just 
 for fun and dont go into your wc record. its been 7 years in the makings and there are at least 
 100,000 just playing WC FT. join the crowd! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrimzonTide
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  TFT is a game that you can immerse yourself in and never let go. Take it from the person who has 
 played over 2000 games online, and at one point achieved level 33. When the expansion to ROC came 
 out my hopes were high and I was no where near being disappointed. The campaigns are long challenging, 
 but the real gem is the multiplayer. You can play up to 4v4 on ranked matches and learn to cooperate 
 with your teammates to the fullest. The online game will steal hundreds of hours from your life, 
 and make you waiting for match found so you can begin anew. TFT takes years to master the intricacy, 
 and it's that quality which latches onto me and many other gamers. The updates of new heroes and 
 the tavern, not to mention tons of new maps makes this necessary for any ROC fan. This must surely 
 be one of the greatest sequels the PC has ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokefreak7
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  hey my friends, i hope you enjoy playing it. its really fun. i encourage you to play it. many people 
 think its boring but its really good you know. if you do go on www. ggclient. com and you can verse 
 people all over the world that plays warcraft 3. its fun you can even make new friends. you can 
 see if you ve improved playing with other people in which you dont know.
  
  i like it so much i play it 24/7 a day brrrr i like it and theres no doubt about it.
  do you 
 like playing it... go on warcraft3. com its where you can learn how to play the whole game thats 
 where i got it from 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onigun
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne is the expansion for the excellent Warcraft 3 game.
  
  Single Player:
  Events in the game take place after the original storyline and follows the familiar race-based 
 levels minus the Orcs.
  Compared to the original, the storyline is drawn out and relatively bland with repetition broken 
 up by the occasional mini-game or event.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Online multiplayer and user created mods/maps are what make this game shine, drawing on the changed 
 formulas and the added models it's hard to find content that isn't explicitly designed for this 
 expansion.
  While regular and ladder games do occur, these fail into a repetitive trap that eventually bores, 
 most user created content has a way of being different enough to keep you interested.
  My recommended custom game would have to be Defence of the Ancients (DOTA) Allstars.
  
  Summary:
 
  Don't plan on enjoying a storyline as great as the original, if your planning on playing Warcraft 
 3 online then this expansion is a MUST. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordiepordie66
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Graphics-9.6- The graphics are cool, I love the style of all there bodies
  and the fact that there bigger then the buildings. Although it's very good,
  not nice and smooth, 
 just good. I think sometimes they should of made World Of Warcraft like Warcraft 3.
  
  Value-10.0- I find the value of the game very good, I payed like 20.00$ for it. And I find about 
 a month after you have the game, you usualy play
  it once and awhile. But it's been 2 months and im still addicted. Especially
  the online.
  
 
  Gameplay For Expansion-5.0- There is nothing good on this damn thing,
  they only gave you new units, upgrades, heroes, maps, thats all. I was actually mad when I bought 
 the game. I found that there would be like 4 or 5 new races of colonies, but it didnt include that. 
 I found they should of made like 2 new races like blood elf, naga, that would be great. Although 
 about this game I like the new transport things and all the mercenaries you can get.
  
  But overall-9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongeidiot_ss2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  First thing that I would say that this is a great RTS game.
  I recommend you buy this because billzard has made them even better.
  
  Upgrade To Game : There 
 has been alot of New upgrades here like new heros, buildings, cheaper costs, more units, continue 
 of story, And a lot more stuff.........
  
  Great Online Multiplayer/Great non Online multiplayer : Why is it a Great Online Multiplayer? I'll 
 tell you why because of Battle. Net , LAN and other modes that don't play online such as Custom 
 game , Campain , Custom Campain And alot more.....
  You may also fight the comp with a diffculty level.
  
  Explaination On B. net ( Battle. net ) 
 : You fight other people in warcraft , Team up in Battle net , join clans , Play custom games such 
 as .... Hell vs Heaven, Poke The Angry Ogre , Anime Wars and a lot more... You may also Increase 
 your rank by leveling And getting Icon ranks. In order for you to level You must win some matches 
 in b. net. In order Icon ranks You need a certain number of wins.
  EX : your icon is peon you want to be huntress icon you need 25 wins in order to get it.
  This 
 is also a way to make friends. You may add people you play with and if they add you back Your friends! 
 You can ask them to be friends.
  I'll stop the explaination on battle net here. Theres is alot more stuff in battle net. You just 
 have to find out on your own.
  
  As You can see I haven't told you anything about the story.
  I recommend you buy this Game Thats 
 Very Much Worth It And play and find out the story of the game and play on B. net
  
  ~Spongeidiot_ss2~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottyboy21203
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne is yet another solid effort from Blizzard Entertainment. From its 
 release, to this day (March 4, 2007) , I still find myself playing it. Being that is an expansion 
 pack to Reign of Chaos, it is pretty much the same game, with new twists and turns, as most other 
 expansion packs are. The campaign mode is still fun and follows a great story line which is continued 
 in World of Warcraft. However, the online feature is perhaps one of the best around on any game 
 on any system. You can battle other people in a Free for all, 4v4, 3v3, 2v2 or 1v1 RTS mode in 
 which you are ranked and can potentially join sponsored Tournements or go into the custom games 
 and play games such as Tower Defenses and Mauls and other wacky games that people have made up 
 that you will itch to play over and over again. Because it is online, new patches and verisons 
 of custom games are always coming out to keep you satisfied. Overall, this is a great buy for fans 
 of RTS or gaming in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  WarCraft III continues the WarCraft series and adds what may be the second most important aspect 
 to the series, 3D (the first being Battle. net) . While 3D has it's ups and downs, one thing is certain, 
 WarCraft III is becoming like StarCraft (except StarCraft doesn't have the "ZOMFG ITS A DOTA MAP" 
 n00bs that WarCraft III does) . WarCraft III was a great game, the expansion pack was even greater, 
 but then something terrible happened, a terrible plague struck WarCraft III, this plague was called 
 Defense Of The Ancients, which quickly became the most popular WarCraft III map and turned WarCraft 
 III into "kickban central" since the map takes about 10 minutes to an hour to download no matter 
 how fast your Internet is. The second you join a game that is hosting a DOTA map you will be banned 
 by a gay noob **** DOTA itself is not even an original idea, it is a horrible WarCraft III map 
 (seriously the map sucks, it's only played by the people who lose 11 versus 1 comp stomps on War3) 
 that ripped off a good StarCraft map, Aeon of Strife, Aeon of Strife is a good map though, whereas 
 DOTA is not. Thats enough with the DOTA crap, there are other maps out there. Battleships is a 
 really fun map. Footmen Frenzy is, however Footmen Frenzy got tainted when over 100 versions of 
 it were released and people didn't know which map was which and which ones sucked and which ones 
 rocked. I give WarCraft III: The Frozen Throne 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  In many ways, one will realize that the story in Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne is merely a set-up 
 for the massively popular MMORPG, World of Warcraft. Does that make this game bad? No way, it just 
 makes you realize how early on WoW was really in the works. Now Warcraft III is my favorite real-time 
 strategy game of all time, I will not lie, and an expansion pack for a game that I enjoyed so much 
 made me have GREAT expectations for it. I am very happy to say that Blizzard Entertainment did 
 a wonderful job of meeting those expectations. Read on.
  
  Gameplay (10/10) : What better way to improve an already great formula? Add PLENTY more. First of 
 all, the story continues pretty much where the WCIII left off, and the story is pretty gripping, 
 though it seems as you play through it that nothing leads to a resolution, but rather it is almost 
 like a second movie in a trilogy, where everything is leading up to this great final climax that 
 you won't see until the next movie. That is ok though, because the story is well done and each 
 of the various characters is quite unique in his or her motives. There have been made three all-new 
 campaigns and a bonus RPG-like campaign (I wonder if this was Blizzard's way of experimenting with 
 the WoW formula?) . Ok so the story adds a good amount to the original... so what about the actual 
 gameplay features? Well each race contains a new hero, which is very unique, and each race also 
 contains a few new units and even some interesting new upgrades to past units or buildings (for 
 example: with the Orcs you can now further the defenses of all your structures along with the old 
 backlash-induscing spikes) . All of the new units add many new possibilities for strategy, and that 
 is always a very good thing. There is more though. There have been added three new neutral races: 
 the Dranei, the Blood Elves and the Naga. Besides the Blood Elves, the other two races could potentially 
 be their own rather than combined with other races in the campaign, which makes you wonder about 
 how many factions there will be in the next Warcraft RTS game. Nonetheless this is essentially 
 what makes a lot of the campaign so interesting, since you are oftentimes playing with totally 
 different races or playing with old units in a completely new way. Which leads to the campaign 
 set-up itself. It of course starts up with a basic tutorial, but the game expects you to have beaten 
 the original, since the challenge level rises quicker than in the original. The campaign is actually 
 VERY varied and isn't completely focused on 'build base, destroy base'. Also is the inclusion of 
 naval combat (unfortunately missing from Warcraft III) . All of these additions add up to make a 
 great single-player expansion experience that is in many ways, better than the original. What about 
 multi-player though?
  
  Thanks to the addition of units and a bunch of new maps, the multiplayer is just as good as the 
 original, and you will likely not ever be able to play the original again once you start playing 
 The Frozen Throne. Nothing to complain about here.
  
  Graphics (8/10) : Like I said with the original, the art direction for this game is a little difficult 
 to get used to sometimes, but the reason that this gets the same as the original is because of 
 the additions. There are new spells that look as wonderful as ever and the few new added environments 
 really are quite beautiful. Though this expansion comes a year after the original, meaning there 
 are much better looking games, the art direction helps to keep this game looking solid nonetheless.
 
  
  Sound (9/10) : GREAT. All the new voice acting has been done just as superbly as the original, and 
 the few new musical themes are great to listen to while playing. Everything else keeps its high-quality, 
 and the only thing preventing perfection is that sometimes the sound-effects are louder or quieter 
 then they seem like they should be.
  
  Value (9/10) : This, like Starcraft: Brood War, is an game that you will be coming back to time 
 and time again. It adds a great deal to the single-player and the multiplayer is kept to be as 
 solid as it was, and then they add new maps and it makes things even more interesting. In fact, 
 thanks to the Bonus Campaign with the Orcs, this game's single-player may even be a little longer 
 than the original. How often does that happen with an expansion pack? Not very.
  
  One thing that REALLY makes this part shine is the Campaign Editor. With the addition of so many 
 new units and triggers, a whole lot of room for creativity is allowed. Half of the fun online is 
 seeing all the fun mods other people have made, and this makes this game's fun almost endless.
 
  
  Pretty much if you own Warcraft III, then you owe it to yourself to buy this, no question about 
 it. If you enjoy RTS games, and you haven't played the original Warcraft III, then you should think 
 about your tastes. If you don't mind smaller army based combat then this is definately worth picking 
 up along with WCIII (since WCIII is required to play this) . Either way, most RTS fans will find 
 plenty to enjoy out of this great expansion for an already great game. Enjoy.
  
  EDIT: I don't know why it put my rating to 7.0 by itself even though that is not what I selected, 
 but fear not, I have fixed that problem now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The expansion to Warcraft III, The Frozen Throne expands on the previous storyline with intriguing 
 looks on topics like race, the strength of an individual, and the clich&eacute; d good versus evil.
 
  Blizzard, in providing us with this great new game, has given us a huge world to enjoy. The addition 
 of a new hero for each race, as well as a set of neutral heroes to pick from, greatly adds to the 
 mix. New buildings and upgrades are available, as well as new items and tile sets.
  The graphics, while identical to WCIII, still look pretty cool. Every unit has its own moving portrait, 
 and the animations are smooth. The CGI movies (I think they're CGI- they look like cut scenes from 
 a Playstation RPG) are as beautiful as they are dark and brooding. If you've played Diablo II then 
 you know the quality I'm talking about.
  The sound is great, from the battle sounds to the cries of enthusiastic troops to the sarcastic 
 replies units give you after clicking on them too many times. The music has been greatly improved. 
 In the previous version the music was very gloomy and sad. Now, there's some actual variety to 
 the music, not just funeral marches.
  The storyline is in-depth and intriguing. No longer are the missions simply to kill the opposing 
 force; side quests and optional goals provide good distractions from the main quest. Also, each 
 race has its own plot that involves the others: in this one, the most basic plot is the Night Elves, 
 Humans, and Orcs fighting against the Undead Scourge. While it is not the next best novel, the 
 twisted story certainly bests many sub-par RPGs.
  The controls are the same as WCIII, and are pretty much like any RTS game. The right click button 
 works well in recognizing what you want to do with a unit, and camera controls allow you to get 
 a closer look at the action, by zooming in and out and rotating. The game has two difficulty settings, 
 Normal and Hard; the game is enjoyable for 'newbs' and pros alike.
  The multiplayer feature, either on Battle. net or on your own LAN, literally provides hours and 
 hours of additional fun because of the map editor. New maps are churned out all the time, so you 
 and friends or strangers over the Internet can enjoy both simple melees as well as trigger-heavy 
 customized games. The replayability is through the roof due to the endless variety in Frozen Throne 
 games.
  A brief word on the negative aspect- at first, the numerous additions can seem a bit too huge. 
 It can be a bit confusing trying to manage (or micromanage) all the new options available to you. 
 However, after an hour of play you get the 'feel' of the game, and its smooth sailing from there.
 
  Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne is definitely worth the $35 bucks you can find it for. I recommend 
 this to anyone who simply wants a lot of new, fun stuff added to their Warcraft game.
  Oh, and for you left-brained number-loving types, heres a few digits to satisfy you.
  Gameplay 
 - 10
  Story - 9
  Audio/Video - 10
  Replayability - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terry_Foxman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game combines an RTS with an RPG much like its predecessor it is fun addictive and captivating. 
 Although it is now dwarfed by WoW this is still one of Blizzards finer accomplishments. So as far 
 the Linear storyline goes the only bad thing i can think to say about this: it ends to soon. The 
 game is so addictive that you will play and play until its over. Short of that the game is perfect. 
 Personally there are better RTS's out there and i would recommend looking into Starcraft but there 
 is one great addition to game that is contributed by the user: Mods. You can download additioal 
 scenerios that are more addictive than the game itself. Although this game is amazing its the downloadable 
 content that makes it one of the best games. Fans have made their own stories and mods ranging 
 from Final Fantasy games to Tower defenses these games are so addictive that it dwarfs the original 
 game by comparison. As for a strait review of the different aspects here goes: for graphics the 
 ingame graphics are a bit too sweet and cartoony for my taste but you quickly get over it. But 
 in the movie graphics you quickly see how Anal retentive ppl at blizzard are, for one of the cinematic 
 they drew on stubble for the king one pixel at a time. The game play is fun and varied and thrusts 
 you into a number of diverse scenarios all following a terrific plot. The only negative is the 
 sound which gets repetative after a while and irritating but thats why you hit mute and play rock 
 from i tunes. Like i said earlier there is no greater value than in this game due to its user made 
 add ons.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone and everyone and no gamer is complete without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-holy-one1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  For me This game i will play until death .
  I'ts the best game in universe. I like strategie games thats why i like Warcraft.
  I'ts not just 
 Warcraft there are more strategie games but this is hte best of all.
  Maybe somone doesn't like it but i do i can't explain how much i like thisgame i keep playing all 
 the time. ITS SO DAMN GOOOD:) :) :) :) :) :) :) .
  Also in this game i like the sounds the graphics, but most of all i'ts the World Editor. i created 
 more than 100 maps. The caracters are the best of all.
  Ilike they're outfits there talking.
  MAN I LIKE THE ALL GAME.
  WHAT CAN I SAY MORE ITS THE 
 BEST GAME EVER MADE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Savvycat
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RTS game ever. Other games like DOW, C&amp; C Generals, Age of Empires... are rubbish 
 when compared to Warcraft 3. Are you bored of other PC games right now? This is the game for you, 
 as it has eternal replay value. Battle. net, with its huge number of people online at any time, 
 is always there for you. It's worth your money 10 times over. Seriously.
  
  The reviewer only game this 9.2/10?? Users only think this is 9.3/10?? I'm telling you, only noobs 
 would rate this game low. Be wary though, if you buy this game and think you can just come online 
 with the big boys ... lol you better watch out. You will be called a noob. But don't worry, if 
 you play the campaign you will have the bare minimum skill needed to play online. I'm not talking 
 about DOTA - anyone with no skill can play DOTA. I'm talking about ladder, where your skill actually 
 matters. Don't be frustrated though, and come here when you are still a noob and give this game 
 a low rating. You will eventually become quite good, but you will never become pro unless you are 
 really serious and train hard. The game is easy to learn but hard to master.
  
  I've played this game since Reign of Chaos, and I still play it, casually. The game never gets 
 old, despite its age. I won't be quitting this game until another RTS totally owns it. Most likely 
 the only company that can do that is blizzard. In the meantime, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  The story of the expansion still is not flawless, but slighly better then the original.
  Still the best game in the warcraft universe is WOW and its expansion.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Offers 
 new units, new campaigns and new online modes
  +Story slightly better then the original
  +Skirmish still there
  -AI still not improved, just rush and rush
  -Campaigns still not satisfying 
 enough
  
  Graphics:
  +Good variety of colors
  +Some new landshapes
  +No massive bugs
  -Very cartoony
  -No real upgrades, technically
  
  Sounds:
  +/- Dont 
 like the sounds and the music, if you want the sounds try WOW
  +/-Music is fair enough
  
  Value:
  +Increased value due to the new units and campaigns and due to the online component (new 
 modes) .
  +/- Slightly better story
  -No real improvements technically
  
  Tilt:
  +Movies and cutscenes are good overall
  +slightly better story
  +Easy to learn
  -Campaigns 
 are not all that satisfying
  
  The expansion to warcraft 3 is good enough and provides more and better stuff then the orignal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bam-bamm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III Frozen Throne is very addictive, but i was disappointed with the night elf campaign 
 due to just the few things in it that bored me and I thought could have been just a tad better, 
 other than that I just absolutely loved it. Everything else is just amazing and fun. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who has played Reign of Chaos first. The story line is great and everything 
 is just perfect. The new heroes are cool and fun and so are the new units and buildings. Battle. net 
 has improved by a lot and so has the map editor. You can do so much more in this game than you 
 were not able to do in Reign of Chaos. I just hope they will make another perfect game like this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yousef_ahmed
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 10, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  You know best map I've ever seen among all video and pc games, its marvelous,
  
  DotA v. 4.0
  DotA v. 3.8 AI
  
  its really best game as a network game with others and friends
 
  and as a game to play VS the computer
  
  Wanna try it??!!
  
  Oh Tried it already? so you are addicted??
  
  beware this is no good for your eyes, heart, 
 mind, and imagination..
  
  Its Over Limit !! ! !! ! !!
  
  So don't ever ever try to go through it without having a good time limit for it
  
  because 
 if you did with a limited time and said I will just play until this or that time, you will be surely 
 lying on your self, because you will go over the time you aimed to
  
  its bad really
  
  i skipped many classed for a game, well, its for an addicted game.
  
  so ya see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stove11
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Sheeer brilliance! Blizzard does it again.
  
  I started playing this game quite a while ago and I was impressed, one day I decided to turn on 
 the multiplayer and I was shocked, Battle. net really did well on this game. The amount of differant 
 maps on this makes the game perfect, player created maps also add to the fun, anyone who likes 
 a strategy game will love this, it can suit any gamer.
  
  I started logging into this game just to play on a certain map, for a while this replaced World 
 of Warcraft for me, until the burning crusade came out. I still play this regually now and it will 
 also be one of the best games I have played!
  
  Id recommend this game to anyone who enjoys strategy games. Perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccc1005
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  While the single player campaign is nothing special, the online play on battle. net is amazing. 
 Aside from the occasional cheater and deleveler its a very fun and challenging experience. The 
 map rotation and random factor also adds to the game. Being able to team in with the arranged team 
 is another great feature, especially for playing in clans. Also the stats on the website are awesome 
 and show some pretty cool trends in your gameplay.
  
  Graphics are pretty good considering the release date and the 3D aspect is great for its time. 
 Overall a great game, especially if you want to go with the online aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthSongs
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  1 day i went to my friend's home and he showed me this game i toldhim wtf is this ??? look at the 
 graphics man its sucks i toke the game after 1 hour of speaking to me to satisfy about it and play 
 it with him by network ...... when i played it ... was like  
 maaaan its amazing .i said the best thing in the game is the spells in the game and the heros wich 
 make dota is the best mode i ever played special thx to blizzard and who made this game
  this game got 10/10 from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perilslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  I read some of the reviews that gave this game low ratings and now i have to write my counter review. 
 It's not that the game itself is so great. It's what you can do. I have over 1000 custom maps that 
 i've downloaded. 1000!!! If this game sucked do you think that i'd have 1000 maps? I have dial-up 
 and i still manage to play. I download maps from Epicwar. com at school so i don't have to dl them 
 online with dial-up. This is probably the best game ever made, next to WoW. With the custom maps 
 this game can be made into anything you can think of. If you want to spend 1000 hours on just one 
 game, this is it. I still play Warcraft and the only thing that dissapoints me is that people like 
 to make copies of other peoples maps. Like Footman wars. I used to love playing Warcraft 2, and 
 Starcraft, i still play them a bit but this game is better! If you can't play WoW play Frozen Throne. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbiusX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  When I was young i started playing Warcraft 1, it was amazing though the graphics where not comparable 
 to today's. I never enjoyed anything more, since games like LBA &amp; QUAKE 1 were the most splendid 
 competers.
  
  TFT is known as 3D RPG STRATEGY in genre, which is a new genre since the release of WCIII RoC. 
 MANY games afterwards copied the idea, the HERO-BASED RPG Strategy idea, to perfect their games. 
 It's obvious today, every game has got a hero!
  
  The main point is TFT is awesome, it has the maximum balance possible, and with a brilliant storyline, 
 and magnificent World Editor, it has continued its stories and culture - most definitely CULTURE 
 is the most important part of WCIII-.
  it is the culture that caused a lot of people buy WoW. it is the culture that makes people play 
 WCIII online days and days and never get frustrated.
  Thats enough, this game is unbreakable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertb101
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Game play: The gameplay in this is a every fun and easy way to play. Its my favorite strategy game 
 to play that I have. Also very fun to do world editor and create your own maps and gametypes.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good and clear to play with. Many things look very realistic. I 
 think the graphics is good if u look close.
  
  Sound: The music is okay but when the units talk it is very annoying to play with for a long time. 
 other then that the music is okay and nice.
  
  Value: The Value is very good and very accurate to the objects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davorg22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  One new Hero per race, each possessing powerful spells and magical abilities.
  
  A host of new units, each equipped with new abilities and spells, giving players the opportunity 
 to create diverse strategic and tactical forms of combat.
  
  Player-built shops, unique for each race, equipped with items carefully designed to improve and 
 aid the units of every race.
  
  Neutral Heroes, available for recruitment by all players, that can supplement and strengthen a 
 player's army with all new spells and abilities.
  
  Expanded multiplayer options over Battle. net including multiple new game types, clan and tournament 
 support. my review :
  
  this expansion pack is going to comletely change WC3 for the better... WC3+expansion will definatly 
 be one of the best RTS games for quite some time. I'm currently beta testing the game, so i should 
 be able to give a rough idea of how it should turn out for the final release. Lot's of new features 
 (i'm not going to get into details that are already avialable at the expansion pack website, for 
 you can read there yourself) ....
  
  - my favorite new hero is the orc hero.... its like a powerfull voodoo witchdoctor..... most notable 
 is his healing spell (which finally gives orcs a healing option for early game) which acts like 
 chain lightning, but has a healing effect.
  - spellcasters have been changed.... their attack type is now magic attack ..... their armor type 
 is now unarmed . I won't get into the details of how the attack and armor works, because they are 
 likely to be modified for final release.
  - spellcasters now have inventory! a 2 slot inventory.
  - ancients now have heavy armor when 
 uprooted (makes ancient rushing a little harder i guess)
  - all races can now build item shops with items unique to each civ. Most notible is that each civ's 
 item shop gets a unique orb... orcs get orb of lightning ;D.... orbs arnt available until tier3 
 though and cost about 400gold on current beta.
  - cyclone is now dispelable
  - crypt fiends (and other undead units) can learn the burrow ability which lets them dig into the 
 ground and act as a spy/regen health
  - you can now buy transport BOATS (at goblin shipyards) ... this should make for some interesting 
 water maps hopefully.
  - orc burrows can be upgraded to heavy burrows which have fortified armor instead of medium.
 
  - when units are following a hero, they mimic the heros actions.. i. e. if hero attacks, following 
 units will also attack instead of just sitting there watching :p
  - for people with slower computers, you can now adjust the spell detail level, which was a source 
 of lag at times on older machines.
  - minimap now has a creep mode. it highlights creep camps on the map via a grey circle; the bigger 
 the circle the bigger the creeps.
  
  BNET will be much improved too.... here are some features i've tried out on the current wc3x beta 
 servers...
  
  - built-in clan support! you can now create clans. there are now 2 friends lists basicly: the original 
 friends list, and a new clan member list. The creator of the clan gets a cheiften icon, assistant's 
 to the leader get shaman icons, normal members get grunt icons, and new members (initiates) get 
 peon icons until they are officially accepted into the clan. There are also clan ladders and clan 
 stats!
  - Now you can stay in the chat room while searching for a game. After you choose game criteria 
 (1v1, 2v2, maps, civ) and click search... the search screen minimizes to a small box in the topright 
 and takes u back to the chat room. The small box tells you how long you have been waiting, and 
 what the average wait time is for that game type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andriy-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III is hard to describe in just a few sentences. This game just has an endless amount 
 of possible activities that can never be exhausted. Firstly, let me just say that if you enjoy 
 any kind of RTS then go buy this game now. Don't even consider missing out. Now, if you're new 
 to RTS, you should still definitely consider this game, as it has there are many different aspects 
 to its gameplay. To me, 99% of the game is online content. At first glance, the single player campaign 
 might seem a bit dull (as does the demo) , simply because it's very hero focused. In Warcraft III, 
 you get certain units called Heroes which can level up and get items just like in RPGs. In the 
 single player campaign the game is very focused on heroes and might come off as more of an RPG 
 than an RTS, I didn't lake that at first. Good thing the actual game online is nothing like that. 
 Heroes do play an important role, but not a phenomenal one. The singe player campaign is long and 
 drawn out, I didn't enjoy it very much, but battle. net made up for all that.
  
  You might want to play the campaign first, and then jump into Battle. net, well I just played a 
 few single player missions and went straight online. There are many possibilities on Bnet as the 
 support Blizzard offers is just great. You have options of single player games (1v1) , or team as 
 2v2 or 3v3, or FFA. This is the actual Wc3 game, and it's based much more in micromanagement of 
 your units in battle than any other RTS out there. It's based on your speed and how quick you are 
 to respond during battles. There are many unique things which can turn the tide around in a 1v1 
 game, and it's all very fast-paced. There isn't a build up period of 10 minutes, you get your hero 
 out after a minute and from there on it's you against your opponent. It's advised to read the manual 
 first to make sure you understand everything. Then of course there are pro replays you can learn 
 from. Wc3 has a huge pro-gaming scene (the biggest of any RTS) and numerous sites like wcreplas. com 
 provide replays of professional players as well as audios, strategy guides, and other stuff. Basically, 
 this game has a big community with constant tournaments, and watching some of the stuff the pros 
 come up with is often very entertaining. There is also a Ladder on every server that ranks the 
 top 1000 players, not to mention official clan support (and clan rankings) , and the many user-created 
 leagues for clans to participate in. The gameplay is what makes 1v1 wc3 fun to play, and fun to 
 watch (in observer mode, replay, or audio) . There is also a user-created program that allows you 
 to follow pro games live as an observer ingame. Now if you're not too much into the challenging 
 solo part of the game where you'll be up against good players, there's always custom games. Blizzard 
 gave out a game-creating engine to the community that you get for free with the installation of 
 the game, so people can create their own unique games with the engine. There is an endless amount 
 of custom games played online from RPGs to tower defense. The most overwhelmingly popular custom 
 game is by far DOTA, or Defense of The Ancients. This custom game is so big that it has a community 
 of its own (just try googling DOTA) . DOTA is easy and fun and anyone can be successful at it, it 
 say its own pro-leagues and its own tournaments, humorously growing to oppose the scale of Wc3 
 itself. This custom game is just as addicting as the real thing. This is just a small description 
 of the versatility of Wc3. However, I don't recommend buying this game if you just plan to play 
 the single-player campaign; to me the whole game is online, similarly to games like UT2004. There's 
 just so many ways to have fun playing Wc3, so many different things to do. When you bored of 1v1, 
 I can go watch some pro replays or download some funny audios. If you bored of that then you can 
 play some funny 4v4 with newbie players and mess around doing some hysterical stuff in game. If 
 that gets old, there are always custom games and the endless fun of DOTA. Not to mention the single 
 player campaign and other custom campaigns. In short, don't base whether or not you want to buy 
 this game on the crappy single-player demo. This game can keep someone playing for years. I've 
 been playing it on and off for four years now and it doesn't get old as the big community keeps 
 you playing it. And you don't have to spend a lot of time playing it either, it's a good on-and-off 
 game. If you want to hop in for a 15 minute solo game or a 30 minute DOTA game a couple times a 
 week, you'll get just as much enjoyment out of it. Oh, and the graphics on full settings still 
 look pretty good four and a half years on.
  
  In short, Warcraft III TFT is simply fantastic, and a game that everyone, not just RTS fans, should 
 try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trung123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  if u play this game for the first time, play campain plz
  the longer u play ,the more interesting the game is
  this game is harder than other such as w40k 
 ,so, work hard to feel it!
  this is the best strat game till now (multiplayer) , if u feel this game is boring ,u should go to 
 wcreplays. com to get some great replay to see how the game could be when u can fully control it!
 
  **** REPLAY CAN SHOW U ALL REASONS TO PLAY THIS GAME 4EVER
  its campain is great for practice, the system req isnt high that make this game so popular now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwardTorsvik
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3; The Frozen Throne was when created a unique game, following the concept of Blizzard 
 Easy to learn, hard to master. The game has an original story, fascinating gameplay with so many 
 strategies to use and overall is a great example to what games should be like.
  
  As an expansion pack it completes the story and adds tons of new strategies to use, both online 
 and offline. New heroes for every race and in addition to that they may hire mercenary heroes to 
 increase your versatile gameplay. Unlike games like Counterstrike there is just one strategy but 
 The Frozen Throne makes you think, makes you wonder what the opponent is doing and how to counter 
 his/her strategy.
  
  Now then, the graphics in my opinion might have been slightly improved. The bodies are very square, 
 the leaves are flat and there are other minor details Blizzard could have fixed. The sound is perfect, 
 unique music to all races to give a feel when playing and voice acting fits very well (Except little 
 Timmy, Too light voice) . ^_^
  
  When playing offline I find it very fun to play the campaigns, where you get to try out new heroes 
 and even play as the Naga. I personally am an online player and enjoy playing melee games more 
 then costum games. This leads to another great factor to the game, the online costum games. If 
 you get tired of playing just regular RTS games you may play interesting, costum made games that 
 tests every aspect of the game.
  
  Overall I really recommend this game to a player who enjoys both RPG and RTS. I researched once 
 that Blizzard wanted to create Warcraft 3 (and Frozen Throne) as an RPS (Role-Playing Strategy) 
 which they had achieved. Great game! &amp;#61514; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Awesome, you will never get board of Frozen Throne, it can keep you awake through the whole night. 
 Amazing gameplay, but if you plan on playing multiplayer you better be decent some of the online 
 players are talented. You will learn as it goes on and you will improve. Fantastic ammount of units, 
 structures, upgrades. You will dramatized by the features and the graphics of such an old game. 
 If you don't buy this you are plain out missing a great game. Warcraft 3 and Warcraft Frozen Throne. 
 Just buy the chess pack. Please this game should be played by every gamer that likes to strategize 
 and wreck their opponent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lochsabre
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  It's hard to really give a five hundred word review on an expansion, but i'll do my best to cover 
 all aspects of this great expansion.
  
  Firstly, and most importantly, this is probally the best expansion made for an RTS. Basically this 
 game includes an extension to the campaign, picking up where Reign of Chaos left off. The campaign 
 story itself is fantastic, and just as good as the original. The story is based around Illidan, 
 the selfish Night Elf, Demon hunter who ironically became a demon himself. He now controls a race 
 of his own, and serves the legion in destroying the Frozen Throne, home of the Lich King, Arthas' 
 master. You'd have to be crazy to buy the Reign of Chaos game, and not the The Frozen Throne.
 
  
  The gameplay has improved, with a new race in the campaign, more units, techniques, spells and 
 heroes for each race. New creeps, items and a Tavern which is a building where you may purchase 
 mercanary heroes. There are many more maps and terrain types. The game has a completely new feel.
 
  
  The graphics havent improved at all, since Reign of Chaos. So it will only score a 9/10. Purely 
 because they are still amazing graphics, though id be nice if theyd made a change or two.
  
  There are new soundtracks, but the sounds are mainly the same as the original. Which were fantastic.
 
  
  The game is a really good expansion, and you'd have to be crazy to have Reign of Chaos, and not 
 this. The story is finished up, though still leaving a few possibilites for another sequel.
  
  Great game, if you don't have it, get Reign of Chaos, and buy this seconds after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_emu_hunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  It is a good game. It is going to be a clasic soon but people still like the game beacuse the story 
 is great.
  I completed it several times and stil like it. It has a great map editor and blizard made contest 
 to emprove the game. A lot of people play it online and there are contests, new profesional made 
 maps that are available omly online and maps created by users.
  I also like new models and beautiful created terens.
  You can put youre own models and create 
 units, buildings and basicly everithyng in the. You can make youre own maps, campaign and scenario 
 wich are awailable on other online sites. Try it, you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  What do I mean by the review deck, you say?
  Gameplay- I don't get it, why are people so addicted to it? The battles are slow and boring. There 
 are really no actual big battles like in Warhammer 40,000 or other RTS games. Even with cheats 
 the battles aren't any more epic. One golem stones the other, and the one that gets stoned doesn't 
 stagger or move. How unreal. Plus, the stuff (design) was stolen from WH40K. But, Warcaft came 
 nowhere close to WH40K. And the reason why the battles are small is because of the squad cap. You 
 produce units one by one, which doesn't mean you get alot of time to recover from an enemy attack. 
 The resources are lame. Chopping wood and gathering gold takes up too much of my life. You have 
 to be a game freak to finish at least one battle. It just doesn't give me a feeling like other 
 RTS games give me. When I tell people this game is boring they tell me that they play custom games. 
 They are pointless. Worm Wars, Anime Fight, Dawn of the Dead, and other wierd games are put online. 
 But when you buy an RTS game, even if it's something like warcraft, IT'S ABOUT REAL TIME STRATEGY, 
 NOT LITTLE CUSTOM GAMES. Why not play little cell phone games instead? Adn your heroes have to 
 level up and learn new abilities in battle. Too much starategic thinking. There's so much challenging 
 things to do that it puts you to sleep. The maps are also the same. Trees, grass, mountains, rivers, 
 yaddy yadda.
  
  Grapics- I have to give this area a little credit. It was the best-looking RTS game that Blizzard 
 made. And now, even in 2006, it's pretty sharp.
  
  Sound- The music gets too boring and short. It's always the same, level up, person screaming in 
 agony, same ol' same ol'.
  
  Value- Good price I guess.
  
  Overall, this game is more challeging, but a bit too challenging. Addiction doesn't exist in this 
 game. And why do ppl still play this game? It's 2006. Try some new games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serenei
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: The Frozen throne had continued the unique story in many different views. The game 
 has amazing replay value.
  
  Gameplay- Stunning and Amazing, is a good way to sum it up, as you play as the Night elves, Humans, 
 Orcs, and Undead, introducing great character development continued from the last game. Online 
 Gameplay is amazing, due to the amount of not only REGULAR maps, but custom maps such as Uther 
 Party or Dota, with amazing design, and allows you to make your own map.
  
  Graphics-Amazing Graphics, allowing you to see nearly everything, from sword sweeps to the arrow.
 
  
  Sound- Amazing Music, Stunning voice actors, and HILARIOUS laughter, from the funnies you get from 
 clicking them enough.
  
  Value-Amazing Replay Value, That has lasted for 3 years, 3 YEARS, most have died out, but this 
 lives on. This game is a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drblood1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game of all time ive been playing it for about 2 years now cause i got it for 
 christmas 2 years ago and I play it every day all day there is so many combinations between ranked 
 matches and custom games the fun just never stops and the graphics arent great yet if your playing 
 you dont notice because the game is so fun i highly recommend everyone in the world plays this 
 games but theres one thing you should know about this game alot of people who play are scammers 
 infact almost all are dont trade with people all people WHO ASK U to trade are scammers k thx. 
 ^^ and this game is so awesome!!!!!!!!!! buy buy buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeGamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  It's a amazing game, you won't be disappointed but you can be sure that someday you'll get bored 
 of it like the way I did.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Great gameplay, you'll be able to control orcs, humans, elfs and undead and each race have big differences 
 from each other.
  You won't be able to mass units but you can make a map in which you'll be able to do that, but yet 
 you will have strong armies and big battles depending upon the quantity of players that are in 
 the game.
  You can do many things in it, mainly if you're a map maker.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Really good graphics, even today it's there are some games that are worse than this one at graphical 
 stuff. You can see footsteps, wind and many other things like that if you have a bad graphic card 
 without lag.
  Each unit have been greatly designed and made without any glitch, I mean, a undone unit.
  
  Sounds:
 
  
  Sounds rock, you can hear swords when footmen attack, tauren shouting, buildings exploding and every 
 sound a RTS game should have, because it got great differences. Oh by the way, voice acting is awesome... really 
 well done!
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Here is it, my first multiplayer category. This game is the BEST RTS multiplayer game, mainly because 
 on BNET you can play the usual game with other players or fully costumized levels made by other 
 PRO map makers which are really fun and worth the time. But yet, if you want to make those, you'll 
 have to learn a little about the world editor but it's one of the easiest tools of map making to 
 work with.
  
  Value:
  
  Yeah, great value... every cent you pay on it won't be wasted, it's all worth it. Great job Blizzard, I'll 
 remember of this game forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5haringan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  The World of Warcraft has introduced Warcraft to many people, but Warcraft has roots in RTS. It's 
 brilliant multiplayer just makes the game even more better than it was before. You'll buzz through 
 the campain relativly fast, but it doesn't take away from the game. In fact the cliff-hanger ending 
 will keeps us begging for a sequel. The main thing is the Battlenet. It's brilliant and free. Nothing 
 much better than that. There are only two things that keep Battlenet from being perfect. Noobs 
 and Bsers. But if you get past them it's a brilliant game that people should get espically if you 
 enjoyed the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Not a bad game. This game generated a lot more popularity than its quality deserved, but I will 
 still recomend it. As far as the basics go, the graphics are fine, the sounds are ok, though a 
 little repetative, and the gameplay is decent. Although my biggest complaint is the uselessness 
 of defenses, and the very small population cap. These factors cause two things to happen in gameplay, 
 nearly instantaneous victory, or slow, cruel, war of attrition, neither one is all that fun. You 
 just dont get awesome battles going on unless you uproot a whole bunch of trees and march them 
 at the enemy. Its just that these limitations really bog down the game, and favore a specific type 
 of gameplay. Some may say that it just separates the good gamers from the bad, those who can adapt 
 from those who cant. I say all that favoring gameplay styles does is make the game more frustrating.
 
  The game has perks though. I really like the aspect of having a hero. It adds a little bit of 
 personalization to the battle. Overall, the gameplay isnt really bad, its just not something that 
 I could really get in to. However, what really puts this game out there as a good game is the editor. 
 If you go online with this game, and see all the different types of games people have created, 
 you will be amazed. From tower defenses, to hero based games, to spin off from movies and historical 
 events. Although this does mean that the learning curve is essentially infinate, it is quick to 
 pick up on any one of these different minigames. Tthere are literally never ending possibilities 
 for this game online. That is where the true potential for this game lies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clawsofjaws88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  the heros are amazing... online play for freE!!! 10 times better if u haven't bought this game and 
 u like rts.... GET THIS... almost better then starcraft... it may be better...4 diff. races all with 
 unique abilities.... makes for a fun time... if u have laptops u and ur friends can play or if u 
 have pc but laptops are bettter because u can sit in the same room and team up against the world... its 
 a very fun game and all my friends have it... i play football and wrestling but i always find time 
 to play some good ole' DUB! im a big gamers so this game suits me well....100 words.. uhh well im 
 out of things to say....19.99 great price for a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dea7htrap
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Real TIme Strategy fans everywhere remember games like Starcraft and Command and Conquer, but Warcraft 
 3 is in many opinions the best RTS on the market today. I tend to agree, Warcraft 3 is the best 
 RTS I have ever encountered and probably still will be for a very long time. Warcraft 3 is just 
 simply brilliant. Blizzard seems incapable of scoring anything other than a home run in all of 
 their games, and this is no exception. Warcraft 3: The Frozen Throne adds onto one of the best 
 games ever known to RTS lovers. The great and involving storline, unbelievably superb online capability, 
 fun gameplay, incredible graphics, and a fantastic musical score, just makes this game superb. 
 Many would buy this game just for the online experience, Blizzard's battle. net is the best way 
 to enjoy an RTS game like Warcraft 3 in so many many ways. The ability to create your own maps 
 and game types is incredible itself. Down to the game, the expansions to the original are so fabulous, 
 Frozen Throne could almost be considered another version of Warcraft 3. The new heros are balanced, 
 and phenomenal, The new units are just great, and the continuation of the story is put together 
 very nicely. Frozen Throne still pulls off the 3-D feel but even better. More idems, power-ups, 
 and special places such as the fountain of restoration are all seen here. To put it simply Frozen 
 Throne is a MUST have for anyone who is interested in RTS games. Dea7htrap- Gamespot- Just Kidding 
 =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that just has to get an award. Caring off where Warcraft 3 Reign of 
 Chaos stopped, you start as the night elfs chasing after illadin. This game adds more units, the 
 naga, new buildings, new campain and i'm not sure if u get new maps cause i never make any of my 
 own. Anyways the graphics are the best that blizzard has ever done (well exsept WOW but this came 
 before so ehh) and the music is so cool to listen to. The sounds fit the characters movement and 
 the voice acting is amazing. Now here comes the thing that blizzard can never fail at.... THE STORY!!! 
 The story is amazing. This is from Warcraft 3 Reign of Chaos ok? YOu start out as a prince paladin 
 which slowly gets corrupted by the undead which then leads up the Burning Legeon. Then the orcs 
 get controled by the Leageon. Then the night elfs start to come in and so forth. Gameplay is amazing 
 and one thing to say. You can never get board of this game. Because you can make your own maps 
 and even play with others on battle net! Though i haven't tryed battle net for Warcraft 3 i'm sure 
 its badass. Now cya guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has once again brought an awsome real time strategy game to the PC, and theres nothing 
 to be dissapointed about Warcraft 3 is a really great game. In Warcraft 3 you can be one of four 
 compleatly different and unique races, all fun in there own ways. Warcraft 3 has a very large campaign 
 with a great story so if your a fan of Blizzards other strategy games or if your not, this is an 
 experiance that you shouldent miss.
  
  Gameplay: Warcraft 3 is a very fun and simple RTS game that if you like RTS's you'll absolutely 
 love this game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in warcraft 3 are a huge improvment on warcraft 2, and they look great, 
 in all 3D you wont be dissapointed.
  
  Sound: Warcraft 3 has a great many times comic sound set for characters and a great soundtrack.
 
  
  Value: Frozen throne is defenetly worth every penny and you should get it right now if you have 
 Reign of chaos. Also if you liked Reign of chaos's map editor you'll love this, because it's even 
 better. You can create you'r own maps of course and you have an awsome creation feature that lets 
 you create you'r own units and abilities, you can custimize them hundreds of different ways and 
 it's posatively awsome. You can also make you'r own triggers and cinamatics, to the point where 
 you can make almost a as good campaign as Blizzard did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorNisse
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III Reign of Chaos and Warcraft III the Frozen Throne is probobly the best fantasy RTS 
 games ever released. It has given me several years of endlessly gameplay thanks to battle. net's 
 extremly good servers.
  
  Prelude
  
  To review this game you actually have to review WCIII RoC and WCII and WC
  since the history 
 started with Warcraft, and it continued with Warcraft II and then it continued once more with Warcraft 
 III Reign of Chaos, and then Warcraft III the Frozen Throne was released and ended Warcraft as 
 an RTS game. Then blizzard made a big misstake, not economicly but they broke alot of hearts including 
 my own, they made World of Warcraft. World of Warcraft wich takes up the history of warcraft where 
 warcraft III the frozen throne leaves. If you ask me it whould have been better if they did not 
 use warcraft as the games base. It whould have been better if they did not involve warcraft in 
 wow at all. Turning a RTS game serie into RPG is not something wich loyal players who loves the 
 campaigns for the history, espacially when you have to pay to play it and you will have to make 
 9 accounts to be able to find out what will happen next, and you don't have any other choice then 
 to play online, wich sucks even more. I am one of many who still enjoys to play Age of Empires 
 (the first one ever released) just be able to do the campaigns again. But I don't think WoW's servers 
 will be running forever so gamers can relive the experience of the game.
  By making WoW and only concentrating on WoW has broken alot of hearts of Warcraft fans throughout 
 the world. And by concentrating only on WoW and dropping all other projects has made people think 
 that blizzard will never be able to release anything else wich is not connected with world of warcraft.
 
  
  The Game
  
  Offline
  
  Campaign
  The Campaign is a part of the warcraft history wich started with the first warcraft game wich was 
 released years ago. This campaign follows up the campaign from WC III RoC. But this time the burning 
 legion isn't the big enemy. This time the ex prisoner Illidan, whom was released by Tyrande Whisperwind 
 in RoC, has called to the Naga to aid him in a quest wich he has recived from the demon lord Kil'Jaeden. 
 This ofcourse isn't the only problem, the high elves and humans whom where left in lordaeron are 
 still fighting for they're lives and is battling the undead till the last man.
  The lich king and the burning legion is not good friends anymore, they want to destroy eachother 
 and at the same time destroy all living things of Azeroth. The orcs are tirelessly trying to build 
 up an empire in the harsh desert. A half orc-half ogre called Rexxar helps the orcs to get back 
 on their feets. But its not so easy to build anything while others are trying to kill you.
  
  Custom Game
  The pre-made maps lets you play vs the computers as in any other RTS game. Good 
 way to test tactics and also fun to play.
  
  Online
  
  Ladder games
  Ladder games is what you have to play to gain level and new avatars on battle. net, and improve 
 your statistics. Battle. net also arranges tournaments where you will have to compete, I have never 
 won so I don't know if there are any prices. Nonetheless its good to join the tournaments since 
 you can get better stats and recive special avatars.
  
  Custom Games
  Probobly the biggest variety of custom maps I have ever seen.
  The World editor wich blizzard 
 provided allows the user to make anything he wants in to the last detail. You can make you can 
 play anything from blizzard's standard RTS maps, to a map where you have to build towers to protect 
 yourself against massive waves of monsters along with othersm till a huge map which has the same 
 concept as an RPG game, till maps where you and your friends are trapped inside an arena and has 
 to kill the other team. A popular map was Battle for middle earth. A map based on the game EA Games 
 released with the same name. But here you fight over all of middle earth instead of being locked 
 in a small piece of it.
  
  The world editor
  The world editor allows an experienced user to do anything from a blizzard standard RTS map to 
 whereever your fantasy can take you. You can customize any unit, change its stats, change its size, 
 you can even upload a new skin for it making it look exactly as you want it. You can even design 
 your own units. Not only units is this possible with, you can upload skins and models for whatever 
 you want. You can even make a cave opening move around on the map and kill things. You can practicly 
 do whatever you want if you got patience and are willing to learn how to use the editor properly.
 
  
  This game has thousands of hours to offer the gamer. You don't even need to like RTS games, just 
 visit www. wc3sear. ch and download any kind of map you want, theres everything from RTS to TBS to 
 RPG to MMORPG, you can even play chess with this game. There are no restrictions, there are hundreds 
 of private user created campaigns to play.
  
  The Graphics has somewhat grown old but still looks really good for being so old. The sound is 
 great, the mix between music and speech is great, the sound of weapons clashing against diffrent 
 types of armor the sound of flames rising, its all exrtaordinary. Games released today can't meature 
 with the production of this game.
  
  GS stats
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 10
  Value: 10
  Reviewer's tilt: 10
  
  My stats
  
  Campaign: 10
  Custom game 
 offline: 10
  Standard balande: 10
  Custom game online: 10
  Map maker: 10
  Online cheat preventing: 10
  Online server management: 10
  Environment: 10
  Variety: 10
 
  Engine: 10
  Internet connection balance: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  warcraft 3 the frozen throne is the expansion to warcraft 3 reign of chaos. the frozen throne is 
 a great game it has a good single player that will teach you how to play and get you ready for 
 the mutiplayer via battle. net there are four races to choose from (human night elf orc or undead) 
 also the game has a lot of units to make the game great. heros are special because they have abilties 
 that will help support your units in battle and when you reach lv 6 you unlock the heros special 
 ablity when you gain exp you will be able to get abilties that can do alot of damage to the enemy. 
 the mutiplayer gets addicting and can keep you playing this game forever its so amazing. all in 
 all the elements to make a great rts game is here you have to play this game you wont regret it. 
 the units you select in this game can make the diffrencee between winning and loosing so choose 
 wisely once your in battle. net see you online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james_vu90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I think that Warcraft 3 TFT is the best strategy game cause the game is really different from other 
 strategy games like it is in the Medieval Age and the characters are different from the things 
 in the medieval age and you can do alot of different combos with all the variarety of units and 
 u can even make ur own unit in the Editor. But the thing that i didnt really like is on Battle. net 
 when u play a game (Solo, FFA , Team Game or Arrange Team) u cant choose the person that u wanna 
 challenge. It could be unfair if there is a newbie against a pro. Well apart of the Battle. Net 
 stuff there isnt much a hate about Warcraft 3. So now its the time to........................ BUY 
 IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rune101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  It's been over 3 years since its release, yet there are still tons of people on battle. net playing 
 it. Wondering why? Simply put, it's amazing. Though its campaign is shorter than that of the original, 
 it still adds to the game and leaves it at a cliffhanger. The campaign is great fun, and the multiple 
 difficulties allow for some playback, and some levels are just plain fun.
  
  Multiplayer is quite fun as well, as there are many decent quality custom games to play with more 
 being added as time passes. If you ever get bored of those, however unlikely, you can always create 
 your own maps to share. The possibilities are endless with this game, as is the amount of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeveeu
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Playing a lot of RTS games and finishing WC3: Frozen Throne, here's my concise review:
  
  PROS:
  -superb graphical quality, still good enough, even for 2006
  -immersive story that lets 
 you imagine a lot of things + you think about it all the time
  -great gameplay, 4 races tuned to perfection that will allow players to develop various skills 
 and strategies
  -great quality cinematics
  -free multiplayer play that includes LAN play, battle. net (which are both awesome)
  
  CONS:
 
  -repetitive music
  -as all RTS games, you must be patient before you can say you truly master this game
  
  CONCLUSION:
 
  A game with a great replayablity value, that will keep you entertained for lots of hours and will 
 never cease to be fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikylin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played. I have always fancied BLIZZARD a lot, and praised 
 most of their games. For us who played Warcraft II the sequel, Reign of Chaos and this one, is 
 just amazing. The music and the game play is great. It breaks through as an novelty when it includes 
 the possibility to evolute Hero&acute; s in the game itself, if I am not wrong, this is actually 
 the first time an RTS game tried it, and successfully made it an new HAS TO HAVE in the RTS game 
 generation.
  
  Today one wonders what the next classic will be. Of course, WOW has already been qualified as a 
 classic game. It is. But when it comes to LAN, this is my all time favorite. So if you are a RTS 
 fan, and like this kind of games, it will be a choice for you to. From this company, the next blow 
 will have to be something like a DIABLO 3 or else...... well....... OR ELSE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVader92
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  WC 3 is a remarkable game. probably one of the best RTS games out there (to me Starcraft is still 
 my favorite) . WC3: FT has everything you want in a RTS. the gameplay is great. sound is awsome. 
 graphics are good, but they dont need to be amazing, so it doesnt bother me that much. Probably 
 the best part of WC3, and now WC3: FT has been the hero system. FT steps it up with new heros and 
 new spells and things to cast. The hero system can change any battle in a quick minute. this is 
 really fun as it tests you to keep up army wise to match your oppenent.
  
  the only thing that gets me about this game, same with RoC, is that the buildings, units, etc. 
 are limited. there seems to be too few buildings and units. i would have liked another page of 
 buildings and stuff to choose from. (i. e town hall, barracks on one page and maybe your choice 
 to build naval units and other buildings on other, that is simply an idea i just made up)
  
  all in all, FT is an awsome game. if you have the money, pick it up. youll spend a lot of time 
 on it. and imo, its a better buy than WOW, one for the monthly fee, and because you dont get tottally 
 sucked into the gameplay like you do with WOW. so bottom line, pick this game up if you can. you 
 wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamez504
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  As i said on the review deck this game really is a quick action packed and damn good stratergy 
 game. Although there is a number of games like this, this one has got to be one of the best. of 
 course to have this game you must have installed Warcraft III: Reign Of Chaos, because this game 
 is only an expansion pack. At first when i installed this game and went into the campaign mode 
 i was a loittle disappointed, because all that i could see was a night elf campaign and a bonus 
 campaign (which may i add is a particularly good campaign, well thats if you enjoy games such as 
 World Of Warcraft) i expected there to be a little more in the way of the story you see. Fortunately 
 i was wrong, because upon completeing the night elf campaign i found myself looking at another 
 campaign, and upon completing that, yet another. the great thing was that all of them were enjoyable, 
 there is obviously those missions that you dont enjoy that much, either because there too hard, 
 or there too easy in some cases! The way the campaigns link up is yet another great thing. The 
 only thing i could complain about is that there are very few long and enhanced graphics clips (there 
 are about 2 i believe) My favourite part of this game has to be Battle. net, for all you players 
 of other Blizzard games such as Diablo you will know battle. net but for the rest of you it is just 
 the link up for internet play. You will have to create an account first, but thats easy and most 
 importantly free! Battle. net itself is where you are able to join any online games being hosted 
 by others, this also includes maps made by other people! (a personal favourite of mine is battleships) 
 But if you plan to host games and no one is joining it when you are joining it, then its because 
 of your firewall. So it is advisable to either disable them or configure them differently. Or you 
 can just always hope someone else happens to be hosting the game your looking for. This game is 
 simply a superb game, and i advise jsut about anyone to buy it. Oh and finally dont use cheats 
 until u've completed the cmapaign, simply because it makes it boring! And also let me add that 
 i only set the difficulty as just right because it really does depend on what you are doing on 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  Following in the tradition of previous Blizzard expansion sets, Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne 
 provides gamers with a vast new chapter in the epic Warcraft saga. In the single-player campaign, 
 players revisit the war-torn world of Azeroth. Several months have passed since Archimonde and 
 the Burning Legion were defeated at the battle of Mount Hyjal, yet a new threat has arisen throughout 
 the land...
  One new Hero per race, each possessing powerful spells and magical abilities. When we did our interview 
 with Blizzard's VP a month or so ago, we were very surprised to hear that the number of campaign 
 missions were equal to that of the original stand-alone game. We were worried however that Frozen 
 Throne might take along the lines of Brood Wars where missions were damn near impossible to finish. 
 Fortunately, the game on Standard mode is very winnable, and on Difficult offers just enough resistance 
 to make things very interesting. The campaign is definitely a compelling and entertaining core 
 of the game that gamers will love - especially if they are long time WarCraft fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoiofUniverse
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Wehere to begin? A friend of mine introduced me to Warcraft 3 almost two years ago now, and by 
 the time I was finished I'd already given the expansion a 10 out of 10 before I'd had the chance 
 to play it. Obviously, this game is meant for people who have played Warcraft 3, since it offers 
 a continuation to the story, and also the chance to crack some heads! Once you've started the campaign, 
 your sucked in, it's the same wonderful gameplay and graphics, but new characters, units and more 
 funny catchphrases. The campaign, is great; 26 action packed missions that drag you deep into the 
 night, until you think you cant play more, but you find you can continue. In the campaign, you 
 discover great new heroes, such as the Night Elf Warden, and the Undead Tomb Lord. The new units 
 fit in perfectly, and the campaign, while without any real conclusion, is incrediably addictive. 
 While I'm talking about the campaign, I should mention the Orc mini campaign, a la Diablo. When 
 I first started playing it, I found it incrediably interesting with all of the differant quests, 
 obviously nothing new to RPG players, but since I'd never had the chance to play Diablo for more 
 than an hour or two, I loved it. The only setback was, that once you got to the end of the campaign, 
 it became a grind: kill a few high level units, or get their health down, wait for your heroes 
 to re-spawn, ans then start again. Overall thoguh, all of the campaigns were enjoyable, and I'll 
 remember the Orc one with fondness.
  Moving on from the campaigns, are the scenarios, with lots of new maps, and the possibility to 
 hire new mercenaries, boats, and even hire heroes. These all add up to make the customer games 
 tense and exciting affairs. Since I haven't had the chance to go online, I dont know what it's 
 like to fight other players, but I'm sure it's even better than a custom game.
  My only disagreements with the game are minor in comparison to the glory that is Warcraft. Mainly 
 that it would be nice to see some of the more original campaign scenrarios, such as the Blood Elf 
 tug of war and tower battle, made into actual scenarios, with the possibility to play as differant 
 races. But like I say, these are wishes that I have, and probably woudn't add mush to Warcraft 
 3: The Frozen Throne: THE BEST GAME EVER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacheater2k5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III is an example of an RTS game done right. Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne is an example 
 of an RTS game done even better. This is most certainly one of the greatest RTS games for the computer 
 next to Command and Conquer. The gameplay is just superior to all other RTS' on the market. You 
 have to deal with things like FOOD, MINING, LUMBER HARVESTING, and many other things that make the 
 gameplay all the more intense. You can only control twelve characters at a time, but, as with WC 
 III, you have the hero characters to aid you. There are so many more things to do here that I can't 
 list, but trust me, if you buy this game, you'll love the gameplay.
  
  The graphics are very good for an RTS game. The 3D models look well in battle and while simply 
 roaming around the field. However, if you compare these looks to C&amp; C Generals, they're kind 
 of blown away.
  
  The best part about this game, I think, is the huge MapMaker. There are limitless possibilities 
 for this tool, and it's the same one they used to make the actual game. This also means it's kind 
 of complicated, though.
  
  Do yourself a favor, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshidino
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: Frozen Throne is one of, if not the BEST rts I have ever played. This game is so 
 addictive you could be stuck playing it for hours on end. Frozen Throne offers an incredible story 
 mode, where you play as Night Elves for the first part. The Blood Elves, and then The Undead. The 
 Night Elf campaign sticks you in the boots of Maiev, a warden hunting for a demon/night elf names 
 Illidan, set free by Tyrande near the end of the original Warcraft 3. The Blood Elf campaign gives 
 you control over Prince Keal, who lost his homeland to the undead, which also happened in the original 
 Warcraft 3. And then there's the undead campaign, where you play as the Scourge, with Arthas and 
 Sylvanas (now undead) . The graphics in this game are very impressive, to say the least. The movies 
 you see during the campaign are incredible. The sounds, too, are amazing. Makes you feel as if 
 you were actually there. If you go online on Battle. Net you will also find that people create their 
 own maps. Not all of them are good but most are. If you do go online in Frozen Throne, I reccommend 
 playing WW3 :) . Just a suggestion. Either way this is the most addicting RTS ever, and it will 
 keep you up til 2:00AM (It did for me) . PLAY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon243
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III Frozen Throne is the best game ever! cuz the graphics are very nice, the sounds are 
 excellent , the music is cool and the best thing of all is the gameplay is so long.
  
  My Friends and I really like this game so much because the graphics is very cool, the gameplay 
 is very long and the best thing more than gameplay is that you can make ur own place and campgain 
 also you can create monsters, location, quests and the best of all in the world edit is you can make 
 naga's .
  
  If they think that this game is bad that means you don't understand anything and you don't have 
 strategy (plan) .
  
  My Friends really like this game so much...
  
  (i hope the people knows how to use a perfect strategy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDizz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  No rts has ever come this close to being perfect before. Blizzard, the makers of Starcraft have 
 done it again. They have re-invented the rts genre and made it better. WC3 adds a new element of 
 Heros which adds a much more commanding feeling over your units. Great graphics, sound and gameplay. 
 It's best for online paly but even the offline story mode is amazingly fun. Online is supported 
 by the succesful battle. net of Starcraft and adds some new options for players to play and interact 
 with eachother like an Arranged Team option. This is a ranked ladder for teams you get to make 
 yourself, so invite your friends and clan members! This is a winner for anyone whos ever played 
 an rts before. GOGOGOG buy it! =) I'm Big-O-Dizzle on east, whisp if you want to at :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarStuck
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Definitely on my list of best games of all time! Blizzard knows how to make games folks, this expansion 
 makes the original Warcraft III completely obsolete and stands as one of the best RTS games of 
 all time.
  
  Awesome campaign and single player , create you're own maps/campaigns, and incredible multi-player 
 online on Battle. net. Arranged Team with ladder with unlockable icons (for boasting rights) and 
 with downloadable maps from other players (Even games thanks to the flexability of their map creator) 
 allows for nearly infinite replayability,
  
  There are four factions in the game. The Humans, Night elves, orcs, and undead. Each faction is 
 distinctly unique in almost every way, shape and form. Each has it's own unique advantages and 
 disadvantages you may exploit. Units are very well balanced and well designed.
  
  Additionally, you also get hero units in addition to the units you create. These heros have special 
 abilitys and also are able to level up and grow more powerful as the game progresses as well as 
 being able to obtain more and more powerful spells.
  
  All in all, I found this a fantastic game. I bought it a year after it was released and have been 
 playing it since, my hope is that Blizzard continues to release games with this amount of detail 
 and quality. Well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfiercelink
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This game is a must get. The character models is amazing for an internet game. Battle. net was the 
 best aspect of the game. The campaign was just the right difficulty. Perfect everything. All must 
 get this game, wherether you are a newbie or a veteran. This game is also easy to learn. All can 
 learn and love this game. This game is the best in the series. For the game's campaign is very 
 good story line. You can just pick up and play this game. No sweat.
  For the box art is also amazing. The graphics are some of the best. GET THIS GAME OR ELSE !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 WARCRAFT 3 RULZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blind59
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I've shifted through atleast twenty of so RTS games, and none have been quite as good as Warcraft 
 three. Its not the graphics, sound, campaign its the multi player options. Like every Blizzard 
 game, its got that nifty battle. net thing going on. Battle net custom games are making WC3 survive 
 for ages. The fact that blizzard makes the best map editors for RTS games just makes us want to 
 play more. Millions of people still love the game, and we know blizzard will always rule the RTS 
 market, and now that they have ventured into the MMO market we may never see another RTS, so lets 
 tresure these moments while we can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeAlmighty
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Since Warcraft 2 (or StarCraft or Diablo, not sure) Blizzard have offered a free online service 
 called Battle. Net. It is an efficient, easy to use online service. And it had me hooked.
  
  You can engage yourself in a fun custom game, you can join a clan and battle other clans, or you 
 could join a competition and battle it our vs. other players. This feature really adds a huge umph 
 to Warcraft 3 making it so much more worth the value your paying for it.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the offline campaigns will keep you happy for a while. The missions are fun, 
 easy going and the story line in this new expansion continues from the Reign of Chaos making the 
 the storyline enthralling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinmi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  As to what I see this is the best game the blizzard productions has ever made, it attracts me to 
 its beautiful game graphics, and especially the audio effect, I just can't stand it! It is something 
 that attracts many students in our school, then battle from with other schools, Warcraft III: Frozen 
 Throne is so popular here (Philippines) . I wish the blizzard entertainment can make a 1st-Person 
 Edition about this game. DotA is my favorite mod, I wish you (Gamespot) can post some downloads 
 about it. Cause it is so POPULAR! When the Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos came, it wasn't very known, 
 but when my friends and classmates told me about DotA, I bought the whole package and it was TOTALLY 
 AWESOME!!! It was something that I can't forget to play in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veer-zaara
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-
  The gameplay is unreal. It is a combination of strategy and pure combat. If you love fantasy games 
 i recommend this game. If you like RTS games get this. For those who dont like RTS games you probably 
 arent patient. Be patient, and understand everything in the game before you bad mouth it.
  
  Graphics- They were amazing. I actually kinnda liked the cartoonish look, and if your computer 
 is up to date and is old and stuff the game should run very smoothly.
  
  Sound-
  The sound is awesome. Not much to say besides maybe the fact that when you keep clicking on the 
 units the start getting smart with you or they just start telling jokes or just act stupid.
  
  My final opinion-
  If you have a computer you should get up right now and get this game. 
 It is amazing. It is one of my top games ever. They least they can do is give an expansion pack 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightningsun
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: The Frozen Throne
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of Warcraft 3: Reign Of Chaos where absolutely amazing, this is just an expansion 
 so there isn't a big graphic update!
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of Warcraft 3: Reign Of Chaos was fantastic, you had numerous ways to defeat and crush 
 your enemies. The expansion did a great job of keeping that and put in a lot more ways to give 
 your enemies a hard time! There is for example a new building for each race where your hero's can 
 buy health potions or a passive item that makes your hero's attack better! There are a lot of new 
 maps, and a big amount of new units and creeps! The story again is something that keeps you going 
 for a long time!
  
  Other:
  The multiplayer aspect is like in Warcraft 3: Reign Of Chaos... the best!
  
  Conclusion:
 
  This expansion really is one of the best! I highly recommend buying this expansion, if you have 
 Warcraft 3: Reign Of Chaos and you have a good time with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faladore
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  I remember Warcraft II as a kid and it left me dreaming for more. More came with WC III + Frozen 
 Thrown. THis game is the best strategy game of all times. The game play is superb and the same 
 goes for the graphics. The campaigns are innovative and fun but the Online aspect is the best. 
 You can find real talented adversaries to compete against and clim up the ladder to compete against 
 even better players. You can specialize in one class and achieve building schemes to the mili second. 
 Anyways i can only say that if you like strategy games or hell even if you dont you must buy it. 
 Yep 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prinzofpersia
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  warcraft III: The frozen Throne is the second installment of the third warcraft series which tells 
 the story of four... different races which are: the orcs.. the humans.. the night elves... and the 
 undead. each race tells a different story which eventully connects together... mostly the humans 
 and the naga race and the night elves.. and has very powerful heroes on each 4 races.. and better 
 than modern-age stragedy games..."NO offence for modern-age stragety games fans"and has every thing 
 u can think of.. from the undead army to the mighty wizards of the bloodelves"which have the best 
 story in the game.."
  This game inspired in buying more stragety games like warcraft.. and this game is HIGHLY, HIGHLY 
 recommended by me.. and I hope for every one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaman37
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is a must if you have warcraft 3, and if you dont have WC3 then you better buy it 
 now. This is a game that you may never get tired of, all thanks to the HUGE choice of maps you 
 have on battle. net. First thing though you should do when you get this game is of course play through 
 the campaign tl catch up on what arthas and the gang is up to. But after that lengthy campaign, 
 get ready to never leave your computer with a wide variety of maps, going from tower defenses to 
 hero wars. This is a game i have always went back to over and over. I have now played through this 
 game atleast 8 times and i am still loving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostDog8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off i will be making this review to both Reign of Chaos and the Frozen throne.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay is unreal. It is a combination of strategy and pure combat. If you love 
 fantasy games i recommend this game. If you like RTS games get this. For those who dont like RTS 
 games you prolly arent patient. Be patient, and understand everything in the game before you bad 
 mouth it.
  
  Graphics- 
  They were aight. I actually kinnda liked the cartoonish look, and if your computer is up to date 
 and is old and stuff the game shoudl run very smooth.
  
  Sound-
  The sound is pretty nice. Not much to say besides maybe the fact that when you keep clicking on 
 the units the start getting smart with you or they just start telling jokes or just act stupid.
 
  
  Vaule-
  The vaule is unreal. I am going by replay vaule. Considering this game came out in 03 i think, 
 and I still play it and enjoy it, well maybe not as much as i used to but the game is still raw 
 bizz. The custom games online they have just make the game last forever. The tournys online are 
 fun but challenging. Trying to get icons for your account are very time consuming.
  The game just goes on and on.
  
  My final opinion-
  If you have a computer you should get 
 up right now and get this game. It is amazing. It is one of my top games ever. I hope they drop 
 a Warcraft 4 soon because i dont wanna be playin it in college i wont really have the time. They 
 least they can do is give an expansion pack.
  
  Holla at ya boy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  The graphics were very sharp, the game play was hardcore (almost to much to enjoy) , and the story 
 well I really didn't care for it.
  
  I found it to be almost to difficult and faced pace to sit back and enjoy. Not only that night 
 elves are like the, well I'll just say that I don't care for them. To me warcraft 2 was my peak, 
 and command and conquer generals was much more entertaining. Pretensious is a good word to describe 
 this one in my humble opinion.
  
  Warcraft 3 (this one's predacessor) I'd have to give an almost identical review. Kinda wish blizzard 
 would get back to starcraft, last one left me hangin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:    Blizzard   
     
  ,  
  , 
    ,  
  .  
 - .     
    
  StarCraft, Diablo  WarCraft   
   
  .  
  ,  
    . 
   
    Battle. net   
  ,   
   , 
   
   
   , 
 ,  , 
 , , 
    
     
    
    
     
     
   
 .   
     
  Blizzard.    . 
   , 
  .  
 ,      . 
    , 
      
 .    
    ? 
 
  
     Blizzard 
   
  
  
    
 
  
  
      
 .    
    
    
 .   
    , 
    
  -  - 
 ,  
    
   
  ,  
     
    
    
  . 
      
    . 
     Diablo,   StarCraft, 
   WarCraft. 
  
       
     
    
    
  WarCraft III,  The 
 Frozen Throne.    
      
    
     
   
    
  , 
   . 
    Blizzard   
     
     
   
 ,  
     
 . 
  
   
  
   
  
  
   The Frozen Throne   
    
   The Reign of Chaos.  
     
     
  ,    
   
    
  , 
    
  ,    
    
 .   
    
      
    
   
    The Frozen Throne,  
     
   . 
 
  
     
    
  .  
   
    
  , 
     
   
     
  .  
    
    
    
   
 .   
     
     
 .   
   ,  
  -    
   .  - 
    
 The Frozen Throne     
 ,  , 
  , 
     
 .    
     
    . 
  
      , 
     
   
 ,   
    
      
    
 .     
    
  
  
   
  
    
   
   
 .  
    
     
    
     
     
     
     
 WarCraft III.  
    
     
    . 
    
   
   
   
    
  ,   
    
    
 . , 
 -   
    
     
  ,  
     
  . 
  
      
     
   
  
     
     
  . 
    
 Blink  Warden-    
    
   
     
   
 ,   
   
 .   
   
 Flame Strike  Blood Mage-   
     
      
     
 ...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Joseph00
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne continues on with the same - if not better - gameplay as that of Reign of Chaos. 
 There's plenty of additional goodies to be found here, and the campaign is VERY addicting.
  
  Although it is an awesome game, it doesn't add very many new things to the mix. The graphics 
 are awesome, the sounds are all great, the music is enchanting, the characters are even better 
 than before... but there really is not enough additional content in this expansion to fill its 
 worth.
  
  Everything is great, but there is too much of the same old stuff in this. It's too hard to make 
 Real Time Strategy expansions really live up to the price tag that is usually put onto them. Nevertheless, 
 it is very good.
  
  Expect great cinematics (but no where near as many as the first) and excellent character development 
 as well as new implementations to the gaming engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Frozen throne has to be one of the best games i have played i reccomend it to anyone who loves 
 a good rts. There is great depthe in the storey and u could do the game over and over again and 
 im sure i would do it again. The graphics are good and there is some awsome music in the background, 
 and 4 the price i paided 4 it i wasnt dissapointed, its a great expansion and 4 a resonable price. 
 If u download the maps of gamespot it makes it even better cause there is more fun, it also offers 
 u a wide variety of maps and finishs the proluge from warcraft 3 if u look in custom campaigns.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridace
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review: This game is SOOooo Great! First of all, it's got huge content! you there are tons of game MODS 
 for WARCRAFT, including my personal fav., DOTA!!!! Actually, that's what i mostly play now a days... DOTA... hahaha. 
 Okay okay, if your a RTS game fan, this ones for you because it's got a good selection of forces 
 (4 of them actually) and it has a cool hero system with abilities and crap! hahaha :D so even if 
 your enemy has about 10 basic units... and you got like a level 10 hero... damn man, your enemy better 
 pray to whatever God he worships 'cuz it's over for him! hahaha :D. Anyweiz, this is also a MUST 
 for PC owners... i'm telling you! such HUGE content!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 The Frozen Throne For PC.
  
  Most people interested in purchasing this expansion have probably already played/bought Warcraft 
 III: Reign of Chaos. If you were an RTS fan, you most likely enjoyed it. It was relatively well-balanced, 
 fun, and introduced many new things into the RTS genre. Many people truly thought the game couldn't 
 get any better. Well, those people were wrong. Blizzard has released Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne, 
 an expansion to an already marvelous game. It expands on the storyline, introduces new units and 
 heroes, along with many other game dynamics. This is really the only area where the game is lacking. 
 It starts we left off in the original War III, like all the other Craft expansions have. However, 
 it goes downhill a bit. The background story is relatively well done, but some of the events that 
 take place seem almost like pointless filler in order to make the game longer, and often don't 
 advance the plot. It gets worse as you progress, but in my opinion the story was still decent enough 
 to make me want to keep playing. The ending was mediocre, they could have done better with it. 
 This is kind of difficult to rate, as this game can be played both offline and online. Offline 
 Blizzard gives you the option of playing a Normal campaign, or a Hard campaign. Normal is a breeze 
 for the most part, but Hard will keep you on the edge of your seat most of the time. If you just 
 want to play against a computer for fun, it can be set to Easy, Normal, or Hard. The computer is 
 quite nasty on Hard, especially if you play against two or more. On Easy, the computer is... well... easy 
 :) . Now online is very interesting. Blizzard has set up a matchmaking system (the same one in the 
 original War III) in order to pit you up against an opponent worthy of your skill level. As you 
 defeat opponents, you gain Experience Points, and if you get enough, you ''Level Up.'' A level 
 is just a general determination of your skill, and generally you will do battle with those of your 
 skill level. Blizzard also rewards you with special icons for winning enough games with different 
 races. Gameplay : Just wow. Warcraft III was awesome, and this is even better. It has the same 
 hero system, where you can level up special units in order to make them stronger and learn new 
 special skills. More heroes have been added, making a new range of playstyles available. Even better 
 yet, there are special ''Neutral Heroes'' this time around. They can be hired at special buildings 
 on some maps, and act just like normal heroes. There are numerous Neutral Heroes, including the 
 Pandaran Brewmaster, who has quite a host of humorous skills :) . In the old Warcraft III, heroes 
 could purchase or find items in order to grant their heroes special abilities, stat bonuses, or 
 other effects. In this expansion, you can purchase an upgrade that allows ALL units to carry items. 
 (In most cases, a normal unit can carry two) . This is really cool, and adds to the strategy element 
 of the game. On the topic of items is perhaps one of the coolest additions to the game. This is 
 the buildable shop that each race gets. You can construct it anywhere in your base, and it functions 
 just like any other shop on the map for the most part. However as you upgrade your main structure 
 (Town Hall, Tree of Life, etc) more items become accessable in this shop. Each race gets different 
 items to compliment its abilites and bring new strategies to the game. Each race also recieves 
 a new unit or two, adding to their diversity. Each unit is usually quite different from the rest 
 of the units available to the race, and can prove for some interesting battles when used properly. 
 They are usually difficult to manage, and are not reccomended for beginning users in my opinion. 
 There are also a few new buildings scattered across the map, with the most interesting one being 
 one that allows for the construction of transport and attack ships. Lastly, the max unit limit 
 was increased a bit, so battles can happen on a larger scale now. Graphics : Not too shabby :) . 
 Some of the new units, especially Illidan, look really cool if you zoom in on them. This game keeps 
 the same 3D Isometric perspective as the original, and doesn't expand on the actual graphics too 
 much. The new units do tend to look a bit better than the old ones however, and the cinematics 
 are stunning, like usual :) . Sound : Yay! The sound is excellent in this game. Blizzard took the 
 liberty of remixing the old music tracks for the races, and adding a few new ones. They are much 
 more exciting now, and are much longer so you don't get bored listening to the same thing repeating 
 over and over. The quality is very good, and definitely creates a mood for the game. The units 
 talk when ordered or clicked on, like any other Craft game. They can often be very humorous, especially 
 if you click on the same unit repeatedly. The new units have new voices too, of course. The campaign 
 has voice dialog, so all the cut scenes and cinema screens really come to life. The voice actors 
 are quite good, and the voices don't sound forced. There are numerous maps to play on, each with 
 different strategies required and set ups. Playing online doesn't ever seem to get old, as each 
 time you play someone its a whole different experience. One of the major factors that contributes 
 to the 10/10 scores in replayability is the Map Editor. For lack of a better description, this 
 thing rules. It is considerably more customizeable than the old Map Editor. You can even go as 
 far as editing AI, User Interface, and even the tilesets themselves. If you are patient, you can 
 make tons of interesting maps, and put the players into some very fun scenarios. The map editor 
 is very user friendly, and is good for both the beginner and the map designing guru. You won't 
 get bored with this, I assure you :) Well, you can't rent computer games in many places. Even if 
 you could, I would say BUY IT! There is no way you could do everything in this game in a mere rental 
 period. If you are a fan of RTS, and liked Warcraft III, buy this. (Note: You must have the original 
 Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos in order to use this expansion pack) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggamer25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game has its ups and downs but mostly ups. So just to get it over with the only thing that 
 is bad about this game is that sometimes it is amazingly hard to beat and other times it is way 
 too easy. But the good things are that this game has outstanding graphics and great game play too. 
 Also the sound on this game is excellent. Although there is one more downside and that is that 
 some of the levels are very long and they might start to get boring after a little while. But overall 
 the game lay on this game and everything else in this game is just about as good as it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino316
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  When i purchashed this game a couple of years ago i was very skeptical wondering if this game was 
 as good as other RTS's i had played from Blizzard (StarCraft) .
  
  The first thing i noticed about this game were the graphics and the character models. Hands down 
 the best ever on any PC game. Now as long as you don't have a too **** computer to handle this 
 you can enjoy it at its fullest capabilities ( *sigh* -.-) . 
  
  The single player is better than i thought it would be, and it is quite lenghty for both versions. 
 Took me about 20-25 hrs to finish both games. Also it is the best way to hone your skills for multiplayer 
 play on battle net. 
  Now i have to say it, Warcraft is a tremendous game but it isn't better than Starcraft. But if 
 your not a hardcore SC junkie, you will love the feeling Blizzard will give you from this latest 
 installment in the RTS series. 
  
  RIght now it is i feel the best RTS and possible best PC game out there. Contrasting it to starcraft 
 the mutliplayer online mode for melee is extremley challenging. All my years of hydra rushing didnt 
 help me for this game... Anyways the most important aspect of this game is strategy, instead of 
 massing. Dont want to give away to much of the game, so i'll let you buy it and prove me wrong. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkblade256
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best rts's ever made and will be played for 30 years into the future. The 
 game has good sound and great cartoon like graphics. It is a must buy. The online is great, even 
 five years after its made you can find a game within a minute of waiting on the quick search. It 
 does no seem to have the quick search firewall problems like in command and conquer Generals. The 
 player made maps are fun. The ranking is good and the game is kept up to date with regular patches. 
 This game is a masterpiece. You can play it over and over again and not get bored. Players of all 
 levels are out there so you can find an even match all the time. The spell are very kool looking 
 and the frame rate is constant even when a massive battle is going on. BUY NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  I didn't feel right giving the game a perfect score because nothing is perfect but this game is 
 as close as you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demo434
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 Frozen throne is according 2 me one of the best games ever made. It is an excellent 
 sequel to RoC. Age of Mythology comes close but the lack of experience and level of heroes is a 
 little setback. In Warcraft 3 however heroes are the most fun and important part of the game. Having 
 a hero leading ur army is necessary as his spells and aura can determine the course of the match. 
 This makes warcraft part rpg as u can lvl up ur hero equip him with items and learn ultimate spells 
 at lvl 6. The campaign mode is very exciting and the story is pretty good. Once u finish the campaign 
 u can go online on battlenet and play this game with ur friends u can play on ladder and u can 
 play some very creative custom games like footman wars,7 demon hunters etc. They have kept me glued 
 2 warcraft for so many years. 
  The gameplay is fast, smooth and unlike Age of Mythology u will be involved in the game right in 
 the beginning eg: leveling or harassing opponent with ur hero. The graphics in this game are amazing 
 second only 2 final fantasy. I never enjoy the sound in any game (as it slows down my comp) the 
 replay value is excellent because of the custom games on battlenet and finally I dont really know 
 what tilt means but im sure its pretty good in warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ardiney06
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  This game not only have a great  is skill based unlike other 
 game Warcraft3 is the mighty king of RTS games for sure. There are four races in this game Night 
 elves, Undead, Human, Orc. All of them are equal in some way (all of them are balanced) Orcs are the 
 stronger race of the 4 Night elves have the ability to see further in the night shadow meld and 
 buildings attack (i don't know but I think they get stronger at night also I'll have to check.) The 
 humans can have more than 1 man building at one building (faster building time) They also have some 
 great heroes. The paladin is great healing+damaging and he goes invulnerable for a short time. The 
 mountain king has thunder bolt a great stun move. (skipping the other 2 heros cause I need to hurry) The 
 undead rally only need 1 builder because once you start a building up you can walk away and build 
 something else. Also I think (I THINK) undead and ne get gold faster because they do not have to run 
 back and forth to the mine also great IMO.
  
  Well I've said a little bit to much but for a 2-3 year old game its a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan8494
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III The frozen throne is a great warcraft game for pc. There are a lot of diiferent characters 
 you can be. This game can be difficult at times though. You can make a lot of troops and battle 
 with them. This game also has great graphics. The characters look very real. The weapons of the 
 characters are cool too. The battles in this game are cool. There is a lot of battles with your 
 troops. I haven't been on battle. net before but I hear it is better than Reign of Chaos. The heroes 
 in this game are also very interesting. One of them is Maiev Shadowsong. There are also many diffferent 
 heroes in this game. This game is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 5:23 am PT
Review:  After exhaustively playing Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos, I decided to upgrade to The Frozen Throne 
 expansion. I couldn't help to notice some flaws that really trouble the gameplay. It doesn't mean, 
 however, this is just an above-average game. In truth, it's a perfect example of how a RTS game 
 should look like.
  
  I'll list below some positive things about this upgraded version of Warcraft III:
  
  1. Four 
 races: Humans, Night Elfs, Undeads and Orcs. Each one has advantages and disadvantages. For instance, 
 Orcs are very strong, but their units are more expensive and slower to be trained;
  
  2. The Frozen Throne offers an excellent gameplay, in both the single player campaign and the multiplayer 
 mode; this expansion comes with some new maps to enjoy in on-line matches or custom games, also 
 with three more additional campaigns for solo play;
  
  3. The Artificial Intelligence is unquestionably great and realistic. As you progress your skill 
 in Warcraft III, you can raise the difficulty: Easy to Normal, and Normal to Insane. It's a good 
 way to try new tactics, since you don't want to do this against an experienced human opponent. 
 
  
  4. Great cartoony graphics, amazing sound effects and a nice selection of soundtracks for each 
 race;
  
  5. Naturally, the coolest thing is that you can play with special units called heroes. They can 
 become more and more powerful during a game, as you kill enemy troops and the neutral creeps around 
 the map; The Frozen Throne expansion comes with one different hero for each race.
  
  But there're some shortcomings as well:
  
  1. In a custom or multiplayer game, the Insane Computer 
 plays like a cheater: it harvests gold faster than you, so the AI may attack you as sooner as you 
 can imagine. If you want to check this, try to save a replay of a custom game, and then watch it 
 in the Insane Computer's perspective. You'll see its gold rising much faster than yours (+20 instead 
 of the regular +10) . 
  
  2. The upkeep is really a bad aspect in Warcraft III and slows down the flow of the game for no 
 reason. When you reaches the Low Upkeep (when you population is above 50) , your gold income rating 
 downs to +7. And worse, when your population is above 80 you reach the High Upkeep, which means 
 that your gold income rating downs to +4. These things constitute in a tremendous delay in the 
 game, since the computer adversary have much more resources than you. The AI can create a more 
 powerful army simply too early. Even if the computer didn't cheat, it would be nice to not have 
 the upkeep disadvantage.
  
  Nonetheless this is a good game. Again let me say that it's the multiplayer that really shines 
 in Warcraft III. The expansion The Frozen Throne makes things even better and you'll definitely 
 want to have this upgraded version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive the campains are awsome adn the multiplayer on it is fanominal with 
 its meany apon hundreds of mini games you can play with some of the easyest controls around this 
 game is one of the best games around Along with its breverin alllll the other warcrafts if you 
 played them all you would no what I mean and it is also made by Blizzard, with some of the best 
 costimer support under the sun today & with battle net that takes multiplayer game play to the 
 next level makeing it easyer to play with your friends and soo on i highly advise you get it HIGHLY 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_Mo_Dee1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  This really is a great game. I dont think its better then Starcraft but well nothing is. The game 
 truely is great. The only small problem I have with it is the cartoony graphics, thats not really 
 my thing. But hell who cares the game still rocks. The heros you can get in that game make it awsome 
 too. Thats the one thing Starcraft is lacking. Really it is just a classic. It takes all the problems 
 from Warcraft 2 and makes them a hundred times better.
  A great strategy game, a great multyplayer game, a good single player game, its just great. If 
 you dont already have it, just go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvercineplex
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne is the expansion to Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos. A great expansion to a great 
 game. Expansions are usually average. Nothing more than an a few additional levels, extended story, 
 and new units/characters. Frozen Throne is just that but brings it in a way that makes the game 
 a better than average expansion.
  
  The plot continues from the last story. The game starts off as you hunt for Illidan. As you hunt 
 for Illidan, you'll realise the story is much deeper than that. 
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same as the last game. Nothing has been changed really. There 
 has just been a little fine tuning here and there. There are additional environments and they good 
 awesome. Same with the additional units.
  
  The sounds are good. There are more sound effects added. The wonderful music is back. There are 
 some new interesting background music.
  
  The missions in this expansion are very different than the last game. Most expansions offer the 
 same kind of missions, just more of them. In Frozen Throne, the mission types are quite different 
 and there are large varieties.
  
  Overall, this is a great expansion. Anybody that has Warcraft III should get this if they don't 
 have it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilivewithapanda
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there should 
 be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... But 
 i do think there should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a 
 thing about it.... But i do think there should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont 
 think i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there should be a war craft 4.... just 
 an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there should be 
 a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... But i do 
 think there should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing 
 about it.... But i do think there should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think 
 i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing 
 game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there should be a war craft 
 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there 
 should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... 
 But i do think there should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change 
 a thing about it.... But i do think there should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont 
 think i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there should be a war craft 4.... just 
 an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there should be 
 a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... But i do 
 think there should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing 
 about it.... But i do think there should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think 
 i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing 
 game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there should be a war craft 
 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... But i do think there 
 should be a war craft 4.... just an amazing game, i dont think i would change a thing about it.... 
 But i do think there should be a war craft 4.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is the same as reign of chaos but the storyline is a lot more boring. The only good 
 thing is the new units etc. The graphics are the same as well as the sound. Some of the levels 
 are almost impossible to beat and there should've been more skills for the heros. Overall this 
 is a good game but not good as expected. The multiplayer is a lot better since there are new units. 
 If you have reign of chaos you should still buy this game. I recomend this game to anyone who liked 
 starcraft or anyone who like RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xykuu
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  I think that Warcraft 3 is one of the best RTS games ever made, not only because of the great graphics 
 and game play but also for the great story, the story its so great that I could say that is almost 
 better than the Lord of the Ring. The TFT (The Frozen Throne) expansion pack offers to gamers one 
 new hero per race, news spells and units and a spells shop per race, and offers a great 3 great 
 campaigns, with one bonus campaign.
  The campaigns are big, especially the campaign of the undead, but the best campaign is the bonus 
 one, the orc campaign, with has a similar game play of a RPG where you play with a ogre/orc hybrid.
 
  The campaign has 3 levels, each one really big.
  In resume, it's one of the best RTS games ever, it's really big, offers fun and the game play it's 
 very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Doggy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 The Frozen Throne is the best game ever made! Its blanced, fast pace, challenging, has 
 good graphics, has a amazing replay value, and has many diffrent stradegeys to it. Theres not a 
 boring moment. It is one of the few totaly balanced games. It never gets boring. The overall game 
 play dosn't have many glitches. The only thing is it takes but quite a bit of room and lags. But 
 its awsome!
  To get the ture pleasure our of it you need a computer with lots of memory and one that runs very 
 fast. Also the stroy line is awsome, proably the best stroy line for a game ever! And it has many 
 diffrent coustom game maps. So it dosn't really get boring. Battle. net is always fun. All the races 
 have their ups and downs. For example the orcs build slower than most races and take longer to 
 build up a big base and army, but are very strong. And the night elves are fast yet weak. The undead 
 are fast but their main low class infantry also work so it mess up and helps the base. As in when 
 your army gets destroyed you can't get lumber. And the fast low class infantry the ghouls die easy. 
 The Humans are kinda fast and kinda strong but not really powerful on eather. The game is over 
 all balanced. And very fun. This is the best game made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prichard745
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  A great add on to th warcraft 3 the graphics couldnt be better i think the champaign mode can be 
 really hard if you dont read the stradegy guild like i couldnt beat it without it. but the greatest 
 thing about this game is Battle. net on this game there is alway people on but there is a more wider 
 range of game on this expansion pack the warcraft 3 reign of chaos if you looking for an amazing 
 rts this is the game to get but you have to but the original one to set up this one but its worth 
 the money i think all the blizzard games are worth the money and this is also a great game to play 
 if you dont have any money for WOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desklampz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Iv been playing wc3 about a year now and it is probably the best gaming experience i ever had, 
 and it is also the game that I im the best at.
  
  the down side is the community it is full of dick heads, really.
  
  There are four races (Undead 
 (UD) , Orc (Orc) , Night elf (NE) , and human (HU) .
  
  There is also the mighty Dota, Footmen frenzy, and a lot of TD's. The replay value is crazy you 
 can make your own maps and then share it online. Dota is the most popular it contains a force of 
 5 heros are maximum and there are over 40 heroes each side different, then you have a goal its 
 to kill the main statue of your opponent but same time protect yours lots of fun to be had.
  
  In this game if you become a pro you are going get lot of cash, but it is a hard game to learn 
 you gotta let yourself sink in, anyway go buy it its worth it.
  
  -oO-Kuo
  
  PS- B-net account = Sears. ca 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite rpgs is warcraft 3, frozen throne. It kind of makes rpgs and empires - builders 
 mix. Like the last game and still in this, it has special "hero" units that can lead your forces 
 into a victory in battle. They can advance and learn powers, like rpg/mmorpgs, but they are also part 
 of the empires building, too.
  Every civ is played close to the same but not completely, with only a little difference. They still 
 have the same buildings, but just named differently. There is a barracks, a armor/weapon advancing 
 building, spellcaster/hero buildings, ect.
  The campaign editor is very fun, you can creat things from a meele map to a full campaign. They let 
 you create every little detail, such as creeps and starting locations. The only downsides are is 
 that is takes a while to get used to and is kind of hard.
  The actual campaigns are hard, though. They can range from making you take a hero and some troops 
 to slay some beasts to making you build up a small town to crash your enemy's base-building party.
 
  Overall, this game is 100% something that you'll wan't to at least try if your a fan of rpgs/empire 
 builders. "For the horde!!"-the orcs
  7.5
  _-_-_- _-_-_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billypooped
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Wel.... This game was UNBELIEVABLE. I thoguth the graphics were awesome and the game play blew away 
 anything else blizzard has made. The Characters and classes were different and it is super challnging 
 to defeat. I think they need to make more games like this but they should make WoW a free play instead 
 of having to pay. If they did that, They would have more money just from people buying the game. I 
 was interested by the undead thtis the reason i like Warcraft more than starcrft because you have 
 All diffferent people (Accept for humans) . You have no guns so they means no sniping. It is like 
 mixing Brood wars with age of empire. I reccomend this game. A MUST PLAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne, being the expansion of one of the greatest games ever, had a lot 
 to live up to. And Im very pleased to say that it turned out better than expected. An expansion 
 can only be called great, when not only does it add more to the original game, but adds it in such 
 a way that makes the gamer feel he's playing a totally new game. Blizzard Entertainment has delivered 
 an expansion that has made a mark for itself and made an already great game, even better. 
  
  This expansion has added a new element to each of the original game's unique features. For 
 a more detailed explanation of Warcraft III : Reign of Chaos, you can read my review for it. Now 
 on with the review ....
  
  The single-player campaigns of the earlier game were unique as they told a brilliantly designed 
 story, and fortunately Frozen Throne is no different. The story picks off from where the original 
 game left off. The Undead still control most of Lorderon and other races are trying to build new 
 homes for themselves. The central characters are Illidan and Arthas who we know from the original 
 game, and are trying to take control of the already burning world. The campaign missions, as in 
 the earlier game, move from one race to another and in succession you take control of the night 
 elf sentinels, move on to the human alliance and finally the forces of the undead.
  
  The campaigns are, yet again, well developed and have great voice talents. They are a bit more 
 on the RPG line and you do sometimes feel you're playing Diablo, but still they, at the end of 
 the day, end up doing what they're planned for and you can easily master the game's basics because 
 of them.
  
  As it is an expansion, the game adds new units and heroes to each of the factions. To the kitty, 
 add more items and spells and another unique feature - buildable shops, to stock up your units 
 with items. Also to be found in the expansion, are numerous neutral units and buildings. Overall 
 gameplay has also been improved with many little tweaks to every feature.
  
  Graphics and sound of the expansion are also just as good, if not better than the original game. 
 The maps are well-detailed and colourful. The dialog is also fantastic and gives it an edge over 
 other RTS games. 
  
  Coming to the online play, let me say its just fantastic. What the expansion has done is, that 
 because of its new units, it has provided a counter-strategy to every previous strategy. So if 
 you thought spell casting was enough to make you a champion, think again, as many of the new units 
 have been specifically developed to counter the spell casting ones. As a result, matches have gotten 
 longer and require more skill and practice. There are also many new multiplayer maps for you to 
 play on.
  
  In the end, I think Ill be justified in saying that this is one of the best expansion packs ever 
 made. If you have played the original game, there is no reason for you to hesitate in getting the 
 expansion. It has added more life to the original game and it really is a must-have for any gamer. 
 
  
  Go Play!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_fat_bum
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  this is the best pc game i have played. a lot of people think this game is just for online multiplayer, 
 but this game has also a great story line to it. the single player missions are fantastic and challenging 
 at the same time. Graphics: this game doesnt really have good graphics but they are still pretty 
 good. the cinematics in this game are phenomenal. Sounds: voice overs are fantastic. the music 
 in the game seems right for the game and each race has its own music.
  Gameplay: for people that like real time strategy this game is for you. the online play is great 
 and it has a tone of user created games, wich most are very fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Eat_Nails
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a great strategy game. Very similar to Blizzard's Starcraft. There are MANY people who 
 play mutliplayer, and there are clan to make and join. The clans' stats are displayed on b. net 
 and also on the ladder. Your personal stats are publicly displayed and an icon. Very addictive. 
 If you get tired on playing ladder games contantly, you can always play the famous game of DOTA, 
 a custom game where you pick a hero to fight with the scourge or sentinal. It's usually a 5v5 game 
 and its very fun! 3D battles, great sound effects, decent single player mode. Wc3 TFT is a better 
 game than the original Wc3 ROC.
  
  -Nails 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loic54
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  So Warcraft III is kind of in the style of Age of Empires (RTS or Real-Time Strategy game) , except 
 with better graphics and the camera is a little more up close to the players, but it works the 
 same. This game can also explain exactly how World Of Warcraft (a MMORPG or Massively Multiplayer 
 Online Role Playing Game) formed itself. How Humans became alliance with Night Elves, Dwarves, 
 and Gnomes. It also showed how Horde teamed up and why Undead (like explained when you first create 
 an Undead character in World of Warcraft) now kill those who call them as monsters and demons.
 
  
  So the story starts off with Humans debating on something pointless and the king is sitting kind 
 of bored (cinematic scene) and well this black bird swoops in from the nearby window and transforms 
 into a man (since he is a prophet he can do these things) . He is extremely well notified of the 
 future. He tells the king to beware and to defend the city from evil, but he ignores the prophet 
 and doesnt take any precautions. However, a certain planet full or Orc-like creatures, far away 
 from Azeroth and Kalimdor, is slowly falling apart because of the unspeakable evil there. A demon 
 came to that planet and started using the Orcs as servants and slaves and slowly the planet was 
 dieing. Eventually the prophet wanted to help the Orcs escape and made a portal (If you look at 
 the background picture of WoW screen just before you logon there is a portal leading to a better 
 world, that is the portal used) .
  
  So the Orcs go into the World of the Warcraft and find places to live. The Human prince Arthas, 
 who is son of the king, does some quests and missions to help some armies and what not. Unfortunately, 
 some weird food starts spreading around with a weird curse, which turns you Undead in moments, 
 and you become slaves of a certain demon (with no free will) . Later, Arthas begins to show some 
 serious hostile-like ways. He burns down a city to exterminate the Undead to burn their corpses 
 and later after that he has a sudden urge to retrieve a really strong sword, and he journeys to 
 a place that is very cold and icy where a demon is frozen in ice with the sword he wants in him, 
 he takes the sword and goes back home. Afterwards he starts turning evil on his journey back home 
 (it seems the sword was a way that the demon communicated with him and told him to make the world 
 Undead and to destroy everything) . He basically comes and transforms into a whole different person, 
 and he kills his father, the king (in front of everyone) . Soon after that everyone starts turning 
 Undead. The Orcs and Trolls try to escape and so do the Taurens, and (since Arthas was a Human) 
 the Dwarves, Gnomes and Night Elves all try to fight back and rebel against the demons. He later 
 summons more demons to help him and starts killing most of the Blood Elves (which existed long 
 ago and well, dont really exist anymore) . Well, I think wont tell the whole story (youll have 
 to get the game to see it all for yourself) . It later shows how the Undead became to be and why 
 they seek freedom (they were slaves and were turned into hideous monsters, and wanted to be free 
 of control and be normal) . So they rebelled with the Orcs who also wanted to be free, as for the 
 Trolls and the Taurens, they just wanted to fight back and live.
  
  It is a really good game that shows how everything started to be on WoW, and it shows why the Undead 
 are against the Humans and why the Orcs are teamed with the Undead. The game also features a highly 
 addictive free online multiplayer made possible by Blizzard. So you can test your skills and strategies 
 versus anyone in the world.
  
  In the end of my huge review and outline of what this game is about, Warcraft III plus the expansion 
 (Frozen Throne) , is a great way to see how WoW started. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleAxGuardia
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  simply one of the best games ive played, ever. if you just want an RTS to play for the action then 
 youve got all u want right here, and if you actually care about the back stories of the races and 
 charecters then warcraft 3 offers enough backstory to give even a bigtime warcraft fan a hard-on. 
 i have a mac so its hard to find good games to play, but i was pleased to find that blizzard not 
 only bundles both versions of warcraft 3 together, but makes them playable on mac as well. damn 
 good game, if you dont already own it i suggest u stop reading and go buy a copy today! def money 
 well spent... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  If you have not read my Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos review, check it out. I basically splurge 
 out everything that I love about the game. I'll try to make this review as detailed and informational 
 as possible. Any questions or commends, feel free to message me on GameSpot. By the way, this review 
 is greatly out-dated (I got the game the day it came out) , just catching up since I made a GameSpot 
 account.
  
  Gameplay: This expansion adds in a few units and more heroes, which greatly changes the variety 
 of gameplay. Lots of new scenes to see, the campaign is fun to play, and multiplayer (Battle. net, 
 online) is limitless. All the units are great, each unit is useful in it's own way. Even the primary 
 workers such as Wisps have a defensive maneuver (to implode, and drain enemy mana in the area of 
 effect) . Heroes are fun to play with and this game requires lots of strategy to really enjoy it.
 
  
  Graphics: Great. A nice improvement from the year before's game. You can easily change the graphics, 
 but everything has nice skins, looks, and animations.
  
  Sound: Beautiful, epic music. Nice sounds, and every spell sounds gorgeous.
  
  Value: Limitless 
 replayability online, with people constantly makeing new maps of their own you can play for hours, 
 days, months, and even years. The community on Battle. net is large and bountiful whether you want 
 ranked or unraked games of RTS, or unranked games of User Maps.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I love Warcraft and Blizzard games in general, buy this game's Battle Chest today. 
 You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiLdiii
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  This is the best game ever that i played in my life!!!
  The gameplay is the best and grapichs too!
  The sound is a little bit boring so u can turn it 
 off This game is amazing ... it's easy to play and worth playin it!
  I started this game years ago and now im a leader in my country
  U can be too!
  Just start 
 playin it and look replays of worldwideplayers!
  Create ur own strategy and fight the others on battle. net Be the leader and win thousands of dollars!
 
  These game waites u to play it!
  It's hard to find it now!
  But its worth looking after it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wii26
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  The expansion compliments perfectly and doesn't ruin how good the strategy game is. It simply adds 
 a few more maps, monsters, and thats about it.
  If you liked W: ROC than you'll have to get the expansion. You'll definitely want to invest your 
 money into this because its a must have. All I have to say is don't expect to much because it's 
 just an expansion and I honestly believe it fixes upon some of the things W: ROC failed to make 
 good on.
  So overall, if you loved W: ROC you have to buy this and if you didn't avoid it at all costs because 
 it's pretty much the same thing but with a little more stuff added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjddoogg
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 3, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The best strategy game ever made. I've played Reign of Chaos for like a year and ive played frozen 
 throne for over a year and a half. the graphics still look good, even for this age of high tech 
 stuff. the gameplay is simply awsome. the really great part of the game is battle. net. without 
 an internet connection this game wouldn't be all that good, but it never ever gets boring online... 
 u can make tight custom games too. you choose from between 4 races that have thier own strenghts 
 and weaknesses. it never gets old because their is always a new strategy that you havent used and 
 with the new neutral heroes there are like 13 or so total heroes you can choose from each time. 
 simply put... a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_kai
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 2, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  If u have, nt played it, u didnt miss anything. Not worth buying at all.
  dont buy it, ur ganna get tired after 100 online games, because it is always the same thing, for 
 the so few time ur ganna spend online (cuz its just the same thing over and over) just dont buy 
 it.
  and second of all, it is way 2 hard, ppl on that game know what they are doing ( about 50% of ppl 
 play well.)
  and u get ur ass kick 50% of the time, then u get pissed off.
  
  finaly i would say, not fun after the first few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkyjames23
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is sick there is soooooooo much to do like its sexy. I mean the campaigns are long and 
 hard ;) . and there mad fun good story line. Online is sick like theres 10000000000000000000 different 
 types of games. and like alot of um are good. ya and its just fun so get it im too addicted to Bf2 
 to play it now but ive had hours of fun playing it so i recommend it wurd! Another thing about 
 it is like its really hard so it takes a while to get good and theres like all these staratagies 
 and stuff i mean its intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtalmadge
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 1, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is awesome. I mean; this expansion to the original really gives the game that extra 
 strength to show that it means business. I mean really; this game really glues you to it; except 
 when you first get on battle. net and lose every game you play because you don't know how to win 
 yet, but once you learn the basics, you'll start your path to being awesome. This game is definitly 
 the best RTS. Over the years blizzard has made some really awesome games; and I expect that they 
 are going to keep it up. What could be next? Diablo III? Warcraft IV? who knows, but I bet the 
 next addition will be just as amazing as this one; This game truly rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sahilpatelbc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game is very good. It is cheap , because of battle chest. The movie scenes are amazing because 
 the storylline is amazing. The best thing is BATTLE NET. So many people on and many custom games. 
 Many tournaments are aso online.. If you are a fan of the other series then you will love it. I 
 have no idea how to express my self. Grapgics are good for an RTS. You do not need a high end computer. 
 I am using a labtop IBM thinkpad T43 and i can run it perfectly no lag. Pick up this game. It is 
 about 30 dollars for Warcraft 3 reign of choas, Frozen throne which is expansion., and two guide 
 book. A M A Z I N G D E A L 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiser
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  I think that this is a pretty good RTS expansion pack. Let's start by mentioning that the sound 
 effects and graphics have not changed. How what has changed is the gameplay and replay. The storyline 
 is still good but I think that it was a bit rushed in the expansion pack but its still a good storyline. 
 The gameplay is a bit improved and so the replay value is a little bit higher. A few new units 
 have been added along with 2 new races. Is it worth getting this expansion pack? Yes it is, why? 
 Well the reason is as simple as for the storyline. However, in my opinion WarCraft III was a bit 
 disappointment compared to what I was expecting. I hope that when they make WarCraft IV they do 
 not mix RTS and RPG. These both are good games but they are just not what I had expected in the 
 beginning. It is a defiantly good game to add to an RTS collection but in my opinion the game is 
 not anything special. If you don't own WarCraft III I recommend that instead of getting both these 
 games just move on and get another RTS game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cannuck38
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne, like many other Blizzard expansion packs, makes you want to play on and on until 
 you crash your hardrive. But the Frozen Throne is slightly dissapointing for many reasons, one 
 of them, remarkably is the storyline. 
  
  The story picks up where you left it. The Buring Legion is no more, the Human Alliance left in 
 Azeroth is in tatters, and the Night Elves regret the release of Illidan. The first campaign is 
 the Night Elves where you try to re-capture Illidan who seems to have found a new ally race which 
 you get to control a little in the Alliance campaign. The single player campaign ends with a battle 
 between Illidan the demon hunter and Arthas the death night, which Arthas just happens to win. 
 But after you've finished the campaign you feel dumbfounded because you just have no idea who your 
 suppose to support. The undead have won and that makes you wonder if the undead were after all 
 the good guys or not. 
  
  This scenario is also seen in Starcraft: Brood War so if you didn't like that ending, you wouldn't 
 like W3: Frozen Throne either. Only the Night Elves and the Orcs seem to survive this cruel story 
 line which leads to another point, the orcs are not in the campaign. But thankfully Blizzard has 
 added a bonus campaign called the Founding of Durotar which is exactly what the title says it is. 
 You play a Beastmaster called Rexar completing missions to ensure the success of Durotar (the new 
 Orc Homeland) .
  
  I reccomend you buy Frozen Throne if you already have Reigh of Chaos but you should consider it 
 carfully because in my view, the story could have been MUCH better.
  
  Have fun playing :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElendilElessar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: The Frozen Throne: This expansion gives a rich and a well-proportioned feeling to the 
 player. Like the series, this game continues with the 2002 game of the year, Reign of Chaos. The 
 graphics in this game proves to be one of the impressive and complex graphics that ever seen in 
 the pc version in 2003, also the environments and full-motion movies are very well done. The gameplay 
 was its beneficts, the al is more aggressive than reign of chaos, there are supplementary units 
 and upgrades included in this expansion, such as from the elves which revolutionize after the fall 
 of the High Elven Capital, Silvermoon and the drainage of the Sun Well to restore the lich, Kel'Thuzard, 
 now they split into factions, one of them is command by the elven prince, Kael'thas who in playable 
 in the human campaign and the other is still working for Grand Marshall Garithos, the Theocracy 
 of Stormwind which is ruled by Anduin Wrynn and still fighting to get a foothold in Quel'Thas which 
 is known as Blood Elves and one of the units is called SpellBreaker. Also there are minigames included 
 in the campaigns, they are quite simple but not that easy and finally there are a orc campaign 
 which acts like games like Diablo 2. Like the series, it includes with a intensify online multiplayer 
 which is improves from Reign of Chaos. The Sound of this expansion is outstanding, the music composed 
 by Jason Hayes gives the game rich and a powerful quality into it, sometimes the music seems to 
 be dull but nonethless it still sounds great. The Story is great but not so great, the story continues 
 after the onslaught in Lordaeron and the plaguing of the lands, the undead prince, Arthas still 
 needs to wipe out the human resistance so he can claim on his own , with his loyal lich on side 
 and Syvalnas still not knowing her fate in a role that will play this world's history. 
  
  Overall : Like the predecessors, this expansion is still like the original with bonues. This game 
 is recommended to all people who like RTS games and will introduced you into a new era.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marito12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, and Battle. net is very adddictive. This is the best real time strategy since 
 Starcraft. In this game you can use 4 races: Orc, Human, Night Elves, Undead. The only difference 
 with Starcraft is that in Warcraft you can use heroes. Anyone who likes strategy games should definetely 
 get this game. This is Blizzard's masterpiece. Battle. net is the best part, you can play real battle 
 or play custom games. I play on Battle. net when i have time but i play for 4 hours or sometimes 
 more. People who love strategy games you definitely check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobtheJedi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  If you have Warcraft : Reign of Chaos (and if you don't, stop reading this and go but it NOW) , 
 you know exactly where I'm coming from when I say it has some mighty big shoes to fill. While not 
 perfect, Warcraft 3: The Frozen Throne is totally worth it if your ready for another great RTS 
 strategy game.
  
  TFT's story picks up right after ROC. The Humans, after getting their asses beated by the Undead 
 and forced out of Lordaeron, settle in the Island citadel of Theramore, along with Jaina Proudmoor, 
 in hopes to protect themselfs from any more Undead. Meanwhile, the Orcs make landfall in the Kalimdor 
 Barrens to finally have a place called home, and the Night Elves-specifically Malfurion Stormrage 
 and Tyrande Whisperwind- retreat back into the Ashenvale forest to attempt to heal the Ashenvale 
 forest and surrounding areas.
  
  And Arthas? Well, he's now the king and is intent on wiping out what is left of the Human Alliance. 
 Now, if your used to these sorts of game story, you know that somethings going to go to **** and 
 go to shit it does. Illidan, the brother of Malfurion, raises up some new army (called the Naga) , 
 and is bent on gaining power. This is basically where you come in, playing as the Warden of Illidans 
 jail, Maiev.
  
  Getting all of that aside, WC3: TFT tosses in 1 new hero for each faction, a few new units, new 
 upgrades and new buildings; basically what a expansion pack does. But the new stuff is awesome.
 
  
  The Alliance hero is a Blood Mage, a Elfen dude that is a ranged and magic user, but his magic 
 is more geared twoards offensive. The Orcs get the Shadow Hunter, with some awesome abilities (his 
 ultimate makes all friendly units around him invulnerable, and is amusingly called "Big Bad Voodoo") . 
 The Night Elves new hero is the Warden, a interesting unit that can jump into battle, throw a couple 
 of daggers, and jump right back out with her "Blink" ability.
  
  The Undead get the coolest new hero, the Crypt Lord, a sort of mega Crypt Feind that has one of 
 the best Ultimates (Locust Swarm) and can take some major punisment.
  
  Those of you who like the single-player, you will find it largly unchanged with the expansion, 
 except one major factor: YOU DON'T PLAY AS THE ORCS. Yes indeed, the Orcs are not a part of the 
 single player game. Why this was done I have no clue, but they do appear in a bonus Campaign, but 
 this plays more like a RPG than Warcraft, so unless your copy of Diablo (or more likly, World of 
 Warcraft) is broken, don't rely on it.
  
  One major thing that keeps TFT alive is the multiplayer, and Battle. Net still works like a charm. 
 My one major gripe is that you can't play as the Naga, the newest race. Again, I don't see why 
 Blizzard didn't include that, but if you know a mod out there that lets you play as the Naga in 
 multiplayer, please tell me.
  
  Even with these problems, Warcraft 3: The Frozen Throne is a worthy expansion of the greatness 
 of Warcraft. Now if only Blizzard would take the time to make Warcraft 4... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nazgul_Dude
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best (aside from world of warcraft) Warcraft game out there. It can be 
 tough at times but once you play it you never ever want to stop playing it. If i recieved a dollar 
 for every hour i played this game, then i would be richer than BIll Gates. People if you love Warcraft 
 get Rein of Chaos then get Frozen Throne. It is Worth IT. The only downside is that sometimes it 
 might take you a little while to be able to beat a certain level. Like I didn't know all the new 
 features and I lost the first level in teh campain. But after a little while I fiqured it out and 
 i have beaten the campain like 4 times. The World Editor is also so sweet. Way better than the 
 old one. People get this game it is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FronzenShock987
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  The best Warcraft 3 series ever! This is the best and the most exciting strategy game for the PC! 
 No one can ever hate this game unless even if you're not an strategey person (type of person who 
 hates strategy games) .
  
  This game has an fantasy story. First it started from the Night Elves, then to the Human Alliance, 
 then to the Orc's, and the Undeads. This game's second story, is collecting magic items, leveling 
 up heros.
  
  The graphics are smooth and nice. The sounds of Movies, sounds just like the old days. This game 
 isn't a type of game where you beat an mission, and off to the next mission, where the missions 
 are simular.
  
  If you think that this game is easy, well I hope you take back your words. Unless you have played 
 all of the series, of Warcraft, and waited for this game, then this game might be fine for you 
 Warcraft lovers. The only Warcraft games that I have played 100%, and Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos, 
 and Frozen Thorne. The other Warcraft games: Warcraft 1 or 2, are the ones that I have played the 
 game 70% and then it got boring.
  
  If your instrested in this game, I suggest you first buy Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos. But this game 
 has an Demo of Reign of Chaos. For the ones who wants to save up their piggy bank. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddy_of_york
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is ausome. I have played it for nearly two years at this point and am finally slowing 
 down. True to their history Blizzard has created a balanced and entertaining single and multiplayer 
 experience.
  
  The graphics are good. There is fantastic lighting and (provided you have sufficient ram) all the 
 special effects and massive armies move smoothly. However, this game isn't really a graphical masterpiece, 
 but nothing bad can truly be said about the games graphics nonetheless.
  
  The Gameplay is ausome... This whole game is based off the starcraft experience, but is brought 
 in a bigger and better way. The introduction of heroes and the downloadable patches contain even 
 more new material. A built-in map editor and downloadable model editor allows for complete reworkings 
 of the game resulting in various 3rd parties developing modifications and maps with great multiplayer. 
 The value is truly in the multiplayer. Despite a few server splits and other random unfortunate 
 events the custom games built by the third parties of battle. net are extremely popular and entertaining. 
 The most popular of which DOTA (Defense Of The Ancients) has become a focal point for warcraft's 
 development of slang and even clans.
  
  This game does support surround sound and the bass provides a great deal of realism. Blizzard has 
 created multiple unique sounds for each and every unit. Including various units you do not have 
 an opportunity to control during single player games.
  
  At the point that I am writing this the game is almost two years old so the value is great. Buy 
 this game, boot it up, and start playing online ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindaugasx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Blizzard really outdone them selves this time! The reign of chaos was a really good game but the 
 frozen throne made it even better. The whole story is very interesting and not boring ( although 
 there could had been some more movies) . The graphics wont disappoint you either. All special effects 
 are amazing and the voices are really good matches and suits characters perfectly. The music is 
 also good especially the one called "the power of the horde". If you want to listen to her, simply 
 type tenthleveltaurenchieftain and rock on.
  Neutral heroes are interesting too. You may simply order an unit to go to the tavern and hire hero (it 
 is interesting that you might find an undead archer, fire lord, pit lord and some other heroes 
 in A TAVERN. Imagine this in a real life)
  
  good things: 
  1. Great graphics and effects
  2. cool movies and music
  3. great storyline
  4. easy control
 
  
  bad things:
  1. too good- you can not get away from this game
  2. there are some bugs like computer's heroes sometimes gets stuck if you choose "random hero"
 
  
  Oh a secret- in chapter 4 of the sentinel campaign, you may find "grank the rat" (north east) in 
 gamespot's hints and cheats it is written that it can not be destroyed, but similar rat was in 
 warcraft reign of chaos human campaign. IT CAN BE DESTROYED by clicking a lot times on it. It will 
 explode like all the other critters and leave an amulet.
  
  And sorry for my poor language- English is my foreign language 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III was an amazing RTS experience. The Frozen Throne continues that experience and adds 
 lot's more enjoyment to the game, with one exception. The storylines from the original game continue 
 except for the Orc campaign, because Blizzard hadn't finished a new one by release day. Frozen 
 Throne also adds some elements of a 5th race, the Burning Legion, into the mix. They aren't playable, 
 but they're still cool. The gameplay and graphics are about the same as the original, but they 
 are improved. Netural hero units are added for hire and there are plenty more creeps to deal with 
 on your journey. The single player campaign is outstanding except for the ending, which I won't 
 blow. The ending flat out sucks! Why did they have to end it like that? I guess it was just a ploy 
 to get everyone to buy WOW, but it was very similar to Halo 2's ending; it just didn't work right. 
 Besides the crappy ending, Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne is a worthy expansion to an outstanding 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighouse007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 the burning legion was good, but it lacked the thrill of making a massive army, limited 
 types of heroes and units limited the fun. This time Blizzard home entertainment made a brand new 
 game with heroes of all types, hilarious like the pandarean brewmaster and goblin tinker, or ugly 
 like the naga sea witch. New units and 1 new hero for every race has been added, the game also 
 features a brand new campaign. The graphics are great, but the vocals did'nt match the lip movement 
 I did'nt bother to find out if it was an expasion pack or a full game, Its most likely to be an 
 expansion pack though, don't need to think twice about buying it at all
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebusrocks
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  A game created by Blizzard, and a fascinating one at that. This stretegy game, although to my opinion, 
 not as good as Starcraft, very good. Its got one of the best storylines, and very exciting to those 
 who have played other stretgy games. Blizzard did a great job reducing the supply to 100, making 
 the game more comprehensive. Although not much difference from Reign of Chaos, and could have fixed 
 some balance changes from it. Although some say that Black and White overrules Warcraft, I think 
 of Warcraft as some piece of ```` compared to Warcraft. If you have played Starcraft, very easy 
 to learn, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my most favorite games in the PC. It's very fun and very challenging. This 
 game involves tactics/strategy for someone to beat another person (if multiplayer) or the computer. 
 This game is the sequel to Warcraft 3: Reign of Chaos which was a great game also.
  
  The game has excellent gameplay, good music, good story, and good value. This game rocks in multiplayer 
 mode. People from around the world can fight each other making the game so fun. Now...... in the 
 battle. net, people play DOTA (Defense of the Ancients) a little fun game which every Warcraft players 
 play right now.
  
  There are 4 clans which are called the Orcs, the Undead, the Night Elves, and the Humans. Each 
 has different heroes, different warriors, different buildings, and has different ways of growing. 
 For example..... when a wisp (the worker of Night Elf) builds a "tree-like" building..... the wisp 
 uses itself to build it making the wisp disappear. So you gotta by another wisp. This does not 
 happen to the Undead, the Orcs, or the Humans. Each clan has different uniqueness.
  
  The game is a must buy game. Buy it or feel like "you missed out on something". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magedmigs
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  sdv lgkrj ;lskf ;fk fkjgk fgjf jgdj f kkf fh gkhls jfglffdjfdkl k fk fghflhdlf ldf dfl ldfludg 
 ld gldgltiglfg lfl ld lfh fu uf gurghfu fugufhu ufhgufhg fuhgufgh ufghuf hgu fuhgufgh ufughfh ughuf 
 gufhgug ufhgug ufgh ufgugfgh ufghufhg ufgh fughufouhvuksdhf ushdjfh ffushg fs ufghfs uf ufshg sfuhgfiuhgsifdfus 
 u sufhgkusf fushgofushg fsugousfdhg ufhgu hfkuh ufhgufh ufhgu ufhguhufhg ufhduh udhf gu ufhgu ufhufsofdaoihf 
 ufd ufh ufhguhfuh ufhufhufhfu ufhufhuhfuhgufufhg fuhgufhg ufhg fugh fu gh ufghuf ufhguf u fhg uf 
 osd sog ouih o sopfi oiuhsfl oijfs g lifjg lfij lisfg fljg lsfngmlfk l ldjvnljfn li fljgnlfdgldfjfdg 
 lfdgjljfdsngsl ljfg lsjfnjsfdg fjsgnjf jsflgnlflsjfljfgn flsjghfj fjsgh jfh fj fj jfgh j jfghjfhgoesuh 
 lkjfsghkjfhg kfljsh lsfnk jkl sk k sklj sdlj sfl fshgl lsfghfls jhlufhg l fjgjfhg fljkflusgh. It 
 is the best game i've ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x26745
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  ========
  Not so different from the gameplay of Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos, the game is still just as fun, 
 if not better! It is noticeably more fun to control a new and wider range units, explore the new 
 campaign (and the mini champaign!) , and much more! Yet the best feature lies in the World Editor, 
 allowing you to create custom abilities, objects, doodads, buff, and with the many new trigger 
 functions it also allows you to import mods (and believe me, there are thousands of mods out there!) .
 
  
  Even though playing the champaign and custom games can be fun, the free experience lies in playing 
 it online, and with this expansion it only gets better! A wide variety of games are introduced 
 to enhance your gaming to the fullest, including Defence of The Ancients All Stars (DoTA Allstars) , 
 a very popular type of map called "hero siege." As many people would agree, this expansion is noticeably 
 more fun than the original!
  
  Graphics
  =======
  This is the part of the game that is a little sketchy. The main problems lies in editing units 
 in the World Editor. This often causes problems with graphic interference, which looks horrible. 
 But even without editing you can spot horrid collisions in graphics, but in most cases does not 
 interfere with the excellent gameplay. 
  
  Sound
  ======
  Just like Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos, this expansion pack has met up to its' requirements in 
 the field of sound. Almost anything you can imagine has its own unique sound, such as the casting 
 of a spell, the chopping of a tree, or even the light footsteps of a footman. But enough with the 
 bads, Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne is mainly built up with will detailed and amusing skins and 
 models. Yet I personally think the best graphics lie in the spells. Each spell has a unique animations, 
 buffs, and models. All of which become eye candy! =D
  
  Value
  =====
  This deserves a 10 because there are many new additions to the game, enhancing your experience 
 greater. I personally enjoy the upgraded World Editor, which allows you to create even more powerful 
 and fun maps than you could in the first one, as mentioned.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt
  ============
  Like most people view this game, I think this is a great expansion pack that certainly 
 deserves credit. I would recommend this to anyone looking for a good Real Time Strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronex
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 TFT takes place in a made up world. It gives the players an exclusive chance of using 
 cool magical powers in a strategy game.
  The single-player campaign is great, but personally i think that it can only be played once.
 
  Fact is: The single-player game is no reason to buy the game IF you compare to WC 3 TFT's multi-player 
 game.
  There are 2 types:
  Play Game: Which sets you up against a chosen amount of other players in your realm and let's you 
 gain level and icons for use in chats.
  Play Custom Game: Which let's you play player-made games. There are the hits, which stays in the 
 selection menu for a long time and the there are the games with 15 minutes of fame, before they 
 disappears. Almost every day, you will see a new game on the list.
  Even though the game is rather old, it shows good graphics, sound, challenge, gameplay etc.
  
 I have played this game at least once a month ever since the day i bought it in 2003
  I've set the difficulty to "Just Right" because you can change it in the game.
  I've set the 
 learning curve to "4 or More Hours" because there is always something to learn.
  Warcraft 3: The Frozen Throne - A major breakthrough in the history of games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  At first you make think how good is the online play for a game like this? Well, this changed alot 
 of people's vision on RTS'. This game features great games such as DOTA (Defense of the Ancients) 
 and the Mauls are to die for. Mauls are mazing games that require you to kill spawns of enemies. 
 Other great games are Kodo Tag and Sheep Tag!! If you are looking for a great online multiplayer 
 thats free, this game is the best choice for you!!! You can make your own maps and the loads of 
 created maps by other users are endless. There is always something new for you to play. Some maps 
 are even created every hour!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-sheep
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  The WC series has been great ever since the release of the first WC which was around 10 years ago. 
 It has a great single-player campaign, an amazing multiplayer service for its time, and great graphics 
 for 2003.
  
  Though this game is 4 years old already, the graphics are still quite good. The animations are 
 good and the unit designs are quite top notch too. What more can you expect from Blizzard? 
  
  The single-player continues on from where the previous WC game left off. The expansion pack 
 does nicely with the pick-up. The thing about the sing-player campaigns are that you will never 
 get bored of them. I myself have done the whole thing at least 20 times :P 
  
  The most amazing part of this game is its great multiplayer experience. The reason why its so good 
 is because its easy to use and you can download maps that other people have made. I don't play 
 single-player that much anymore and I spend most of my time on Battle. net. There are many types 
 of games to play on Battle. net like Dota, LOTR: Ring Wars, Tower D's, War Mauls, and many others. 
 All these maps were created by people who do not work for Blizzard!
  
  Overall, this is a great expansion. One of the best I have ever seen. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  As with any RTS expansion, several new units and heroes have been added. Each of the four races 
 have received 2 new units, along with some upgrades, and a new constructible shop. Each race also 
 now has one additional hero, along with addition of 5 new neutral heroes, which can be hired like 
 a mercenary on certain maps. There is in fact an additional race, but it is simplified and only 
 playable in certain missions of the campaign. 
  
  Concerning the campaign mode, there are actually 5 new campaigns. However, the two orc campaigns 
 are not related story wise to the main 3, but they are still a nice edition, complete with voice 
 acting and cutscenes found in the other campaigns. The overall length of the campaigns is comparable 
 to the original. It would have been nice, however, if there were more cinematics, for there are 
 only 2 new ones. The story continues where the original left off, and now focuses on Illidan and 
 Arthas, two competing powers. Some of the earlier missions are rather bland, but as the game progresses 
 and the story expands it becomes very enjoyable. 
  
  The main attraction of the game, however, is the rather popular Battle. net online play, found in 
 most other Blizzard games. Several new Battle. net features have been added, such as clan support 
 and automated tournaments being the main ones. Concerning the gameplay, Blizzard has almost completely 
 overhauled the balance system. The entire armor/damage system has been reworked, along with some 
 new types added. Your favorite strategies from classic are almost guaranteed not to work. This 
 is a good thing though. As one can expect, several new maps have been added to feature the new 
 TFT features and tilesets, and also a few goodies are thrown in, such as random creep generation. 
 Overall, the new additions and balance system will revive your desire to play. 
  
  Another noteworthy change is the advancement of the map editor. Every limitation that you had with 
 original map editor is virtually gone, allowing you to customize every aspect in the game. Spells 
 can be edited, heroes can go beyond level 10 and have several more skills, custom tilesets can 
 be created, linked maps allows for you to make your own custom campaigns as well. It should be 
 very interesting to see what the expert map makers can now achieve. 
  
  On the technical level, the graphics are identical to classic. There are several new visual effects 
 for spells, but they are no more spectacular than those in classic. Even so, the game still has 
 good graphics among today's standards. The audio is virtually untouched as well, other than the 
 new unit sounds, and additional few music tracks (which are descent) . 
  
  It's the perfect expansion to one of the best real time strategies out there. For a low price, 
 your Warcraft III experience with be lengthened much longer. Any owner of Reign of Chaos should 
 pick this up, and even if you missed the original, you mine as well pick up both, because this 
 is clearly one of the best RTS experiences out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This review is of Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos and The Frozen Throne onto it. The Frozen Throne 
 is an expansion set and is one of the best expansion sets for any game. It really improves an already 
 excellent game.
  
  Gameplay-This game is just flat-out fun. It is an RTS game that puts you into a sort of lord of 
 the rings world. The story is just amazing as is any warcraft game. The frozen throne has a whole 
 new campaign for every race except the orcs but they still have a small bonus campaign. The games 
 are really fun and require some planning. You have about 20 units to look into. Each race has about 
 3 or for new ones too from Reign of Chaos. There are 4 heros (one which is new to FT) for each 
 race. There are four races and each has their own strengths. It is also good that a human footmen 
 and an orc grunt, the same basic fighting unit for each race, are actually different and work their 
 strenghts. In warcraft II, each races units were equivellent to the other races. There is the single 
 player games and then their is the multiplayer which is one of the best i've played. There are 
 Tower Defenses ( my fav.) Defense of the Ancients, regular battles and other fun and unique things. 
 Online is extremely fun and should definately be used if you buy this game.
  
  Graphics-This game looks awesome. The colors are awesome and are very bright and lush. Character 
 models aren't the best but for an RTS they are good. Levels are 3D and look great. Trees actually 
 fall down when you chop them, footprints are left, rivers flow and other things. This is just a 
 good looking game. The movie graphics are the best you are going to find in a video game. Period.
 
  
  Sound-This game has my favorite music in it. The close second would be Zelda. A great musical score 
 with just as good voice acting. Some of the voices are really funny too. Awesome game noises such 
 as chopping trees and swords clashing. 
  
  Value-With online, This will keep you busy for years to come. Single player alone will probably 
 last you at least 50 hours total. A must buy. The expansion set adds alot of value to Reign of 
 Chaos with a new campaign and new units. 
  
  Warcraft is pretty much the only RTS that I really love. I will keep on playing this till Warcraft 
 4 comes out. The expansion set is well worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onikage123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  The expansion to Warcraft 3 the revolutionary strat this is well worth getting to add to the Wc 
 experience.
  Now the game offers new campaigns, units, heroes, maps and an improved Bnet experience. If that isnt 
 enough i dont know what is!
  Now the new campaigns totally follow up from the previous titels' With u again taking control of 
 the Mis-led demon prince Arthas as the central campaign but aslo the Night Elf and Blood elf campaigns 
 are all exellent.
  The story and Script is wonderful so i wont spoil any of it for you! But the battles are exellent 
 fun in variety and challenge ranging from the standard Build up your base missions to Escort missions 
 which often prove funnest!
  Now the graphics are exactly the same with some mild improvements but nothing really noticeable 
 however they are so exellent for a Strat that these arent really neccessary!
  The sound is the same as it ever was which means its very very good!
  The voice work and Script 
 is absolutely exellent with loveable characters haing sarcasm filled exchanges!
  Overall a worthwile purchase to WC3 fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nymphetamine15
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 was by far one of the greatest games ever made and i was worried when i heard about 
 an expasion....... who am i kidding i was excited more than ever i mean its blizzard i knew they 
 wouldnt let me down. Graphics nothing mutch different from the original a few add on to flare thing 
 up but nothing very noticable. Sound all the voice actors are there and the soundtrack as well 
 once agine no big improvements. Gameplay is where everything is saved with the addition of a new 
 hero for every race and the new Blood Elves and naga races as well as a continuation of the story. 
 The online play is all there with a new quick play option and tornoment option and now clans which 
 makes thing more accesible and more interesting. Overall the same game is back with a heel drop 
 to the face adding hours of more gameplay and cosuming your lives one last time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWBKicks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: Frozen Throne is a great game. It takes some stratigy to play which most games don't 
 envolve, but even if you want to sit back and chill, it's fun to do that with as well. You start 
 out as Sentinels, night elves in the first game, and fight the Naga, who are a new race not introduced 
 until now. When you finish the Sentinel campaign you move onto human, and finish as the undead. 
 The story is blended to near perfection and every character is highly detailed and animated. The 
 game litterally sucks you in, and you start thinking as the characters think. The orcs have a RPG 
 campagin at the very end that is unlike the rest of the game and more like Diablo 2. The sound 
 and graphics are great, gameplay is amazing, and it is well worth it. The multiplayer could stand 
 to be improved, but is fun just the same. I give it a 9.5 for giving me hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protossdragoon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  it is a great game with lots of stratigey elements and has great gameplay. the graphics are good 
 but beacuse of some of the texture that are not that smoothed out it might not be the best. that 
 is not the main thing. geplay is satisifying and there are a set of many other minigames maps that 
 are really fun to play if you get tired of the building or campagin. lastly it is  
   
 i wat to say is that is is played in turnment s and i saw many things that the game had i did not 
 know of. the best part for me are the mini games and hero maps. i can play play with my friends 
 and they are perfect for that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbc5714
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: The Frozen throne is one of the greatest RTS games out there. With hundreds of maps 
 to choose from, and the ability to make you own maps, the terrain never gets boring. Four great 
 races to choose from (Undead, Orc, Human and Night Elf) with tons of heroes and units to pick from. 
 Build the army of your dreams and conquer your enemy. Multiplayer is amazing with thousands of 
 people playing everyday and hundreds of custom games to choose from. Battle. net proves once again 
 to be a stable multiplayer service. You can never get bored of this game even if you try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phatbrain101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Warcraft 3 since the first day; and this expansion since it's release as well. 
 Quite simply, this is one of my all-time faves in my lifetime of gaming (which goes way back) . 
 There are some games that I can play for years and years for it's generation. I put this as along 
 side my Hall of Famers of my 25+ years of gaming. Not for everyone; but just right blend of gameplay, 
 strategy, intensity and brawn. Geared more towards heros, map control and batlle micro-managment; 
 leans less on resource mgnt and economy. Starts fast and ends brilliantly. Four years strong and 
 still 10 of thousands of players online via battle. net everyday; matchmaking makes it easier to 
 find someone at your skill level. Great fan support; many great websites that support replays, 
 audio commentary, forums and professional player interviews. I have yet to find a RTS game that 
 plays like it for good or worse; all in the eye of the beholder. This PC-CDROM has stayed in one 
 of my dvd-roms year in and year out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g__a__m__e
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  What is DotA? 
  
  DotA stands for Defense of the Ancients, it's a free mod for Warcraft 3: The Frozen Throne. The 
 purpose of the game is to defend your Ancient and try to destroy the opponents Ancient. The ancients 
 are located deep in both bases, which are located at the top right and bottom left corners of the 
 map. There are over 70 heroes that differ greatly in play style. Each of these heroes have been 
 carefully designed so they are both balanced and unique. The map is updated frequently, sometimes 
 to add new heroes, fix bugs or to make a balance update. The strategies possible with DotA are 
 pretty much endless, choosing the wrong item and hero combination can mean the difference between 
 a win and a loss for your team. The gameplay in DotA Allstars can be classified as relatively fast 
 because as the game progresses any small mistake you make can be fatal to the overall team. 
  
  
  
  What are Heroes?
  
  Heroes are highly skilled fighters with various magical abilities. 
 Each of these heroes has skills and stats. Heroes start at level one and go up to level 25. When 
 a creep or hero is killed in an area around you, you gain experience. If you get enough experience 
 you gain a level, which means that you gain extra attribute points and one skill point that can 
 be used towards upgrading one of your unique abilities. 
  
  The stats are called Hero Attributes and determine the basic strengths and weaknesses of a hero, 
 one of these attributes is the primary attribute which determines your attack damage and generally 
 the type of hero you control. The 3 Hero Attributes are:
  
  Strength: Each point enhances hit points and hit point regeneration. 
  
  Agility: Each point 
 enhances attack speed and armor. 
  
  Intelligence: Each point enhances mana points and mana regeneration 
  
  Each hero has a total 
 of 5 different skills available. Three of these skills are normal skills and can be gotten from 
 the first level. The fourth skill is an ultimate which can be gotten at level 6/11/16, the ultimate 
 can be classified as a more powerful skill then the normal skill in most cases. The fifth skill 
 isn't really a skill but rather an attribute bonus which gives +2 to all your attributes. For a 
 hero listing, go to  
  
  
  
  What about items?
  
  You gain a minor amount of gold over time, but most of your gold will be gotten by landing the 
 finishing blow on a hero or creep. With gold you can buy various items. Some of these items are 
 offensive in nature while others are designed for survival. There are specific item combinations 
 that form a more powerful item when put together. Go to  for more 
 information.
  
  
  
  Where do I get the map from?
  
  Download it from 
  
  After you finish downloading it, move 
 the map to 
  
  C:\Program Files\Warcraft III\Maps\Download
  
  Make sure you have the latest warcraft patch, which is automatically downloaded when you log onto 
 Battlenet. 
  
  
  
  How do I start playing? 
  
  DotA Allstars is by far the most played custom game on Battlenet so it is never hard to find a 
 game. You can play in the public realm, which is the best place to start if your new. Clan TDA 
 provides private games where breaking rules, such as leaving a game, has consequences. There are 
 also leagues and tournaments available for highly competitive players. 
  
  
  
  you can download dota all stars 6.28 and play in battle dot net !!! 
  
  good luck - pEA@Ce 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafiq
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  When the first time playing this game, you will feel it really difficult even to complete the first 
 mission. But actually, there, s no need to worry about it 'cause it's just the beginning of your 
 journey. The longer you play, you will find it easier as your strength getting stronger and for 
 sure you will feel a little bit relax after that. the only thing you need to do is be patient for 
 a while and keep on working in make yourself stronger. I know it will take a quite long time but 
 trust me it's worth to spend the time for this thing. Instead, if you're just think to take a short 
 cut, it is most probably that you couldn't make. So, just don't try to be hasty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herviross_2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Frozen throne is the best strategy game ever made and the best from the warcraft series. It is basically 
 an expansion pack of reign of chaos, and it proves to be amazing. A very compelling storyline captures 
 the gamer in no time. This is of course in campaign. Sound and graphics are excellent for todays 
 strategy games. Apart from playing on campaign you can furthermore play with friends via. LAN ( 
 Local area network ) . Once connected, you have a variety of maps to play with. The undead is my favorite 
 race from the lot. Frozen throne is a really good game and a must have to gamers who love strategy 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsonphire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The actual image is of the Death Knight, but you may eventually start to look like the Death Knight 
 because you can't stop playing Warcraft III TFT once you start, especially if you like action/strategy 
 games.
  
  The new expansion pack adds to the same base that was Warcraft III ROC. I won't get into the single 
 player mode much as it is just a means of learning about the new additions to the game. What makes 
 this game so addictive is the FREE on-line multi-player portion of this game through Blizzard's 
 battle. net. You can spend countless hours battling other people online or playing custom games 
 like DOTA or Footmen Frenzy.
  
  There are four races to choose from and blizzard does a good job of keeping every race pretty balanced. 
 Every player can have 1-3 heros of their choosing (now there are custom heros as well besides standard 
 race heros) per game. You mass an army along with your hero (s) , and use your army to strategically 
 to take out your opponent. This is where having a good computer and a responsive mouse will come 
 in handy, the quicker you can micro manage your units the more godly you will become.
  
  Buy this game, learn how to play in single player, then as soon as your ready for a real challenge 
 start playing others on battle. net it is a real challenge and loads of fun!!
  
  This game is highly addictive and a great addition to any PC gamers library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Frozen Throne is the perfect expansion pack for Warcraft III. I mean, new powerful (very powerful) 
 units, especially for the Undeads. The only inconvenient is that after Frozen Throne, everyone 
 wanted to play with the Undeads, but don't worry, the game online even more exciting than before. 
 
  
  The best part of Frozen Throne is the single player campaign which is, like always, really good. 
 The graphics are breath-taking and the cinematics are incredible. Also, the single player campaign 
 offers new backgrounds which makes the game even more immersive.
  
  Bulls eye once again to Blizzard for an amazing expansion pack which is really worth the cost. 
 After LoD, you did it again!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: windofsoccer123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  blizzard doesn't disappoint anyone for the warcraft series. one of the best i ever play. so good 
 on cutsom games, best ones are footies, tower def, x hero siege, mauls etc... well without this 
 game i wouldn't be even spending time to use my com. i don't know what can i do without this game. 
 i can't descirbe it, it is so good. bad thing about it, bnet is host by At&t which they suck, always 
 making ppl lag even with cable hosts. one of the horrible thing about bnet is that they let noobs 
 ( that act dumb as in don't know hwo to play or just ppl that ruines the fun of other ppl) well 
 all i got to say is to have fun, well i am having too mcuh fun, i am too good on custon games, 
 and awesome in bnet games before i start to play cutom games all the time. if u wanna join a clan, 
 go to channel clan tra. is a very good clan that i am in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahamut50
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  1. the gameplay is just so... varied. i mean who can compete with a game that holds many genres 
 blended into it in the form of custom maps and the fact that it can play better then some professionally 
 made games. a game made for strategy lovers who need something new is a good description. the big 
 deal is not the original game itself but all the great stuff it has in it and all the changes players 
 have made to the formula with the map editor. overall great gameplay
  
  2. graphics are definetly good for their time, and i wont lower the score just cause of the next 
 gen, because in all reality, if it looked good to you back then, you should just keep that in your 
 mind. definetly good graphics
  
  3. the sound in this is just awesome. all the characters are great to listen too, they dont get 
 boring, and the music fits in, especially the weird tracks. the humorous lines they give if you 
 click repeatedly are also fun to listen to when your bored.
  
  4. the value of this game is endless thanks to the great battlenet system, and dont even scoff, 
 because starcraft definetly proves how well this system works. another excellent aspect is that 
 since the game will just get better with time, its not hard to recommend to anyone.
  
  in honesty, ive loved this game since it came out. it deserves its recognition and its popularity. 
 i will not tell people who dont like it to stop hating it, but i really think its sad that they 
 cant like such a great strategy game cause of their preferences 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vito-1988
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  This Game Is My Favorite , I have More Than 450 Map For This Game .
  I Can Play Any Game In It .
  (RISK 
  Nothing 
 Better Than Play ChessMaster And Risk With Someone And Use The Game Units.
  But The Best Map I had Ever Seen Is Defend of the Ashents (DotA All Stars)
  I spend The Most of 
 My Time On It , If I Didn't Play It I Will Be Working On The (World Editor) To Make A New Map . 
 
  If Anyone Had The DIABLO MAP (Could You Please Write To Me The Site That Had You Download The Map 
 From . Please )
  i Know The  Other Sites That Could Be 
 Showed On Google.
  THANKS A LOT TO READ MY VIEWPOINT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiven
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft is another great RTS game where it is highly addictive when played on battle. net.
  
  Gameplay, like most RTS games, you have to build up your base and destroy enemy units. But 
 in some custom made maps, it really starts to work as a RPG game.
  
  Sound, nothing much about it, it's all normal. Voice acting here is kinda cool though, the soundtrack 
 are mediocre.
  
  Graphics, for a 2003 game, it's considered as well done.
  
  What really pulls us to this highly addictive game is their custom maps. There's a custom map called 
 DotA or Defence of the Ancient where you pick a specific hero and terminate other heroes and destroy 
 their main structure (Sentinel - Tree / Scourge - Throne) .
  
  All in all, this game can last us forever because of their custom maps.
  
  If I were you, I'd 
 most probably buy this game than rent it.
  
  My rating for it - 9.1/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III Frozen Throne is just another reason why Blizzard has become the multiplayer powerhouse 
 in my book. From the day I opened the box and began playing online I never stopped. Clans, tournaments, 
 and everything else you need to spend hours upon hours playing this game. Frozen Throne's fast 
 paced gameplay is the number 1 thing that sets it away from other online strategy games... not to 
 take anything away from Age of Empires series. The expansion offers numerous enemies and a new 
 civilization, the Naga, to the game. The game does feature a single player campaign mode which 
 takes you through each civilization to show their true power. Frozen Throne is definately an addictive 
 game that will keep you occupied for quite some time. Of course, if you do but this game remember 
 to use the Night Elf because nobody can touch the 5 man rush. Hopefully we will see something in 
 the future on a game console from Blizzard, but until then we will all have to lay back at the 
 computer and play this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentGamer4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne is an excellent expansion to Warcraft 3. It has the same great gameplay, but 
 a lot of new features including new heroes, environments creatures, maps, and a new campaign witha 
 great story. It's suprising this is an expansion becasue the game is so good and lengthly it could 
 really be passed for Warcraft 4. Also, Battle. net is still here, of course, and it's still great 
 featuring all the new features.
  The graphics are a bit of an upgrade since Warcraft 3, but not that big of a step upward. The sound 
 and battle action are slightly upgraded as well. Also, minor bugs and such are fixed. The game 
 runs overall pretty smooth, but it may lag online due to certain connections and the like, just 
 as Warcraft 3 did. As long as you have a decent computer though, there should be absolutely no 
 worries.
  Overall, the Frozen Throne is a great expansion, even better than Warcraft 3 and anyone who owns 
 Warcraft 3 must have this expansion, it is worth the money, the time, and the entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne is a good example of why Blizzard has retained its fans for so long. They don't 
 skimp. When you think about it, most expansion packs that are released just kind of give new shoddy 
 campaigns with less of a story and little production value. The Frozen Throne could almost stand 
 by itself with the engaging story and gameplay. This expansion pack does exactly what it was supposed 
 to do, it extends the life of the original game by expanding the content considerably without cutting 
 corners in story, voice-overs, or presentation. 
  
  Now if you're one of those people that didn't like what they did with the Warcraft series when 
 they made it more centered around heroes, then you still aren't going to like this, so stay away. 
 For my money though, Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne is an excellent expansion pack. Fans of should 
 head on out to the store and pick this one up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakeblaze
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  If anyone out there who ever intend on wasting a whole evening or night playing video game, i would 
 say it would be me and my other friends. This game had a long line of series and die-hard fan in 
 both strategy and MMO game that does truly live up to it's expectations. For one good reason, this 
 game is one of the best strategy (if not the best) game of alltime maybe behind such title as star 
 craft, which i hearded that "the koreans love this game so much, that they forgot to eat and died." 
 Though it may be an expansion pack of an already great game, this new update really push the bar 
 of online multiplaying game. Its so big that i can relatively say people are just crazy about it. 
 For example, Imagine me sitting down on a hard chair with nothing to eat, playing this game 8 hours 
 straight from 7 afternoon to 3 at night. It's this addictive if you are a fan of both strategy 
 and possibly variety of games mode out there. For the most part, you'll be trying to learn all 
 the great mini-game that come pack with the online mode that providse literally abundant styles 
 of gameplay.
  The most important gameplay of this game may not be the strategy title itself, but the online component 
 that allowed thousands of imaginable little mini-game that can range from rpg quest, battleship, 
 puzzle, and even crack the ugly dude. But one of the most enduring game mode that the fan would 
 admit has to be is the all time best creation, DOTA ALL-STAR. This game basicallly takes different 
 characters from the game itself and make a battle arena for at least 5 heroes can duke it out against 
 another 5 heroes. 
  When it come to planning, each of these character can oufitted themselves with a number of enchanting 
 item that could mean alot between losing and winning. Plus with teamwork and variety of skill sets 
 to customize for your character, a battle can expand into so many outcomes. Plus, this is not the 
 only great game created from the game's core ability to build your own map and gameplays. Overall, 
 if you want a game that come packs with other game build upon the basis of it's prodecessor, this 
 is the whole sha-bang for you. Unless you like only anime and the new wave of cartoonish character 
 of Japanese artwork, this will not likely going to rock your boat ( the gameplay will if your a 
 fan of strategy and rpg) . But if you are into the original Conan or Ugly fool vs Pretty Knighly 
 lord, then this is going to make your life a miserable lot not from bad game overdose, but overexposure 
 to this very addicting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuturagi
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game in June of 2003 and I played it about 4 times. Then I sat down and went online 
 to Battle. net (the multiplayer online server) about a month later and was obsessed. I started playing 
 this game every night for a year.
  
  This game is about a world of demons, dwarves, elves, orcs, and the ever so popular humans. A war 
 has been fought and now each race struggles to find their ways back to peace. In this expansion, 
 you will follow the footsteps of a cold hearted knight, a fiery Mage, and a mystifying and beautiful 
 elf. The main plot will take you all the way to the frozen throne on which this game is named for. 
 Although, I will tell you now that you will not be buying this game for its campaign. Instead, 
 this is the best multiplayer game out on the market and you should be enjoying it. Friends lists 
 are organized and always load, unlike Counter-Strike. Finding a game rarely takes more than 30 
 seconds, even though it was released 3 years ago. Strategy's keep spreading like a disease back 
 in the Dark Ages, and the updates just keep making the game better and better. 
  
  This is a very hard game to explain why you should play but consider these things:
  - 4 Races
 
  - Heroes to control your armies
  - Magic Abilities and Unit abilities
  - Units can attack/help you even if they aren't defense units
  - 4v4 can bring on massive battles
 
  - If you don't like StarCraft then good luck with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  It seemed as if the original couldn't have any space for improvements, it seemed ideal just in 
 every aspect, from the addicting gameplay to wonderful graphics. 
  But no, Blizzard decided to bring us an expansion pack, which seemed as a simple addition of maps/characters 
 to some.
  But instead, it appeared to be a total different game, with a new awesome storyline continuing 
 the tale of the original, and even with more better realization of game aspects.
  
  The graphics, even though not taking big changes, still impress with their originality and attractive 
 design.
  The characters, levels, and buildings are designed brilliantly, leaving no complaints about the 
 graphics side of this game.
  The plot, which continues from the past game, is wonderfully brought over to the player, and really 
 deeps him inside the game with it's intresting twists and happenings - and there isn't another 
 RTS with so much depth like this.
  Simply speaking, there is nothing to critisize about this game, it's perfect everywhere it can 
 be, and only raises the bar for the Warcraft series, and of course for Blizzard itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostpanther
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  If there was ever a game that spoke to me in the way that chilled me to my core, it is Warcraft 
 III: The Frozen Throne. Already impressed with the game and its setting, the Frozen Throne made 
 good on showing me what coems next for the prominent villains and anti-heroes from Warcraft III. 
 The dangling plot lines from the main game get dealt with and leave me eager for more. And the 
 final confrontation, the last duel, the closing cinematics... I want to see Warcraft IV NOW. But 
 Blizzard is making its killing with World of Warcraft these days. If you want to see the point 
 in the Warcraft series where the potential to go beyond the strategy market first blossomed, pick 
 up The Frozen Throne. More than Warcraft II on its own. Frozen Throne made you more interested 
 in the individual champions and heroes. I still can't wait to see what comes next! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superelite2688
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  this game is very good and it is a great successor to warcraft 2
  
  the plot continues on as
  the humans and orcs continue there war
  buy a new threat arises 
 
  the games plot evolves well over the course of the 4 campaigns
  it it set in order which race u play at each point in the campaigns
  u start the single player 
 as the humans
  u then go to the orcs
  then the undead
  and then the night elves to finish up with
  unlike warcraft 2 u get no choose in which race to 
 play first for the game
  but it makes the story more interesting as it is all linked
  if u played through the game already u would know what i mean 
  human/undead i wont give spoilers 
 there
  
  the graphics are well suited to the game and are now '3d' therefore u can zoom in on the game 
 
  making u able to see things from a slightly diffrent perspective
  i would reccomend zooming out for the majority of gameplay
  
  the game music is always good 
 
  there is good music to set the scene for the various parts of the game
  the music adds a great additonal depth to what happens int he campaign
  
  the gameplay is excellent
 
  the four races are unique and allow for many diffrent styles of play
  as u will find if u play on battle. net 
  
  its great value for money
  and can be picked up 
 for a good price nowadays
  if ur a fan of the warcraft series u owe it to urself to check it out
  and people who are tossing 
 up whether to buy it or not and who own reign of chaos 
  dont wait any longer
  great game give it a try in simple even if ur not sure if ull like it 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 the Frozen Throne is the expansion to Warcraft 3 and it delivers excellently by adding 
 quite a few more untils and an expansionary side (The Naga) which we can't really play normally 
 although you can use it in conjunction with the other sides. Also new heroes are given to each 
 side in order to help bolsters their rosters to a total of 4 heroes on each side. The addition 
 of comedy to each of the units along with a more balanced grouping of characters also makes a nice 
 touch to the game. The only storyline flaw to the entire game is that the Orcs are suprisingly 
 missing from the main storyline and for the humans you can't really use many humans besides the 
 high elves who have become night elves. However the game makes up for this by allowing people to 
 develop their own storyline games, although it has been quite hard to do. The multiplier portions 
 to the game are still excellent as players can opt to play a regular match or a diverse type of 
 game ranging from a RPG styled fight over to a defend your castle sort of a match with characters 
 from the warcraft game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 was by far one of the greatest games ever made and i was worried when i heard about 
 an expasion....... who am i kidding i was excited more than ever i mean its blizzard i knew they 
 wouldnt let me down. Graphics nothing mutch different from the original a few add on to flare thing 
 up but nothing very noticable. Sound all the voice actors are there and the soundtrack as well 
 once agine no big improvements. Gameplay is where everything is saved with the addition of a new 
 hero for every race and the new Blood Elves and naga races as well as a continuation of the story. 
 The online play is all there with a new quick play option and tornoment option and now clans which 
 makes thing more accesible and more interesting. Overall the same game is back with a heel drop 
 to the face adding hours of more gameplay and cosuming your lives one last time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  I loved this game. It's a totaly classic. Great graphics, well-written, well-optimised code, great 
 execution and little time spent waiting makes this a total winner. It's one of those that even 
 though there are things with far better interfaces and eye candy, you end up still playing because 
 it's found the soul of the word "quality."
  
  This game also builds off of the Starcraft engine, but simply overhauls the positioning sytem to 
 make it 3D along with the graphics. Otherwise the general gameplay concepts and the interface is 
 verbatum to the reverenced StarCraft. Good job Blizzard, the Dark Lord Sauron is very proud of 
 you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpfgdzoigog
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  Frozen throne has to be one of the best games i have played i reccomend it to anyone who loves 
 a good rts. There is great depthe in the storey and u could do the game over and over again and 
 im sure i would do it again. The graphics are good and there is some awsome music in the background, 
 and 4 the price i paided 4 it i wasnt dissapointed, its a great expansion and 4 a resonable price. 
 If u download the maps of gamespot it makes it even better cause there is more fun, it also offers 
 u a wide variety of maps and finishs the proluge from warcraft 3 if u look in custom campaigns.
 
  
  Thats all from me bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acronix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III power resides in story-line in the campaign. Playing it makes you want to know what 
 will happen and, why not, what happened before. That is the great thing of warcraft III, but you 
 cant sayIts the best RTS in the world". 
  
  RTS games makes you think an strategy (thats why they are called that way) , were a huge army means 
 a lot, but where a huge army can be destroyed with a good strategy. In warcraft III, theres nothing 
 like that. Wheres strategy? I have played it a lot of times, all the campaign and for a time in 
 multi-player: i learned that the biggest and better horde wins the match. But not the biggest and 
 better, the player that makes the horde first wins if the other wasnt fast enough. If you think 
 I lie, go and download a replay and watch.
  
  Graphically, Warcraft III was right. Nothing speciall, and nothing bad, except for the models: 
 they look like someone made them for 7-year-old kids. For example, the knight. What kind of knight 
 we have here? A sword and a spear? Where did you saw a knight ussing that pathetic mix of weapons? 
 Footmans and elven warrior looks more like knights! Anyway, for his moment, it was cool graphically, 
 but thats not the point.
  
  Sound is definitively one of the best of the game. Theres a lot of sounds and things troops and 
 unit say to us and we wont hear our peons saing "Lumberjack" twelve times when we make them go 
 to harvest lumber.
  Everything else in the game is fine.
  
  Before ending, I came again to the "strategic" part of the game. Its thinked to make you click 
 and press the buttons on the keyboard at light-speed if you want to be a big player, and to be 
 really quick to be a good or normal one. You can make a horde of footmans and attack while your 
 enemy was preparing to make a horde of knights: if he wasnt quick enough, you will crush him. 
 Again, this is NOT a RTS, its a RTH (real time HORDE game) .
  
  Last word: multiplayer. It gives you fun for a while, specially custom maps like Angel Arena or 
 Warhammer. Thats another good part of the game, but its not good because of Blizzard, but of 
 the players and mappers. Another think we can say warcraft III is superb, is his map editor. You 
 can make almost everything you want if you know basics, even cinematics and semi-complicated maps.
 
  
  Anyway, Warcraft III is a good game if you want to play in solo or multi-player (custom games, 
 not skirmishes) and some will find it fun in skirmishes if they are quick enough. Others, simply 
 will like it because of the name: Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windofsoccer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  blizzard doesn't disappoint anyone for the warcraft series. one of the best i ever play. so good 
 on cutsom games, best ones are footies, tower def, x hero siege, mauls etc... well without this 
 game i wouldn't be even spending time to use my com. i don't know what can i do without this game. 
 i can't descirbe it, it is so good. bad thing about it, bnet is host by At&t which they suck, always 
 making ppl lag even with cable hosts. one of the horrible thing about bnet is that they let noobs 
 ( that act dumb as in don't know hwo to play or just ppl that ruines the fun of other ppl) well 
 all i got to say is to have fun, well i am having too mcuh fun, i am too good on custon games, 
 and awesome in bnet games before i start to play cutom games all the time. if u wanna join a clan, 
 go to channel clan tra. is a very good clan that i am in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riandro
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  i have played this game since 2003 and im still going. yup thats how good this game is. the difficultly 
 can be set to your desired setting. the tutourial make the learning curve 5-30 mins long. there 
 are 4 playable races. the alliance, the scourge and the night elves. (there is a bonus campain 
 of the horde.)
  although the graphics are not perfect they are still accecptable. the storyline is very intresting 
 and dramatic. if you like the war games with imaginative creatures and secret bits here and there 
 this is the game for you!
  what you still here reading this for? go look at other reviews! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III : a Saga that never end..
  We all Know the Start of Warcraft : human & ORC then there Got The II
  And then 3 : WAY Furter 
 in the future..
  and now the Expension Set Forzen throne
  Warcraft III as mostly.. 4 Year Old
  and Keep Doing GOOD it have no end..
  Game Like this is 
 the Revolution of RTS
  RTS whit Better Graphic Engine & Same Costum possiblity to change Evertime
  Would be not BAD 
 I vote For StarCraft II : A strategy Game Whit Awsome 3D
  Blizzard ! Should not Only Focus on World of Warcraft
  You know Why ? World of Warcraft is a 
 MMORPG Yes..
  Does the Graphic Chance in that MMORPG ? Hmm NO
  wut happen 2-3 Year After ? Oh Sorry.. WoW got PWN by something stronger
  Not in case of Warcraft 
 III the Frozen Throne a Unique Concepts that will
  Survive Year and Year.. As Star Craft DID people will never leave it
  Till a New Star Craft Strategy 
 Game Come to Lives
  
  Hope See you on Star Craft II In the Futur just hope i aint gona take 20 year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  warcraft 3 ft: i'll give a good review on it since its one of my favs. u can play off9 or either 
 thru battlenet. ok this game emphasises on many strategies. night elves, humans, orcs, undeads,4 of 
 the most influential clans u pick and chose to conquer every warcraft maps as possible. the most 
 powerful i can say is i mean the deadliest would be undead. and furthermore, the game never ends 
 when there are many players who create custom maps for fun, u can make it into a rpg game or even 
 a frag killing tournament! the most interesting map i know will possibly be DotA. coz most of them 
 play this as its a hero killing map, skills and sorts. so anyhow warcraft frozen throne is still 
 a longtimer like CS's addictiveness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1outlaw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 overall is an excellent package that can draw you in and ruin your social life completely.... 
 it's sooooo good. Even though the Single Player Campaign didn't appeal to me, Battlechest (online 
 play) is the greatest thing to ever come across you in warcraft. There are millions of different 
 team-based strategy games, all different styles all playing on the internet. Maps are downloaded 
 in a flash and games are quickly started and played. Once a challenging game draws you in, you 
 will spend 1000000s of hours watching your PC screen and Level stats and more boring stuff. But 
 the game is fun. DoTa is fun. Tower defence is fun... Just buy battlechest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  Adding more and more depth to the WC series, Blizzard never ceases to astound and especially with 
 the awesome storyline and plot of the Frozen Throne and Reign of Chaos alike, Blizzard has really 
 made a name for itself. Firstly the gameplay has improved dramatically, with some of the new features, 
 such as Merc taverns, and more units to relish. With the likes of being able to summon beasts with 
 Rexxar, to commanding a Naga force through the sea on a sneakily planned night attack, Blizzard 
 has outdone itself. The campaign is full of twists and turns, and continues to succeed in being 
 the most fun to play, and most interesting ones yet. The story is amazing, and so in-depth, and 
 Blizzard really left the series at the right time. Battle. Net is again well-supported, and more 
 features make the over-all online experience, so much more enjoyable. The graphics are the same, 
 but the new units such as Flame Master and the Alchemist (downloadable from Battle. Net) have really 
 great graphics. The new terrains look crisp and wonderful, colourful and immersive. Some of the 
 smaller details also improved, such as water effects and lighting. The sound is again amazing and 
 wonderful to hear. The quirky and funny sayings what warriors say when clicked on repetitively 
 are imaginative and hilarious. Such as the Troll Headhunter's "Wanna buy a cigar?" or the Tauren 
 Chiefs "Only 2 things come from Texas, and I've got horns". This game is well worth buying, and, 
 being so cheap is a must-have for fans and non-players of the series alike. Buy this game if you 
 don't have it, and feel at centre of the WC universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is a great expansion pack game to the war craft 3 game, containing new levels and new storylines, 
 to get wrapped into.
  
  You can Wield New Wepons of War and call in deadly troll bat riders, with cunning spells, climb 
 over high detailed mountains of ice and rock, and get stuck into new strategeries of warfare and 
 destruction.
  
  Command New Legendndary Heros, pusing foes to their untimate limitations and let the warriors unleash 
 their alimight powers of the undead crypt lord, Alliance Blood mage, Night elves of earth creatures 
 and Horde shadow hunters.
  
  Master 26 New fantastic new missions, single and mulitplayer.
  
  Dominate battles on the internet 
 and enhance the war on the battle. net website.
  
  Hire any of the 5 unique heros to charm your enemey units and tornado them into war once again.
 
  
  Stunning Graphics & Sound, and wicked gameplay, a game everyone wants in their game collection.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvalancheRider
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Let's get this straight right now: if you don't like micromanagement, run and hide. Hide and never 
 look at this game ever again. Now that that's out of the way...
  
  This game is a typical RTS with one atypical element: Heroes. Sounds cool in theory, right? Well, 
 no. The hero element of gameplay causes a big problem: 90% of the game is hero combat. All other 
 units exist merely to support your incredibly powerful hero unit. The early game is completely 
 insane. You have to build structures and units while exploring the map to kill NPC enemies to level 
 your hero. As if that's not enough, combat itself is all micromanagement. It boils down to hero 
 entrapment (where you attempt to encircle your enemy's hero units so that they can't escape combat) 
 and special ability micromanagement.
  
  The one big saving grace of this game is how moddable it is, but I find that the modding community 
 these days isn't churning out anything original. Everyone's playing DotA all-stars and a bunch 
 of nearly-identical tower defense maps. Too bad, too, because there used to be so much diversity 
 out there.
  
  This game is a micromanager's wet dream, but offers little to the rest of us. The storyline is 
 nowhere near as compelling as it was in Warcraft I or II or even the original Warcraft III. The 
 single-player campaigns are worth a once-over, but unless you love micromanagement, you'll get 
 no pleasure from the multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerofshadows
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  SPOILORS:
  Throzen throne continues the story of the Udead lord, Arthus, as he treis to reach the throzen 
 throne and rescue his liege. However by now the rest of the world is pretty pissed off Arthus, 
 and so decide to try and intercept him. The first two campaigns reolve around Artus's adversaries, 
 Illaden, Prince Kael'thas of the blood elves and the naga. 
  The story ends on a cliff hanger, with a war to end all wars looming on the horizen. While Kael'thas 
 and the naga witch escapes, Illaden is slain (he'll be back mark my words) by Arthus at the base 
 of the throzen throne.
  As well as three new campaigns, the game adds a new diablo style orc campaign, new multiplayer 
 and single maps and all units and heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butterbong
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Ok this game is a must buy, its been years since release and I STILL play it. Map making is AMAZINGLY 
 fun, and has risen many communities (www. wc3campaigns. com is the best) and is amazing. i love the 
 campaign and story. BUY THIS GAME! it was the perfect addition to WC3. 
  
  To thoughs of you giving it bad reviews then I really dont know what your problem is... cartoony 
 graphics (THATS WHAT WC3 IS YOU TARDS) and small armies, this game isnt about amasing huge armies 
 and stuff its about having a good game that lasts about 10-30 min. who wants to do a game that 
 lasts an hour if you upgrade everything? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoMercy2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  I am not a big time player of Warcraft 1& 2 but as soon as I picked up a copy of Warcraft 3 and 
 then frozen throne it looked like this was going to be one of those lifetime obssesion things. 
 One of my favourite parts about Frozen Throne is how it doesn't dissapoint with the follow on of 
 the story line from Reign Of Chaos. Ill admit that it that I am still trying to understand the 
 full story line but i love it how no character is trully good or evil. 
  
  The other great thing about The Frozen Throne is the single and multiplayer modes of the game were 
 any player can get into an exciting quadtruple threat match of humans v orcs v undead v night elf. 
 i have never seen more indepth discription on all the countless units avalible to you in one game. 
 Blizzard has also added fun multiplayer levels such as the forever classic Warchasers, Azure Tower 
 Defence and many more. 
  
  But the one thing i like so much about Warcraft, and this might come as a shock, is the world editor 
 added by blizzard to allow people to make there own exciting levels. icant get over this world 
 editor, it is just the most easiest to use and indepth world editor ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S_L_O_T_H
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I've been playing real-time strategy games for a good time in my life. I've played Age of Empires 
 II, Starcraft, Age of Mythology, Rise of Nations, Empire Earth, and obviously Warcraft III. I have 
 played all of the expansions for those games also, and The Frozen Throne is by far the best expansion 
 I have ever experienced for a game in this category. The mechanics of the game are similar to those 
 before it, and Warcraft III just takes those ideas and perfects them. The campaign is rather simple 
 at first, but there is a higher difficulty setting once you beat it. But, the campaign is just 
 where the game begins. Similar to Reign of Chaos, this game is all about competing online with 
 others. If you think the game is too easy, go online, and you will find out that there are others 
 out there that are more challenging to defeat. Even if you get bored with the regular Warcraft 
 III, you can go in to custom games and play one of the thousand of games that people create with 
 the World Editor. Overall, the game is superb. If you like playing real-time strategies with others, 
 then I highly recommend you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: Frozen throne offers new units for each race, new heroes, and a new cool alternative 
 campaign. Still continues and extends the story line from warcraft 3.
  
  Gameplay: Even better than warcraft 3: reign of chaos. The main campaign isi awesome, story line 
 is really interesting, and alternative campiagn is just freakin awesome. I believe this is the 
 best part of the game, the bonus campaign is just really fun. You play as a beast and a voodoo 
 hero, trying to save the orcs and etc. There are three main missions, which take about 10 hours. 
 Units are helpful and you can now get a building which allows you to buy items. Map editor is pretty 
 similiar to reign of chaos. Bad is that multiplayer really hasn't changed, no new races, which 
 stinks. Also, it's hard for newcomers to improve in multiplayer, because some of the people online 
 are very rude.
  
  Graphics: Similiar to warcraft 3 reign of chaos, but still good. New units look pretty cool
  
 
  Sound: Fits well with context, new tunes also.
  
  Value: Definetly worth the upgrade. STill addicting fun gameplay. If you didn't like warcraft 3 
 reign of chaos, dont get this expansion
  
  reviewer's tilt: STill great gam and fun to play, although the multiplayer hasn't really changed, 
 which really dissapointed me since i sucked at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game revolutionizes the RTS gaming experience. Not only do the FOUR selectable races make 
 each game new and fun... the multiple units and skills and spells make for the game to be a very 
 good RTS game...
  Players do not have to micro-manage units (although it helps ALOT when creeping) ... And the introduction 
 to the hero-system is amazing. Players choose up to 3 heroes to guide their troops and increase 
 their army...
  This game is definately the best RTS experience a gamer could ask for.
  The graphics are slick and superb, and the availability of the custom games truly makes warcraft 
 III diverse and spectacular. Players can custom make their own games and play other players games 
 over the internet, which is what kept me interested. 
  I freaking love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamezRlife21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:55 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the warcraft series for a while now, and it just keeps getting better and better 
 as i play it. War Craft 3 was probably the best game of it's time, and now they added an expansion 
 to it. Warcraft 3: The frozen throne was the only game i ever played for about 3 months strait. 
 with it's indepth story line, Stunning and crisp graphics, and excelent sound quality, i absolutely 
 amazed. I for one can not wait until they add on another game to this incredible series. This game 
 deffinetly lives up to all the hype, and is most definetly worth buying. Infact right now, they 
 even have a deal going on, it's called the warcraft battle chest, it has Warcraft 3, and The frozen 
 throne all in one with strategy books and posters, and it is only $40! I for one bought it right 
 when i saw this, and have not let go of my keyboard since... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australia-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game must be the greatest game created for the PC. The online is incredible. Many people make 
 custom maps with the level editor which leaves room for unlimited replay value. I would strongly 
 reccomend this game to anybody. Much fun is to be had in this game. You can also start normal battles 
 and build stuff and then make units and attack other bases.
  There are 4 races:
  -Human
  -Orc
  -Undead
  -Night Elf
  You can also import skins and change units and edit their appearance 
 which makes each multiplayer game different. Obviously the strongest thing in this game is the 
 multiplayer. The single player campaign is very short and hard to beat though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadGeorge987
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  I wont lie to you people: this is a great game, there's simply no getting around it. Like most 
 RTS games, you build up a town, harvest resources, and eventually try to destroy your enemy with 
 superior tactics. However, W3: TFT is starting to take the "S" out of "RTS". IF War4 comes out, 
 and continues in the steps of War3, it will simply be a Real TIme game, not a Real Time Strategy 
 game. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  W3: TFT does somewhat involve the essentials of RTS games, but the hero system and generally low 
 amount of units in most games is starting to tear that away. Heros in RTS games are like Rocket 
 Launchers in FPS games: they're ok in small doses, and extreme measures should prevent them from 
 being abusable in multiplayer. 
  Unfortunately, combat in War3 will always involve a hero. Without using heros, you will quickly 
 find yourself at a disadvantage. What's worse, the heros get levelled, and become stronger, with 
 stronger spells, and less units being needed to use (as well as even less strategy) . Yes, heros 
 do take away some strategic aspects. Selecting the correct spell for a certain situation is not 
 a strategy -- nor is training heros. 
  It's unfair to only criticize, so now I will run through the good points of the gameplay. One thing 
 this game does right is that it does allow for some spectacular micro-management opprotunities. 
 It also forces players to micro-manage, because the less units you have, the more efficient you 
 must make them. 
  Remember, this game is an expansion, and it did improve on the original's gameplay by modifying 
 the upkeep system and supply limit.
  The single-player campaign is not very good for an RTS game. In fact, one would be correct calling 
 it more of an RPG, as you simply plow through the levels, levelling up your hero and collecting 
 items for him. The story-line is good though, so the single-player is not completely worthless.
 
  I rated the gameplay as good, and I think I was being a little bit generous on that. 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Thankfully, this game has some really great visuals, which is needed to compensate 
 for the somewhat lack-luster gameplay. The visuals and special effects are really nice in this 
 game, and can make micro-management seem like a form of art. 
  
  Sound:
  
  Like the graphics, the sound is also excellent. The voice overs are great, which, in my opinion, 
 is something every great RTS game's single player needs. Plus, the sound in this game provides 
 a good atmosphere, another RTS essential. 
  
  Value:
  
  Surprisingly, you will get a lot out of this game. The skirmish games are great for replay value, 
 and you'll also want to follow the deep story of the campaign. That, and you'll want to master 
 the four races. But the main value of this game is online play. Online, people create custom scenarios 
 where you can be playing W3: TFT in a strictly RPG style, or you could play an all out war scenario. 
 The possibilities for custom scenarios are just about endless, and you'll definitely want to experiment 
 making your own scenarios. 
  More importantly though, this game has a great online community that is constantly expanding, unlike 
 some older games. 
  This game gives you a lot of bang for your buck. 
  
  In conclusion...
  
  I'd say this game is perhaps the opposite of a game like Rise of Nations: 
 good gameplay versus not-so-good gameplay, as well as good graphics/sound versus not-so-good graphics 
 and sound. However, I'm not a biased reviewer, and by no means to I think that combat on a smaller 
 scale cannot work, as we see games like Dawn of War where it works brilliantly. 
  This is an overrated game that will seem just fine for the average gamer, but if you're an avid 
 RTS gamer, you might want to look elsewhere for a promising gameplay experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4-SaGohan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:40 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I had ever played in my whole life. I spend most of my time 
 playing this game. I have this game in Chinese but I don't really care. In the game you are allow 
 to chose one of the following races: Humans, Night Elves, Orcs, and Undead. Each race has their 
 own special buildings and characters. Each race could keep 3 heroes. The heroes are allow to level 
 up from 1-10. Their attacks are tremendous. Each hero has one special moves and 3 skills. Heroes 
 could carry items you find on the map. The missions for this game is tough once you enter the higher 
 levels. But that does not mean that the beginning level is not hard. They are also hard but not 
 as nearly as the higher levels.
  
  This game took me more than 1 and a half months to beat the entire mission without cheating. Some 
 of my friends thought that this game was easier than monopoly (board game) . Can you believe him? 
 Well this game is challenging, even for those people who plays many others games that are hard 
 or harder than this game. So if you really do like demons, creatures, and other mysterious monsters, 
 then this is the game that you want to play! This game might get frustrating at the end of each 
 missions for different races. So I think that's about all I could say to you guys. Remember BUY 
 this game it's your LIFE!!!
  
  Ciao 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20939572522766106736609805272248-Anailator707
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is spectacular!! There's plenty of more stuff to offer now... New
  heros!, Units!, and even upgrades! Now this game is just perfect! The campain
  isnt shorter... Its 
 longer and better!!! Thats rare for an expansion..... It tells
  you more about the Horde in this game, About a new character named
  The Beastmaster's adventure... He 
 goes through many tasks to accept
  Thrall's Honor.. The game is so improved that its like a completly new
  game.. This is absolutly 
 a game worth getting... If you got the last one, then
  your crazy not to get this one! Overall the heros, quests, and online is 
  improved so much you 
 must get this... If your not a fan of warcraft.. then
  buy this game and go online... People create there own games there not
  involving Warcraft such 
 as Dbz, Playboy, andLord of the rings... There are many
  more and all of them are awesome!!
  
  
  
  Peace out!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon-Z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Really beautifull great game.. A must have for any PC gamer.. The story line is just a really great 
 storyline it fits in with the game well.. also the custom game on multiplayer is also what makes 
 the game what it is.. if you have WoW and never played this.. or you just never played this pick 
 it up it is a MUST have for any PC gamer.. the sounds of the units are a laugh if you keep clicking 
 them they say stuff for example if you keep clicking a peon he says "stop poking me" the graphics 
 are good for RTS so pick this game up if you have the chance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbismonster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Definetly one of the best games ever made. The new charachters add alot, from the blood mage to 
 the neutral heros. So many new strategies have been added. The campaign is good, but where its 
 really at is multiplayer.
  12 players can play in a match, and its really chaotic and fun, especially with your friends. You 
 can form clans, which are fun as well. But best of all is the custom games. Footmen frenzy, the 
 ring wars, some of these are better than normal rts games! They are just amazing, and you can find 
 teh custom game you want pretty easily, if its popular enough. if not, you can just create it yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This expantion adds alot to the already great stratagy game Warcraft 3. This game adds one more 
 hero to each race, plus about 3 or so more units. You basically do all the same stuff in this expantion 
 as Warcraft 3. But its alot more fun. The new spells, moves, and other stuff like that really make 
 it more in depth then warcraft 3. Over all, this expantion rocks, to bad i had to uninstall it 
 off my comp, because it made my comp retarded. Oh well, i loved this game while it lasted, and 
 im sure if you dont have this expantion yet, you will love it when you do get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I've fought in every battle since the first war between the Orcs and Humans, and still, I fight 
 on. Maybe it's the sounds of battle, the magical carnage or the battle cries of "Why do you keep 
 touching me?" that keep me coming back for more. Whatever the reason, the battle seems to be never-ending, 
 but that's not a bad thing at all, especially in the case of Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne.
 
  
  Veterans of Warcraft III will slip into the new campaign as easy as a Peon falling off a log. Many 
 of the original goodies make a comeback along with a fistful of fresh meat to devour. The story 
 still rocks, the gameplay is still solid and clicking on those little guys over and over again 
 will never get stale. This is definitely another solid Blizzard expansion.
  
  The fight begins where the last one left off. The demons have been beaten back and the splinters 
 of Alliance groups that survived are struggling to bring order back to the land. The fallen Night 
 Elf Illidan seems to be stirring up trouble and the remains of the Undead army are terrorizing 
 the townsfolk of Lorderon. The situation is darker than the bottom of an Orcish latrine.
  
  Like Warcraft III, The Frozen Throne's single-player campaign will have you joining factions one 
 at a time, beginning with the Night, Elves followed by the Alliance and the Undead. A lesser expansion 
 might cut this war short, but Frozen Throne offers a full 26 new missions to experience. That's 
 more gaming than you can throw a stick at!
  
  Interestingly enough, the Orcs aren't a part of the main Frozen Throne storyline, but they can 
 still be found in a bonus campaign that's got some interesting RPG elements. While it doesn't fit 
 perfectly with the rest of the game (which is probably why it was separated from the pack) , the 
 bonus campaign turns out to be a nice extra diversion as long as you can stomach all of those respawning 
 enemies.
  
  The Frozen Throne adds all kinds of new creatures into the mix. Most prominent are the Naga, which 
 could almost be considered an entirely new race. These bad to the bone, snake-lizard guys are tough 
 customers thanks to their ability to swim and brutal powers. While not playable alone in multiplayer, 
 the Naga can be controlled in a few of the single player missions.
  
  Making a return to the Warcraft series is a taste of naval warfare. I know some fans were a little 
 disappointed that terror on the high seas was left out of the third installment, but it's back 
 for a short cameo for those of you that miss the smell of the ocean.
  
  Each of the four races also gets a boost from a variety of different units, from titanic Mountain 
 Giants to magic-shattering Spell Breakers and radar jamming Dragonhawk Riders. Not all of them 
 have a huge impact on the game, but you'll certainly find a few that will be handy in a pinch. 
 Besides, new characters means a whole new set of witty comments. Bah weep granah weep ninny bong!
 
  
  And what would new units be without fresh crop of heroes to lead them into battle? Each race gains 
 a new super soldier to provide some serious support in the field. There's the Warden Night Elf, 
 which has a handy area damage spell and the ability to 'Blink' in and out of combat. Then there's 
 the Alliance's Blood Mage, who also has a powerful area flame spell to incinerate foes as well 
 as the ability to summon a phoenix to fight at his side. The Orcish Shadow Hunter is great for 
 keeping armies fresh with a healing wave and the Undead Crypt Lord lumbers on to the field with 
 the power to raise a host of undead soldiers from your fallen enemies.
  
  Surprisingly, the biggest change comes not with the character additions, but the single player 
 strategy. Forget about the old building Base "A" to ultimately demolish enemy Base "B" plan - Frozen 
 Throne will challenge you with multiple objectives and armies at once. For example, you'll control 
 two self-sufficient armies at different ends of the map. One will have to defend itself from a 
 constant enemy onslaught while the other must sneak in from behind to rescue an ambushed comrade. 
 I'm glad to see the guys at Blizzard are working hard to give us a new challenge.
  
  The only noticeable problem is still with the low unit selection limit. Even after a year of griping, 
 you're still only allowed a handful of troops to throw into a single grouping. That means you'll 
 still be constantly hotkeying through multiple groups in major battles, so stretch out those keys 
 before jumping into the pool.
  
  It's no surprise that The Frozen Throne is a no-brainer for anyone who's ever enjoyed a Warcraft 
 game. Blizzard continues to deliver great expansions to enhance the experience of one of the most 
 beloved RTS' in town. It doesn't change the face of the Warcraft world, but it does bump the experience 
 up another notch. En'shu falah-nah, my brothers. See you on the field of battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamate
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  warcraft 3 expansion pack, detailing more of the story as new factions arise, and old heroes are 
 transformed. Players return to war-ravaged Azeroth months after the defeat of the Burning Legion, 
 to face a new threat. Each race features an added hero with new abilities and spells. New shops, 
 which the player can build for specific races, keep units supplied with items. Multiplayer modes 
 have been extended to include new clan and tournament support, among other new games. Neutral Heroes 
 can be persuaded to join in the fight and add new abilities and magic spells to the player's arsenal. cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron_Eye
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This is super Fun. If u don't don't like playing b-net games like me Go to custom games to play 
 games people made. There is a lot of downloads to get to make this game even better. Like advanced 
 world editor nad name spoofer 1.18 (www. zerogamers. com) . There is so many diffrent games that u 
 wil never get bored. O ya and if u think u can beat me In Heaven Vs. Hell Final Ull lose my name 
 is 7DeadlyDragonZ (ull get schooled) . If u have bad internet server beg ur parents 4 new internet 
 connect if u have bad 1 ull probly lag out or not be able to host so be good. Trust me get this 
 game or ill find U O-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LarzaHawk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok here we go .I'm one who is just getting started on this game game now .And so far like all the 
 of those of Warcraft games .It's showing me so much outstanding art work and screens .As well as 
 being able to get into this game is something that is yet not easy but yet not hard too . I feel 
 that all of the WarCrafts game .Have something for all MOMRPG. So all I can say that I hoping to 
 see more on this and all other Warcraft games in the near future and I'm hopeing to fine that the 
 people of WarCraft are the most . The time spent playing this game it is worth all the time you 
 can put into it .I feel this game is one I'm not going to be able to walk away from to easiles 
 too. Well this is it for now I can only hope that my char can work her way through this game and 
 on the way make some friends too . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alaa77
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 10:19 pm PT
Review:  this is the worst strategy game ever 
  i dont no why u giving it good reviews... its just my opinion .. this game doesnt worth ur bucks
 
  just new creeps.. and new charecters that are not needed for the game-play 
  and i belive dota-all stars scinario is better than the game it self
  plz noone flame me ,cuz 
 as i said its only my opinion.. if u like it then ok if not.. its also ok .. but u can spend ur money 
 on a better title.
  dont think about gettin it
  and if u wanna buy a game .. u can think about ZH ,BFME, AoE3, Earth 2165
  or even arcade game :)
 
  just this one sux big time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: takebo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  better than "AGE of" games line, if you tired and bored playing "Age of" games, switch to blizzard 
 RTS games and you will soon notice the difference. in my weekends i'm playing DotA, but i'm not 
 so good, crap T_T
  you have a big gama of choices in wich and what you want play, tons of custom maps are avaliable 
 on net.
  the battle. net eviroment is a cool thing, you earn exp, lvls, to get avatars etc etc...
  i some 
 kind of noob, i out in work and i go back to my sweet home only on the weekends. but i enought 
 to say that the game is awesome. good graphics, gameplay, music, the diferente design of the races 
 is very cool... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erny_200001
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 12, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is has th whole package grafhics, game play, great storyline ,mulitplayer, Custom games, a 
 great editor, trust me this game kicks in all ways there are four races undead night elf orcs and 
 humans there is other races that tou can play as during the story line like the elfs the naga this 
 game will giv you hours of play time no matter who you are you can buy it for about 10 bucks when 
 you but the game the muliplayer is freeif you have th internet make sure you also have a pretty 
 good computer too becuse the grafics arnt going to run on a pice of carp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billbobphil
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  Want a new review site where you can read reviews or talk to fellow gamers?
  Then go to my new site.  
  We review all games. I am hiring 
 a person who will review FPS. E-mail me your application and return e-mail. There is no pay. IF 
 i hire you i will e-mail me 1 review a month of FPS games or internet FPS. When you go to my site 
 please sign the questbook talk in forums and vote on polls. my site is  
 please please please pleaase pleaease please please please please please come to my site or try 
 to become a reviewer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltfan469
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 11, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  Good: Gameplay is incredible. Online features are amazing. You can play as new heros with many 
 different powers. Very very addicting. Never gets boring. A new adventure every time you start 
 the game. Campaign mode has a new and improved storyline. Movie cut-scenes in between the campaigns. 
 New and exciting maps to explore. New units and creatures to fight.
  
  Bad: Internet connection can sometimes be a tiny bit slow. Computer is still a little too hard 
 on beginning players.
  
  Bottom Line: This game is incredible. Almost everyone I know is addicted. Playing this game can 
 also be relaxing and an exciting adrenaline rush. This is a must have game for people of all ages 
 who enjoy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXTHExPAPERxBOY
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3: TFT is a great game. It is one of the best RTS's of all time. When I was a child, my 
 first game was Starcraft. I enjoyed it, and at the age of 7, I was zergling rush noobs. I bought 
 Warcraft because my dad had it, he WAS trying to hide it from me.. I was so obsessed with Starcraft, 
 that Warcraft would Litterally suck me in... I eventually found it, I was dazed... The essence 
 of this game is overwhelming.. The Night Elves elegance, The Humans magic, The undead necromancy, 
 and the Orc Brutality. I started playing this game when it came out. I enjoy it very much. IT came 
 out in 2003, and I still play it to this day.
  
  I love Warcraft3: TFT.
  
  David 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForgottenOath
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The combat for the multiplayer is much better, the new additions throw a more into the mix and 
 add more strategies for you to play with, also the units have been cheapened to make the action 
 go faster. The gameplay is much faster because of the price changes. Some of the original units 
 and heoes were tweaked to fix bugs and to be stregthened or weakend to make the races a bit more 
 een, not to make a rifle even to a tauren, you will still be playing a game of whoever is faster 
 or paper rock, scissors (whoever has the more effective units) when facing.
  
  the graphics are the same and so is the sound, but some more sound effects have been added, making 
 the primal graphics a bit more realistic. The units have more voiceover easter eggs, and the stroy 
 mode makes the gameplay linear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuzero
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 3:39 am PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne is an impressive expansion pack for a remarkably good game, and anyone who enjoyed 
 Warcraft III needs to get it.
  
  The sign of a truly great expansion pack is when, having played it, you realize you could never 
 go back to the original game. After all, truly great expansion packs don't just add new content -- they 
 add real depth, and fundamentally make the core game better. Blizzard Entertainment knows the drill 
 when it comes to delivering these sorts of products. Its follow-up releases for 1998's Starcraft 
 and 2000's Diablo II were so effective and so good that many, many people are still playing both 
 of those games today, all these years later. Given Blizzard's track record with expansion packs, 
 it's understandable that fans of the company's games would have very high expectations for Warcraft 
 III: The Frozen Throne. Last year's real-time strategy game was a very tough act to follow on any 
 number of levels, and yet Blizzard has delivered a terrific, full-featured expansion for Warcraft 
 III that makes an already outstanding game significantly more so.
  
  The Frozen Throne features four single-player campaigns and completely revitalizes the skirmish 
 and multiplayer gameplay.
  
  To say the least, there was a lot to like about Warcraft III in the first place. The game's single-player 
 campaign delivered an interesting and engaging story told from four unique perspectives, its online 
 multiplayer mode was the best in the real-time strategy genre, its four distinctly different factions 
 featured numerous viable strategies and tactics, its gameplay was focused on action and rewarded 
 skill and practice, and its powerful scenario editor let you design your own missions or entirely 
 new gameplay modes using the game's great-looking 3D engine. Basically, The Frozen Throne adds 
 to and improves on every single one of these features, and more.
  
  If you enjoyed Warcraft III's single-player campaigns, you'll be pleased to know that The Frozen 
 Throne offers at least as much if not more single-player material. The campaign picks up where 
 Warcraft III left off, in the aftermath of the banishment of the burning legion. The renegade half-demon 
 Illidan and the death knight Arthas are at the center of the story, as both of these power-hungry 
 characters are seeking to take control of a world already ravaged by conflict. You play the campaign 
 missions linearly, just like in Warcraft III, starting with the night elf sentinels, then moving 
 on to the remnants of the human alliance, and finally taking control of the undead scourge. There 
 are more than two dozen sizeable missions in all.
  
  The campaign missions offer remarkable variety from one to the next, and it's not a stretch to 
 say that these represent the most skillfully designed single-player scenarios in any real-time 
 strategy game to date. Recognizing that many players have long since grown weary of the standard 
 formula of having to build up a base, raise an army, and then attack an entrenched enemy, Blizzard 
 accordingly included this formula in only a few of The Frozen Throne's campaign missions. Some 
 of the missions grant you access to multiple armies, each charged with its own important objectives. 
 Many missions feature clever variations on familiar strategies. Some limit the types of units you'll 
 get, which may prompt you to develop a newfound appreciation for some of Warcraft III's less-intuitive 
 strategies. All the missions are story-driven and seem plausible enough in the context of the game. 
 The campaign packs in a lot of surprises, perhaps more so in the mission design than in the story 
 itself, and it offers a significant challenge that will help bring you up to speed on some of The 
 Frozen Throne's new gameplay additions.
  
  New heroes such as the blood mage add depth and complexity to Warcraft III. And they're just plain 
 cool.
  
  The plot of the campaign is sufficiently epic, and the superb voice acting and memorable character 
 designs effectively drive the story along. But this isn't the greatest story ever told for a couple 
 of reasons. There's actually a lot more buildup than resolution in what ought to have been a culmination 
 of the previous game's storyline. Furthermore, The Frozen Throne's plot just doesn't give you anything 
 to latch on to -- there's no single central character, and since you'll be playing both as and against 
 numerous characters over the course of the game, you'll sometimes find yourself wondering exactly 
 whom you're supposed to be rooting for. It's an interesting approach to be sure, and it's similar 
 to what Blizzard did with the stories of both Warcraft III and Starcraft: Brood War, but the real 
 issue is probably that none of The Frozen Throne's characters are particularly likeable -- they're 
 charismatic yet despicable, good-natured yet foolishly nave, or vengeful to a fault. Then again, 
 most real-time strategy games -- and most games in general -- don't even try to create such complex 
 characters, so the fact that you can even criticize the finer points of the game's story speaks 
 to its impressive depth.
  
  The orcs are conspicuously absent from the main campaign, but they're central to a bonus campaign 
 in which you play as a half-ogre beastmaster who befriends the orcs, who've just settled in a new 
 land. This campaign plays less like a real-time strategy game and more like Diablo, as you'll persistently 
 control just the beastmaster and his small entourage while exploring a map and its surrounding 
 areas, completing quests, gaining experience levels and better gear, and more. All this is actually 
 quite entertaining, though the bonus campaign isn't balanced as well as the core missions, and 
 it becomes pretty easy pretty quickly. Also, enemies will respawn on the map after a while, and 
 it can be tedious to have to slog through the same underpowered foes every time you have to backtrack. 
 The bonus campaign is fun anyway, and the cliffhanger ending promises more of the same in the future.
 
  
  
  The Frozen Throne adds three beautiful new types of environments that look even better than the 
 original game's maps, several new units to each of the game's factions, and new abilities for some 
 of the original units. Many of the new units are designed to counter particular strategies -- specifically, 
 to counter spellcasting units -- and each faction's air force has also been bolstered by at least 
 one new support unit. So while the night elves' faerie dragons or the humans' spellbreakers won't 
 replace your frontline troops (though the night elves' gigantic new mountain giants certainly might 
 in the late game) , adding a few of them to your army can make a big difference. In one of its most 
 meaningful additions, the expansion also introduces a fourth hero character for each side, and 
 these are featured prominently in the campaign -- you'll gain an appreciation for most all their 
 powers in the single-player mode and can then use these powerful troops in multiplayer matches. 
 Though each of the new heroes is very likeable in its own right, the undead's crypt lord, which 
 looks like an enormous stag beetle, is probably the most impressive. All the new units also sound 
 great, and some have some very funny things to say when you click on them repeatedly.
  
  The improved artificial intelligence makes The Frozen Throne quite fun to play on your own, but 
 Battle. net is still where the real action is.
  
  On top of all that, numerous new neutral units and buildings figure prominently in the expansion. 
 Some fans of 1996's Warcraft II were slightly disappointed when they realized Warcraft III had 
 no naval combat, but now, in some scenarios, ships are available. Just like in Warcraft II, you'll 
 have access to a troop transport, a destroyer, and a battleship. The naval combat is as simplistic 
 as ever, but its inclusion is still a nice touch. More importantly, in some scenarios you can recruit 
 a number of neutral heroes that normally aren't accessible to each faction. The four sides can 
 also build a new type of structure from which they can purchase hero items, such as potions and 
 magic scrolls, as well as items that are specifically useful only to their faction. Considering 
 how much depth there was to be found in choosing from or choosing combinations of the three heroes 
 per side in Warcraft III, having many additional such characters and all these other things makes 
 the gameplay even more interesting and more complex.
  
  The Frozen Throne also features numerous gameplay balance adjustments and interface tweaks, though 
 almost all of these are now available in a downloadable patch for anyone who owns the original 
 game. Many units and buildings have lower costs than before, making the early part of a Warcraft 
 III match go by even faster as you quickly muster a respectable force. New early-game defensive 
 structures are available to discourage hero rushing, a popular tactic in the original Warcraft 
 III. The upkeep system has been adjusted to let you marshal larger armies without incurring a penalty 
 to your income, and the unit limit has also been increased slightly. The system used to determine 
 how different weapon types affect different armor types has been overhauled to better balance ranged, 
 melee, flying, and spellcasting units. Several difficulty settings are available for skirmishes 
 against the AI (which fights like a pro at the toughest setting) , whereas the original game didn't 
 offer any difficulty levels at all and was pretty punishing for more-casual players. All these 
 changes are in fact improvements, though they do cater to more-experienced players (there's also 
 an option to play The Frozen Throne with the original Warcraft III rules, if you wish) . Whether 
 or not you're an advanced player, online matches still tend to not last longer than 30 minutes, 
 making Warcraft III the perfect real-time strategy game for both quick sessions and marathons.
 
  
  Online multiplayer over Battle. net is also improved, thanks to the implementation of player clans 
 and automated tournaments, as well as some other minor improvements. Now you can gather up nine 
 or more of your friends and form a clan on Battle. net, which allows you to have your own private 
 chat channel and your own internal rankings systems and lets you compete against other clans on 
 a dedicated clan ladder. Tournaments, meanwhile, adjust the rules of the game and strictly enforce 
 a 30-minute time limit. Blizzard has also included numerous new multiplayer maps, as well as a 
 few fun multiplayer scenarios based on popular user mods. Battle. net is running as smoothly as 
 ever, and at this point in time, just after the expansion's release, you're virtually guaranteed 
 to find fierce competition at all hours. The best Battle. net option remains the arranged teams 
 mode, where you and one or two friends can quickly get into matches with teams of the same relative 
 skill level.
  
  One year later, Warcraft III is better than ever, thanks to The Frozen Throne.
  
  Not only 
 does it play better, but The Frozen Throne also looks and sounds just as excellent as Warcraft 
 III did a year ago. The new units and map types are colorful, dynamic, and highly detailed. There's 
 new music for all the factions, and the new tracks fit in well with the original themes. New intro 
 and ending cinematics that are on par with the high-quality Warcraft III CG sequences bookend the 
 campaign. The Frozen Throne also features an improved version of the world editor utility that 
 gives scenario designers more and better options for creating complex and original new scenarios, 
 in addition to straightforward skirmish maps.
  
  All things considered, The Frozen Throne is an impressive expansion pack for a remarkably good 
 game, and anyone who enjoyed Warcraft III needs to get it. It's more expensive than the average 
 add-on (and requires the original game to play it) , but it offers much, much more. Blizzard Entertainment, 
 due the commercial success of its games, is in the privileged position of being able to spend seemingly 
 as much time as is necessary to create highly polished, long-lasting computer games and then support 
 those games for a number of years. And judging from this latest game, the company seems to be taking 
 full advantage of that position.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vergil2007
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:00 am PT
Review:  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh 
 man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh 
 man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh 
 man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh man this is the best game i ever see
  Ohhh 
 man this is the best game i ever see
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samghazal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:38 am PT
Review:  warcraft 3 is the best game i ever played it put you in real world of magic and war wooww the heros 
 are very coollllllll and if any body play it on line by www. battle. net i think he will spend all 
 his life infront the computer challenge the gamers.
  the graphics are superb and the sound are like some one in war and the dead peapole around him.
 
  in the warcraft you should be fast and wise. there's 4 teams (humans. Undead; orc'and my favorite 
 night elf) and the blizzards make a smart moove by the frozen throne they correct evrey think in 
 game and the folowed patches make the game 1 they put new heroes and if any body search for secnario 
 he will see a lot of fun in the end like (linkin park) says the warcraft is the best  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmanismyname
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Unless you live in the extreme north, when you mention the word Blizzard to gamers, they invariably 
 recite the litany of quality products the company has released in its successful history. Compelling 
 gameplay, stunning cinematics, and a great story all come together in one critically acclaimed 
 title after another. With the release of The Frozen Throne, that line of succession continues. 
 
  
  The Story and Heroes 
  
  Picking up where Warcraft III left off, you are immediately greeted by the movie-like cinematic 
 of the outcast Night Elf Demon Hunter Illidan using his magic to awaken a new NPC race into the 
 game, the Naga. He vows to use them to obtain an artifact that will make those who betrayed him 
 pay for their indiscretions. 
  
  The campaign begins with the Night Elves and the new hero, the Warden Maiev, vowing to bring Illidan 
 to justice and once again imprisoning him for his crimes. The Night Elf missions follow Maeiv's 
 obsession with recapturing Illidan and does a good job through most of the scenarios of setting 
 the mood for the rest of the game. 
  
  The Night Elf campaign, however, has an interesting ending, one that might surprise a some people 
 based on the much publicized premise of the expansion that Illidan and Arthas are racing to get 
 to the Frozen Throne of the Icecrown Glacier. As the game progresses, the story becomes more tangled 
 with the amphibious race of Naga as a key player. 
  
  The Alliance campaign follows and the story starts to branch in some odd directions. The main thrust 
 of the Alliance campaign is the displaced Elves, who have become known as the Blood Elves trying 
 to find their purpose. After the Death Knight Arthas practically destroyed the race in the original 
 game, they have now created an uneasy alliance with the Humans, who are led by a paladin who treats 
 them with all the dignity of a bastard child from an illict affair. The new hero is a Blood Mage 
 prince and there is more emphasis on the Elven faction than on the Humans.
  
  By the end of the Alliance campaign, I really was having trouble with the plausibility of the story, 
 as the Blood Elves seem to be going to improbable lengths to regain their "place." Unfortunately, 
 saying anything more would be a spoiler, but suffice it to say, I found it a bit unbelievable. 
 
  
  The Undead campaign, however, didn't let me down. The Undead continue to be as calculating and 
 devious as in the original game. Death Knight Arthas is joined early on by the new Undead hero, 
 the Crypt Lord, a leader of the Nerubians who aids Arthas on his quest to Icecrown. There are also 
 a few missions where the Dark Ranger takes the leading role. 
  
  The missions are punctuated with various in-game cinematics, as in the original. They are just 
 as well done and further the story without taking away from the anticipation of the next mission. 
 The game ends with one final CG cinematic, and while extremely well done, left me a bit wanting. 
 In all of Blizzard's games, the overriding theme is despair. The expansion does a good job of continuing 
 that theme.
  
  Conspicuously absent from the single-player campaign are the Orcs. It was planned all along that 
 the Orcs would not be part of this story thread, but have their own story revolving around the 
 forging of their new land of Durotar. The Orcish story was by far the most entertaining. Their 
 alliance with the trolls brings in the new hero, a troll Shadow Hunter, who is a party member with 
 the focal point of the Orcish story, a Beastmaster named Rexxar. 
  
  The story delves into the relationship with the trolls, as well as the alliance the Orcs have with 
 the Humans forged in the original game. The story progresses to a definite climax -- where you 
 are left with the ultimate cliffhanger. While not wanting to spoil the surprise, Blizzard has promised 
 the story will continue. 
  
  One of the greatest strengths of the original game was that each side was pretty evenly balanced, 
 no matter which side you chose. The units were varied and impressively rendered with quite a bit 
 of thought given to the spells, attacks, and special abilities of not only the heroes, but the 
 individual units as well. The expansion is no different. 
  
  The scenarios in the various campaigns get progressively tougher as you become more familiar with 
 the new units, buildings, and hero abilities. As in the original, there are some missions where 
 the hero will adventure alone, be forced to accomplish an objective within a certain time frame, 
 or just obliterate the enemy. There is even one mission later in the game that distinctly resembles 
 "Capture the Flag." In all, there are 26 new missions -- something most full games don't even provide
 
  While anyone interested in the expansion is aware of the new heroes and many of their spells and 
 abilities, the Warden has the most interesting ability in the game. She is the only character that 
 can explore certain areas of the map because of her ability to Blink. Some of the Night Elf missions 
 have been specifically designed so that Maiev MUST use that ability to accomplish some side quests, 
 and in at least one instance, the main quest itself. In any mission where you control the Warden, 
 there will be areas that a little Blink exploration will uncover magic items or tomes to help buff 
 the character. While Blinking is not required, you may find several areas of a few maps that you 
 can't explore unless you do. One side note: When exploring alone, make good use of the Warden's 
 Fan of Knives ability to attack multiple targets. At higher levels, it is literally killer.
  While I won't go into all the new units and hero abilities (and acknowledging that style of play 
 will dictate how useful various items, spells, and abilities are) , I found the following to be 
 the best additions:
  
  Blood Mage's Flame Strike and Phoenix: Flame Strike was as advertised. Devastating to tightly packed 
 groups and even more impressive at higher levels. Phoenix is an amazing aerial unit that can deal 
 some deadly damage to both land and air units.
  
  The Shadow Hunter's Healing Wave and Big Bad Voodoo: Healing Wave is great for keeping lots of 
 troops in fighting condition, while Big Bad Voodoo is an ultimate spell I found myself using over 
 and over.
  
  Everything about the Crypt Lord: The Undead really needed a tank, and he fits the bill. Carrion 
 Beetles offer free units, Locust Swarm does mass damage, and the spiked carapace does extra melee 
 damage.
  
  The Night Elf Mountain Giant: Another new tank unit that looks even more menacing when he is wielding 
 a tree trunk. I was able to wade through a base with six of these and few other support units, 
 mixing in Taunt to keep the support units free from harm.
  
  The Undead upgrades of Burrow and Skeletal Mastery: Hidden Nerubians work great for ambushes and 
 also heal faster. Skeletal Mastery makes an extra undead mage instead of a warrior. Very helpful 
 in keeping the army balanced. 
  
  Some of the least useful additions: The Night Elf special upgrades (Well Spring, Mark of the Claw, 
 and Mark of the Talon) , The Warden's Shadow Strike, and the Dragonhawk Rider's Cloud spell. In 
 the overall view, it looks like the Undead got the most benefit, while the Night Elves got the 
 least.
  
  While the RTS campaigns did a great job of keeping me on my toes with challenging missions, the 
 RPG part of the game was both fun and tedious. You begin with a party of two, the Beastmaster and 
 Shadow Hunter. You don't need to worry about any building, but you do satisfy quests as you go. 
 You can find gold and magic items, with the gold being useful to buy other party members or more 
 magic. The player even has a stash to store excess magic. 
  
  The quests were fun and well thought out in advancing the story, but perhaps the most troubling 
 aspect of the whole campaign was being forced to wade through respawing enemies. Because of the 
 quests, you are forced to crisscross the map several times. You kill off a bunch of creeps on the 
 way in and a few seconds later, the creeps are there again as you make your way back. There should 
 have been an easier way to boost the experience for the characters without that tedium. It sort 
 of reminded me of another popular Blizzard RPG, Diablo. 
  
  Overall, there are nine new heroes (five are considered neutral in multiplayer) , eight new units 
 (two per side, each with their own spells and abilities) , and plenty of new structures and upgrades. 
 This provides plenty of additional gameplay and strategies for even the most fervent Warcraft III 
 player to fall in love all over again. 
  
  The thing that separates a good game from a great game is doing the little things right. And while 
 music and sound effects aren't necessarily little things, they are things that don't always get 
 the proper amount of attention they deserve in the development cycle. The Frozen Throne has some 
 excellent mood music throughout the game, with each side having their own theme and variations. 
 It was very complimentary to the gameplay experience. 
  
  They have always come up strong in the area of sound effects and voiceover as well. From the peon 
 cries of "Zugzug" to the peasant exclamation of "Job's done," the familiar lines are still there. 
 Even the new units have some realistic sounds and phrases (and do NOT play through the entire game 
 without listening closely to the commentary of the Elvish workers as they build towers -- hilarious) . 
 And the actors voicing the main characters in the story were superb.
  
  The only area where I was disappointed with the voice work was the Troll Shadow Hunter. The whole 
 race of trolls sound like Rastafarian outcasts. It was probably meant for some comic relief, and 
 for a while it was, but it eventually got old. 
  
  On the technical level, the game was relatively bug free. I did run across a problem where the 
 digital sound dropped out and I left the game to restart to try to bring it back. As I restarted 
 the game, and after the Frozen Throne splash screen, the game would lock up with a black screen. 
 Even restarting my computer would not work. I eventually uninstalled both Warcraft III and the 
 expansion and reinstalled them, but the problem persisted until I let the intro movie play all 
 the way through. I am confident that this was an isolated bug, but to be honest, I am not sure 
 what caused it or how it was finally corrected. Blizzard has a record of my problem and said they 
 would try to reproduce the problem from logs I sent them. 
  
  
  The Multiplayer Experience
  
  What's an RTS without strong multiplayer? Blizzard strictly enforces 
 rules on Battle. net to keep gameplay multiplayer enjoyable for its fans. Even the slightest hint 
 of cheating or hacks get accounts nuked. With the expansion, Battle. net now supports clans and 
 automated tournaments, while adding better custom filters and the ability to chat while players 
 search for games. Many of these new features have been tested with positive results from fans during 
 the beta, which ends today. 
  
  While Battle. net doesn't recognize the gold version of the game yet, we were able to play some 
 LAN games here at the office. I didn't think it was possible, but the pace of the games is even 
 more frenetic then before. All of the new units and spells and the new emphasis on anti-magic make 
 for an even more involved game. Plus there are a ton of new maps using the new tilesets and creeps, 
 some maps even supporting as many as 12 players for team play. 
  
  And for those who like playing the AI in a skirmish mode, but got frustrated with the fact that 
 the AI could not be controlled, Blizzard has added easy, normal and hard settings for the computer 
 player. This should increase enjoyment for novices and those trying to learn the intricacies of 
 the game without the social interaction. 
  
  Editor's Notes
  
  For those who like to build their own, Blizzard has upgraded the editor that came with the original 
 game. In general, the World Editor is a well-organized Windows application that lets mappers and 
 modders paint maps and edit or copy game objects, allowing them to create new units and spells 
 from existing ones, edit values to new effect, import art and sound resources, create triggers 
 and custom AI players, and package larger single or multiplayer projects for release. 
  
  This is a big departure from the old editor, which was essentially a map editor that allowed you 
 to also swap some unit properties to create "new" units by permutation. Some modders figured out 
 how to hack old spells into what were effectively new ones, edit sounds, upgrades, etc., but there 
 was no documentation or official support for any of it. Now Blizzard is actively encouraging it 
 by providing a solid application for the kind of hacking that was previously done by hand in the 
 depths of the Warcraft III file system. 
  
  The new editor is much more powerful. It's nice to see Blizzard loosen the constraints on game 
 modding, but mods are still mostly limited to the Warcraft III world as long as Blizzard doesn't 
 officially support art mods. Still missing are Warcraft III art utilities to help modders create 
 and import new models and 2D artwork. 
  
  In the End 
  
  This is an extremely solid and enjoyable expansion from Blizzard. Throw in the fact that you are 
 getting plenty of gameplay and units that would normally constitute a full game from some developers, 
 the price point of under $35 makes this even more attractive. Kudos to the Blizzard development 
 team for another job well done.  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellogamers
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2005 3:29 am PT
Review:  This is a total masterpeice, its just so great i can explain how good it is. Blizzard you are my 
 hero's in the gaming world, awesome cinimatics, plot is fully sick, voice acting is unreal i just 
 love this game, I recommend the game to everyone and i expect more great games from blizzard, am 
 looking forward to the new console game, diablo and starcraft are great too but ive only played 
 the demos the look and ever smell great though. Doesnt take much to run this game but once you 
 see the cinimatics nothing out-matches them. Great game make more blizzard. The expansion is great 
 as will being around the same legth in gameplay and multiplay isnt a letdown like so many games. 
 If you can get the expansion pack too.. and if you havent played the previvious warcrft dont worry 
 it makes sense as plot is so deep. This game leaves me breathless.
  
  Hellogamers out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aric_osmundo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  Blizzard has once again blow off the charts W3 is one of d best strategie game i played.... it is 
 entertaining and highly addictive once u play it its gonna hypnotize u or something hehe its fun 
 playing it everyday.. u wake up turn on the computer eat breakfast den go 2 ur computer and play 
 as easy as dat...... I was very addicted 2 it once i got it... i cant get my eyes from my computer 
 even 4 a sec... highly addictive and i recommend it 4 d strategy types of gamers dis is d best 
 ........
  
  Espescially DotA it is ultra addictive many cool heroes!!
  
  Here are some strategies:
  
  Banehollow Lycanthrope
  
  Wen u see the nemy cast wolf 2 help 
 u kill creeps den atak d hero
  
  when he is running not 2 far from u cast shapeshift if u could still make it beacause shapeshift 
 cause alot of damage compare 2 the normal
  
  Morphling in strenght form
  
  In morphling, 1st cast Unstoppable strenght or watever u call it den attak him make sure u always 
 have unstoppable den wen he is running and mostly red already cast Waveforn so u can get nearer 
 or damage him so he dies
  
  Vengeful Spirit
  
  Very simple, just atak d hero den wen he is red eventually running cast magic missile... nether 
 swap is onle 4 friendly heroes wen they r dying
  
  Drow Ranger
  
  Get freezing arrows den just shoot shoot and shoot
  
  Rylai Crystal Maiden
  
  Atak d enemy 
 few times den when its about orange cast frostbite (4 me i dont nid frost nova) den use freezing 
 fields..... but wen ur already strong and ur enemies strong after casting freezing fields cast frost 
 nova so he gets slower den atak him
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEdmondsR
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:30 pm PT
Review:  It has colorful and cartoonish grafics, but the gameplay is intence. The only way to play the game 
 is online for free on Battle. net. Even if you get bored of the war game, it comes with a world 
 editor which allows you to create your own game useing to the engine Blizzard use to make WC3. 
 I have see people make football games al the way to rpg's (my fav. is Winter Mauls, if u play, 
 say hi to MedmondsR ( : . Normal people create them and put them on the web for everone to play 
 for free and just fasinates me. This a great game, for all ages, and best of all ITS FREE (after 
 you buy the game ofcource) !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWalrusBeast
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for over 2 years now and I still play iy regularly. Its multiplayer is just 
 endless fun as more and more maps comes out. The stroyline is great with additional heroes/units/upgrades. 
 The new heros are great additions as I use them a lot. The Map Editor tool is also very useful 
 for creating campaigns, its fun playing maps created by yourself. However, I really thought Blizzard 
 should have made a regular Orc campaign. that is about the only flaw I thought Wc3 had. Although 
 this has been out for a few years, it is still really popular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_DeathKnight
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Its single player has a good storyline while its multiplayer is addicting. You can 
 also create your own maps and campaign from the Campaign Editor. Frozen Throne also has more units 
 (like Destroyer, Spell Breaker, etc.) and more Heros (Crypt Lord, Shadow Hunter, etc.) . Mercenary 
 Heros (Naga Sea Witch, Dark Ranger, Pitlord, etc.) can also be hired. There are also more upgrades. 
 The 3D environment also adds to the realism. Its multiplayer is probably the best part, regular 
 games or custom games are all very full. The custom games can get you hooked. Overall, Warcraft 
 3 is probably one of the best strategy games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedRagToAnOrc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Fantastic game that will keep you going for hundreds of hours; Wonderful online capabilities; 
 Highly tactical; Cutscenes!
  
  THE BAD: Minor imbalances and lack of original ideas makes online play predictable / frustrating 
 at times; Lack of a mission-based Orc campaign; Not enough cutscenes!
  
  Quite a few years back, although I'm not entirely sure when, Blizzard, a company well-known for 
 evergreen games such as Starcraft and Diablo released the next version of their Warcraft series, 
 entitled Reign of Chaos.
  
  I came to the series on the recommendation of a friend, and bought both the original and it's expansion 
 pack in a bundle. Basically, this meant that I didn't play the original a lot, but I instead finished 
 the single-player campaign and moved on to the expansion pack.
  
  Since my first game in the expansion, I have never looked back. Frozen Throne is an expansion pack 
 which improves upon the original in so many ways, while continuing the gameplay aspects and fantastic 
 multiplayer which made the original so great, and once you have played it, you will never return 
 to the first.
  
  I'll start with the gameplay. Frozen Throne introduces a bunch of new units, first of all, to the 
 already fairly expansive and diverse lineup from the original. Each race (Night-Elf, Orc, Human 
 and Undead) get an anti-spellcaster, as well as various extra units entering the fray, notably 
 the Undead Destroyer (probably the most-used unit online) . These new options make the game a whole 
 lot more interesting, challenging you to think before you play. What army does my opponent have? 
 What do I have to do to beat it? Warcraft poses these questions almost flawlessly and is one of 
 the most tactical games you are likely to find around to date. 
  As well as the units, it also introduces a new hero for each race - the Undead Crypt Lord, the 
 Orc Shadow Hunter, the Night-Elf Warden and the Human Blood Mage - as well as five new 'Mercenary 
 heroes' which can be hired by any race to compliment their army. Not only do you get these five 
 Mercenaries, but by upgrading to Patch 1.20, you get an extra 3 to mess around with. The new heroes 
 definitely create lots of new strategies and add a wonderful dimension to the already fantastic 
 gameplay. 
  Many people complain about the 'micromanagement' issues within Warcraft, but the fact that you 
 can only have 12 units in a group at one time makes the game a whole lot more fast-paced, as you 
 will at times struggle to keep up with moving all of your units to their best positions, and in 
 my opinion, is a touch of genius.
  The lack of a mission-based Orc campaign is a noticeable flaw. While it is compensated for by a 
 sort of sidequest campaign, which is enjoyable, you can't help but think that Blizzard might have 
 put a bit more effort in here - still, the gameplay is deserving of a 10.
  10/10.
  
  Next, graphics. I'm writing this review approximately 2 and a half years after the expansion pack 
 came out, I believe, and the graphics still look good. There are some minor flaws - some character 
 models look ugly when you zoom in, but all the spell animations are done with panache and feel 
 really involving. The environment is mainly pastel colours as far as I can tell, and it really 
 makes the landscape stand out, allowing you to easily determine where units are. Although it may 
 not compare with some of the games released today, it's still fantastic considering it was released 
 such a long time ago.
  And the cinematic cutscenes deserve more than a mention. If you have ever played the original Warcraft, 
 you'll know that (presumably) a lot of blood and sweat went into the cutscenes. They are simply 
 some of the best I've seen to date, and the graphics contained in them are simply outstanding. 
 I seem to remember staring at the floor for five minutes when I watched the first movie. This having 
 been said, there aren't enough of them! There is one at the beginning of every campaign, and one 
 at the end, I seem to remember. That makes four that I can think of, and some more would be nice!
 
  9/10.
  
  Sound next. The graphics are aesthetically pleasing, and the sound more than rivals it. With different 
 tunes (which go on for some time) for each race, and a variety of fantastic sound effects, as well 
 as different sound effects for "We are being attacked" for each race - the Night-Elves effect, 
 for instance, is "Our sacred grove is being desecrated" - you should be happy with it in general.
 
  I listen to custom soundtracks every so often, as you can have music running in the background 
 while you are playing Warcraft, but the in-game music makes it much more atmospheric and is included 
 in the multi-player, so you don't miss out there.
  Units, if you click them enough (as in Warcraft 2) will say funny things! This is a really humourous 
 touch by Blizzard, and you'll definitely laugh when you hear things such as "All I see is darkness... 
 oh wait, my hood's down".
  The only flaw I can really find, and what drags it down to a 9, is that after 100+ hours of gameplay, 
 the sound effects really do get repetitive, but I guess it is to be expected. Still, Blizzard has 
 done a great job in this section, and it's borderline-10.
  9/10.
  
  Value. What can I say? The 100+ hours option doesn't do this game justice, I've been playing it 
 virtually non-stop (I think I took a few-days break to finish Halo 2, and again to finish Burnout 
 3) for a year and a half. Basically, it's definitely 400 hours+ I have played it for, and I'm not 
 bored. Although the campaign is fairly challenging, and may take you some time to finish (15-20 
 hours, perhaps) the online play is where the brunt of this game lies.
  There is a wonderful online community waiting to be discovered in Warcraft, and while you will 
 find people who will... well, slag you off, it's still a brilliant online game - with clan support, 
 a 25-capacity friends list, and unlimited playtime, which is also all free.
  The one issue I have with online play is that after a while, the lack of original strategic ideas, 
 coupled with the amount of slagging-off / imbalances makes online play a bit predictable, and sometimes 
 frustrating. But this shouldn't take away from the fact that Warcraft is simply the best non-MMORPG 
 online game out there. Full stop.
  10/10.
  
  Basically, Blizzard has produced one of the best games ever with Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne, 
 and if you have ever picked up and played the original, you owe it to yourself to buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Saddler200
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:01 pm PT
Review:  + the new characters are a nice welcome to the game
  + nice cutscenes, good sound effects and voice overs
  +/-graphics from the older game but it 
 is a expasion pack so i will let that go
  - not much new in the gameplay
  - multiplayer aint great either like the first 
  - too much RTS games out there now a days
 
  + the new items, characters, gameplay are quite nice
  +/- good replay value but could get boring if u play too long
  + the new levels are nice too 
 look at and so is the characters
  - there aint much too do after u finish it except for the custom games but the Ai aint that smart 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deitri
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  Are you Looking for a Strategy Game in Real-Time, with Amazing Creatures and Good History Line?
 
  You have Found It!
  Warcraft III-The Frozen Throne, is the Expansion for Warcraft III-Reign of Chaos.
  Frozen Throne 
 came with many new Addictions.
  Like:
  New Heroes, Creatures, Units, Structures, Maps and Campaings, of course.
  
  You can play Warcraft 
 III-The Frozen Throne Online, connecting into the Battle. net Servers.
  Playing Online is "THE" Point!
  In the Battle. Net, you can find The Most Playable: Custom Games.
 
  The Custom Games, are Maps, that are Different from the Normal Maps...
  in some Custom Games, you have to take a bomb, and throw it for other guy in a short time, when 
 the Times ends, the Bomb will Explode, and the Bomb Owner will Die!
  This is one, of Tons and Tons of Warcraft III Custom Maps!
  Buy it, and you will not be disappointed 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowMonkey28
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III was almost perfect. With the few exceptions of some gameplay faults, it was a perfect 
 strategy game with its outstanding 3d graphics and its addicting online play. the expansion, however, 
 is an outstanding game that should have been a game all by itself. It is worth every penny you 
 pay for it. It adds a lot of new features, including new heroes, new abilities, and new units to 
 the four races. The storyline is great, although it could have more cutscenes. The best part i 
 especially like is the Orc campaign. This new twist of role-playing on a RTS game was totally genius. 
 The storyline and ending was completey fantastic, including the maps. In all, it was a completely 
 outstanding game, almost the perfect strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mana_of_sword
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I've shifted through atleast twenty of so RTS games, and none have been quite as good as Warcraft 
 three. Its not the graphics, sound, campaign its the multi player options. Like every Blizzard 
 game, its got that nifty battle. net doohicky. 
  Battle net custom games are making WC3 survive for ages. The fact that blizzard makes the best 
 map editors for RTS games just makes us want to play more. Millions of people still love the game, 
 and we know blizzard will always rule the RTS market, and now that they have ventured into the 
 MMO market we may never see another RTS, so lets tresure these moments while we can.
  
  Final Words - 
  It may have a few years under its belt, but its not going to die till WC4 comes 
 out, if it ever does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_silentkilla
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! i don't really care for the campaign but custom games are great! Also the online 
 is amazing and really well designed. It takes a while to get good at online but once you do its 
 great. The graphics arent the greatest but they were when the game came out! Well worth the $20 
 1000x better than most new games. Another great thing about the online is the ability to play "custom 
 games" games people made themselves with the mapeditor Lots of the game people make are great and 
 add extra value to this already great game.
  
  Go out and Buy this game its well worth the money!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  First there was Dune 2. Then there was Command and Conquer and the first couple installments of 
 Warcraft. And THEN there was Starcraft. RTS games just kept getting better and better, but unfortunately 
 the majority of other RTS franchises outside of blizzards and westwood studios were just clones. 
 but THEN came Warcraft 3. Easily the best RTS of all-time to this very day, warcraft 3 not only 
 delivered an exceptional experience we'd come to expect from a good RTS, but revolutionized it 
 in some very important ways.
  
  First, we'll start off with the obvious aspects of any RTS game, that WC3 executed well. Great 
 story? Check. Simple to learn but hard to master fluid gameplay? Check. Awesome graphics? Check. 
 Amazing CGI cutscenes? Hell yeah check. Distinct playable factions? Check. Warcraft 3 had all that 
 any RTS gamer would expect, and executed all of the above as good or better than any previous game. 
 But with the remaining topics I haven't covered, Blizzard switched things up:
  
  Core game Strategy and Multiplayer.
  
  In all previous RTS games it seemed to be increasingly 
 about getting more and more units on screen, just pumping out more and more units to defeat the 
 enemy, upgrading those 100's of units you'd pumped out, or saving up to get the big units that 
 would really clobber the little ones, etc. Warcraft 3 obviously has elements of that, but the HEROES 
 SYSTEM threw the importance of the old "tank rush" strategy right out the window. Sure, maybe you 
 can pull off some cheesy tower rush in WC3 but in 90% of games it all comes down to the "Heroes". 
 Since the release of WC3 other developers have tried to execute a "heroes" type system as well 
 as WC3 but none have come close. By micro managing your heroe effectively in WC3 you could easily 
 make the difference between a win or a loss. I didn't get this at first, but time can be better 
 spent "creeping" with yoru hero or buying items for him then sitting at your base pumping units 
 and building structures like in all the older RTS's. This new focus on less units and more micromanagement 
 caught many off guard, including myself, but took the game to a whole new competitive level.
  
  And that brings us to the multiplayer. Yes, like any other RTS the multiplayer is hands-down 
 as fun as the board game "Risk" when i was 8 years old (1992) . But Blizzard wasn't satisfied with 
 just giving us a network to play on, they gave us the most afvanced stats system and matchmaking 
 system ever implemented at that time, games like Halo 2, Battlefield 2 and other RTS's are still 
 trying to make similar systems work for thier respective franchises. But it all started with Blizzard 
 and battle. net for WC3. Battle. net offers distinctly different modes of matchmaking for solo, 2v2, 
 3v3, 4v4 and free for all game types. They host tournaments regularly for any to join and all have 
 different themes and take place on different maps. ALL stats are kept track of and I mean EVERYTHING 
 down to how much you use certain heroes and your success rate with them, you name it! You could 
 earn icons and prestige from getting higher levels and see yoru ranking on the website and all 
 this extra effort blizzard put in, for no additional cost, was incredible. To this day, nothing 
 rivals it, although many games are trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mand_450
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Well if there dosent come a warcraft lV, i could surely play this game to 20??.
  
  At the start it was just an ordinary rts, but then i found that dead sheep map and guash. Then 
 i found many realy interesting maps on the internet, and since then this game has been my favourite 
 rts.
  Its quite funny to think of, but if you couldn't make your own maps or download them, then this 
 game would have been REALLY boring. Also making maps can be funny. You can create nearly any kind 
 of scenario from a Maul and towerdefence, a future war with pulse blowing tanks to a complete rpg 
 adventure, and maybe make a clone of Morrowind. You can create you own units, items, doodads and 
 more. You can also create triggers and make quests or other special things but it is quite hard 
 to learn.
  
  Playing with others you dont know can be very annoying. Most of them is small kids who call you 
 noob and other stupid things, as they just is playing for victory. I only think that you should 
 have as much fun as you can.
  
  Sound is aso well made, but becomes a little stupid when you press on a unit all the time, since 
 they will begin saying some silly things such as the priest who begins commenting on something 
 like this. "Be careful when using magic. Magic is not for everyone so read the package before opening"
 
  or something like that. Also some units like has realy weird voices, such as the peasant who sounds 
 like a 50 years old baby who is sad. Anyway its funny, and most of the sounds are great when someone 
 dies and magic.
  
  Graphics is great exept from the really cartoony model animation, but the landscape is very well 
 made, and you can see some effects like waves of water which hits the cliffs and as i said with 
 the editor. You can make really great landscapes, from summer forrests to a frozen wasteland to 
 a infected evil land. Sadly to cartoony models make them look like a morning cartoon. I feel sorry 
 every time i kill an orc.
  
  Heroes is also another funny thing in warcraft lll, since that you can take one out and adventuring 
 alone. Also quite useful in maps such as rpg's.
  
  The funny thing about warcraft is that it isent only a rts but also a role playing game, a racing 
 game, an action game every game. Their is no true ending in it.
  
  Following the story is interesting but sometimes it can feel a little stupid later, since i think 
 that the humans are more evil than the orcs, while the orcs are gods angels. Dosent hand right.
 
  
  If you are looking for a cheap great and different rts game. Choose Warcraft lll. But remember 
 to download new maps, otherwise you will bore youself to death. And if you are up to the challenge 
 you can try to create your own map, which is even harder to make than play. It isent the game which 
 i a masterpiece, its the world editor which is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenito93
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  One thing I've always known is that lore is a truly great add-on to gameplay experience. Warcraft 
 has this. TFT is an excellent expansion to RoC. Whilst there are some minor changes, such as HP 
 bars for destructibles and an increased food max, there are some very new things worth seeing.
 
  
  The World Editor has been improved greatly, allowing for nearly anything to happen. As a mapmaker, 
 I can soundly say that this is one of the good reasons you should get TFT.
  
  Multiplayer is good as well. You can either fight your way battle after battle, winning statistics 
 and icons. That, or you can unwind and play a custom game. What's more is clans, which existed 
 in the past. However, I'll bring em up again. Clans truly add to the gameplay experience and the 
 community. Anyway, TFT is just such a spectacular add-on, that I just cannot sum it all up easily. 
 You'll have to see it for yourself. When playing the campaign, little secrets may be uncovered 
 on the way. Whilst you may learn about the strategy and base-building aspects, miscellaneous things 
 such as runes and other secrets still await you, so there is no set learning curve - not to mention 
 the tons of custom maps, which make TFT even more of a long-lasting game.
  
  In closing, Warcraft fans, and any RTS fan in general will absolutely love this game. Also, take 
 note that the BNET community is still going strong. We have not forsaken this masterpiece for WoW! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruran
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:48 am PT
Review:  I have played TONS of computer games.. World of warcraft, Guildwars, Black and white, just name 
 it and i have most likely played it but once i came upon this game i knew i have found one of the 
 greatest games ever...
  
  This game it awsome because its online and you can create anything you want to using Map editer 
 you can set goals make a story line and everything its like RPG maker except 80x better! ill give 
 some expamples online i have played stuff ranging from LOAP (life of a peasant) where you can have 
 a life get a job be a drug dealer or mafia or cops. to Sheep tag where you are a sheep running 
 from the wolfs and you can make a base and baracade yourself in and try to win the onley limitation 
 is your imagination! i cant think of any downsides except people who lag out then the game is ruined.... this 
 is a a strategy game if you play the normal war game of it you build buildings make an army and 
 fight agenst and be one of the 4 races the 4 races are: Night elf, Undead, Human, and Orc 
  
  If you want to play a great game that is one that is going to be marked as one of the greatest 
 games of all time then buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurrv
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:01 am PT
Review:  This is absolutly my all time favorite game in rts. IT has GREAT graphics, GREATGREATGREATGREAT 
 multiplayer, GREAT voice-acting, GREAT fun.
  
  It can be easy to play in single player but when you start with multiplayer you start to realise 
 that it's not all "go there and kill him, don't worry he won't come back to kill you one sec later"
 
  
  The custom games are fantastic, most of them, and very varied.
  
  WHEN you buy this game, remember that it is very good to have a okey connection, so you can enjoy 
 every aspect of the multiplayer battles and games. THE MULTIPLAYER is what makes this game the 
 best rts-game EVER!
  
  This is a game that can be played by everyone. Germans, swedes and even danish ; ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorbait685
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  5VV33t^1v14x012 great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MealonX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:07 am PT
Review:  This was an awsoem game with awsome gameplay. A big improvement from warcraft 2. I could barely 
 recignize this game from the other. If you are going to buy a pc game this is the best choice. 
 This game seems to have no end. Every couple weeks their seems to be a great game coming off the 
 world editor. This world editor has everything. There is nothing you can't do with it. This is 
 one of the best games I have ever played. Online there is always someone to play the game with. 
 Online you can play regular games where you can get a rank or you can play games that other people 
 made. I have been playing this game since the day it came out and i guarantee you will love this 
 game. I give it a 9.8 out of 10! My highest Rating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GromHellskream4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, It just is. The campaign is choc full of missions and new characters and 
 items. Each Race has a new hero also. This makes the gameplay way more fun especially on Batte. Net. 
 The cusom games are fun when your by yourself and dont want to work on the Campaign anymore. Theres 
 also alot of new units that change the gameplay. 
  Warcrafts online verson is called Battle. net. This is where i usually play. It is alot harder than 
 the Campaigns or Custom games because there are very good players. The Warcraft Ranking system 
 is made by levels and icons. The more you win the more you level goes up and when you choose to 
 play a game on Battle. net it will match someone with ABOUT the same level as you. I say ABOUT because 
 alot of times there a little unmatched. If you win alot of games with a certain Race you get a 
 icon which you can parade around in the chatrooms. Some bad things about battle. net are that there 
 are alot of established players and well..... most of them arent very friendly so keep ur head down 
 if u a noob. But if you can work your way up its very fun. Sound is good and graphics are awesome. 
 A very Solid Game... Totally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_LordSauron
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 27, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. It's a totaly classic. Great graphics, well-written, well-optimised code, great 
 execution and little time spent waiting makes this a total winner. It's one of those that even 
 though there are things with far better interfaces and eye candy, you end up still playing because 
 it's found the soul of the word "quality."
  
  This game also builds off of the Starcraft engine, but simply overhauls the positioning sytem to 
 make it 3D along with the graphics. Otherwise the general gameplay concepts and the interface is 
 verbatum to the reverenced StarCraft. Good job Blizzard, the Dark Lord Sauron is very proud of 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99bottles
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  Warcraft what a game it had me playing forever i still play it. the plot twists are one of a kind 
 the story well its out of this world. it had me read the story on the official web site well the 
 history fills in alot and more than that makes the story more relating.
  
  Gotta admot Blizzard has done it this time. they couldnt have made it any better (except making 
 all the scenario opening and end CGI's well the cgis there were so realistic i could see the guys 
 wrinkles and his unshaved hair stubs the facial expressions were beyond belief.)
  
  for a strategy it takes on all who oppose (but now with all thenew graphics and tech AOE3 does) 
 i loved and still play it once in a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is a game that deserves high praise. Its got great graphics, unbeatable gameplay, and 
 is just plain fun. Then came the expansion.
  
  The Frozen Throne gives you all the delights of the original, and expands on it. The new units 
 and heros are good, and they help balance the game furthermore. The multiplayer, although can be 
 annoying because of some gamers who can stand to lose, has some creative games. One in particular 
 that I enjoyed is the remake of the battle of Troy. 
  
  The single-player still shines brightly, with another good story, and some really cool end-of-campaign 
 videos. The orcs however do not participate in this story, as there is a Diablo-like twist to their 
 own story. You command one warrior through the mission and kill a lot of creatures and do a lot 
 of quests. It's pretty refreshing, but is not as entertaining as the main story.
  
  This is a great buy and an excellent addition to one of the top games ever made.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoNRiFLe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Not really a big difference, a lot of updates on heroes and maps it is basically just another expansion. 
 Most people tend to play the new expansions online, so If you play Wacraft III on Bnet, stick to 
 Frozen Throne. Another plus that comes with Frozen Throne is the infamous game known as DotA (Defenders 
 Of The Acients) . It is a great hero based custom game that is rapidly growing and just finished 
 announcing an official tournament with BlizzCon. 
  
  Otherwise don't expect much of a difference in graphics or gameplay, it is not very different from 
 Reign Of Chaos. Blizzard has always done a good job of giving us not too much or too little, but 
 exactly what hits the spot. But one thing you might come to hate is the Random Matchmaking ARGGG!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zee6a
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  THE GAME IS ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT..................
  i won't get technical or sth..... i'll just say that warcraft III without this expansion would have 
 remained a bit low.
  
  THE BEST THINGS ABOUT IT
  - THE GAMEPLAY IS AWESOME (MUCH BETTER THAN REIGN OF CHAOS)
  - IMPROVED HEROS (FREAKIN AWESOME 
 ADDITIONS)
  - THE MULTIPLAYER GAME IS MORE FUN THAN EVER (WITH THE MAP "JUDGEMENT DAY" U AND UR FRIENDS WILL 
 NEVER BE BORED)
  
  A story that starts off in the lamest way. Its almost assured that Blizzard was half done the 
 Frozen Throne campaign, when reviews of Reign of Chaos came in and everyone lambasted the pathetic 
 singleplayer effort in the original. Right in the middle of the Blood Elf campaign, or halfway 
 through the game, an amazing thing occurs. The game stops sucking. The storyline was already improving 
 since the end of the Night Elf portion, but it finally sheds its last vestiges of suck when the 
 Blood Elves well, cant spoil it. Just trust us: cheat through til you get to the Blood Elves 
 and all will be well. From that point on, Blizzard will stop trying to constantly point out how 
 8 units are an overwhelming alien invasion force that we cannot hope to defeat, and other such 
 nonsense.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best RTS games ever made. It is very challenging. Some of the levels are 
 difficult and may take a few times to pass the level. I just enjoy the ability to command my army's 
 to battle. I just wish they would get rid of the food limit. Not only that but also allow the hero's 
 to gain higher in levels. But enough complaining, the gameplay is fast and the graphics rock. It 
 is a must have game. I see myself playing this game for years to come until Blizzard makes a newer 
 version.
  
  
  
  
  
  This game rocks, This game rocks, This game rocks, This game rocks, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaaskwast
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:50 am PT
Review:  Warcrafts Frozen throne is a great add on, to the already great game Warcraft 3. Especially the 
 multiplayer is addicting. The best about the add on is the balance of everything, what could bother 
 me in the normal game was units that where much to strong, and cheap. This could get kinda annoying 
 since everybody would be playing the same strategies with the same units, and hero's. Simply because 
 this was one of the only ways to win. But thats over in the expansion pack. They have added tons 
 of new things, like many new units. Chimaera's, spell breakers, spirit walkers, mountain giants, 
 and many more. These units are all well balanced, there are also great new hero's, my personal 
 favorite is Warden (night elves) , but you also have, Crypt lord (undead) , Blood mage (humans) , 
 and Shadow hunter (orc) . For the people that have never played Warcraft before. This is a great 
 game. Get it!!! And fast!!
  
  kaaskwast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w817
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game i knew this was it, so fun and addictive.
  The heroes are really cool and strong, each race has its special abilities and strong creatures.
 
  If i could give a good advice to blizzard entertainment: make a next warcraft!!!
  Simply make a new game with one or two new races (like the naga) so you can play them in regular 
 custom game.
  The game would sell like candy, every real-time fan would buy the game and spend hours and hours 
 on it.
  I personally think world of warcraft is a failure and a lot of people also think that way.
  I 
 really hope there is a new warcraft coming, not just for me but for all of those people that love 
 warcraft.
  Blizzard, your the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3afreeet
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  oh.. hi all.. ow ru.. i rlly think that warcraft 3 + frozen throine is the best warcdraft game evermade 
 i rlly enjoyed playin the game for the last 2 years, i rlly hpe tht blizzard thinks of makin another 
 title of that series.. i love it , i love very part of the game, i guess it's the most perfect strategy 
 game ever, i never seen such a balanced RTS game, the 4 races are soo even rlly can't decide the 
 best team, they all r gr8,, i rllly tottaly enjoy playin this ame, not that on 15/9/2005 there 
 r more than 40k players plays this game only on battle. net no need 2 say more, no shc game got 
 so much online players after all tat time, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I can still remember the feeling of playing Warcraft III Reign of Chaos, when I just bought it.
 
  Warcraft III was just simply revolutionary, amazing and a masterpiece. It really deserved "Game 
 of the Year" title.
  After a year and a half, I was so excited about Warcraft III The Frozen Throne. And when I played 
 it for the first time, I knew this game was gonna be favorite of all time. And it still is!
  The multiplayer is also the best I've played yet. The campaigns is still good, maybe even better 
 than ROC. I just miss an Orc Campaign, but the bonus campaign really does a great job.
  
  Gameplay: To say it short, it's the best gameplay to date. The gameplay makes the game highly addictive!
 
  
  Graphics: It's very hard to make the best graphics in the world, but TFT almost does it. 
  
 
  Sound: The sound and music, is brilliant. It really creates a good stragety mood. The sound is 
 one the best things in the game.
  
  Value: Surely, the price and value is worth the game. 
  
  To make a good and short rewiew better, 
 I just wanna say: This game should be played by everybody! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilfred_Owen
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2005 5:57 pm PT
Review:  The expansion pack to one of the best RTS games of all time shines bright. There are a few problems 
 though, namely in single player. Single player for me fell a bit flat at times and just got to 
 the point of dragging out. None of the campaigns had a very satisfying ending that they could have 
 been and just felt a bit of a letdown. All things aside though the game does feature a new list 
 of heros, units, and a set of well designed multiplayer maps. The new units for the most part are 
 well balanced and all look great. The new hero's have very good looking spells and all play great 
 as well. One of the better additions that took place was the addition of mercenary heroes. This 
 changed it up a bit by not being as predictable as what hero a certain player on the opposite team 
 will go. For its online play, some stuff has been changed for the better. Such as clan support, 
 though the problem with this is everyday a new clan is being made, a quick search for finding games, 
 and a much more indepth custom map editor. This feature really helped players create much better 
 custom game scenarios which, once again, made the game have much better lasting value.
  
  If you enjoyed the original Warcraft 3 you should not deny yourself the chance of missing out a 
 very good expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox2892
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  To many people this game is better then WoW. Not because it has no monthly fee it just has better 
 gameplay. If you want a game like WoW you should go play Guild Wars. This game is the best that 
 blizzard has made. You can play customized games that are created and updated by people everyday. 
 They basicly have everything. I swear its amazing. If you want to play Zelda OOT. You can play 
 it. Someone has created a game just like the n64 version. No lie. There are over millions of players 
 on and over millions of customized games. The game is mainly for fun, and you're not a created 
 charchter that does quests and levels and you dont design your own guy. For example if u play a 
 dbz game you can be goku, trunks, broly, etc... They look like them and each player can be one 
 of them. This game offers a lot of gameplay considering it being updated with new games instantley. 
 There are even pics of naked people on the game. You can post pics that you like on the game. Also 
 the graphics are cool in a way. I like them alot. They look like animation charachters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2005 10:44 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is the king of RTS, in my opinion. Graphics and sound were great, the story was well-thought 
 out and gameplay was immersive and fun. The Frozen Throne takes quality of Warcraft 3, and only 
 adds to it.
  
  The Frozen Throne continues the story of Warcraft 3, now making Illidan and Arthas the main bad 
 dudes, though there are plenty of evil characters and sinister plots weaved into the story. The 
 story is good, winding and full of twists and intrigues. Basically, it is about Illidan and Arthas' 
 struggle for the Lich King's Prison, the Frozen Throne. Illidan must destroy it, while Arthas must 
 reach it and free the Lich King. Too many things happen to recount, but an excellent story is a 
 huge asset of The Frozen Throne's.
  
  Graphically, the game has had no improvements, though this is not a bad thing, as the graphics 
 are still vibrant and dazzling, and they don't require an excellent computer to run. There are 
 some new musical scores, which is good.
  
  4 new heroes are added, one for each race. The new heroes are all well-thought out and balanced, 
 though I believe the newly added Night-Elf Warden is pathetic, possibly the worst race-specific 
 hero. The new human Blood-Mage rocks, however! The Undead get a Crypt Lord, basically a strong 
 Crypt Fiend, and the Orcs get the Shadow Hunter, a troll voodoo-man.
  
  Many changes have occurred, including lots of new maps, items, creeps and critters and five Neutral 
 Heroes. Unfortunately, no new race-specific units have been added, which is dissappointing.
  
  Gameplay is as good as ever, and the campaign is fun and challenging. However, the Orc chapter 
 isn't actually part of the game, but an RPG style mini-story about a Beastmaster, a new Nutreal 
 Hero. This wasn't a very good idea, this is a RTS, not a RPG.
  
  The Frozen Throne is a must for all Warcraft lovers, making many subtle and not so subtle changes, 
 yet still maintaining the quality of Warcraft 3. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cshwzp
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  Sure the game looks good if you just stare at it but if you look closer you will notice it is made 
 by SATAN!!! That is right! This game has billions of secret messages for gamers! I am one of the 
 few gifted individuals that could actually see them. Because of this "Gift" I shall show you these 
 demonic images shown!
  
  First of all there is this guy named illidan who drinks from a skull to become stronger. What you 
 dont know is that he does it to look cool to become a demon!! Kids would then go to school and 
 drink from skulls thinking that they would become as cool as illidan! What was blizzard thinking? 
 Now he has this power in the expansion to have forever. 
  
  Also this game teaches that you can use witchcraft!!! How disgusting if you ask me! There is a 
 new hero which can turn people on fire!! I bet you a million bucks that a kid actually tried to 
 light their parents of fire after playing this game! Good lord there are even Paladins which can 
 resurrect people who show that they have the "gift of god!" WTF MATE!
  
  Sure this game is really good but it has bad influences! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manyac
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 6, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  The original Warcraft III had amazing gameplay. The single-player campaign was beautifully done 
 and did not just have missions were all you do is defeat your enemys base. The expansion builds 
 on this with new characters, a new story, and new types of missions. The orc campaign is designed 
 as an RPG and is meant to showcase the power of the World Editor, which really is powerful. Multiplayer 
 is expertly done with a ladder system, stats, tourneys, and custom games. The new units and abilities 
 blend expertly into the game. In addition, there are neutral heroes which each race can use. You 
 are not solely limited to 4 heroes per race this way. I have seen no RTS game with better gameplay 
 than this one has.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are done very well. They are done in a specific style that I think gives the game 
 a unique feel. Also, the spells and abilities are all beautiful, as well as the terrain. There 
 are a multitude of little doodads everywhere. The graphics are worthy of an A.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The sound is excellent. Units make different noises when they move on different 
 terrains. There are witty comments from every unit like the original. The sound is so detailed 
 that if you didnt have video and heard a sound you probably could still discern which unit it 
 is. Though the expansion doesnt specifically improve the sound, there are new sounds for the new 
 environments and units which is perfect. The soundtrack is lovely as well.
  
  Value: 10/10
  Ah yes now we are really getting somewhere. The original Warcraft offered the usual 
 battle. net services to owners. It offered the option to play custom maps (which there were a multitude 
 of) or the ladder. The stats of the ladder were easily accessible on the battle. net website. The 
 expansion expands on this as well. The ladder maps have grown significantly (and continue to change 
 with each new patch!!) . Tournaments are available all the time (also with stats on the internet) 
 and are a fun way to play either solo or with friends. The powerful world editor has allowed a 
 huge community map database available for players of the game. Some of these maps are available 
 on websites, but most can be downloaded directly from the host of a game when you join it. Aside 
 from all of the gameplay itself, there is also a gigantic community around Warcraft III. There 
 are even clan rankings!! I have literally played this game for hundreds of hours.
  
  In short, Warcraft III is a beautiful game and the expansion is well worth it with a new campaign, 
 new units, and new multiplayer options. If you have never played an RTS then this is the game to 
 play. This is also a must-have-played game for any veteran RTS gamer as well. This is one of the 
 best games ever. It wont let you put it down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChInXsTah
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  WOW... this is the best game ever, great graphics, great online play, and GREAT story, this game 
 is so fun to play.. i brought this game about 2 years ago and this is still the game i play most. 
 But some of the drawbacks on this game is that the sound isnt done as well as the other attributes 
 of the game, also the story line is kinda short , it only took me about 2 days to win the whole 
 campiagn, other then that this is easy the best game for the PC. The online B. net is VERY good 
 they have very good servers so you barly ever lag and online play is also VERY addictive. I recommend 
 this game to everyone who is interested in this games catigory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriswh0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay [9]
  
  Pros:
  - Still wonderfully balanced.
  - More A. I. skirmish options.
  - Good ol' campaign.
  
  Cons:
  - A. I. skirmish is still a little too rough.
  
  Graphics 
 [8]
  
  Pros:
  - Looks like the same ol' polished Warcraft.
  
  Cons:
  - Looks like the same ol' ...
  
  Sound [9]
  
  Pros:
  - Has still got great voice acting.
 
  - Again, parts of the score are epic.
  
  Cons:
  - Just isn't worth a 10.
  
  Value [7]
  
  Pros:
  - A new campaign.
  - And new maps ...
  
  Cons:
  - ... for the 
 A. I. skirmish that still kinda sucks.
  - Just doesn't feel like a big expansion.
  
  Tilt [9]
  
  Pros: 
  - Makes the best even better.
  
  Cons:
  - Doesn't make the best 
 perfect, yet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: piahana
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 6, 2005 2:31 am PT
Review:  I totally love this game, It's got a undeniable re-playable ability, it doesn't matter how long 
 you've been playing or how long you haven't.
  I have been playing this for at least a year or so, it's a great get together game for you and 
 your mates, The graphics are reasonable, since everything is 3d, the sound is good, Game play is 
 incredibly well put together, the value is tremendous, if you have this game you're gonna want 
 to keep it. Strategy in certain confrontations is required, its a good strategic game in terms 
 of war and battle, What better to learn and use your brain while playing.
  
  You can choose between 4 races:
  Humans [Good alignment]
  Orcs [In conflict with the humans]
 
  Night-Elves [Neutral]
  Undead [Bad]
  
  All races have their advantages and disadvantages, personally my favourite is the "Night Elves", 
 The humans have technology, Orcs have brute force, Night elves are cunning and unpredictable, Undead 
 have increasing numbers. But like anything else every plus is a minus to someone else, and vice-versa.
 
  
  Throughout experience you will undoubtedly love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp_2567
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2004 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has really outdone themselves. This game is just amazing. No others words can describe 
 it.
  
  The single-player is great. The storyline is so good that I played the single-player three times 
 in a row. I especially loved the Orc campaign. It's the best RPG I've played, EVER.
  
  I must tell you that the online mutliplayer that Warcraft 3: TFT has to offer will consume your 
 soul, especially the custom maps made by other people. The most amazing thing about this game is 
 the World Editor. It allows you to create your own mini-game or a whole campaign. You can put a 
 storyline into it by making cinematics. The Custom Maps can be any kind of game, whether it be 
 RPG, action, or adventure.
  
  Warcraft 3: TFT is SO addicintg, and it's a must-have for anybody who owns a decent-running PC. 
 Blizzard continues to amaze me and others by their great, addicting gameplay. BUY IT NOW!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite_Admiral
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2004 8:22 am PT
Review:  Warcraft 3 is one of the most highly aniticipated games of the warcraft series, it is easily one 
 of if not the best online/offline games around, it offers great in depth strategy aswell as a lot 
 of interesting campaign modes to play through, the races are well balanced and each unit has its 
 own unique abilities it brings to the table. This game is almost a must have for any warcraft fan 
 and a must play for any strategy lovers. There is a slight differance in the undeads power though, 
 the undead have a small strength advantage with most of their units. so i suppose they have a small 
 leverage on the rest but not to much unless your a pro warcraft player. Final Opinion... Buy It. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motapower
Rating: 5.4
Date: Nov 16, 2004 9:13 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I love the Warcraft universe and I thought that in general FT was good, however, 
 I was expecting better movies and a better plot. I think they could have done so much more and 
 yet they didn't even bother incorporating the Orcs into the main campaign. I am sure that they 
 could have said that there were Orc bands that were willing to aid either side as mercenaries or 
 something.
  The fact that they did not include more than 2 movies (like the original) was also very disappointing 
 since movies are such a great incentive to beat the campaign. To tell you the truth I didn't even 
 bother beating this game, I cheated through a lot of it because it got boring and there was a lack 
 of incentive (again, movies) . I hate cheating in games but I got very frustrated with this (for 
 anyone who cares I beat the original without every cheating and almost every other game I own as 
 well) . This game kind of disappointed me a little too much for me to want to invest massive amounts 
 of time on it since again it lacked movies and the plot was very subpar. What saves this game from 
 utter failure is its multiplayer and new characters that may be used for that purpose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nail2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 28, 2004 1:31 pm PT
Review:  WARCRAFT III: THE FROZEN THRONE
  
  Publisher: Blizzard Ent.
  
  Developer: Blizzard Ent. 
  Genre: Strategy
  
  Release Date: 07/01/2003
  
  The above is 
 just letting you know the who's who as far as the makers of this game.
  
  Company History: If you are a serious PC gamer then you have heard of Blizzard Entertainment. their 
 amazing series of Warcraft games have ruled the RTS (Real Time Strategy) game relm for years with 
 their hit game Warcraft: Orcs and Humans, then they created Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness, and 
 even added a expansion set to it called Warcraft II: Beond the Dark Portal. Their more recent works 
 in RTS include Warcraft III: Reign of Chaos, and finally the hit expansion set Warcraft III: The 
 Frozen Throne hit the market and BAM... thats all I played for weeks... months.... years? Time flies 
 when you are havin fun....
  
  Well enough about the history of the creators of the game, I will be refering to Warcraft III: 
 The Frozen Throne as W. C. F. T. just to save space and time on my review. First off when Blizzard 
 makes a game, gamers have come to anticipate its titles more and more. And I have to say that I 
 have never felt let down for buying one of their games, and I suspect that I never will. I hope 
 this review will help answer any questions that you may have, and put aside any fears that you 
 may have about purchasing the game.
  
  Works in Progress: Starcraft Ghost and World of Warcraft (as far as I know)
  
  Web Site: www. blizzard. com
 
  
  What is an RTS game? W. C. F. T. is without a doubt one of the best games I have ever played, and 
 I applaud Blizzard Entertainment for bringing such an amazing RTS game onto the shelves. For those 
 of you who have never played an RTS game it is run as follows. You start out the game with a Command 
 Center that is unique to whatever one of the 4 races available, you then gather resources (gold 
 and lumber) to set up a camp, and make units to help you to defeat your enemies and take over the 
 map. You will have to not only fight your main enemy, but also the maps creeps, creeps are creatures 
 whos species depend upon what map you are playing, you will have to slay them to get to special 
 areas like gold mines, goblin shops, etc. They are also benificial to boosting your hero's lvl, 
 but I will get to the hero stuff later. Once you set up camp you must make sure to provide your 
 standing army with enough food to function, some units take up only 1/90 of your food, and others 
 may take up as much as 4/90, depending upon how advanced it is. In order to win, you must combine 
 a strategy of defence and offence... one without the other is doomed to failure. The game ends when 
 either you destroy your opponent, or they destroy you. 
  
  Races in WCFT: Orcs, Humans, The Undead, and Night Elves
  
  General Plot: After the first two 
 wars the Orcs have returned to their traditional more peaceful ways, and the Humans have learned 
 to leave them well enough alone, but the Demons of the burning legion are planning to invade and 
 enslave all of the earth. Normaly that wouldn't be so bad, but they and enlisted the local Necromancers 
 to raise them an army of the Undead to wipe out all who resist them and enslave the rest, wait 
 what? The Night Elves have awakend from centuries of slumber to defend the earth against this ultiamte 
 evil that they defeated long ago...... the Undead are too strong for each race to take on alone, 
 so they must put aside their differences and unite to save their civilizations or all will be lost... its 
 all up to you to play out this heroic legacy and unite the three races or die trying... CAN YOU 
 HANDLE IT? 
  
  This will be my new way of reviewing games from now on, it looks better that my 1st two Reviews 
 I think... more official lookin... and stuff...
  
  Graphics: Warcraft does an amazing job of encorporating this mode of play, into W. C. F. T., and if 
 you even remotly enjoy RTS style games this is the game for you. The graphics on W. C. F. T. are top 
 notch and give you all the complete environmental effects to make you feel like you are really 
 there, such as rain, day, night, and even the water ripples realisticly when units trudge through 
 it. All the units are spectactularly designed to be fully 3-D, all the buidings are superb and 
 are fully 3-D as well and have various uprades that will change the way they look. For example 
 the orc buildings can be upgraded to have spikes sticking out to defend against melee attacks, 
 and the Night Elf tree buildings can actually up-root, walk around and even fight ground units! 
 The trees shake when workers are cutting them down and all the units regardless of whether they 
 are land or air traverse the terrain with ease in a sort of fluid motion. All this makes me give 
 W. C. F. T.'s Graphics a solid 9. 
  
  Gameplay: All of the units in W. C. F. T. fight, move, follow orders, and even look around and fidget 
 with their weapons when they are left alone in a completely realistic manner. When you select your 
 units and tell them to move to another location they will all fall into formation according to 
 each units class. Basically as follows, ranged units, ranged heros, and spellcasters in the back, 
 melee units and melee heros in the front... you get the idea. All the commands work flawlessly and 
 allow you complete control over all that goes on in your camp, from ordering a troop of Footman 
 to defend your city from invading orcs to telling a peasant where to begin to construct a new building 
 project. Blizzard introduces a newer idea that isn't available in its earlier games such as Starcraft 
 which is the consept of being able to summon heros. When you start out the game, you build an altar 
 and you get one free hero that will only cost you food. This hero starts at lvl 1 and can reach 
 as high as lvl 10, along the way they can learn new skills and magical abilities that can turn 
 the tides of battle in a sticky situation. Some heros have Auras that add either positive attributes 
 to friendly units, or negative attributes to enemy units. A troop of units under the watchful eye 
 of a high level hero can mean all the difference between victory and defeat. Therefore I see absolutly 
 nothing wrong with the Gameplay of W. C. F. T. and give it a perfect 10.
  
  Sound: Have you ever played an RTS game that has really nothing wrong with it accept the fact that 
 the sound freakin sucks? It gets quite annoying after about a full hour of the same music over 
 and over, voice commands overlaping, the voices of the units contain no emotion at all and you 
 can't even force yourself to pretend that you are dealing with real people, or even the clashing 
 and fighting of battle is just not realistic or exiting at all. Well with W. C. F. T. it is impossible 
 to feel that way... all the sounds are spectacular from peasants chopping wood in the forest to 
 the an arrow whistling out of a Night Elf Archer's bow; the sounds are crisp and clear. Units respond 
 to orders with remarks that at least make you think they even remotely care about what you are 
 telling them, and usually after you click them like five or six times they will say something funny, 
 or get angry with you for tormenting them. When two enemy races clash in a big unit battle it sounds 
 just like you would expect swords clanging, the sounds of soldiers being beat down by brutish Ogre 
 clubs, axes, arrows, and spears flying through the air, magic spells being hurled about bursting 
 units into fire, striking them with lightning, or turning them into sheep and kool stuff like that. 
 Making the battlefeild come alive with the sound you would expect to hear in a war... for this I 
 give W. C. F. T.'s Sound another 9.
  
  Value: W. C. F. T. is an enthralling game, that will have you playing it for hours on the Campagn 
 Mode, and once you beat that you can hit the internet and play with real people all around the 
 world for no extra charge. Battle. net is one of the best online servers I ever experience and is 
 competely full of chatrooms, clans, tournaments, etc. No matter how good you may get at Warcraft 
 you will always find someone online that can friggin woop you. This leaves an infinite amount of 
 time for you to increase your skill level and contend for first place on the ladders! For all this 
 online stuff to keep you busy at no extra charge I think W. C. F. T. will give at least a year of 
 fun for anyone who is a serious RTS Gamer, I give the the Value of W. C. F. T. a 10. 
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I personally couldn't be happier with W. C. F. T. and know that there are thousands 
 of gamers out there who agree with me... so I give the Reviewers Tilt a perfect 10
  
  If u wanna see an official video review of W. C. F. T. go to this URL: 
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/pc/strategy/warcraft3thefrozenthrone/index. html? q=Warcraft+III
 
  
  My Final Score: 9.6
  
  Feel free to take this review and print it off and such if you like it, just don't say you wrote 
 it cuz I put a good 2 hours into this. You are big boys and girls now, you all know what Plagarism 
 is...
  
  Thanks for readin-Nail2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sublight_D
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2004 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Highly addicting, just watch out for trolls. And I don't mean the nasty axe throwing ones you will 
 encounter on this fine game's many scenarios. I mean the socially challenged ones (players) who 
 will send you packing in shame or crying in disgust at your flawless victory and always have something 
 to say about it on Blizzard's free Battle. net . 
  
  The rudeness of online gamers aside, the gameplay is excellent, and fast paced, as can be expected 
 in Blizzard's games. Game balance, as being discussed on battle. net own forums can be... lively, 
 but Blizzard's constant patches and free game upgrades, even years after its release, keeps the 
 game fresh and fun.
  
  The learning curve online is steep though, as the aforementioned game trolls make things tough 
 for those who dare venture there. The well-done, engaging single player campaign will have you 
 continuing just to see what happens! 
  
  Graphically speaking, its beginning to be a bit dated, but is still excellent. The sound is generally 
 good as well, with the voice acting in the single player campaign good enough as to not draw attention 
 to itself. 
  
  In the end, the single player game alone is enough to buy the Frozen Throne. If you love online 
 play, be ready for a stream of abuse by little kids or grown up kids acting like little kids, and 
 be ready to learn fast, or face extinction. The highly competive online play though makes the game 
 highly addicting and every game different. Well worth finding it for $20 in the bargain bin or 
 getting the battle chest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juiceless
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 13, 2004 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Frozen Throne the day it came out. It's now well over a year later and I'm still playing 
 2 or 3 times a week. I could live without the single player campaign, but the multiplayer is excellent. 
 You've gotta love an RTS that doesn't take 3+ hours to play. I can get in 2 or 3 games in an hour.
 
  
  If I had to nitpick, I'd maybe say that it's still a little too easy to rush early in the game 
 if you play certain races, and massing towers outside of your opponents base is a bit of a cheat, 
 but these are minor quibbles. Blizzard continually releases patches with balance tweaks, new heroes, 
 and added features. I'll be playing this at least until World of Warcraft consumes my soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montross
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 8, 2004 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I've play Warcraft III every Wednesday night with a group of friends on battle net for some time 
 now and now I'm overjoyed to be playing the latest expansion that evens the teams a little bit 
 and enhances the game a lot! 
  
  I like playing the Night Elves, but they would constantly get whooped by my many friends who would 
 play Human. Well now a tweak here and there I'm able to hold my ground a little better and pull 
 a victory out online once in a while! I love the new maps the new creatures and the overall improvements 
 to this masterpiece! 
  
  It's the best RTS expansion I've ever played and I look so forward to another expansion or just 
 kick butt in Warcraft IV! 
  
  This is a must if you like RTS and it's a must if you own a PC! Go to your store yesterday and 
 get it! That's right I said you should get this yesterday, because then instead of reading this 
 review right now, you'd be playing this awesome game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigma8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2004 4:51 am PT
Review:  Frozen Throne essentially takes everything that was great about Warcraft III, and keeps it. Perhaps 
 even kicking it up a notch. It then takes any weaknesses, and erases them.
  
  The mission difficulty in Frozen Throne is significantly more consistent than the original campaigns. 
 Objectives are more varied, sometimes requiring you to manage multiple factions' resources separately 
 (and at once) . In this expansion, the order of factions you play is as follows: Night Elf, Alliance, 
 Undead, Orc (bonus) ... and thankfully, the Night Elves don't have to pay the price for being the 
 first faction by having the first 60% of their missions being easy tutorials, as the alliance did 
 in the original Warcraft III.
  
  The story narrative definitely is kicked up a notch, and contains many more surprises than the 
 original plotline. It's almost like a repeat of Starcraft and Brood War, where the latter really 
 had a lot more depth than the former. It's like Blizzard always wants to save the really interesting 
 ideas for their expansions!
  
  In addition to the new missions, Frozen Throne adds a couple new hero character, the most radical 
 addition being the crypt fiend, who is a giant beetle or scarab (or something like a bug) . To round 
 out the additions, there are some additional new units as well, such as the alliance spellbreakers, 
 who can be set to auto-cancel negative buffs against your troops. Everything fits right in.
  
  The engine is the same, so the graphics and sound are not much improved over the original. 
 In fact, they're completely unaltered, but since Blizzard does such a great job with visual style, 
 you won't really notice or care. And by any standards, the engine is not that antiquated yet, so 
 it still holds its own. This expansion is definitely a must-have for any Warcraft III owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 21, 2004 12:37 am PT
Review:  A great game, Warcraft 3 revolutionized the RTS genre, Frozen Throne continues that lineage.
  
  Gameplay: This game has awesome gameplay, especially when you get online at Battle. net. The 
 amount of custom maps is astonishing, tons of different variations on this game.
  
  The single player rocks too, a good storyline, especially for an RTS, and great immersive gameplay. 
 The heros are rather new to RTS, and add an interesting element to the usual RTS fare.
  
  Graphics: this game showcases the usual quirky Blizzard graphics. Unique and cartoony, but also 
 mature and gory, these graphics are very cool.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is well done, the voices of the characters are all unique and often 
 comical. The sounds of battle are great, with blades clashing, arrows swooshing through the air, 
 its all very well done. 
  
  Value: This games value is fairly good. It adds several new heroes (including neutral heroes) and 
 takes the Warcraft experience to a new level.
  
  Tilt: I enjoy this game a lot, and still play it a lot online (user name: omgiloseagain) . I recommend 
 this game to almost anyone, for the Custom maps have so much to offer on their own, you need not 
 even enjoy RTS to love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 11, 2004 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne has become one of the most popular games in my library. Blizzard 
 has done it again in its tradition of excellent RTS games starting way back with Starcraft and 
 Warcraft II. Now the expansion to Warcraft III comes along. Anyone who has played RTS and enjoyed 
 it should buy this game. It brings some of the best innovations and features to the genre. Combined 
 with excellent graphics this game should bring hours of entertainment to any fan. The Frozen throne 
 also comes with the great quality of voice-over Blizzard fans have come to expect from titles such 
 has Reign of Chaos and Starcraft. The game comes with campaigns for the Night Elves, Undead, and 
 Human remenants who fans should remember for the original. The orcs don't figure into the main 
 campaign but do have their own bonus campaign that is innovative in the fact that it plays much 
 more like and RPG. Combine that with a solid skirmish mode and an accessible online gameplay component 
 over Battle. net, Blizzard's online gaming service, and you have one excellent game. This is definately 
 a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sojss
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 9, 2004 3:33 am PT
Review:  Warcraft III the game itself is so good, much much better than then war I & II, so much improvement 
 especially gameplay, hero, more race, units, sound. Expasion added more great element to the game 
 which aleady very good game. Online play is a must for those who wanna challage others. However 
 the game itself isn't perfect just as kinda lack of race. I know 4 might seen alot, but really 
 isn; t, however in online play is different u had to stick master one race. Cause is hard to master 
 all because of too many weakness within each race. Overall this expasion is a must buy for warIII, 
 and must try for those never play warcraft or neverplay warcraft III, a battlechest is best choice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockskin
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2004 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne is definitely a great expansion to an already great game. Great 
 new heroes, creatures, scenarios, spells, abilities, graphics, and mechanics make this expansion 
 worth the buy. 
  
  I was the most excited with the storyline. I really wanted to find out what happened after the 
 previous game and this game did just that. It answered my questions that I was puzzled with after 
 the first one. 
  
  The new heroes really spice up this expansion. You can now hire heroes in certain scenarios that 
 can prove useful to you. The new creatures are also very good. They add a new challenge to the 
 heroes who want to fight new things. The spells and new abilities might puzzle you at first but 
 after a few hours you will fully understand them and their usefulness. 
  
  The graphics are still great and you will definitely need a good computer if you want to enjoy 
 all the nice effects. The mechanics were also slightly changed to balance some things out. Some 
 people might enjoy them some people wont.
  
  This expansion is a fine addition to an already great game and it wont disappoint the fans. Buy 
 it today if you already havent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2004 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I know people will hate me for saying this, but I was a little dissapointed with this game. Warcraft 
 II and Starcraft almost kicked me out of college for the hours I put into it ... well highschool 
 for warcraft II, but when warcraft III came out maybe i was too hyped, but I thought the game sort 
 of got tiring after a while. I love the new atributes like heros and how you can make them better, 
 but overal it still felt like childish game.
  I think my one big complaint is the fact that i can zoom OUT and control more people. the enging 
 still kills me that i have a very fast computer and if you all make more that 100 people it starts 
 to get choppy ...
  but overal one of my fav 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormlifter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  First of all, Blizzard is one of the only companies that have stayed true to their fan-base and 
 secured there mark of quality over their entire existance. I can't think of an instance where Blizzard 
 has released a product that didn't was just amazing, in all aspects of gameplay. 
  Frozen Throne expantion is just another example. This is a very awesome expantion in not only single 
 player campaign but also the content creation. Frozen Thone opened up new doors for those that 
 made Mods. Mods are truley the life-force behind Warcraft, they have brought the gameplay to a 
 level at which it is unlimited. If you complain that Warcraft lacks content, exitement, or a fun 
 factor you clearly are NOT exploring the full product!
  
  Blizzard bar none, is the best producer of high quality computer games. PERIOD! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGENT J WY
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 26, 2003 1:31 pm PT
Review:  wc3 is a good game but i left for awhile to try somethin diff , I came back just to try frozen 
 throne and I wasnt to impressed, it is alot better than the original wc3 but it doesnt have enough 
 gameplay depth for me. If youve ever played games like kohan (a very slept on game) or somethin 
 you know that it has alot more depth then wc3. wc3 is just to simple , even though ive been gone 
 for about 7 months it seems that there is nothin for me to learn in the frozen throne , its just 
 to easy, I guess its a good game if your lookin for somethin thats easy to get into. 
  Graphics, that graphics are pretty cool but a little to cartoonish, i didnt really think of it 
 that way before but when u try other games and come back to wc 3 youll really see how much it looks 
 like the movie shrek. but its still nice graphics if u dont mind the cartoony look.
  sound , blizzard always has great sound and music compared to any other rts.
  overall i just 
 get bored to fast cuz of the lack of gameplay depth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikest21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2003 1:02 am PT
Review:  First off I'd like to say that WC3 was one of my favorite games in recent memory. I would give 
 it higher than a 9. e but the graphics just don't impress that much which is about the only real 
 flaw i can find in the game.
  
  Gameplay: I gave it a 9 because while the gameplay is awesome it still sticks the to old formula 
 (which is by no means a bad thing) but its by no way revolutionary.
  
  Graphics: I had to give it an 8 because the graphics on my computer even when highest everything 
 still the grunts and such look a little blocky.
  
  Sounds: The music is awesome, unit responses are good and if you annoy them often humorous, and 
 the sounds of bows firing and axes waving through the air thats very noticeable in fights is a 
 nice addition.
  
  Value: If you enjoyed warcraft 3 for only around $35 this is a great expansion to an already spectacular 
 game.
  
  Tilt: If you own and enjoyed WC3 you must buy this expansion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudvayne49
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2003 4:45 pm PT
Review:  OMG man this has to be one of the best rts out there. Frozen Throne picks up where it was at story 
 wise. The new units and upgrades is so awsome and more easier too. Like 1 new hero for each race 
 and new units added too. When u get an army stared and your hero lvl up its all out hell. There is 
 so much new things added to the WC3 like your ground units can pick up item like your hero does. Like 
 with the undead your spider guys can like burrow under ground like they did with Starcraft. Well 
 i aint going to spoil all the fun trust me Iam a big rts fan and if u r run out and get it. It is 
 worth it the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowmaster2k3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 8, 2003 10:16 am PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne improves upon the already great gameplay of the original which makes for a more 
 than solid addition. I was part of the beta test for TFT, and durring that period it underwent 
 many changes. There were things in the beta that are definately not in the game now. Ex: The Blood 
 Mage use to have Mana Sheild instead of Siphon Mana, and Flame Strike had an area of affect twice 
 as large. Among other changes. All of them were for the better. 
  
  In the end TFT does what all Blizzard expansions are famous for, instead of adding features into 
 a game, they create a whole new game. The building costs, build methods and stats of original units 
 have all undergone changes, aswell as the supply limit and upkeep system. TFT is so different from 
 Classic that you might swear your playing Warcraft 4 rather than an expansion to Warcraft3. Classic 
 and TFT are two very different games, and you simply cannot play one the same way you play the 
 other. 
  
  TFT increases the depth of the game with everything from neutral heros, to new abilites, new upgrades 
 and new race based heros. Countless stratagies with countless sub stratagies makes this game truely 
 great.
  
  My recomendation. If you like RTS at all... Go buy this game right now. If your not really an RTS 
 fan but have nothing against RTS. This game is definatly worth your time, i suggest you at least 
 check it out. If you hate RTS, then you probably won't like TFT so stay far away. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MxM
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 7, 2003 6:07 pm PT
Review:  You would think that you can not bit original with expansion pack? Yes you can! In my opinion the 
 Frozen Throne is more enjoyable than the original. 
  
  The story line is better, the graphics are improved, new units, tons of new monsters, new heroes, 
 some fine tuning of the unit statistics, great single player story an mission designs (better than 
 in original, IMO)  all of this makes game better than original. To be honest I was not too impressed 
 with original, but now I am with the expansion. Once you played it, you will not want to revert 
 to the original WCIII.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodde
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 7, 2003 2:25 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of fast pace rts then you will love Warcraft III, along with Warcraft III: The 
 Frozen Throne. Lots of new units, heroes, items, creeps, maps... = loads of new strategies. If 
 you also like to play competitive games online then this reaaally hits the spot. There's lots of 
 competition online for all level of players.
  
  The game has 3 really good elements for making an A+ game:
  
  Lots of diffrent diffrent strategies, 
 and diffrent ways to be more effective at killing. Which makes players pleased when their own strategies 
 work.
  
  Heros which advance in level, can be customized with the skills you desire and can attain numerous 
 items.
  
  Has a very good online gameplay system with endless amount of competition, tournaments and custom 
 games.
  
  Go buy it today, you wont regret it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalonX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2003 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The Frozen Throne is a great add-on to an already great RTS. Some might look at it and say, ohhhh 
 only 2 new units for each race and a hero? It's more than that, it adds new tile sets, 2 new campaigns, 
 and an assortment of features.
  
  Gameplay:
  Same WCIII your used to only with a few more new units to work with.
  Graphics:
  They added 
 a new look to the Priest for example and the new units look very good and stack up with the rest 
 of WCIII.
  Sound:
  Great new sound track.
  Tilt:
  If you play WCIII, you should pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2003 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for those of us who really enjoyed Warcraft III. If you only marginally enjoyed 
 Warcraft III, then this game isn't for you. This is a great game for everyone who thought Warcraft 
 III was a great game, it adds to the game quite a bit, not only with new units but also with new 
 facets to the game including player built shops, and neutral heroes. 
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Great! Added some new stuff but nothing so drastic that I would give it anything above a an 8.
 
  
  Graphics: 9
  Same great graphics from Warcraft III. The reason I give it a high rating of 9 is due to the fact 
 that there are some really great tilesets and new maps that add to the game greatly.
  
  Sound: 9
  Great sound, nothing really new. Still great though.
  
  Value: 10
  Great value, 
 tons of new content for the price.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bkimbler
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 4, 2003 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Blizzard has done it once again with an excellent game that makes it difficult to stop playing. 
 The storyline is solid and you want to keep playing to see what happens next. The only knock would 
 be too many cut scenes but that is what enhances the story. The controls are easy to learn and 
 use and the mix of races and creatures is excellent. They have done a great job mixing in different 
 types of missions and not just build and destroy type missions.
  
  If you are a fan of this genre and Blizzard in general (can they do any wrong?) then the game is 
 well worth the time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19392608533868155954632983249999-Izeman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2003 5:07 am PT
Review:  For EEKman: you're just too stupid to appreciate this game!
  This is the BEST RTS made so far!
  
  I didn't like the setting at first. I prefer Sci-fi games. 
 But after a couple of hours I had to admit this game rocks!
  Not only this pack does provide an incredible sequel to Warcraft3 story, but it also adds to the 
 complexity and variety of strategy, which was already at its highest in the original game.
  This expansion pack has LOTS of new stuff to offer to both the casual player and the experienced 
 warmaster =)
  Blizzard never stops amazing its fans!
  Go and buy it! What are you waiting for?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texco
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 3, 2003 1:01 am PT
Review:  I really think that Blizzard never comes short of making a game. I mean, of course when you compare 
 WarCraft III to Diablo II or Brood War, there will be many differences... Shows a very small open 
 mind. But I mean come on, this game does not fall short of an awesome sequel.
  
  The only thing I may compare THIS too is the Grand Theft Auto III and Grand Theft Auto Vice City 
 transition - The sequel adds more than the first.
  
  First, as you look at the new menu layout... Blizzard has added little touches of snow... a signature 
 of Blizzard if you will (Har har, their name's Blizzard so they leave snow...) . The quick game 
 function comes very handy, the new clan support really helps clan keep people in touch and I can't 
 wait to see what happens when the next tournament comes around.
  
  The campaign missions are simply amazing, and if you haven't ever played the campaigns before... 
 go back to the original and start over. It's worth it.
  
  Oh and the CGI is just as well developed as anything else Blizzard has done in the past. As for 
 multiplayer, I think they FINALLY got it down after all the beta testing they went through... not 
 to mention all of those beta patches. Music in the game is what I thought it would be, more thematic 
 than the original. Blizzard has done this before in the past with Diablo II expansion, with adding 
 soundtracks that feature a real orchestra and Brood War where they simply make it orchestral sounding 
 (the newly added Terran theme... who can forget that?)
  
  But with the balancing, I've heard from a few people who have played beta that "there are more 
 problems added than solved" with the new units, heroes and buildings. Since the arrival of the 
 expansion, all of those thoughts have gone away and it's really the same matter of what happened 
 when Brood War came out... just rethinking your strategy and applying it for the win.
  
  Blizzard still shows to us over and over, they ARE the masters of the Real-Time Strategy genre 
 and offer no less than Reign of Chaos has offered... Now we just have to redo our wins and losses.... 
 NOOOOO!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KindGalaxy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2003 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a true expansion pack. Blizzard revolutionised Expansion Packs with StarCraft: BroodWar 
 and ever since then it seems game developers are trying to outdo eachother in terms of content 
 for their Expansion Packs. With this came a higher price of course, over the years we've seen expansion 
 packs go from $15 each to as much as $35 today. Is Frozen Throne worth your dough? Without a doubt, 
 YES. The SinglePlayer Campaign is epic and slightly darker then the original, and the additions 
 in the World Editor should keep and RPG Maker happy.
  The new features in Battle. net are also a welcome change.
  This is a great Expansion Pack with 
 5 new Tilesets and new units for all the races adding diversity in not only scenary but also tactics. 
 Buy it TODAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerdawg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2003 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I think it is better, compared to its predecessor. Not much graphically has changed, but I don't 
 think anyone really expected it to. I was a beta tester and to see the changes from the early stages 
 of development up to the final product is kind of exciting. You know, the way some heroes look 
 in the end, and what stats have changed etc... Overall I think the biggest part I was looking forward 
 to was the story. I wanted to finish the path of Illidan and Prince Arthas. Anyone who loved the 
 original will find that the expansion has made more options available and brings more gameplay. 
 I am glad to see the races are more balanced now. Plus, the fact that there are more units and 
 different strategies forces you to play more and more until you learn the secrets of success. I 
 do love Warcraft 3 and I did not have high expectations just so I would not be let down. (It seems 
 that is happening a lot in the gaming industry) From an honest gamer's view, voiding the personal 
 enjoyment of the game, I have given it a 9.6. Hopefully it will be as successful as Brood War. 
 Good Luck Blizzard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EEKman
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 1, 2003 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps Ive become more jaded over the years, but the simplistic gameplay offered by the campaign 
 is boring me to tears and im only 2 missions in so far. Maybe the difficulty is too low, but it 
 seems like all im doing is attack moving my characters around the map and occasionally letting 
 off a spell. The campaign story so far is pretty rediculous and I have to try to force myself to 
 stay interested. Its the stuff of saturday morning cartoons. Its nothing like the epic nailbiter 
 that brood war was. 
  
  Perhaps im being too harsh. Im a long time blizzard fan and played warcraft 2 and starcraft for 
 years. As an expansion pack goes, its got alot for warcraft 3 fans. New units, even some token 
 naval units, new creeps, new heroes, new buildings such as player built shops and new upgrades. 
 The balance of the original units have been heavily tweaked as well in an effort to give units 
 more dramatic strengths and weaknesses. A good effort was made to add more depth to the strategy 
 of the original, which I thought was sorely lacking. I just cant get into this game like I could 
 with war2 and sc/bw. 
  
  Theres much more to offer in the campaign editor as well. You now have the ability to link maps 
 together and save the gamestate so a quest on one map can generate effects on another, this allows 
 you to basically make a custom diablocraft game. You now have the ability to edit custom spells 
 as well without extensive modding knowledge, something that was lacking in the editor before. 
 
  
  If you like to make custom maps, im sure youll have fun with it. For me, even if they added 1000 
 new creeps or units, the game would still be ho-hum. The story and the core gameplay itself just 
 isnt very fun. Im sure itll sell like hotcakes anyway, after all, I still bought it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
