-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warcraft II: Beyond the Dark Portal
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warcraft2beyondthedp/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 21, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.2, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 1,369 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Blizzard Entertainment
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Apr 30, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even the most jaded Orc or Human will be challenged by the new scenarios. 

 Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the wasteland, along comes Beyond the Dark Portal. 
 Set in the Orcish homeland, this expansion pack for Warcraft II: Tides of Darkness adds 24 new 
 single-player scenarios and nearly 50 multi-player scenarios, all for a bargain-basement price. 
   

 Be prepared: The new solo scenarios are hard with a capital H-A-R-D. Even the most jaded orc or 
 human will be challenged by the new levels, which thankfully dispense with the tutorial nature 
 which made the early portion of Tides of Darkness somewhat tedious. In Beyond the Dark Portal, 
 you start off with almost all of the technologies at your disposal, and you'd best be prepared 
 to use them (strangely -- and this is my only complaint about the expansion pack -- you don't get everything 
 right away, and some vital units are inexplicably unavailable in the early scenarios) .   

 Apart from a new environment to represent the Orcish world, nothing has been added to the game. 
 But there are some minor changes which affect gameplay, and require some new strategies to ensure 
 success. The most notable change is the newfound emphasis on heroesspecial units whose 
 survival is necessary. Many of these heroes appear in the circle of power missions 
 found in Tides of Darkness, but others just fight alongside your troops with superior strength 
 and endurance. They can be an excellent aid, but their death means failure.  

 The new custom maps are a diverse lot. For the most part, there is less emphasis on resource gathering 
 than in the multi-player maps included with Tides of Darkness. This change has the benefit of making 
 games less of a race-for-the-resources duel, allowing players more breathing room and time to plan 
 strategies, as well as lessening the effectiveness of a brute-force attack at the onset 
 of a game. Also included are a couple of strange maps for quick games: one with a football 
 theme and one with a chess theme.  

 Fans of Warcraft II are split along two fronts: there are the single-players and then there are 
 the multi-players. But whichever side of the fence you lean toward, this is a must-have. More challenging 
 and more diverse than its namesake, Beyond the Dark Portal proves once and for all that you can 
 never have too much of a good thing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Much the same in everyway as in Tides of Darkness, the only improvements are slightly different 
 maps to start with followed by more of the same as last time. Another aspect is the additional 
 hero units which although good don't seem to provide much new to a game which is starting to slowly 
 give me a headache.
  
  The storylines are new and I am sure any hardcore fan would want to play this. But after a fair 
 bit of play and realising how hard this expansion really is I started to play with godmode on. 
 Although I did this very little in the ToD I am having to godmode a lot in BDP because I find it 
 that dam hard in the latter missions. One or two I don't need too, because I am able to find the 
 right tactic to defeat the A. I. but most of the time I can't be bothered.
  
  I think this Warcraft II expansion much like the original Orcs vs Humans, which I didn't really 
 like too much seemed to drone on and get on my nerves. The music and the sounds haven't changed 
 and for me nothing else much has either.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Fast RTS gameplay with objectives such as kill this guy and destory his camp our build 
 something.. over and over again very repititive
  
  Graphics: Improved from the 1st game
  
  Sound: Units say the same thing over and over again in the same voice and music is ok but there 
 is only a few songs that play. Battle noises are fun to hear.
  
  Value: The game is out in a sharware version and its also 10 bucks from blizzard
  
  Replayability: 
 None after you beat it the game is over and there is no use playing again
  
  The Good: ok gamelay and sound
  
  The bad: Graphics, Repititivtness.. no replayabilty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: After destroying the mystic gate into Azeroth the humans flee across the sea from the 
 evil Orcs, humans have made a new alliance, in a new land. Man has joined with the elves in a magical 
 land, with the Orcs in close pursuit. , the Humans discover that the rift which allows the Orcs 
 passage into their world still exists. So pretty much the single player mode is pretty strait forward. 
 You command a bunch of units in a mission and try to exterminate the enemy. The game itself is 
 similar to that of the original, accept there are new units in the game. This time while adding 
 Wizards, boats and flying machines, and all those new constructions and troops, they also increased 
 the workload of your peons/pesents. While allowing you to construct as many Town Halls as you like 
 to gather more supplys, which are still wood and gold but now you have to gather old to build ships. The 
 story line in the campain is intresting enough to keep you playing. Also there is random maps you 
 can play agains the computer or you can go online and play against others or play a lan battle. 
 But the multiplayer is somewhat resembles that in the earlier version, you can now have up to eight 
 players on a network, including versus and team play.
  
  Graphics: The graphics has been improved from the first game obviosly. The graphcs is done in SVGA 
 and has great detail for the most part. When it comes to the heads of the oger heads it looks a 
 bit squished. Also the cut scence are well done and nice to look at.
  
  Sound: The sound of the game is well done. The soundtrack of the game can really improve the intensity 
 during the battles. Also the voice acting is well done too.
  
  Value: All in all this is a not bad RTS but it's not the RTS I would like to play. I prefer mass 
 armies and moral system. In this game it this game is a build up an army and then rush your army 
 in to the enemy base and quicky try to destroy the enemy. Yes there is some strategy in the game 
 but I don't like the strategy in this game.
  
  I give this game 7.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 18, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  The expansion to Warcraft II, Beyond the Dark Portal offers more maps, scenarioes and new heroes.
 
  
  The graphics are a bit dated now, but the sound and music more than make up for this. In fact, 
 I play the music from this game on my pc all the time, whenever I study or read a book by it, for 
 it is so good, and has no lyrics.
  
  The basic idea from the Warcraft series is still present. Mine recources, and make your town to 
 build units to crush your enemies. While Warcraft II only had heroes that talked like their normal 
 non-hero cousins, WCII has added unique voices to their heroes. With such classic quotes like "Welcome 
 to my nightmare." that Grom Helscream says, this game quickly won my heart.
  
  The gameplay is easy to learn, but a bit harder to master. Espeically in muti-player when you don't 
 know the build of your opponent. This gives this game a huge replay value, and added to that the 
 fact that you can play with mutiple people gives it a great edge.
  
  The one thing that it lacks is diversity. There are only two armies. Human and Orc. Both having 
 very simmilar units. Orgres and Knights being exactly the same, if I remember right. But your casters 
 are different. The mage can summon a blizzard, while the Death Knight can cast "Death and Decay." 
 These do simmilar things, with an area of effect attack, but look simmilar. Also the bloodlust 
 of the ogre mages is not reflected in the humans at all. They can heal their units instead.
  
  Very nostalgic game for many of you, I'm sure. If you binned it, I'm sorry. I would still play 
 if I had the time, but I do not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Warcraft II was a very good game for its time. Alltough the graphics are not so good for today 
 , its gameplay is what keeps the game 'alive'. It hyas many things that will make you remember 
 of modern RTS and is thge case that they are first seen at Warcraft II for example the mouse control 
 the HP system, the attack and armour system and the recource system. Also a very good thing the 
 game has is that it has naval ships and of coarse the sea. Its a very good thing to have naval 
 battles in RTS so the Player wont just build a huge army of ground soldiers and go strait for the 
 enemy base. The game is whole lot of fun espetialy the campagn and the senarios. This game is vwry 
 exelent and very well built that its my daubts that this game will stay good for the folowing dacade. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RuggerBushy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Nearly everyone has heard of WarCraft (Tides of Darkness)  First released about eight years ago, 
 makers Blizzard Entertainment launched a fantasy strategy game that was set in Medieval Times - 
 WarCraft was an instant hit, not just with the children but adults alike. Everyone rushed out to 
 get a copy, other PC games were just left on the shelves whilst WarCraft was selling like hot cakes, 
 it was the strategy game to have. 
  
  WarCraft was so successful that it wasnt too long before Blizzard came up with a sequel. - WarCraft 
 2 (Beyond the Dark Portal)  This was a continuation of the first game as the conflict between 
 the Orcs and humans still had another chapter  the war of Azeroth was not quite over.
  
  The game play is excellent which compensates for the graphics  the graphics are ok but you soon 
 overlook that as you begin to challenge the new scenario campaigns on WarCraft  To be honest I 
 may of been a bit harsh on the graphics, they are more than ok, the graphics are clear and when 
 compared to other strategy games WarCraft passes with flying colours in that department. The sound 
 on the game is very good  sharp and clear voices can be heard from your different characters, 
 each speaking in different tones. The community noises can also be heard clearly giving the game 
 more of a realistic feeling when playing  the chopping of trees, the mining of gold, the noise 
 of a building crumbling, the clash of two swords when in battle, the burning of a building, the 
 noise of an arrow flying in mid-air all these noises contribute to the enjoyment of playing WarCraft. 
 
  
  The battle scenes are also very good  a battle can be small and won easily or a battle can take 
 hours as you retreat your troops for a change of plan or call in for more reinforcements  either 
 way you will enjoy your duels. Battles are not only restricted to land but WarCraft also offers 
 some great battle scenes on sea and in the air. An addictive game that offers hours of fun - WarCraft 
 is mouse orientated.
  
  Although WarCraft is an old strategy game, it is still one of the best and cheap selling strategy 
 games on the market today. Anyone into PC strategy games that hasnt played any of the WarCraft 
 series should get themselves a copy.  Gamers of all ages will be captivated with hours of game 
 play as you match your skills with other players or alone in fierce sea battles, icy tundras, 
 desolate deserts and challenging dragon slaying conquests. Eight years later and WarCraft has not 
 been forgotten, many of your PC shops and second hand retailer game shops still store and sell 
 this classic game. If this game were released today October 2001 it would be an instant hit all 
 over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2004 8:44 am PT
Review:  Who says it's a classic? Well it was released in early 1996 and im reviewing it in late 2004. I 
 still load War2 and it's expansion up every so often on an old machine and relive some of my old 
 memories.
  
  Warcraft2 and it's expansion was one of the first games i played multiplayer. Back in the days 
 where modem to modem connection was used to play games. A this was a fantastic game in multiplayer. 
 But thats not all that was fun. Like the original, it had an outstanding single player campaign. 
 Well, two of them actually. From the Orcs and the Humans point of view. 
  
  The sounds and old humour are still there. (Like in the original where you repeatidly clicked on 
 a boat and got the following replies; "What?" "Stop rocking the boat". "Im going to be sick". *throw 
 up noise*) . The sounds are great, as is the cutscenes. The cutescenes in the original were spectacular 
 and they are just as greatin the expansion. 
  
  The gameplay is the same, classic Warcraft style. The expansion is just more added to the classic 
 game that we all loved.. except it also adds on to the story.
  
  The first Warcraft was where the orcs were winning and followed the Humans back as they retreated. 
 WarcraftII the humans stopped in the invasion and pushed the orcs back into their own world. WarcraftII: 
 Beyond the Dark Portal continues the story from where the Humans push on into the Orcs world and 
 to continue the fight. 
  
  A fantastic expansion which everyone that had War2 should own. It's a classic and a must have for 
 all gamers. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
