-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: War Front: Turning Point
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warfrontturningpoint/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Alternative-history setting.
 sci-fi weapons that bolster traditional WWII real-time strategy units.
 secret orders multiplayer mode.
 bombastic visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fairly generic action RTS gameplay.
 poor vehicle pathfinding.
 some minor visual and audio problems.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 334 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Digital Reality
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Feb 23, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
War Front: Turning Point is a decidedly different take on the WWII real-time strategy game, complete 
 with jetpack Nazis and freeze rays. 

  After years of developers storming the beaches with a battalion full of WWII real-time strategy 
 games, it's tough to even glance up when yet another one thuds into stores. Still, as Relic's fantastic 
 Company of Heroes proved last year, not all WWII games are created equal. Now Digital Reality's 
 War Front: Turning Point also dodges the WWII-as-sleep-inducing bullet, largely by starting with 
 the usual Axis-versus-Allies premise and then serving up an alternative-history twist. This makes 
 the story and setting about as historically accurate as those in the Command &amp; Conquer series, 
 although it's hard to care about little things like that when you've got aluminum zeppelins and 
 flying jetpack Nazis blowing stuff up.  

          Fiery Nazi defenses.     

  However, gameplay is more derivative than the out-there backdrop implies. What you've got here 
 is a generic action RTS game sketched out to look and play a lot like the few hundred other generic 
 action RTS games to hop on the C&amp; C bandwagon over the past decade. It includes the usual dual-campaign 
 options for solo play, with matching 11-mission sagas told from the American and German points 
 of view. Single-player and multiplayer skirmish modes are also on offer, with the latter featuring 
 an innovative "secret orders" game type that provides each player with a hidden victory goal. You 
 build bases with the expected headquarters, barracks, and factory buildings; you establish mines 
 and supply trucks to get resources flowing. Heroes with special skills and the ability to level 
 up lead your troops into battle. You crank out armies and have at it with enemies until either 
 you go up in flames or they do.  

  Units are set up along traditional rock-paper-scissors lines, so everything has a ready counter. 
 When you send tanks into the fray, the enemy responds with AT bunkers and bazooka soldiers. When 
 you send out bombers to blast the AT bunkers and soldier-producing barracks, the enemy comes back 
 with AA guns. And so on. Every unit in the game is designed to be chewed up and blown to pieces 
 in impressively cinematic fashion, so combat relies more on assembly-line tactics than strategies 
 on the battlefield. The action here is undeniably catchy and fast-paced, but you've seen lots of 
 RTS arms races exactly like this one many times before.  

  Still, even though units go to war as in just about every other RTS ever made, they are at least 
 jazzed up with that alternate-history angle. The game is based on the notion of the Wehrmacht conquering 
 Britain in 1940 and giving Nazi scientists the breathing room to concoct nifty weapons that make 
 the real-life Me-262 and V-2 buzz bomb look as advanced as the bayonet. By the time the game picks 
 up a few years later, both the Allies and the Soviets have gotten on the future-weapon bandwagon 
 as well, which gives battles a gritty sci-fi character. Nazi grunts include soldiers with jetpacks 
 and hyperpowered flamethrowers, while mech-like exoskeletons tote heavy machine guns and rockets. 
 The Allies have an earthquake bomb that devastates huge sections of towns and a base-protecting 
 shield generator called an ORB. The Russians can field an ice-spitter tank that freezes enemy units 
 and an armored personnel carrier that burrows underground to transport troops behind enemy lines. 

  All of the sci-fi stuff in War Front is bolstered with standard WWII RTS units, such as infantry, 
 fighter planes, repair trucks, half-tracks, and movie tanks that include Tigers and Shermans, so 
 combat has a half-and-half feel. While you might experience dj vu, every time you get bored, 
 you just have to order up a German aluminum zeppelin or a Russian tank with that groovy freeze 
 ray to instantly liven things up. The action doesn't move far away from generic WWII RTS though. 
 It almost seems like you're playing a typical game in the genre, albeit one modded up with a handful 
 of crazy new units. In some ways, this is a good thing because battles remain grounded in real-world 
 combat and don't go overboard with high-tech gadgetry. Digital Reality strikes an almost perfect 
 balance here between real history and "what if?" ruminations.  

  Some technical issues get in the way of all the carnage. Vehicle pathfinding is often terrible 
 presumably because object-collision detection is too rigorous. This is the bane of a lot of RTS 
 games, so it's hard to be too critical over the Keystone Kops antics on display here. Yet, it's 
 irritating to see a truck twirling in circles because it's surrounded by friendly infantry that 
 refuse to move, or to watch a line of tanks slowly smash down one tree after another even though 
 there's a perfectly usable road just a couple of feet away. A first-person shooter option where 
 you can hop into bunkers and manually fire away at enemy tanks and planes during missions doesn't 
 work at all because the frame rate drops through the floor as soon as you switch over to it. And 
 the mouse cursor seems off a bit, forcing you to click just below or at the very bottom of units 
 to select them on the main screen, which can cause serious problems in fast-paced battles.  

          One earthquake bomb on the way.     

  The presentation provides some other mild annoyances. 
 The dark, gritty look of the game makes most levels a treat for the eyes when you're simply gawking 
 at the scenery, especially during the frequent episodes of stormy or snowy weather and when detonating 
 a building with rocket fire. But the browns and blacks are so dominant that the palette often seems 
 grimy. This, in concert with some extra jaggies on buildings and trees, makes parts of some levels 
 so dark and dense with detail that units are obscured. Finally, the audio could use added variety. 
 Unit acknowledgement commands are recited so frequently that it's like listening to a monk's meditation 
 chant -- only it's doubtful that lines like "Blast 'em!" and "Ready for battle!" are going to bring 
 anybody inner peace.  

  Although War Front: Turning Point isn't different enough to change the minds of those bored to 
 tears with WWII, this is an almost-great RTS regardless of the subject matter and the traditional 
 gameplay. Give it a look, even if you think that you're all Nazied out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Alix84
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  This is not a game to buy. Try Red alert 3 or command and conquer 3. The story is that hitler is 
 assassinated in the beginning of WWII. Pretty soon the you ally with the Germans and start fighting 
 the USSR. 
  It the same as most other RTS games except for the night and day thing but that was way better 
 in warcraft 3 and taking control of the turrets is a waste of time really because you don't know 
 whats going on in the rest of the battlefield. The third person tank camera is good but serves 
 no purpose. The wacky units are fun but not good but some of them were already used. (Like for 
 example the mech-infantry look like there from The Matrix Revolutions.) The path finding is bad. 
 
  The game play is the same as every other RTS game, Build up a base, Defend it while building massive 
 amounts of tanks, and attack. The graphics are good but kinda glitchey. 
  
  Basically don't buy this game unless you really need a new RTS and can't wait for Red alert 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven28256
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  War Front: Turning point is a budget title by a pretty small company that came out roughly this 
 time last year. I had played the demo and felt that it was a bit "meh" and never felt like buying 
 it. I recently found it for $20 at Best Buy so I decided to pick it up and give the full game a 
 shot. How does the full game hold up? It's a pretty mixed bag. 
  
  War Front takes place in an alternate WWII where Hitler was assassinated early on and a new, leader 
 takes his place and is able to prolong the war past when it ended in the real world. This gives 
 both sides the ability to further develop and deploy a variety of high tech weapons, some real, 
 some fictional. Basically, the story is just an excuse to have Nazis with mechs and jetpacks with 
 Americans using energy shield generators and Russians with ice tanks. Later on the Germans ally 
 with the British/American faction and together they fight the USSR. This means the whole game comes 
 off as a sort of budget copy of Red Alert, right down to the crazy fictional weapons. 
  
  Like Red Alert the game also doesn't take itself all that seriously. The story has a campy James 
 Bond-like take on WWII, with American heroes dodging bullets and Russian villains carrying huge 
 heavy machine guns like the Heavy class in Team Fortress 2. The cutscenes are reminiscent of Red 
 Alert 2, just minus the live actors and Kari Wuhrer running around in a tight tank top. The typical 
 list of rather clich characters is also here, from the hot Russian spy chick to the handsome young 
 blond-haired blue-eyed German to the cocky, clean-shaven American.
  
  The actual gameplay reflects the Red Alert influence as well. War Front plays just like a cheap 
 Command & Conquer clone, minus the Construction Yard system. Not only that, but it is more the 
 "old-school" C&C gameplay as well. War Front more or less ignored every advancement made in the 
 genre since the original Red Alert, with the sole exception of zooming in a bit. This is both good 
 and bad, depending on how much you like the "good old days." If you love the classics like the 
 original Red Alert then you'll find a lot to like here. If you want something that doesn't play 
 nearly identical to a game from the mid-90s, then you'll want to look elsewhere. There certainly 
 is some fun to be had in the game, and the crazy units have a charm to them much like that found 
 in Red Alert, but you'll find yourself spending most your time just spamming hordes of tanks and 
 infantry to win. 
  
  The unit AI also isn't the greatest, as they get caught up a lot and have some hit or miss pathfinding. 
 The enemy AI isn't exactly smart either. They tend to just throw units at you until they can manage 
 to get past defenses. However, they get kudos for using every unit at their disposal and throwing 
 in the occasional artillery unit. The game also features an FPS view for turrets. This feature 
 is pretty much useless. The hit detection is just plain terrible, the framerate in the FPS mode 
 is bad, and there really is no advantage to even doing it over letting your turrets fight themselves. 
 On the positive note, like I said, it is fairly fun old-school RTS gaming, with fun units and three 
 somewhat different and relatively balanced factions. 
  
  The graphics are pretty average, like the game itself. There are some nice effects, but even when 
 compared to other games that were out around the time this originally came out they weren't anything 
 to write home about. The sound effects are of a similar acceptable quality, however most of the 
 dialogue is very campy and the voice actors are more or less what you would expect in a straight-to-DVD 
 B movie. This is a budget game and it shows in this area. 
  
  Really, the amount of fun you will derive from War Front is decided by how much you like an old-school, 
 budget RTS. If a budget Red Alert clone sounds like a winner to you then by all means pick this 
 one up. If you want an RTS that takes advantages of the many strides made in the genre over the 
 years then look elsewhere. If you just want a decent enough RTS and there isn't anything else really 
 worth buying on the market, then you could do worse than War Front. It is fun in an old-school 
 RTS way, but many gamers will start to lose interest about halfway through each campaign when they 
 realize that the game is pretty much just a Red Alert clone. Speaking of which, if you can't wait 
 for Red Alert 3, this game isn't a bad way to hold you over for a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  This might seem like an average World War II game. But it's better. The game has 2 8-mission campaigns. 
 Both are pretty fun and are unique for other World War II strategy games. Skirmish is where this 
 game really shines. There are 3 races. Soviets, Germans, and Western Allies. The Germans are the 
 best in the game. They got great tanks and much more wierd-awesome units. The Soviets are good 
 rush units. Their infantry is cheap and crappy but can be produced in good numbers. The Western 
 Allies have great air forces and nice infantry. This game also includes a great number of special 
 weapons. This is what makes this game unique. They got super artillery guns, ice tanks, helicopters, 
 huge zepplins, slow powerful tanks, sonic tanks, shield barriers, jetpack troops, and a couple 
 more unique units. But theres not enough. I want more. Thats kinda what makes this game seem normal. 
 I want more speical units and map maker could be nice. There almost no one online and it's hard 
 to connect with people online. 
  
  Overall, this is a pretty good game. All you need to do is add more unique stuff to it and it'd 
 be awesome. Hopefully, an expansion will come out.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The game looks like a movie with a hero in it which will conquer everything. The heroes are like 
 Bruce Willis in Die Hard or Arnold Schwarzenegger in action movies. The script is very poor. The 
 war is like world war 2 but it doesn't look like that. Jet packs , sonic tanks, earth quake missiles, 
 I don't think these warfares were available even now. The mixing of the historic strategy with 
 fiction was terrible and I didn't get it. The AI is very poor. The enemy attacks you with single 
 strategy and you can control it just by doing ant-strategy for that and the enemy won't try a new 
 strategy. The path finding is also miserable. You should control your character otherwise you will 
 find him chooses the worst path! If lots of tanks want to move they become confused and start turning 
 around themselves. However the graphics is good which makes it tolerable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for quite a while an interesting game. So when it came out I thought it could 
 be a nice diversion till COH2 comes out.
  My first opinion was that it looked chaotic. I played at skirmish first to check it. It seemed 
 difficult. So I started the campaign... And it was easy. Once you realise that you have a vast amount 
 of resources the game is easy. The good thing is that you can play it in two way. Either build 
 a lot of troops and charge, or build a few and a lot of buildings that provide you with the special 
 powers ie. airfields, V2 sites, etc.
  The units are cool, especially the aircrafts and the dogfights look nice as well.
  The heroes 
 is a very interesting chapter in the fame and can be very useful, especially if you plan on maintaining 
 a relatevely small strike power.
  The maps on skirmish are interesting to play but as esay.
  The graphics of the game are cool, 
 with lights on vehicles at night, no flight policy during bad weather etc.
  Cutscene are good but the graphics I think could be better.
  Soundtrack is ok nothing special. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  For some reason over the past few years game makers have made a real effort to bring in WW2 into 
 the gaming arena. War front: Turning point is such a endeavor that can be termed to be a successful 
 one.
  
  Lets start off with the bad points. As in many of the statergy games available today war front 
 also follows the same formula. Build your Army, Find the enemy and Kill them. So it may seem a 
 little too familiar for those who have done it over and over gain.
  
  One of the biggest disappointments of the game for me is not having a campaign for one of the best 
 factions available. Why this faction [even though is a core element of the game] doesn't have its 
 own campaign I do not know. [May be you need to finish the game in all the available campaign modes 
 before this faction is unlocked???]
  
  The campaign also inst built up on a good story. Again a big disappointment for me is when two 
 of the warring factions unite to fight a common foe very early in their campaigns.
  
  Apart from that theres also the unnecessary Chase cam that really has no potential use but to show 
 that the game is fully 3D.
  
  And also the all too familiar WW2 tanks and infantry are back again with the same old abilities.
 
  
  But enough of the bad stuff. War front does have some cool new units like the Sonic Tanks and Mobile 
 shield carries that protect the units within.
  
  The game is also quite realistic. For example a tank can kill a enemy infantry unit with a couple 
 of shots but the tank can also be on the receiving end provided that the infantry is a anti tank 
 unit. The missions are challenging and are not always focused on destroying the enemy outpost. 
 Also the choices you make on the sub quests can make the mission harder or easier. The inclusion 
 of the hero units with a few powerful abilities is another plus point for me.
  
  All in all its one of those games that probably would have done a lot better if it was based on 
 a different time line and with a better story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M_Kroll
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  War Front: Turning Point is an enjoyable, classic-styled base building RTS set in an alternate 
 World War II. The game is well balanced with each of the three sides having distinct advantages, 
 disadvantages and ways to counter them.
  The AI is very competent and downright brutal (without cheating) at the hard setting, which is 
 a refreshing experience. 
  
  To me the game strikes a great balance between being fast-paced tactical and strategic. The multi-player 
 mode is my favorite, but even the two campaigns are fun and largely challenging. 
  
  If you enjoyed Act of War, C&G: Generals or similar titles, this is a great title that many unfortunately 
 missed because the release date was sandwiched between blockbuster RTS giants like Supreme Commander 
 and Command & Conquer 3. 
  
  Still, if you are looking for a well designed fun RTS that doesn't require a top of the line rig 
 to play and still looks good and features a solid and challenging AI that may often surprise you, 
 I'd look for War Front. After all, it had nukes before World in Conflict, Sonic Tanks before the 
 new C&C expansion, and many other innovations that others have since "borrowed". And the price 
 is right as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2crazy666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  this game is not very impressive at first glance i graphics didnt seem great at first. but as soon 
 the battel begins, you get catapulted into a high intensity and detail intensive warzone.
  
  the thing i noticed about this game is that its tough! very! the AI is cool and the enemy advances 
 unrelentingly. can be frustration at times. it may not have the high tech tripods of C&amp; C, but 
 one will notice that some of the units can get very powerful.
  
  another joy to see are the HUGE units present in the game. the german ZEPLIN is one of the biggest 
 units i have ever seen in a RTS game. all in all this game can be frustratingly difficult but is 
 definitely worth the time spent.
  
  cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Bah I came back to this game to give it another shot and I started getting into it maybe I was 
 just a little sick of RTS at the moment, but its a fun game it a little ard to get, but its worth 
 the gaming and it can be worth the hours you play on it at first I hated this game, but I guess 
 I really started getting into and sadly really slowly. The game company that made this deserve 
 more credit than the last review I made for them so I am bumping my score up for them since the 
 game started suprising me :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  The only nice factor of this game is the heroes which make the game a lot of fun, otherwise the 
 game is just standard RTS fair with major pathfinding problems.. explain to me how I force attack 
 on the lower part of the map and my units run directly into a heavily fortified base to the north? 
 hmm no other RTS game does this. Not even the buggy Joint Task Force. In fact Joint Task Force 
 has much better graphics. With none of the pathfinding issues. Act of War this game is not. Nor 
 does it run as well as Rise of Legends. CoH runs better without all the annoyances of repetitive 
 music scores and general bad dialogue. How can you explain frame rate drops when manually using 
 a turret using a 8800 GTS? You can't.
  
  Bugs and pathfinding issues aside I can see a jumbled storyline.. but at least the game has cutscenes. 
 Also the game functions like a basic tankfest .. your soldier units are just about worthless.. 
 At least there is no shortage of income.. since Anna when upgraded produces a nice 300 every 10 
 seconds. Meaning there isn't a resource cap.. unless you count your mine.. The game is okay.. but 
 it is just not my taste.. I guess I expected more than it gave.. Graphics: decent.. but your better 
 off with 2006 RTS graphical games.. Sound: good tank and weapon sounds.. but the music score is 
 for the birds. Along with annoying soldiers/heroes.
  
  Gameplay: has some issues but you can work through them my making small steps on the map with your 
 units.
  
  Value: I see two possible campaign paths.. it could be better.. but I guess its just expected of 
 any RTS to have a skirmish mode.. My personal score of 6.. for being fair 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alockbee
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 2, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I D/L the demo once it came available. I like it right from the start. It runs super smooth on 
 a mid-range gaming rig. Puchased the full retail game the day of it's release &amp; I'm simply 
 having a BLAST! WFTP is not ground-breaking @ all. It's a straight forward WWII RTS game that takes 
 a few minutes to get up &amp; running. It's in the mold of Command &amp; Conquer games, but it 
 has it's own personality. Yes, the campaign voice-overs are fairly lame &amp; I find it so damn 
 funny! Gameplay is the Key here. Plenty of units (Tanks, Infantry, Aircraft, Heroes) that blend 
 in very well. Some people complain about the graphics, I myself find them very well done! Trees 
 swaying in different directions, planes animations, explonsions look great. The music is just so-so 
 &amp; the units voice replies could use some help. It doesn't take away from the game. I just started 
 playing some MP &amp; it's so much fun! We are seeing more &amp; more gaming studios from the Eastern-Block 
 countries &amp; they are getting better as time goes on. Too me, WFTP is worth a $30.00 investement. 
 You'll find that it doesn't have a lot of flash but it's a soild RTS game in it's own right. Give 
 it a try, you'll be surprized! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rumphlet
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Seeing all of the bad reviews makes me think that there are some very impatient gamers out there. 
 This game is not cutting edge graphic wise but it makes up for it in the story and gameplay. I 
 am in my 40's and I loved the game. Sure the graphics are a little older and the voices of the 
 troops, etc. get a little annoying but it's got a good story and engaging gameplay. I personally 
 found that playing zoomed in, I could not see the battlefield good enough to control my units and 
 plan strategy but that is ok as I enjoyed this game. If you played and liked C&amp; C Generals then 
 you will love this. I will have to agree with another reviewer in that the infantry was very weak 
 and I basically used them to take over buildings and oil wells and that was about all. Your hero 
 units are very useful once you put them in tanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genya_gilin1
Rating: 1.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  you start a a city ( i think its an English city) under German occupation where the English fight 
 the germans.
  Here you can already see the game poor graphics and notice the abysmal sound. after the starting 
 film you start playing with this outdated graphics, here the soundtrack and charecter voice (which 
 is very annoying) start to ruin your gameplay, from here i have nothing more to say except that 
 the games annoying voice continues to say what is your mission
  
  
  SO People don't buy this game its a waste of time and Perseus money that can be spent on other 
 more useful things!!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-o194
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 27, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Man playing this game is a rush take command and conquer red alert 1 and 2 then put them into games 
 like Company of Heroes and Dawn of War bang there you go i found the game-play fun hectic and nostalgic 
 for the days of Red Alert also the plot is very very nice with good ai a great story and the need 
 for tactics thats not just rush rush rush if you like those then this game is for you. and now it 
 seems i need a little more text before i can close this out so i believe i must ramble 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzer_TigerIV
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The game is visually satisfying, but something about it seems older than it is. However 
 when you zoom in on units you can see they are highly detailed and the game has better looking 
 infantry than screens of CnC3 show. The main highlight in this area, however, is the FX. The explosions 
 are extremely satisfying; I love that even the lightest vehicles erupt in a fireball with the husks 
 tumbling. All in all a quite pretty game.
  
  Game play: Traditional RTS, a bit of a Generals clone. And I like it. It plays solidly and has 
 a slew of interesting units. I like how bombers work, very balanced. Although it's a typical RTS, 
 it has a good feel to it and doesn't pretend to be revolutionary. After feeling incredibly let 
 down by WH: Mark of Chaos, it was very satisfying to play something I hoped would work out and 
 has.
  
  Sound: While the explosions sound nice, the unit voices have a tinny sound. So, nah....
  Overall: 
 I give this demo a 9/10.
  
  Now some problems:
  -Infantry are too weak. Artillery takes them out much to easily, and all I find them good for is 
 to capture oil.
  -The two maps given in the demo are a bit boring an too constrictive. I would suggest that there 
 be maps that have more wide open places to maneuver your troops.
  -While the two teams are well balanced (and I like that Allies have a huge focus on bombers and 
 air) I have one one problem with the Shield Generator. While it is useful, after you take down 
 the shield it takes too much time to regain it. Also, the fact that it's built from the HQ is annoying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulder2683
Rating: 1.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The game came in as a shock! I was expecting something similar to Company Of Heroes, instead I 
 got something very similar to Command &amp; Conquer Red Alert with some few improvements! It's 
 something unacceptable from a 2007 game! The graphics are bad, the gameplay is worst and the sound 
 taken from a Nintendo Gameboy! The idea of the game is somehow good but the implementation is so 
 bad that Solitaire seem more fun instead! Hopefully 10Tacle Studios &amp; Digital Reality will 
 realise soon what a poor game they produced! The time spent on producing it could have been used 
 to treat some disease instead! Very Very Very poor game! Stay Away! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
