-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/wh40kdawnofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 21, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 8,598 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Relic
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 20, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dawn of War is a testament to what can be so great about real-time strategy, and it captures the 
 grim and brutal world of Warhammer 40,000 extremely well. 

  Considering the weaponry that humankind has already invented during the past couple of thousand 
 years, it's difficult to even begin to imagine what kinds of implements of destruction will exist 
 in the 41st millennium. However, England-based Games Workshop has done an excellent job of imagining 
 what will come with its unique Warhammer 40,000 universe, which originated as a tabletop wargame 
 but over the years has spun off into a variety of computer and video games. Dawn of War is the 
 latest of these, and it's probably the best of these. Developed by seasoned real-time strategy 
 maker Relic (best known for Homeworld and its sequel) , Dawn of War is a testament to what can be 
 so great about this style of gaming, and it captures the grim and brutal world of Warhammer 40,000 
 extremely well.  

          In the 41st millennium, warfare will take the form of great-looking, fun, and exciting 
 real-time strategy battles.     

  Those unfamiliar with Warhammer 40,000 will get the perfect primer in the game's brief, spectacular, 
 introductory cinematic that shows off a pitched battle between two forces that are bent on ripping 
 each other to shreds -- and are well equipped to do so. Dawn of War actually features four of Warhammer 
 40,000's most popular factions: The tireless and imperialistic space marines, highly versatile 
 warriors who have access to a variety of vehicles as well as terminators, the strongest infantry 
 in the game; the savage green-skinned orks, whose tough forces can vastly outnumber and therefore 
 overwhelm their enemies; the enigmatic and technologically advanced eldar, who are the sneakiest 
 and most maneuverable of the races, and who have access to numerous specialist units; and the traitorous 
 forces of chaos -- former space marines who have been warped by demonic energies, and whose strong 
 infantry are assisted by terrifying demonic creatures.  

  Each of these factions has a great deal of personality in the game thanks to the imaginatively 
 designed, vibrantly detailed, and beautifully animated units available to it, along with equally 
 good speech and audio effects. Even the way in which the respective sides build their structures 
 is interesting. Whereas chaos summons its buildings through arcane rituals, ork structures unceremoniously 
 arrive from orbit in big heaps of junk parts. Visual differences aside, each faction is distinctly 
 (though not drastically) different and playable in the game's skirmish and multiplayer modes, although 
 the single-player campaign exclusively focuses on a space marine chapter called the Blood Ravens. 

  The game's relatively brief campaign of around 10 missions begins when the Ravens are called in 
 to assist with the defense of the planet Tartarus, which has suddenly been overrun by the warmongering 
 orks. In addition to fending off the orks, the Ravens soon experience some "misunderstandings" 
 with the eldar, who are already on location investigating something sinister -- something that chaos 
 is after. It's a good setup to pit you against three of the game's four factions, and the main 
 character of the story, a veteran space marine commander named Gabriel, is quickly likable because 
 of his ruthless, loyal, and valorous attitude.  

  The campaign itself isn't great, though, since it's just a linear series of missions that typically 
 involve building up a base, mustering your forces, and crushing the enemy. So, basically, it's 
 standard stuff. Some missions have some interesting set pieces in them. In one mission, a computer-controlled 
 battalion of the imperial guard -- human allies of the space marines that lack the marines' cybernetic 
 enhancements and power armor -- covers your flank from an onslaught of orks as you conduct your operations. 
 It's tempting to help the guardsmen in their defense of you, or at least it's tempting to watch 
 as their tanks and laser weapons stave off the aggressors. However, the campaign is brief and conventional 
 overall, so any remotely experienced RTS player should find it to be a cakewalk at the default 
 normal difficulty setting (two tougher settings are also available) . The actual story is pretty 
 good, at least, and it unfolds between missions through some excellently over-the-top dialogue 
 between the game's main characters. However, the between-mission cutscenes, which are rendered 
 using the game's 3D engine, simply don't look good. You'll see characters flapping their gums and 
 animating awkwardly, which is in stark contrast to how terrific they look in battle during actual 
 gameplay.  

          The campaign only lets you play as the space marines, but the other three sides are yours 
 to command in skirmish and multiplayer matches.     

  Playing through Dawn of War's campaign at least teaches you to respect the space marines' abilities 
 in battle. In addition, the game features four separate interactive tutorials -- one for each of 
 the game's factions -- which get you acclimated with the respective sides' buildings and units. As 
 mentioned, the four sides in Dawn of War aren't drastically different, since they're each dependent 
 on the same resources and have roughly analogous military units. However, these similarities are 
 to the game's credit, because they serve to reduce the learning curve involved in switching from 
 play as one faction to another. Consequently, the thought of learning to play as each of them, 
 in turn, doesn't seem intimidating. Nevertheless, as in any great RTS game, it can take an indefinitely 
 long time to truly master the different options of any one of these factions. Therefore, the devil's 
 in the details of the various units, vehicles, weapons, abilities, and tactics available to them. 

  One of Dawn of War's accomplishments involves how successfully it translates some of the tabletop 
 wargame's elements into effective twists on the conventional formula for real-time strategy games. 
 For example, the action in any given battle revolves heavily around the capturing and holding of 
 "strategic points," which have an abstract concept but literally take the form of beacons on the 
 map. You may capture these points with most infantry squads, which is a process that leaves your 
 squad immobilized and vulnerable for a number of seconds. But then, the captured point grants you 
 a steady flow of requisition resource, which is necessary for purchasing new buildings, units, 
 and upgrades. The idea is that the better you're faring in battle by capturing more strategic points, 
 the more likely your faction is willing to support you from orbit with additional troops, structures, 
 and supplies.     

  Your strategic points can be recaptured by the enemy, but you can defend them by building listening 
 posts on them, and then you can upgrade these listening posts into respectable automated defenses. 
 Moreover, upgrades to these structures also increase the flow of resources from that point, so 
 they're a good investment. In addition to strategic points, maps contain similar points that represent 
 relics and critical locations. These, too, add to your requisition resource rate. Relics also unlock 
 the most power elements from your arsenal, while capturing and holding the map's critical locations 
 for a sufficient length of time may win you the match. That is, if you play with the default settings, 
 in which you may alternatively achieve victory in this fashion -- or by capturing and holding two-thirds 
 of the map's strategic points. Of course, you could always go the good old-fashioned route of annihilating 
 the opposing army. Regardless, Dawn of War is decidedly unkind to overly defensive play styles, 
 so the best defense is a good offense here.  

          It's not practical to play the game while zoomed-in and up close to the action, but it's 
 always a treat to take a closer look at some of the carnage.     

  The game's other resource is power, which is automatically accumulated when you build generators. 
 A few points on each map let you build special ultrapowered generators for a major influx of this 
 resource, which becomes especially important in the late-game, since large quantities of it are 
 needed to marshal your strongest units. At any rate, the game's resource model is simple, and there 
 aren't an overwhelming number of buildings or upgrades available to each faction, which creates 
 some pretty clear-cut strategic choices in battle from an economic standpoint. Do you "tech up" 
 your best units, or do you quickly throw together some fighting forces with which to rush your 
 enemies and prevent them from gaining the upper hand? Actually, in practice you'll probably want 
 to do both. The game's economic model, through its simplicity, does a great job of putting the 
 emphasis on combat. You can't just hunker down and hoard resources; instead, you need to get out 
 there to capture strategic points. This will inevitably cause you to encounter the enemy quite 
 early in a match. So while there's a fair amount of repetitive base-building in a given battle, 
 it's an easy and relatively quick and painless process that facilitates some interesting strategic 
 choices. However, it doesn't much take the emphasis away from the action out in the field.  

  As well it shouldn't, since much of the game's underlying strategy unfolds during the heat of 
 battle rather than back at base. Despite how you gain access to some extremely powerful vehicles 
 and other units in the later stages of a battle, Dawn of War strikes a fine balance of requiring 
 you to use your relatively inexpensive infantry throughout rather than simply replacing your less 
 powerful forces. It's these infantry units that you'll use to capture strategic locations on the 
 map, so you may want to upgrade your infantry and other units during the course of a battle. Interestingly, 
 Dawn of War lets you upgrade and customize individual squads. So while you might research an upgrade 
 back at base that allows you to equip your squads with additional heavy weapons, you then need 
 to decide which squads to equip with which weapons. Furthermore, infantry squads can be reinforced, 
 since they usually don't start out at full strength. So, for example, whereas you initially get 
 a squad of four space marines out of your chapel-barracks, you may reinforce that squad with up 
 to five more marines -- and the squad will move and act as a single unit.  

  Dawn of War lets you comfortably focus your efforts on managing a relatively small number of versatile 
 military forces. Your units do quite a good job when left to their own devices, but there are several 
 behavioral presets that let you determine how they should act when confronted by the enemy. The 
 default defensive position works well in most cases. It's not all automatic, so there's plenty 
 for you to do. Squad reinforcements and upgraded weapons materialize out of thin air, making it 
 possible to upgrade your squad from anywhere on the map, which gives you the power to counter your 
 enemy forces on the fly. You can also summon squad leaders, and you can even attach powerful hero-type 
 characters to your squads, who'll empower their brethren and who are extremely strong in their 
 own rights. Some options are noticeably lacking, for better or worse. For instance, if a front-line 
 unit is taking damage, you can't just walk him to the rear ranks to keep him alive, since you can't 
 control him independently of his squad. In fact, there's not really an easy way of tracking individual 
 casualties anyway, so it's common to have to quickly cycle through your squads to then commission 
 more reinforcements and heavy weapons as your forces take damage. Also, larger units sometimes 
 have a hard time maneuvering around smaller ones, so you might need to help them get around. Since 
 you don't have too many units to work with, though, this level of micromanagement doesn't seem 
 excessive or unwelcome.  

          A dreadnought, one of the space marines' most powerful combatants, can easily take on dozens 
 of orks.     

  You'll also need to keep an eye on your units' morale, which is governed by a blue meter above 
 the green meter that represents health. The game's morale system is simple, but it works well. 
 Basically, units lose morale in addition to hit points as they take damage, and some types of attacks 
 (and attackers) -- while not necessarily the deadliest in the game -- are particularly damaging to 
 morale. A unit's morale is broken when its meter empties, and while the unit won't automatically 
 turn and flee at this time, you'd do well to get it out of the fight. Otherwise its strength will 
 be severely crippled until it escapes from battle and recovers. So, when faced with overwhelming 
 odds (such as at the hands of the swarming orks) , it's viable to try to break enemy morale to turn 
 the tide of battle. As such, not only does the morale system add a strategic element to Dawn of 
 War's combat, but also it helps differentiate the playable factions. For example, the space marines 
 are extremely brave and won't ever break under typical battlefield conditions. But when faced with 
 some of chaos' most hideous demons, even these stalwart men may lose their resolve.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (307 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:02 am PT
Review:  I always wanted to really like rts games. Starcraft was the first one that I can remember ever 
 really enjoying but still I felt I had to force myself to get back in there and play. Mainly because 
 it just so time consuming with a lot of unnecessary stuff but still a pretty amazing game. Then 
 I found Relic which make games that you get resources by actually going in and fighting instead 
 of the builder freaking haul resources back and forth all day. In game cutscenes and amazing voice 
 acting and sound. The troops are so realistic youll care about each group. This game is pure fun. 
 It can be time consuming but the whole experience seems very fun even building your base because 
 everything feels like it has a purpose and everything in the world feels real but more than anything 
 its time consuming cause it so dang good its hard to get off. 
  
  Plus there is a lot of pure action in this game. Its always a lot of action going on on the screen 
 but you are never overwhelmed the difficulty is just right. You feel just as bad@ as your opponent, 
 if not more so the Space Marines are the definition of bad@. If you're looking for an rts that 
 is just pure fun in almost every aspect this game is for you. You will fall in love with the universe. 
 This also one of those games that stand the test of time in every aspect graphically, sounds, and 
 fun. It has the type of graphics that still look pretty good over time because the style it was 
 made in. Don't believe me download the demo off of filefront. com. 
  
  You'll probably want to just get the platinum edition like I did to have the series and save money 
 on the bundle. Its worth every penny it will last you a long time with much much fun to be had. 
 You might not need another rts after this. When u do you can get into dawn of war 2 but this is 
 definetly worth getting no matter what new rts comes out. Plus this plays different from dow2 so 
 its good to have variety play styles. Now get in there and fight. And remember Beware The Alien, 
 The Mutant, The Heretic... Best Rts Series Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirt871
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  From the moment the intro cinematic began, I was hooked into Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War. It 
 sets the violent and bloody mood and begins a cavalcade of strategy and violence that kept me hooked 
 to the computer for hours and would keep me hooked for more hours were it not for the fact that 
 I have billions of other games to play. It isn't that Dawn of War does anything extraordinarily 
 new or brilliant in terms of gameplay mechanics, but the battles are just so damn entertaining 
 and the pace of the game fast enough that it's hard not to have a good time.
  
  The Warhammer 40,000 universe is an incredibly rich one. As they say, in the distant future, there 
 is only war. And the war in the distant future is the unforgiving, brutal, no-nonsense kind of 
 war with uncompromising soldiers leading the charge. All of the races in the galaxy want to slaughter 
 each other... badly. Through thousands of years humans have become one with their violence, adopting 
 a kill or be killed mentality when dealing with these alien races. But along the way, they've also 
 adopted a kind of religion and spirituality that is neither fluffy nor particularly comforting. 
 Their undying Emperor and his theocracy is the centerpiece of a human life washed in blood and 
 order. To protect this mighty Imperium millions of men and women carry weapons as part of the Imperial 
 Guard. On top of that, clans of battle hardened and enhanced soldiers known as Space Marines float 
 through the galaxy bringing war against the enemies of humanity. Each chapter of the Space Marines 
 gives complete allegiance to the Emperor.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrysisFPS
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I have never had any interest in the warhammer series until I got this out a few years ago. Dawn 
 Of War's setting can be so obsessive. I like the factions they present in this game and their designs 
 are really, really cool. The fighting in this game is a pleasure to look up close especially when 
 the two factions sword-fight each other. I think Dawn Of War brought something new at the time, 
 where you can shift the screen angles to view the battle closely, birds-eye view etc. Though the 
 squad numbers are not big, the fighting is really epic. Squads can sometimes use ground cover to 
 take less damage. You can make soldiers chuck grenades, and make them swith between guns and swords. 
 It can almost be described as a small simulation game.
  
  After experiencing all that stuff, I began to think how underrated this game is on gmaespot. It 
 should have recieved a rating high enough for editor's choice. The graphics are amazing for their 
 time and so is the animations. The skirmish involves all kinds of modes, but you can also customise 
 your own armies and name them. That is one of the game's biggest plusses, since you can edit colour 
 and symbols for your own army. This is what a lot of RTS's have been sadly lacking, but once this 
 game came out, the real fun began.
  
  I would not suggest playing the campaign since the level design is poor and the story is pretty 
 childish. The campaign serves more as a tutorial in each mission I have played so far. I would 
 suggest playing just the skirmish, since thats where there is the most fun and the fun that lasts 
 the longest.
  
  Despite a disappointing campaign, Dawn of War's graphics, epic music, customization and phenomenal 
 gameplay make me vote a ten. I know it is 2009 now, and a sequel is coming very, very soon. However, 
 if you intend to wait till it is cheaper, I insist you buy this game and play it while you wait! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warboss01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  When news first broke about the release of Dawn of War, I had never heard of Warhammer 40,000. 
 For a while I didn't really pay much attention to the game at all until about 2 years after its 
 launch, at this point Winter Assault was already out and Dark Crusade was about to be released. 
 I heard good things so I downloaded the single-player demo of the game to see what kind of RTS 
 it was. Basically I got the same reaction out of the game as I would from Bioshock, except that 
 I would become far more immersed into the back-story. The level that was in the demo was probably 
 the longest mission I have ever played in an RTS and I wished that it would never end. After being 
 deeply satisfied with the demo, I knew that I had to get the actual game, plus the two expansion 
 packs.
  
  It is because of Dawn of War that I have now become enveloped by the sci-fi franchise that is Warhammer 
 40,000. At the time if I wasn't playing Dawn of War, then I was soaking up as much fluff as I can 
 to get a large understanding on the history and nature of the WH 40K Universe. All though I haven't 
 gotten around to reading the books nor do I plan on purchasing/playing the Table Top game, I still 
 love getting in on the back-story and learning as much as I can.
  
  What I really like about the game is how it directly intertwines with the back-story, there is 
 so much history in the WH 40K universe; it's almost to the point that one might even mistake it 
 as all fact if you were not already aware that it is all fictional. Of course there are plenty 
 of other sci-fi universes out there, but it is the deep back-story that separates the franchise 
 from typical sci-fi themes.
  
  If you haven't heard much information regarding the WH 40K universe, then it might be a little 
 difficult to get the references in the game. Although the main plot and most of the events in the 
 game are pretty straight forward and are simple enough to understand even without knowing the back-story, 
 it can be confusing to know who a Chapter Master is or what is a Demonic Artifact. It is not necessary 
 to now the back-story in order to enjoy the game, but a little research can be helpful and even 
 enjoyable.
  
  The game itself plays differently than most RTS, instead of gathering resources by mining ore or 
 farming crops, the game focuses around capturing strategic points. The more you hold and upgrade, 
 the requisition points you get to help summon reinforcements. I like this new way of playing because 
 it allows the player to get in on the action sooner and places the focus on the troops instead 
 of building a base. Of course there is some extensive base building, but it really only stands 
 as a starting point to summon troops.
  
  It is because of the importance of controlling key points and focusing on your troops that makes 
 this game great. Dawn of War really helps put the word Strategy back into "Real Time Strategy." 
 For years, most games in the genre only support the un-strategical tactics of "Zerg Rushing" or 
 "Turtling," never really taking many bold steps. Dawn of War gives the idea that a lot of troops 
 or a massive base doesn't guarantee victory, but that by placing a small number of the right type 
 of units in the best locations is superior to unleashing a massive force all at once.
  
  One thing that I am concerned with is the balance issue, especially as the player plays through 
 the other expansion packs. Some early game units in one faction can be much stronger than another. 
 The only hope for the later faction is that the opposing faction doesn't engage until the player 
 can build up the strength of their own forces. So in this case, the best you can do is act quickly 
 and use the environment to your advantage.
  
  Dawn of War is truly an example of what a great RTS should be and introduces plenty of features 
 that make it stand out above most other games. Despite some flaws, I feel that the game is largely 
 underappreciated and deserves a lot more praise then it ends up receiving. Personally I feel that 
 Dawn of War truly deserves some recognition as one of the greatest RTS's in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to sci-fi games, the storyline will usually vary between epic (such as Star Wars 
 or Dune franchises) and realistic (Mass Effect) . Warhammer 40.000 takes the genre to a different 
 setting, and introduces the gamer to the darker, gruesome aspect of sci-fi plots.
  
  Forget paladins of light fighting against the forces of darkness. While Orcs, Elves and Chaos/Daemonic 
 forces will still be present, your soldiers are by no means 'soldiers of light'. Warhammer succeeds 
 in its premise by taking an overused formula and adding its own twist. You do not control saints, 
 but brainwashed soldiers so committed to the Emperor that they'd rather perish in suicidal combat 
 in his name than to live another day without 'His' goals ("I'd rather die for the Emperor than 
 live for myself") . Adding the religion fanaticism of the eternal fight against heresy, Warhammer 
 presents the player with a scenario filled with hatred, intolerance, violence and betrayal, and 
 that's just with the 'good guys'.
  
  You'll play as the Blood Ravens, a group of Space Marines sent into the planet Tartarus, metropolitan 
 planet once home to billions of humans, now completely overrun by rampaging orcs. Orcs in space? 
 Yeah, and that formula works like a charm. The humor completely absent from the Blood Ravens side 
 is the highlight of the Orcs, and the almost crude, uncomfortable mix between their harsh, simple 
 nature and the wonders of industrialized technology (no unit or building of theirs can be called 
 'gracious', they're heaps of wood and metal that somehow just barely work) . But there's a catch: 
 the Orcs are being driven, led, perhaps, by the forces of Chaos, sworn enemies of the Empire of 
 Mankind. From there, you'll slaughter your way from one battlefield to the next, furthering the 
 Emperor's cause with every point captured and every enemy killed.
  
  You'll do that in a manner all too familiar to those who have played Blizzard's famous double: 
 Warcraft/Starcraft. You'll build your base, getting additional technologies each upgrade of your 
 'town center' (a. k. a. Stronghold) , and with them, requisitioning new units, each more powerful 
 than the one before. Base building is the foundation, but by no means the sole drive of the game, 
 since each unit can be equipped with a large number of different weapons, ranging from heavy MGs 
 to Missile Launchers, and the infantry soldiers can be led by a Hero, healer, or simply a sergeant, 
 and this combination will be the key to winning you battles throughout the game. Supporting these 
 foot-soldiers, you have tanks, huge mechs called Dreadnoughts, who can singlehandedly hold a pass 
 against a horde of infantry troops, if armed right, and sniper/infiltrator scouts, who can take 
 out the strongest unit of a group before you start your assault, ensuring the enemy will have a 
 crushing morale-blow once the attack begins.
  
  Morale, in fact, is one of the surprising adds to the gaming mechanics. Your soldiers will fight 
 better when their morale bar is full, and with every drop they drop their attack and defensive 
 capacities. This is changed by several different factors. Your/the enemy's morale will drop if 
 punished by a heavy impact weapon, such as the flamethrower. Your/the enemy's morale will rise 
 with the presence of a Hero, of if the opposing force suffers enough casualties. This make strategic 
 'presence', if not positioning, a key element in battles, who will at times be won by the most 
 basic troops, if their weapons carry enough of a punch to kick the enemy's morale to the ground, 
 no matter how advanced the troop is.
  
  Combat is driven by holding several different strategic points. Once each is captured (removed 
 the enemy's flag, put your own one) you'll want to secure that point, placing listening posts and 
 turrets around the point, so you don't have to keep a big enough force in there only not to lose 
 it. And that is, summing up, the whole premise of each level. While the stories will be driven 
 forward by diary-based 'confessions' from the Captain, each level plays close to the same way. 
 That can be the result by the different ways each faction plays. Orcs just build up forces and 
 sent them all at you (For the horde!) . Elves (cyber-elves) build several different structures around 
 the field, and each is as a gateway to their base, amounting for near complete unpredictability 
 from their part. Where will the next attack be? I remember having built up and cleansed my way 
 through one half of the scenario, separated by a river, and concentrating my forces on the attack, 
 only to find my original base under attack from a group of elven soldiers emerging from a clearing 
 I had already scouted and killed everyone within (they sent a lone construction drone, and while 
 I killed them in one end of the map I was being killed on the other one) . Chaos forces are the 
 hardest to fight, simply because they fight just like you (deep striking  sending group of soldiers 
 in assaults deep within enemy territory) , and concentrated waves of infantry attacks supported 
 by machines. Your way will always remain the same, but the enemy will constantly change, and for 
 that, you need to adjust your own way to counter theirs.
  
  Supported by some excellent voice-acting, engrossing music and killer graphs (in their own, RTS 
 way) , Warhammer hits the RTS nail in the head, providing hours of gruesome fun for the addicted 
 gamer. Its plot grinds its way to your head, and while there are only eleven missions, each will 
 last quite a while, more so if you, like I do, prefer to play it safe (secure each point heavily 
 before advancing) . It provides a wonderful challenge in the midst of a great storyline.
  
  It flies the Starcraft banner admirably. You just cannot ask for more from an RTS. I could ask 
 from the store the damned expansion packs, and I think that's exactly what I'm going to do, right 
 now.
  
  Have fun, and claim your PC in the name of the Emperor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smaradax
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 10:47 pm PT
Review:  PLOT
  Great interesting plot, but is unfinished at the end of the game. I assume that the expansion packs 
 complete the plot, though.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Four distinct armies to play as. Each one is very unique and cool, but the single player campaign 
 focuses on the Space Marines, as they are the only playable race in the campaign. Early map exploration 
 and controlling strategic points around the map are tactics that should be used to win. Losts of 
 cool unit types and upgrades. A few problems with moving large armies though. The single player 
 campaign only has 11 missions and is too short.
  
  SOUND
  Great battle effects and speech, although a few voices sound like overacting.
  
  GRAPHICS
 
  Lovely graphics and battle effects. Units look good and unique.
  
  DIFFICULTY
  The game has three difficulty levels: Normal, Hard and Insane. This game would be good for newcomers 
 to the RTS genre, as the game is very easy on normal. I would recommmend for a good veteran RTS 
 player to play on Insane difficulty, as Hard is a bit easy too.
  
  OVERALL
  Brilliant in every way, but too short. THis game is now a budget title, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. its not too hard, easy to play, and is brutal while having a great 
 story at the same time
  
  Graphics
  The graphics do look dated, but when you turn it all the way up, things look sharp and the explosions 
 and sound effects are awesome.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is like Starcraft but with much less emphasis on resources and much more on sending 
 out small squads of people, caputuring strategic points, and holding them until you can build a 
 listening post. Then you continue. It sounds boring, but its actually really fun and addicting. 
 im like always thinking about it and im looking forward to playing the expansions (maybe not soulstorm) 
 and DOWII.
  
  Story
  The story is great, as you have people loyal to the emperor, and people who betray the emperor 
 for pure power and lust. great and gripping to say the least.
  
  I kept this review kinda short, but its what you need to know, and this game is a blast and im 
 looking forward to playing the other ones (except soulstorm) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youyou132
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for years. I just now write the review. WIth amazing graphics every 
 battles are THE BATTLES. 
  
  Pros:
  -Amazing graphics
  -indepedent animation in each battle of soldiers
  -new way of gathering resources
  -each species 
 have unique way of gathering resoucres
  
  Cons:
  -It's RTS. Repetative games
  -LIttle bit unbalanced between species
  
  Although the game is a unique RTS. From board game 
 to video game is not easy to apply. However, this is very well done, more than well done. The game 
 is very gory, but it is not just about cruelty. These features all the attractive part of the warhammer 
 series.
  The game is also very fast paced. Applying heroes into the game was a very nice idea. Although 
 there is no level up system, each hero has its own unique ability. The heroes are essential in 
 every game, every battle and core to the victory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toc1261
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  like I said best game on the planet the only thing to make it better is to add tyranid but there 
 going to in the new game so I'm happy. Some part are rough around the edges but that what I think 
 makes it so good the inperfectness of the game. here a tip use only one servartor or any other builder 
 your base will go up slower but the end up being longer and you don't feel disaponted in the end. This 
 game and all of the warhammer title should go down in the genis book of world record for extreme 
 blood and gore, and best game on the planet.
  
  I wish i had the table top game to its preaty awsome. some of my favortite units, space marines squad, termantor, land 
 raider, looted lemus russ, nob, mega armored nobs, shootaboyz. some thing relic i would like you to 
 add are spaceship and space battles like in empire at war (star wars) , and naval units
  you, and those and you got one happy camper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lambawan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  I have always had mixed feelings about Real Time Strategy games. For me, Dawn of War pulled me 
 off the fence and into the trenches- literelly.
  It's a fantastic game. It had this spectacular feel about it right from the tutorial level down 
 to the very last chapter. I loved every second of it. You could almost taste the grit and smell 
 the melta bombs as they bombarded walking armours, tanks and buildings.
  Trainig soldiers and researching new technology was fun for the very first time in any game because 
 for once- the makers knew that in times of war, time is a crucial factor. Enough nostalgic comments. 
 Let's really talk about the game.
  The game play was quite good. I never actually discovered a single bug not to mention the fluidity 
 and obsessive detail down to the little scratches on unit armour. 
  The voice acting was brilliant. The music was so right on the money and all the 'purty colors' 
 just kinda made it a heck of a worth while experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellisnice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  very nice , graphics are'nt amazing but the game play is addictive . i also like you can make the 
 colour's on the Armour weapons and vehicles .........................
  and so over all the best thing is probabaly the nice game play , it just has a little snaz to it 
 . i think the no cheat's thingy is good , because you only need them for REALLY hard games , but 
 this game is just perfect .
  well , there's not much to say now  
 ppvcpgpfpogf p p p p p p p p p o ki kpo opk okp jio j9u jijoi i ni bhi bi b ib ibh bihbh ih v fv 
 ytf cd r ff g bh mnjim mko mj h v fvg bh pon nj bh gy8 hi kp mk ohb hb mk l, moj hb hbikmp p [, l 
 byh mk mkop n nij vt un n0 yh8y8 m mn9u by7 i i0k i, l [ ji9 i0k.; [ uj9 ji0 [l. p ko0 uh hu ,kp ui 
 g gyu hbuy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aura_enchanted
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  for a long time no warhammer 40k titles have been a series of dissappointments (read my review 
 of fire warrior) . but in this game lies its redemption. Dawn of War has to be the best rts i have 
 played since warcraft 2. it is immersive, the story is vivid, and replay value is immense, and 
 the attention to detail is amazing.
  the story follows blood raven's (an army of space marines) captain davian thule and his trusted 
 advisor (or librarian for you 40k savy folk) as he throws himself hedlong in the battle for a planet. 
 as the story continues u fight harder and hard enemies with bigger and badder technology. the storyline 
 is limited to 1 playable army but the story as amazing as it is isnt the main focus. multiplayer 
 is where this game shines as you can play as whichever of the 4 races you choose. and there color 
 schemes are full customizable (thats right no more generically colored armies!) . the color template 
 is true to the 40k tabletop paint list and the setup is so good u can pick your insignia and battle 
 standard.
  game play:
  the game play for warhammer 40k: dawn of war is a fresh breath of fresh air. it has units broken 
 up into pre-made squads, that u can expand and customize for various roles. and the game doesn't 
 rely on a truck load of resources gathered using precious manual labor. this mean u spend more 
 time raising your army and building defenses that you do worry about where the money for them is 
 coming from. this would be because resource gathering is done by capturing strategic points on 
 the map and defending them.
  the four playable armies each have their own unique play style the space marines favor a well rounded 
 player, whereas the eldar rely on ambushes and lightning strikes to win the day. and ork army primarily 
 rely on throwing overwhelming numbers at you, and finally a chaos army uses unrelenting assaults 
 using various forms of deamonic entities and a wide list of armor.
  On the whole this game is amazing and it will offer a limitless number of gameplay hours. Miss 
 this game and you miss out on a GEM of a title 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  We all love Warhammer 40,000 . We all love big raiding hordes of armies sweeping the galaxy. So 
 to be able to play and command your troops, in an all together very efficient way is what its all 
 about.
  
  The graphics are great, gorgeous and utmost stick to the point. There is no boring side tasks or 
 obvious massive deviations from the plot which is to win. I like that about this game, its simple. 
 They know we want to play, they know we'll come back for me so they give us our "proverbial portion 
 of chips" and head back to their game studios to release something else. Good work boys. Because 
 nobody likes to be messed around when we all know that gamers come of different sizes and ages, 
 different races. For some game companies to think they can select their audiences and still sell. 
 Well they should be shot. This game appeals to girls, girls and people of all ages. 
  
  Its a great sci-fi war game that steps forward with technology and doesn't pull technology at the 
 seems trying to make it fit to its ideals.
  
  'Nuff of this review? Yeah I thought so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckizard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I only dabble in RTS games but decided to give this game a try at a bargain price, many years after 
 it had come out. I love it. The missions are very challenging and extremely fun, with great storyline 
 and cut-scenes each mission. The game offers tons of missions, each with various challenges in 
 which types of equipment you need to produce in order to complete the mission. The graphics are 
 great for such an old game especially when you zoom in close to see the actions of each piece. 
 
  
  The game also offers multi-player online with an unlimited extension to the game vs other players 
 as well as tournaments, ladders, leaderboards, and customization for every player. I'm sure anyone 
 who enjoys teh RTS genre has played this game and the titles which follow and still continue to 
 thrive to this day, with new expansions still in the works. I just recently discovered it and fills 
 my boredom with great fun between other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellboyx
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War was a game that i was very much looking forward to leading up to its release on the 
 PC, and it also did not disappoint when i got it home and started to play it; in a nutshell I think 
 Dawn of War is one of the finest games of all time and should not be missed by anybody regardless 
 of if you like the warhammer universe or not.
  
  The action is fast pace, removing micro-management in place for squad building and domination, 
 this is a full-scale war and it delivers on so many levels. Not only that the presentation is great 
 and the finishing moves that your little characters pull off are just so much fun to watch time 
 and time again.
  
  This is in my honest opinion, one of the only games out there that i would advise to anybody, it 
 is so much fun and i have been playing it now for 3 years thankfully for its expansions keeping 
 the action coming, do yourself a favor and buy the anthology, sit back and have some fun with your 
 unit of choice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40K series is a RTS based on an all out brutal war that takes place in the 41st millennium 
 among different species.
  
  The game has four playable unique armies namely:
  Space Marines : The uncompromising genetically enhanced super soldiers of the Imperium.
  Orks: 
 Brutal warmongers who attacts in large numbers..... WAAAGH!!
  Chaos Marines: Traitor humans fallen under the influence of Evil Chaos Gods.
  Eldar: An ancient 
 race who mastered stealth, agility and teleportation.
  
  In the single player campaign however Space Marine is the only playable race. The war takes place 
 in the planet of Tartarus, an imperial planet under that comes attack of alien races. Its upto 
 you to stop it.
  
  Each race comes with unique capabilities. All have strength and weaknesses. Though some people 
 claim that game play is far too simple, I'd like to point out that through simple interface of 
 the game has many advanced features. You can individualy upgrade squads and vehicles with addons 
 and weaponry. For example you can upgrade your space Marine squads with rocket launchers, heavy 
 bolters, flame throwers and plasma guns. You actually get to choose which guns to carry and how 
 many. Same goes with certain vehicles where you can individualy upgrade each of them to be effective 
 against infantry or vehicles etc. The game allows you not only to customize the a unit's weapons 
 and upgrades but also their colors and symbols.
  
  The game has two primary resources : requisition and power. There is more than one way to get them. 
 Also you'll find relics that gives you access to some of the most advanced units in the game.
 
  
  Multiplayer is fun too. The game definitely provides hours of game play with skirmish and multiplayer 
 modes which are lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben5rokz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War is the best game ever because the only way to beat the game is by strategy and teamwork. 
 You can meet other players online and become teams or simply battle on your own. The amazing thing 
 about the game is that not only can you make friends but you can also improve on skill such as 
 strategy ( which i mentioned first of all ) and perhaps learn about teamwork. Teamwork is probably 
 the most important thing in team battles.. without teamwork you will not become a very good player... 
 AT ALL!
  
  Single Battles
  
  The most important thing in single battles is strategy. You need to use strategy to attack and 
 defend. ( i like attacking, i will mention how i do this in a moment) Attacking is very hard because 
 you can attack and then moments later your base gets destroyed ( and you lose your game ) .
  
  My Attacking Strategy ( Space Marines )
  
  Well i like to leave about 8 space marine squads 
 at my base to defend. I like using the machines that attack and help defending... You can build 
 them with servitors. ( Sorry i forgot the name lol ) My attacking squad has about 15 space marine 
 squads, 5 assault marine squads and 6 dreadnoughts. ( If you can have terminator squads use 4 of 
 them)
  
  My Defending Strategy ( Space Marines )
  
  You need to have about 10 of all the types of marines.. If you can build terminators use 7 of them. 
 Use about 6 Scouts to infiltrate somewhere near the enemies base. Then if they pass where my scouts 
 are then i know where they are so i will build a quick army of 6 space marines and send them to 
 the area ( if it is a big army coming to attack your base, don't send any, leave the marines at 
 the base to sort them out..) If any of your people die, send the survivors back to base and replenish 
 them.
  
  Hope this helps you enjoy the game
  
  Ben5rokz
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  After numerous flops in the VG industry, GW has finally found Relic to bring the 41st millennium 
 to life.
  
  -Pros-
  *Awesome Melee Combat
  *Nice Detail on Models
  *Captures visceral nature of 40K
  *Well Balanced Units (Apply patches)
  * Array of different 
 Armies to Master
  *Quick PacedMultiplayer
  *Geared to run on old machines
  *Excellent audio and superb voice acting
  
  -Cons-
  *The idea of Terrain isn't flushed out 
 enough
  *Maps can feel clausterphobic
  *Campaign Missions can feel repetitive
  *Some units act stupidly (They take the long route instead of short route)
  *Base Building
 
  
  The Dawn of War franchise is fantastic. Im a Tabletop player so this game was a dream come true. 
 Its an excellent RTS that will have me playing until the day I die.
  
  Hardware/Software- Runs fairly easily. Taking Shadows off can help smooth things out, but they 
 add alot of detail to the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMVanquish5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I had played the tabletop game a little bit before, but i wasnt an expert. 
 I decided to pick up this game. Its awesome. The graphics are superb with lots of little details 
 such as assault marines chainsawing the enemies. Once you play this game you will dream about it. 
 The single player campaign is ok. Its linear and the cut scenes are crappy, but it gives you nice 
 objectives and stuff. The best mission is where you take a squad of snipers and infiltrate an orc 
 base. This isn't a game like Starcraft where you just mass units and send them to attack. Offensive 
 strategy is deffinitely key. A smaller group of forces can defeat a larger group if they are better 
 equiped and the player knows how to micro. You dont control as many units as some games, but this 
 is actually nicer since you can control smaller groups. The vehicles are awesome. Some vehicles 
 have like 4 different guns that can fire at 4 different enemies. Another cool thing is that seperate 
 squads can be upgraded with seperate weapons, so a well equipped squad can take out two less equipped 
 squads. This definitely adds depth since you have to decide whether to order a new squad or to 
 upgrade a current one. 
  
  You should probably get this game if you:
  a) like rts's
  b) enjoy chainsawing orcs 
  c) love summoning giant 100ft tall demons covered in blood
  d) 
 all of the above
  
  also the expansions are pretty good, dark crusade is definitely the best one since it has the tau 
 and necron. two awesome factions. Also, don't waste your money on soulstorm, it pretty much sucks. 
 There is a demo if you want to try it tho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nofunzoner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer dawn of war is a great game. base building is fast, and it doesnt take long to get into 
 the battlefield. The effects are nice, however character models are starting to show there age 
 (however, you usually are looking at the preety lasers that you wont really care) . This game is 
 bloody, and defanitely deserves its M rating. Whever someone is shot, a little blood spatter spurts 
 out of their body. when there killed, a pool of blood is in the air, and if you have dark crusade, 
 theres flesh on the ground. When you kill someone in close combat, they do an awesome finishing 
 move, such as the bloodthirsters baseball axe execution. Get this game NOW! 4 races in the beginning 
 and a total of 9 with expansion packs! This game is only available for a decade, so order now. 
 you must be 17 years or older to order. (but not to play) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fgfdfh
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect. For anyone who like RTS or warhammer 40000, this game really worth a try. 
 Graphic is amazing: the game's units are highly detailed and animated exremly well ( you'll see 
 space marine dreadnoughts grab hold of enemy infantry and squash them like grapes before tossing 
 their bodies aside like garbage; avatar of Khaine impales its victims on its burning sword and 
 causes the earth to blacken with ash in the wake of its footsteps and many other  
 music in game is good, adio effect match for the graphic, varios voice capture units' personalities. overral 
 AI is well done (althought there're some very small issue) .
  
  this game is simply a great game, and it's difficult not to find some thing to like in this game. 
 so you'd better buy it right  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  The Good: Translates the board game nicely to an RTS, great story and voice acting, simple design 
 and game play mechanics makes RTS fun, fun multiplayer
  
  The Bad: Camera and AI issues, can't kill off units, may not be deep enough for RTS buffs, cliffhanger 
 ending
  
  I love RTS games but when they try to be too deep (i. e. Civilization) they can sometimes be either 
 boring or too hard. Dawn of War tries to remedy this with a simple design. If you don't know what 
 Warhammer is then I wouldn't be surprised. Warhammer is a board game where you buy and collect 
 outrageously priced figurines too build your army (s) and battle with other people. The models come 
 in plain die cast metal so you can even paint them yourselves. Dawn of War does a perfect job of 
 making that into an easy to access (and cheaper) form. The game has a great story with great voice 
 acting as well and this is also a surprise. You play as the Space Marines who are trying to stop 
 the Chaos and Orks from destroying the world Tartarus and unleashing an ancient evil. Through the 
 11 campaign missions you'll play you'll slowly unlock new things to use. Unlike most RTS games 
 the squad cap is at 20 and the vehicle cap is at 17. Don't this is kiddied up at all. You can select 
 each unit and "add soldiers" and even upgrade new weapons and abilities for them at your armory. 
 Each "squad" can hold up to a certain amount of soldiers so choose wisely. You have four different 
 powerful squads which are the Scout Marines (the weakest yet the fastest) , the Space Marines (your 
 main squad you'll be using) , your Assault Marines (they have jet packs and are more powerful) , 
 and your Terminators which are massive mechs that are practically unstoppable. You can't unlock 
 these until the last few missions. Your vehicles are the same you have tanks, powerful tanks, super 
 powerful tanks, tanks that transport troops etc. To build all of these you do need resources, but 
 unlike other RTS games, you don't need a ton of different things. All you need is Requisition Resource, 
 and Power Resource. You get PR by building power generators and you get RR by capturing Strategic 
 Points throughout the maps. You then can build Listening Posts on these and upgrade them with turrets 
 and armored housing. You also can't get the better units until you upgrade your Stronghold (think: 
 Eras in Age of Empires and Civilization) . While there are only three different upgrades (remember 
 they keep everything simple) you have to build certain structures before upgrading again. Most 
 of the game play comes into play when you attack enemies. While you attack enemies you can use 
 upgrades that you researched such as frag grenades, smite, rally etc. You can also attach your 
 main characters to units to add attributes and you can even add commanders. While this is really 
 fun and simple and easy the game has some flaws. First off the graphics look somewhat dated, especially 
 up close. Second you can't kill units so if you accidentally created a Space Marine instead of 
 an Assault Marine because you have to jet pack over a ravine you're screwed. You can however rally 
 the Space Marines to an Orbital Station and that them dropped over, but you need the third add 
 on your Stronghold for this. Another pain is you can't zoom out far enough. This makes finding 
 squads tedious and annoying. The final thing is the cliffhanger ending. It leaves an opening for 
 the expansion packs, but you aren't satisfied at all. There are also AI issues where units will 
 pile on top of each other and get confused on where to go. This can make moving large amounts of 
 units a pain since some will be further ahead then others. If you can overlook all of this Dawn 
 of War is one of the best RTS games ever made. With it's simple design and easy pick up and play 
 mechanics you're going to have a blast with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pride_of_Hiigar
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  In you lifetime of gaming you must have com across a game which is totally out of its genera. The 
 name "Real-time-strategy" is not what I would describe Dawn of war to be. The story is intense 
 and pulls you in in the first mission. The gameplay is so simple that anyone who doesn't like strategy 
 games would instantly want to finish this one. To master the game takes time, but to be good enough 
 to defeat the computer just takes 1 hour of learning. The campaign slowly revels to you the purpose 
 of each element in the game gradually which is a good learning experience for any first time strategy 
 player. However this game does look very familiar to Warcraft and the story is almost the same, 
 except the fact that it doesn't look at both sides of the story. The hero becomes evil and then 
 there is a good hero who remains loyal to the true race and fights to save the day. In the end 
 there is no ending for the game three comes a voice saying "you have unleashed me", which really 
 makes you want to play the next installment of the game.
  In my mind Dawn of War is some what a big tutorial for any gamer seriously wanting to improve their 
 skills in strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronmullan
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War isnt your average RTS. Most Real Time Strategy games offer you a unique selection of 
 buildings to upgrade, and maybe make a small army to keep those buildings standing on their own. 
 Dawn of War on the other hand gives you a unique selection of Troop types, And when i say Unique 
 i mean for every race. Their is no rehashing in this game, all the units are different for every 
 Race. 
  
  This comes to the Graphics, Shure they arent top notch nowadays but for a Strategy game way back 
 in the old school time of '04 the graphics were considered to be Beautiful and Magnificent amongst 
 the masses. The camera lets you zoom right up to the faces of the Troops. So you can get an In 
 You Face view of the Battlefield. 
  
  The gameplay differs from most RTS games. The goal here is to make an army, go out and Annihilate 
 your enemy within Minutes. Not nessarily annihilate your enemy within minutes, But actually get 
 an Army to fend off incoming attacks. 
  
  If you want some good old fashioned, bloody, explosive fun. Then buy this game! It sells for extremely 
 cheap now. Whats a few bucks gonna do? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elsmallo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Writing now that news of the sequel to this breakthrough game has emerged, it's odd to think that 
 when I first picked up Dawn of War in 2004, I'd barely heard of it, and had few expectations. But 
 even just from looking at the box, something about the design and the few screens on offer suggested 
 to me that I was going to like it. Of course, as a lifelong Warhammer fan, I'd probably have bought 
 it anyway, but it looked like for once someone had nailed 40K right on the head. 
  
  Four years since, and it's clear Relic did exactly that. The most visceral, chunky, brutal and 
 downright cool looking RTS to date in my opinion, the game is still as fun to play as ever. And 
 oddly enough, I think the original might even be better than the subsequent expansions. A story-driven 
 campaign always wins in my estimation, especially over the featureless, repetitive blandness of 
 the recently dissapointing Soulstorm's galaxy sprawl. 
  
  But that's just my opinion. The key fact here is that Dawn of War set the standard, not just for 
 the expansions, but for the excellent, more advanced, Company of Heroes as well. Something about 
 those Space Marines in power-armour will always be cooler than American WW2 squaddies though. The 
 other races, especially the Orks, are all great, for their own reasons, but nothing quite compares 
 to leading the mighty genetically engineered super-soldiers of the Imperium to victory over the 
 scorched ruins of civilisation. That's why I think the original is still the best- it's tighter 
 and more specifically orientated on the Space Marines. 
  
  What else can be said that hasn't already? The principles of cover and take and hold, the quick 
 establishment of ground forces, the defence and attack, the superb animations and effects, all 
 have been hailed over the years as the games strengths. True, after a while battles grow predictable 
 in skirmish mode, but it's a good kind of repetition- don't fall back, don't give ground, or you're 
 dead. And this I think is the game's true strength- the gameplay fits to a tee the reality of the 
 setting (insofar as it is possible to imagine what 40K would really be like) . It's bloody, brutal 
 and uncompromising, and it's damn good fun. 
  
  So here's to Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War. Perhaps the notable thing about it is that it has truly 
 launched Games Workshop into PC games- we've had a less successful Warhammer attempt since then, 
 and MMORPG's for both universes in the pipeline. If any of the new crop are as good as this, you 
 can guarantee I won't be putting down my bolter for some time. And remember, the fallen shall be 
 ever remembered as the Emperor's finest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  Gaming has been good to me recently. I've been lucky enough to play mostly good games and have 
 only been disappointed by one. That one game was Warhammer 40K: Squad Command. With that disappointment, 
 I was prompted to go back to Dawn of War, just to prove to myself once again that you could make 
 a GOOD 40k game.
  
  Dawn of War, when it came out 4 years ago, was revolutionary. It was the first squad based rts 
 game that I encountered, and the fact that it was based on Warhammer 40k had a direct link with 
 my hobby at the time. To see the armies that I had spent so much time painting, modelling and fighting 
 with come to life was incredible for me.
  
  The game itself is based on 4 armies: The Space Marines, The Chaos Space Marines, The Orks, and 
 The Eldar. In the campaign mode, you can only play as the Space Marines, which was disappointing 
 for me as a Chaos supporter. A further downside to the campaign, is that it feels more like a tutorial 
 system than a campaign, preparing yourself for the skirmish maps. In that guise, the campaign does 
 admirably, however, in the sense of an actual campaign, it is somewhat disappointing in its simplicity.
 
  
  The armies themselves are nicely varied, as they should be. Drawing on the depth of forces available 
 to tabletop gamers, the people at Relic did admirably in creating four distinctly varied, yet well 
 balanced forces. Each army works to an individual's prefered fighting style. The Eldar for your 
 agile quick strike player, the Orks for your "drown them in a tide of bodies" player, the Space 
 Marines for your standard, well rounded simplicity player, and Chaos for.... well..... the guy who 
 likes spikes, psychopathic killers and ravaging daemons.
  
  The variations between Dawn of War and every other rts game on the face of the Earth (upon its 
 release) lie in the gameplay itself. Like I said, squad based combat, for one. You no longer have 
 one ork hitting one human with his axe. Now you have a squad of 16 orks throwing themselves at 
 a group of 8 superhumans with machine guns and electrically powered armour. Another variation is 
 the resource gathering scheme. No longer can you sit back while your peons harvest gold and wood 
 in the safe comfort of your base. In order to generate Requisiton (the primary resource) you need 
 to venture out of your base and capture Strategic Points, Critical Locations, and Relics, placed 
 around the map. This style inevitably throws you into conflict with your enemies fairly quickly, 
 as you both attempt to capture the same point. 
  
  Critical Locations are used in some Skirmish Scenarios in the same way as "King of the Hill", capture 
 and hold half of the Critical Locations on the map for a certain amount of time to win. Relics 
 act as a key to each race's superweapon, and inevitably become a hotbead of fighting, as you attempt 
 to secure them for your own good, while stopping your opponents from acquiring their superweapon.
 
  
  All in all, Dawn of War is one of the best RTS games out there. It also stands as more or less 
 the only proof (even now) that somebody CAN make a good game based on the world of Warhammer 40k. 
 For those reasons, I give it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Stratergy games are a genre of games that have been largely left untouched by my fair hands, i 
 never really got the point to telling people to kill stuff, or make stuff, when you could buy another 
 game where you do the killing and making. 
  I have always been a Warhammer fan, mainly of the 40,000 series, set in the future, where earth 
 has been expanded to many plantes, guarded byt the Imperial Guard and the towering Space Marines. 
 Because of this, i fancied giving this a try. 
  And what a suprise i got. 
  As i have previously mentioned, the review covers all of the games in the series apart from Soulstorm. 
 
  I'll start with the first game in the series. The story in this game is really good, with strong 
 characters, and, for the time, excellent graphics. I thoughourly enjoyed the story of theis game, 
 which was handy because i had bought the pack that also included Winter Assault, the first expansion 
 pack. 
  The first game featured the Space Marines, Chaos Space Marines (bad space marines :P) , Eldar and 
 the Orks. Winter Assault brought the Imperial Guard to the fray, with the the Baneblade tank, a 
 goliath of a vehicle capable of destroying small bases with considerable ease. 
  Dar Crusade was the best game so far in the series, bringing two new races, the Necron and the 
 Tau. 
  These are two of my favourite races, but the story mode had been completely overhauled. 
  Instead 
 of missions, there is a planet, and you start up, build an army and take over all of the territories 
 on the planet until you own it, basically. 
  A very good set of games, worth buying, as it is now cheap without doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuVZ-tOo-SPoogE
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  A willy Wombat review: Ok i'm a big warhammer 40k freak but wasn't into it when this came out, 
 when the first expansion pack came out, I thought to myself "CRAp theres one already out!" so later 
 that day I run down to the store get it, load it on my computer, and there I sat for 13 hours straight, 
 playing campaign, It was brilliant. The campaign mode sets a brilliant storyline, as the space 
 marines struggle to fight the Orks, but then realise a sinister force is driving the Orks rampage, 
 the Chaos, and that the Marines are being silently helped by the mysterious Eldar.
  As you progress through the game the plot unfolds into terror and excitement, as you find friends 
 to be the enmy and the silent enemy to be a nightmare. The game has amazing visuals for a PC for 
 its time, and the only thing that lets down the story mode, is that you can only play as the marines, 
 not such a problem but us gamers like a choice. However this problem was fixed in all three expansion 
 packs.
  So I played on and finished the campaign and then discovered skirmish mode, that was heaven and 
 still is on the expansion, but skirmish gives you a chioce to command any army out of the four 
 and choose your enemies. This game is an alltime classic for PC gamers and Warhammer fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisissuit3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  when i moved to my new house i was stuck with a bad PC. my friend came over and wanted to install 
 it but i didnt even have the ram to power it.
  
  so then on my B-day i got enough money to upgrade my PC. plus my friend got me the gold edition.
 
  
  so this game was just amazing. the vast amount of units, the gore, the action, fast pace, oh man 
 amazing.
  
  
  Story: 8.5
  
  rts games have a strange way of telling you who you are. but you command the space marines blood 
 ravens chapter 3 company.
  
  before i move on. this game has a huge amount of backstory. i mean they have like 100+ books of 
 the game. so yea i cant really get into detail.
  
  alright back to the story.
  
  a planet called tarturus (greek myth perhaps?) that is beseiged by orks. so blood ravens come to 
 save the day. 
  
  then you have some strange little plot twist that keep you into the game. the other 2 races comes 
 in. you work with one. you learn that this planet has some deep dark secrets.
  
  alright a little rundown: you have a siege, save, secrets, betrayel.
  
  also it feels like 
 this game ended to suddenly and it just leaves so many questions unanswered.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  
  unlike most rts you dont sit in you base a collect limited rescources. you 
 have to collect strategic point, relics, and critical locations.
  
  and these are scattered all over the map forcing you to leave your base.
  
  you can easily 
 tech up the tech tree.
  
  this game is fast paced and since that theres a lot of noobs that rush their tech I guys.
  
 
  theirs cover dotted around the place giving you a slight advantage.
  
  the 4 races are equally balanced. 
  
  The orks are those tough upclose melee guys.
  
  the 
 Space marines are the high tech guys the wield anti demon weaponry with the all rounder guys.
 
  
  the chaos space marines are like the space marines but a little more numerous. and ambush using 
 demons with the ability to warp anywhere that you can see.
  
  the eldar are the fast race that use hit and run tactics.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  
  this game 
 is pretty tough in the graphics house.
  
  the units are somewhat well detaile if you get close. the rounds are huge compared to the gun and 
 there is plenty of blood.
  
  this brings me to the sync kills.
  
  most units in the game, when have defeaed another unit, will pull of bloody animated kills that 
 basically never get old and plus they dont get hurt. and some sync kills only work with specific 
 units. ie the force commander and blood thirster.
  
  fire looks amazing and the warp fire from the daemons look even better.
  
  the graphics are 
 not bad but some bullets will go through buildings and units.
  
  some other stuff: 8.0
  
  the multiplayer is just going against other players or working togethor to defeat an ai which 
 are balanced very well.
  
  but theres always lag in the multiplayer and for me when someone is forced to leave due to lag. 
 everyone leaves. so its very annoying especially when your winning.
  
  theirs a ranking system but it doesnt really matter.
  
  final verdict: 
  
  this game is 
 awsome if you just love mass carnage. but if your looking for something a lot more strategic look 
 for something else. but i still totally recomend it.
  
  8.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  "There is no such thing as innocence, only degrees of guilt."
  
  I've never played the Warhammer tabletop game, so I had no idea what to expect coming into Dawn 
 of War. Following my usual real-time strategy pedigree, I launched directly into a skirmish, choosing 
 what I determined to be the basic faction: the Blood Raven Space Marines. Skirmishing alone held 
 my attention and kept me coming back for more, and more, and more.
  
  That was two years ago, and it wasn't until this past week, upon completion of both Empire at War 
 games, I delved into the campaign. What a mistake it had been, postponing one of the finest real-time 
 strategy campaigns for all those months. Months I has squandered about with inferior games, searching 
 and digging for the ultimate product. Supreme Commander had come and gone, not holding my attention 
 for more than an hour or two. Command & Conquer 3: Kane Edition had found its way onto my hard 
 drive mere hours after its release; and I still haven't conquered either campaign or poked about 
 on the special DVD (and yes, I am what I consider a die-hard Command & Conquer fanatic: I own all 
 titles excepting Zero Hour, Renegade, Sole Survivor, and Yuri's Revenge... and the compilation Playstation 
 port of the two Red Alert expansions) . I had toyed with Dark Messiah, tommy-gunned through The 
 Godfather, guided Richard B. Riddick through his adventure, and played many hours in Team Fortress 
 2. All of those, with the exception of the latter two, were mere diversions. No, the ultimate prize 
 was something I had neglected for two years: Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War.
  
  "Walk softly, and carry a big gun."
  
  
  There is something special about Dawn of War. A 
 medley of Warcraft 3 graphics and style with plasma rifles, stomping warmechs, and close-quarters 
 bloodshed. My first impressions were emotions which carried me through the entire eleven-mission 
 campaign, which lasted sufficiently long and tied the story line together in an excellent finale. 
 The John Lithgow-soundalike who voiced the captain of the Blood Ravens leads an excellent cast 
 of actors who power a charged series of pre-mission and post-mission movies, which progress the 
 fantastic  Indeed, Dawn of War's story is the most outstanding 
 I have ever encountered in a strategy game, and that's saying something going up against classics 
 such as Sacrifice, Giants: Citizen Kabuto, and Command & Conquer itself (the Dune games for good 
 measure) . I ate up every bit of story with eager anticipation of the next mission and the next, 
 until I had ravaged my enemies into submission and the credits rolled.
  
  "He who stands with me will be my brother."
  
  
  As previously mentioned, gameplay is eerily 
 similar to Warcraft 3, albeit with ample amounts of new features; most prominent being the addition 
 of strategic points which take the place of gold or tiberium. Blood spills more freely on Dawn 
 of War's battlefields, which lends credence to the dark atmosphere and mature stoyline - a specific 
 flavor of which I haven't encountered since the aforementioned Sacrifice. And where Sacrifice had 
 souls and altars, Dawn of War throws out the Chaos, lumbering flame-engulfed daemons, and a history 
 of galactic evil; enough mature atmosphere to give any young gamer a run for his nightmare-laced 
 money. Each mission of the campaign is well-paced and unfolds well for such a brand of game - one 
 that places untold emphasis on the power of an infantry squad. Luckily, Dawn of War goes what no 
 other game has done before: made infantry combat excellent. Each unit may be upgraded with flamethrowers, 
 rocket launcher, apothecaries, linked with hero units, and provided with better armor. Every mission, 
 if the skills of the player are quality enough, may be won simply with the hero units and two or 
 three squads of fully-upgraded Space Marines. Not to say the ancillary units are bad -believe me, 
 they are naught but boring- it simply emphasizes an oft-overlooked element missing from most modern 
 ground-based strategy games.
  
  As any game, Dawn of War also has its failings. Pathfinding is downright atrocious, and is the 
 most glaring problem which impedes entertainment. If multiple squads or units are linked in a group 
 and ordered to attack a particular target, once the nearest gun comes in range, the others cease 
 to move. This is frustrating on the higher difficulty levels since the solution is to point the 
 group towards the target and allow the to auto-fire, as the target will most likely slaughter several 
 men before it is vanquished. Additionally, the missions, while excellent, are all structured identically; 
 build base, mass army, slay enemy. I don't find this such a glaring downfall, since I despise stealth 
 missions and those which do not provide you with a base so I can replace fallen comrades myself 
 drive me insane. Simply said, such a superior product as Dawn of War should have more mission variety.
 
  
  In summation, Dawn of War resides in the top tier of strategy gaming with the likes of the titles 
 I declared previously. It is a must-play for any gamer claiming to be strategist, and fans of other 
 genres would do well to claim a copy for themselves and play to completion. Truly, Dawn of War 
 sets the bar. And sets it high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that "Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War" was one of the most epic real-time strategy 
 games that I have ever played. With the 3D battlefield rendering, intricate faction technology 
 trees, and very flexible gameplay, Dawn of War finally brought the Warhammer universe into the 
 gaming world with critical acclaim.
  
  The graphics for this game are very good. I was impressed with how the full battlefield rendering 
 of the game was pulled off (even though this has now become a mainstay in the RTS industry nowadays) . 
 But taken from the consideration that this game was released back in 2004, however, that was a 
 real step-up from the average lock-camera angle.
  
  The single-player campaign offers several missions, all of which take anywhere from 20 - 60 minutes, 
 depending on your playing style. Overall, I felt that the game was a bit short on missions, with 
 the player only having the option of going through the campaign of the Blood Ravens.
  
  All together, Dawn of War is a fantastic package of tactical premise and open-ended capability, 
 with an assortment of possibilities to reign as the king of the battlefield. This game will certainly 
 take your mind to a whole different world, one where you will relish the opportunity to vanquish 
 your enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Sci Fi games try to show you what they think a few decades or few hundred years in the future might 
 look like, but imagine 40 000 years in the future... Dawn of War does just that, and combines it 
 with great story, gameplay and atmosphere.
  
  In the 41st Millenium,4 armies fight for control of the galaxy, they are;
  
  The space marines-The 
 elite army humanity has. They are very devoted to their emporer and conquer worlds and will gladly 
 die in his name. Humanity see their emporer as a Godly figure and believe they will succeed if they 
 have faith in him.
  
  Orks-A race of aliens Orks who aren't as technologically advanced as the other races but reproduce 
 at an incredibly fast rate and overwhelm their enemies with numbers.
  
  Chaos-A break away sect of humanity, who are gothic in appearance and summon demons and use lesser 
 advanced space marines technology. Thy Chaos want to summon a giant demon that is very difficult 
 to kill and use it against their enemies and to conquer the galaxy.
  
  Eldar-A mysterious, highly advanced race of aliens who's motives are unknown. Probably the most advanced 
 of the racees, the Eldar occasionally show up, do a job (such as destroying a base of an army who 
 has too much of a foothold on a planet or in the galaxy) and the Eldar will vanish before you get 
 to learn much about them, but if you mess with them, look out! The Eldar use some sort of anti-graivity 
 for their vehicles and webway portals to travel between worlds instantly.
  
  However the gameplay is made to be balanced but I'll explain that later.
  
  The gameplay is 
 fast paced, infantry units are built very quickly and in groups. Vehicles are much slower to build 
 but are well armored and can mow down infantry and destroy buildings quickly.
  To keep gameplay fast there is a strict limit to how many infantry groups and vehicles you can 
 have at once to prevent you from building huge armies and encourages you to be aggresive.
  
  You can only use the Space Marines in campaign but you can use the other races in skirmish 
 or multiplayer.
  
  As for the units themselves, well they are great;
  
  The space marines wear heavily armored suits and have lots of firepower. The Space Marines also 
 use Termintors (cyborgs) , mech units, Predator tanks (which are well armored and have good fire power 
 and can be mass produced without having to capture Relics (I'll explain about Relics later) . The 
 Space Marines also have
  huge Land Raider tanks that are heavily armored and fire powerful energy beams that will destroy 
 buildings quickly (but you need at least one relic to build Land Raiders) and lightly armored Whirlwind 
 tanks that can fire over a long range rapidly.
  
  The Orks infantry are not well armored and they like to use melee weapons but they can be built 
 in bigger groups. The Orks build lesser advanced mechanical contraptions, but they require less resources 
 and are cheaper to build than the vehicles of the other races. The Orks even look vehiclees from 
 other armies.
  
  The Chaos use marines who have defected from the space marines (except Chaos marines wear dark colors) , The 
 Chaos can summon many small demons or a gigantic demon that is very difficult to kill and can wipe 
 out an entire base. The Chaos use the Predator tank too.
  
  The Eldar infantry start off weak but can be built in big numbers like the Orks. However they can 
 be upgraded to become just as powerful as the Space Marines while still being able to be built 
 in big numbers. The Eldar wear a light body armor and sometimes a masked helmet (they are always 
 masked though) The Eldar are very pale and smaller in size compared to the other races and they 
 look so mysterious you can't be sure to fear them or trust them.
  The first main combat vehicle the Eldar can build is the Falcon-Grav tank which has weak armor 
 and a weaker energy beam weapon but has anti-gravity technology to maneuver through the air and 
 much faster and with more agility than the vehicles of the other races. You can upgrade the Falcon-Grav 
 tank into the Prism Tank where it's defenses become very difficult to penetrate and it uses a destructive 
 energy weapon that will destroy other vehicles and buildings easily, while still keeping the anti-gravity 
 ability. 
  
  So you've probably noticed the Eldar start off weak, but eventually become the strongest. While the 
 other races are better off in the early stages of missions.
  
  Another reason you need to be aggresive is to capture requisition points (RP) which provide you 
 with requisition, one of the resources you need to build units and buildings. The more RPs you capture, the 
 quicker and more you can build. The other energy source you need is energy itself which you obtain 
 from building power generators.
  
  If you let your enemy/enemies capture most of the RPs you will be overwhelmed.
  
  There is 
 also relics available on some maps. Relics are like RPs but provide you with many times the requisition 
 of a normal RP. Relics also allow you to build some of the more powerful units.
  
  There is also special units similiar to the heroes in Warcraft 3. When a special unit dies they 
 are automatically returned to your base as a penalty but you can keep using them an unlimited amount 
 of times and it doesn't cost you any resources and helps keep things fast.
  
  I loved seeing the space marines commander (Gabriel) swipe his enemies across the screen with his 
 sword as if he is almost Godly.
  
  Special units have also have special abilities such as increasing the stats of friendly units around 
 them, or calling an orbital bombardment (WH40K's version of a nuclear strike) which will send huge 
 energy blasts from space to bombard a target a numerous amount of times and it will always destroy 
 any building you target (it's much better than using a nuclear strike like on C&C and StarCraft 
 which doesn't even destroy a building most of the time) You can keep using the orbital bombardment 
 as long as you allow the orbital relay to recharge.
  
  The characters in the story are great. Commander Gabriel, the Librarian and Inquistor do a great 
 job as characters and express fanaticism and unquestioned faith towards the emporer. The dialogue 
 they use sounds very philisophical, fanatical but intelligent at the same time.
  
  The story also has twists.
  
  The environments you fight on include alien planets, wastelands 
 or futuristic cities.
  
  I loved watching the cut scenes and seeing the energy currents flowing through Gabriel's sword, and 
 how they have implants in their head, and the futuristic cities blend so well with the orangey/red 
 sky. The cut scenes can go for quite a long time when they show story elements.
  
  There is good full motion video presentation that shows a brutal battle between the space marines 
 and orks.
  
  The mission briefing screen looks very sci fi and intimidating. You are given shocking information 
 like how 80% of a planets inhabitants have been wiped out during the war.
  
  The music is incredible at times, I love hearing the hymn that sounds like something you would hear 
 at a Church when your fighting the Chaos in the city.
  
  Gabriel has an amazing accent and I love hearing him say his quotes such as ''beware the alien, the 
 mutant, the heretic'' ''while all enemies of the emporer still draw breath there can be no peace 
 '' '' hope is only a road to disappointment'' ''there is no such thing as innocence, only degrees 
 of guilt'' ''I command in the name of the emporer!!!''
  
  It makes him feel unique in a way other video game/computer game characters don't.
  
  I love 
 how the servitor robots speak in a very soft, compliant way when you give them orders.
  
  Overall-One of the most incredible RTS experiences I've ever had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2005wrxsti
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  It's ok... plain and simple. Disappointed at the game after I finished reading most of these reviews. 
 Many people praise the fact that you don't have to gather resources in other reviews; actually 
 you do, but it's in the form of holding strategic points on the battle field. I find this more 
 tedious than resource gathering. Because some strategic point completely out of my way can affect 
 the battle.... STUPID. Resource gathering is much better, and you aren't forced to hold a specific 
 spot on the map.
  
  Now I'm going to upset most of the gamers out there... C&C3 is much better, hell... C&C2 was much 
 better. Much more in the way of different types of units and balance, there always seems to be 
 some sort of trump card for each unit in the C&C series; it's nemesis so to speak. That's what 
 makes StarCraft so great as well. This game just doesn't have much to offer in the way of strategy. 
 If you're a Warhammer pen & paper fan then I'm sure you're into it... but looking at it from a PC 
 strategy game standpoint it just doesn't have much to offer.
  
  I bought the platinum edition, so maybe there's more in winter assault or dark crusade but I doubt 
 it. I will welcome this game to my drink coaster archive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDATLFOREVER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  If you play RTSs then you should own this game. This is one of the hallmarks in RTS history in 
 my opinion. What Total Annihilation was for large scale RTSs; DoW is for smaller tactical engagements. 
 
  
  It is the first game that I know of to bring a more realistic hand to hand system to RTSs. Before 
 you had what equated to a 1 range weapon for melee. You would be beating on that guy with a gun/bow 
 and he would just keep shooting. No longer. You charge up to some guy with a heavy weapon and the 
 best that weapon becomes is a club. That rocket squad killing your vehicals? Tie them up in melee 
 and no more problems. Those heavy bolters eating your infantry? Jump some troops in ontop of them 
 and punish them for not having close range support. You will find yourself sending troops not designed 
 for melee into the fray just for the awsome fights. Heros smashing their way through mobs of infantry, 
 melee equiped vehicals in a march of death, and frantic weapons fire to keep the enemy at a distance.
 
  
  It has a replay system so you can focus on your battles and enjoy their vicious beauty afterwards. 
 Watch your enemys (or your own) defeat from any angle and in slow-mo if you want. Analyze what 
 you did wrong, what your enemy did right, and how you can improve the next go round at your leasure. 
 By using this feature the learning curve can be come very shallow. Your opponents will become your 
 teachers whether they want to or not. All you have to do is save the replay and learn.
  
  the ONLY reason this game gets a 9.5 from me and not a 10 is because it uses Lamespy for its multi 
 (some call it gamespy but its a lie!) Lamespy has a habit of being a general pain in the rear. 
 Expect a medium learning curve trying to learn how to get into online games with any regularity 
 with it.
  
  Just talking about the game makes me want to play it.
  
  Summary:
  This game is GOLD! A perfect game doesn't exist but this comes real close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheeda_blade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  I have played RTS for as long as I can remember playing videogames. My first love would be RA which 
 I actually got to play on mulitplayer. But every so often there comes along a game with a brilliant 
 vision and this game is like that breath of fresh air.
  
  This is a beautiful game rendered in beautiful detail even if you play it now it won't seem dated 
 to you. I started this game thinking ok here comes another sci fi RTS with strange creatures which 
 I would not be able to relate to and with cartoonish characters. What I got was this very mature 
 experience and a story about duty, corruption and betrayal. The only bad side to this game is that 
 it is only a single sided story.
  
  The graphics are beautiful with crisp visuals and lots of gore to keep it away from its comic roots. 
 The world is beautifully crafted and many of the maps are stunning in their realization. The sounds 
 are spot on with machine guns plasma rifles sounding just like their supposed to. The sound track 
 is haunting and reemphasizes the Space Marines and their principles. The gameplay is refreshing 
 and original and creates a new way of looking at strategy all together. 
  
  The four sides are unique right down to the way they are used to play though not so different so 
 as to alienate the gamer. All in all the game is a must have for anyone who wants to get an original 
 RTS. So what are you waiting for ? Buy one now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goostoff4eva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I have several friends who are OBSESSED with the boardgame version of Warhammer, and I have teased 
 them for years about it. But recently, I saw this game in a video game clearance shelf for a mere 
 $9.99. How could I resist? I mean, they like it so much, it must have SOME substance to it.
  
  And that was the GREATEST ten bucks I've ever spent!
  
  I got home, installed it (which 
 is really only the major letdown so far: a long time to install) and began playing. It's a little 
 hard to fully understand the gameplay immediately, but I found the Beginning Scenario very helpful.
 
  
  The music is also good, however the dialouge coming from the units can get annoying fast.
  
 
  The Graphics, absolutely astonishing! I was so suprised when I discovered that I could zoom right 
 into the people and see every detail of them! This is deffinatly a great contributer in the game's 
 reality feel.
  
  And the value, MY GOD! I don't know if I got it at a really low price, but $9.99! Holy Mary! 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DungenMaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for any gamers who have had anything to do with the Warhammer 40k Miniature 
 game. I've only picked up it recently and enjoyed it immensely. The game is balanced very well 
 with a nice mix of units throughout. Each faction has their own unique feel and look. The single 
 player campaign is kinda long and keeps you wondering when it is going to resolve itself, but is 
 still a lot of fun to play. My only grip with it is you play as the Space Marines, one of the factions, 
 the entire time which might make some new players want to only play as them. The other three factions, 
 Eldar, Orcs, and Chaos Space Marines, are good choices to include. Skirmish mode is great, although 
 games are usually a little short. One thing of note is the computer AI. Playing through the campaign 
 on Normal difficulty was not challenging until the last two or three missions, but even then if 
 you've built up your army with the right mix you'll easily win. I haven't done any multiplayer, 
 but then again I'm not fond of RTS multplayer matches.
  
  Overall a great game for people who are heavily involved in the Warhammer 40k universe and for 
 those just joining in the fun. Warhammer 40k as a RTS is great, hopefully they'll work on making 
 a new FPS to cover up the disgrace of Firewarrior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron_will
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Yeah, It might be a little late for me to write this review.
  
  Anyway this game, during the time of its release was very innovative.
  It forces you to go out 
 to get resources instead of turtling a strategy that is usually quite frustrating if you fail to 
 lay waste to you're enemy's base.
  
  This also means you can get into early engagement quite fast. Which sometimes if you're unprepared 
 can get you in a serious disadvantage.
  The four races are also quite balanced, and each has its own cool feel to it.
  
  For example 
 the Space Marines are very organized, clad in power armor and seems that they are religious fanatics, 
 devoted to their Emperor.
  
  The feels of the other races, you should find out yourself by buying the game. It is highly recommended 
 by me and many other players.
  
  I also recommend Dawn of War's two expansions.
  
  
  Its THE best RTS game I've ever played and you should'nt miss this awesome game!
  
  This unbelievable 
 game captures the dark, bloody atmosphere of the 40,000 Warhammer universe.
  Dawn of War revolutionises the RTS genre, this game is a must get for WH40k fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poonington
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Veeeerrrrry nearly amazing, although it improves with the expansion packs. Not quite as much fun 
 to play as most of the c&c series but still GREAT for warhammer 40k geeks like me. Also i really 
 like the idea of the strategic/critical points etc as they make for much interesting strategic 
 gameplay. I found some amazing mods around too, my favourite is probably the absolutely amazing 
 steel legion mod, can't remember who made it, but i would recommend it to ANYBODY who owns the 
 game. Also if you are a fellow warhammer geek and you play/paint one of the sides in the game, 
 but they don't have the insignia or banners of your favourite chapter (or equivalent of) then you 
 can probably find the files somewhere to add them in. You can even find deathwatch and legion of 
 the damned skins, and the mods are really easy to install even if you're like me and don't generally 
 like messing around with game files (due to the disaster's that usually follow lol) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  theres not much i can say other than, its a game that shows that graphics arn't everything. granted 
 its an old game but its like what half life did for the FPS, what Civilisation did for turn based 
 games. it re-difined the genre.
  this is one kick ass game. and its the first proper Warhammer 40k strategy game with BLOOD and 
 lots of it. shish-kebabing an ork on an avatars sword, crushing a cultist in a dreadnoughts power 
 fist and batting an space marine with the axe of the bloodthirster. it never gets old. ever.
  the painting system also allows the people who dont collect warhammer 40k to see what its like 
 to paint your own army and send it into combat. i myself have a collection of 40K models and go 
 to battles regularly and this game is like the fun and complexity without the long task of looking 
 through hit tables, rolling dice and measuring distances. it is proper warhammer 40K. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingobaid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I have been an RPG fan for quite some time. they first game i played was Starcaft, and i still 
 play it to this day. When i heard about Dawn of War, i decided to give it a try. The demo i downloaded 
 was amazing! The sheer gore and atmosphere of the world was breathtaking. You can zoom in to see 
 the very last detail of your soldier and army as they slaughter the other race efficiently and 
 mercilessly.
  
  The gameplay for Dawn of War is engaging and fun. It starts out as a normal RTS, gather resources 
 build buildings, but as soon as the action starts it is anything but! The main campaign mode follows 
 the story of the Black Raven squad of the Imperial Army as they try to eradicate the Chaos Space 
 Marines and the vile orcs. This was one of the letdowns for me. Only getting to play as the Space 
 Marines was fun, but repetitive. Units from different races each have their own opposites. Troop 
 morale can diminish if they know the battle is lost, causing them to break up from their squad 
 and be destroyed. Each faction, the Space marines, Chaos space marines, Orcs, and the Eldar have 
 their own powerful unit. Each with devastating attacks and breath!
  
  Overall the game is gorgeous and the sound is very immersive, causing you to feel a part of the 
 battle. This game is fantastic, more people need to buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cos_vanquish
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  I started off in Campaign mode, like everyone else has and will. First, it asked if I wanted to 
 go through a tutorial, and since I didn't know the controls I chose to do it. The tutorial was 
 rather slow-paced and I started to grow bored with it. But, it showed me all the fundamentals that 
 I would need to build a strong army and get bigger in the game, so it was well worth it. After 
 that, I started the campaign. The first few levels were rather easy even on the hardest difficulty 
 setting, but soon after that it all changed. I noticed myself needing to up my strategies and learn 
 how to attack better and when to pull back and so forth. It runs through and through with battle 
 experience and the gameplay is quick, especially when fighting. Once I had enough of the campain 
 for the time being, I decided to see what multiplayer had to offer. Upon getting in there, I was 
 quick to find a well suited game for a novice such as myself. I realized at that point, the only 
 strategy I knew, was the one I had learned from the tutorial and critiqued somewhat as I was going 
 through the campaign levels, so I used it and it showed to be pretty effective. There were a lot 
 of great people online playing the game, and when I told them I was new to the game and could use 
 all the help I could get, others were kind enough to take me under there wing and told me to setup 
 a 1vs1 game and they would instruct me through it so that I knew where it was best to attack from, 
 made sure I had a solid opening to prepare my army as fast as possible, or fast enough to defend 
 in the case of being rushed. And just showed me other little tips and tricks. So I must say, as 
 far as the onine crowd goes, only nice things to say about them. After playing about 15 matches 
 online, I decided to hit back to the campaigns. Back into the campaigns, I had a better since of 
 strategy and smarter attacks and the like from learning some things from the multiplayer version 
 and it helped me to get further into the campaign. And is it more rewarding, well at least the 
 feeling is good as you get further into the campaign. I am still on the campaign, but I don't believe 
 I have much more to go in it before completing it. As for now I'm taking another break from the 
 campaign so that I can get better on the multiplayer side of things, because that is where the 
 true fun is at and where your skills and smart thinking will show off more, or be crushed. The 
 competition is fierce, and you have to watch out for the elites that like to pick on novices when 
 setting up a game. Luckily there is a rating system online, showing how many games you've played, 
 and how many you've won and shows a win %. This game is a great one and I can't wait to move onto 
 Winter Assualt and then onto Dark Crusade, I only have high hopes for them. I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who loved Age of Empires, because it is very similar to it, only more futuristic. 
 It is one of the best RTS games I have played in quite sometime and I will continue to play it 
 for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_20000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  warhammer 40k dawn of war is a great rts (real time stratergy ) game that i everything you could 
 want from a game and that is fun !! the single player campain is a little boring but the skirmish 
 and multiplayer modes are extremely fun to play... also when you but this buy the expansion packs 
 to go with it make the game 10x better!!! i would say try to buy the anthology to realy get the 
 best from the game and its realy cheap so i does not matter if you dont like it but the chances 
 are that you will realy enjoy this game... buy it .. you wont regret it !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyGeo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I recently purchased Warhammer 40,000 Platinum edition for D2D. Going into the game I had high 
 expectations and was not upset. Several things make Dawn of war very appealing such as how each 
 race is unique and unlike all the others. It's very enjoyable to take the time and play through 
 all of the different races seeing the different advantages they have. The game was fairly easy 
 to get the hang of and it only took me a few short skirmishes to learn the basics. It's pretty 
 straightforward you strategic points and build reactors and such to attain resources which is a 
 break from the normal mining, wooding, etc and pretty convenient. Although I didn't play through 
 the whole campaign it seemed to be very well structured and entertaining. If you are looking into 
 buying this game I would highly recommend that you also purchase the two expansions with it due 
 to the fact that combined they add 3 more fully unique and enjoyable races to play. The multiplayer 
 is fairly solid with just the original but if you get the winter assault expansion it expands on 
 the multiplayer adding some more features to it. Hope to see you around in multiplayer, happy gaming 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magic_jesus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  For instance, the marines move slow in the game, whereas in the model game, they are said to be 
 3 times faster than your average human, and their weapons had the edge taken off of them. As for 
 chaos, their close combat should be a little higher. Orks: higher close combat and more variation 
 in their choppas. Eldar: untill their new codex came out, they did suck that badly. The later incarnations 
 of this game has flaws as well, such as over suped up guardsmen, mega necrons, and a missing special 
 weapon on the marines. *Wishes for Exterminatus...* For those who don't know, the Exterminatus 
 is an end all weapon of last resort. It kills all living things on the planet. Not saying it still 
 should be, but at least a *skip battle, kill all enemy units in this plain* weapon. Oh well. For 
 the Emperor, my brothers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  If you are familiar the legendary brutality of the Warhammer universe, then all that can be said 
 is that this game really captures that essence in virtually every single aspect of the gameplay.
 
  
  To begin with, this RTS is not for folks out there who enjoy a turtle approach to their RTS gaming. 
 Instead, this game almost forces you to go out there and beat the living daylights out of the opposition 
 right from the outset. The reason for this is simply that the game itself doesn't rely on the old, 
 tried-and-tested collect the gold, iron and stone philosophy in order for you to get the necessary 
 resources in place to go out and do battle.
  
  Rather, Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War, implements a system whereby so-called strategic and critical 
 points are dotted over the battle map and the only way you can gain the necessary resources required 
 to build up your forces and research new technologies, is by capturing these points on the map.
 
  
  What it boils down to, is that you simply can't sit with a base surrounded by resources and wait 
 for the enemy to come to you while you do all the research and build up your forces. The only way 
 to win in this one is to go out there and capture the points and keep your enemies away from them 
 at the same time.
  
  This means, you will have to learn how to manage quite a few things simultaneously, especially 
 in the beginning phases of each battle, while you focus on the advancement of technologies desperately 
 needed to keep your rather vulnerable forces alive long enough to capture and hold a number of 
 key strategic points on the map. While all of this is going on, the AI will seek out your structures 
 in turn and give it everything it's got to keep you away from those points while gathering resources 
 for its own forces.
  
  Over and above that, you will of course need to make sure you are establishing enough base facilities 
 to get you to a point where you can start sending more advanced forces out into the field, including 
 vehicles, commanders and ultimately the dreaded Terminator units (if you are playing the human 
 race of course) .
  
  On the subject of races, Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War includes four default races if you will, 
 the easiest of which to play is the so-called human race of course, albeit that the units are far 
 from human as we understand it. Rather, they are made up of genetically modified lunatics that 
 don't mind if their bodies explode in the face of an Orc onslaught.
  
  In addition, there are the Eldar, Orcs and so-called Chaos forces. Each of these have their own 
 unique abilities, strengths and weaknesses, and I personally find the Eldar the most exciting to 
 play, but also probably the most complex due to the specialized nature of their units.
  
  The single player campaign is actually rather short, with only 11 missions in total and can become 
 somewhat linear as you go along, albeit that it is built around quite an interesting storyline 
 with one or two nice twists in the story to keep you interested. None of the 11 missions are really 
 difficult on the normal difficulty levels, but are still enjoyable in any event.
  
  Where I believe the game really comes into it's own are in the skirmish and therefore, obviously, 
 the multi-player modes.
  
  Graphics:
  
  While the graphics are certainly not the best compared to the latest RTS games out there, it does, 
 as mentioned before, capture the brutality of the Warhammer universe in an almost over-the-top 
 way, with ample blood flowing and bones being crushed by heavy armor and artillery.
  
  The user interface is quite slick and does everything it's supposed to in a rather elegant and 
 simple way without too many distractions and things to learn before you can really get stuck into 
 the game.
  
  Most of the cut-scenes during the single-player campaign are rather chunky by modern standards 
 and actually don't look very good. Having said that however, it does almost create a quaint user 
 interface atmosphere for an old-schooler like me, with oversize shoes, short torsos and that funny 
 way of walking about, bringing back memories of some of the very first so-called 3D games that 
 I used to play.
  
  The bottom line is, that the game doesn't look as good as a lot of it's more modern counterparts, 
 but it's good enough to be good and enjoy the game over and above everything else.
  
  Sound:
  
  The in-battle sounds are very good and add to the brutality once again. My only complaint 
 would be around the cut-scenes during the single-player campaign once again, where some of the 
 voice-overs are really over-the-top as far as I am concerned. Perhaps the old-school syndrome comes 
 to mind again.
  
  Value:
  
  From a pure single-player campaign point of view, you won't get much value out of this one, since 
 any person who's played more than one RTS in their lives will probably get that out of the way 
 in only a few hours. The true value here therefore lies in the skirmish and multi-player modes 
 where there is virtually an infinite number of game scenarios and combinations, and an ever-growing 
 library of customized maps out there, courtesy of quite a large modding community around the game.
 
  
  Who Should Get It:
  
  Everyone who enjoys a good RTS and wants to experience something completely different than a lot 
 of the stuff out there that's become a bit mundane over the years.
  
  Who Shouldn't Bother:
  
  Anyone who doesn't enjoy playing RTS games or RTS gamers who enjoy 
 empire building over that of a burning planet approach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_j007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Quick Information
  
  Developer (s) Relic Entertainment Publisher (s) THQ Engine IC+ Latest version 1.51 Release date (s) 
 September 20, 2004 Genre (s) Real-time strategy Mode (s) Single player, multiplayer Rating (s) ESRB: 
 Mature (M)
  PEGI: 16+
  USK: 16+ Platform (s) PC Media 3 CD System requirements: 1 GHz Pentium III or equivalent AMD Athlon 
 XP processor, 256 MB RAM, 1.8 GB free hard drive space, 4x CD-ROM, 32 MB DirectX (R) 9.0b compatible 
 AGP video card with Hardware Transform and Lighting, DirectX 9.0b compatible 16-bit sound card 
 ***Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War***
  
  
  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War, also known simply as Dawn of War or shortened to DOW is a real-time 
 strategy computer game developed by Relic Entertainment based on Games Workshop's popular tabletop 
 wargame, Warhammer 40,000. It was released by THQ on September 20, 2004 in North America. Since 
 its release, two expansion packs have been released: Winter Assault in 2005 and Dark Crusade in 
 2006.
  
  The Single Player campaign deals with the Blood Ravens Chapter's 3rd Company who are called to 
 assist against an Ork invasion on the planet Tartarus. The game places an emphasis on combat and 
 warfare and utilises an innovative resource and squad based control system. Dawn of War was received 
 well by critics, with a Metacritic average of 86 out of 100
  
  ***Gameplay***
  Gameplay like the majority of real-time strategy games is initially focused on base and unit construction. 
 The player starts with a single HQ building and a few basic units. The player can then construct 
 various units and buildings in order to build up a base. Subsequent focus then shifts to capturing 
 and holding various points on the battlefield. These points are captured by infantry squads and 
 serve as mission objectives, provide additional resources to construct additional units and buildings 
 or, in the case of relics, unlock certain units in an army's tech tree. Battles are won by either 
 holding a certain number of critical points for a given time or alternately by destroying all of 
 the opposing armies
  
  ***Resource management***
  Two primary resources exist: requisition and power. Unlike the majority of strategy games of the 
 time of the game's release, these resources are not harvested or otherwise gathered by the player's 
 units. Instead, requisition is generated constantly by the army headquarters, supplying players 
 with a constant and potentially unlimited supply of resources, allowing the player to focus primarily 
 on combat without being concerned about resource gathering. The player can increase the rate with 
 which requisition is acquired by using infantry squads to capture and control certain strategic 
 points on the battlefield. These points can be reinforced with defensive structures which in addition 
 to making them harder for the opposing teams to capture, also serve to further increase the rate 
 of requisition accumulation. Though resources are unlimited, all sources of requisition will eventually 
 decay, dramatically decreasing their supply rate.
  
  Power is similarly generated by building generators, with each headquarters supporting up to six 
 generators. Additionally, some maps have slag deposits , upon which special generators can be constructed 
 and will produce power at a higher rate. As the player progresses up the tech tree, reliance on 
 power increases.
  
  In addition to these primary resources, the Orks also have a third resource, Waaagh, which is generated 
 by Waaagh!! banners and dictates the rate at which Ork units can be generated, as well as determining 
 the technology level the player has access to.
  
  ***Warfare***
  Unlike most strategy games of the time, units are given orders as squads rather than as individuals, 
 save for certain heroes and vehicles. Each squad consists of anything from 2 units upwards, and 
 moves and attacks as a single entitiy. In addition to normal commands, squads can also be reinforced 
 in the field by adding additional members, equipped with additional special weaponry, attached 
 leaders or special units. For example, a Space Marine squad starts with 4 marines, but can be expanded 
 up to 8 standard marines and a sergeant, and equipped with up to 4 (5 after a patch update) heavy 
 weapons. The player is also free to choose particular upgrades and can specialise each squad for 
 a specific purpose.
  
  Vehicles function differently to how they do in other RTS games. Vehicles are highly resistant 
 to most of the weaponry carried by infantry, so it is near impossible to destroy them with mass 
 infantry fire as is possible in other games such as the Command and Conquer series for example. 
 Thus vehicles must be targeted with specific weaponry to be destroyed. Vehicles can also be upgraded 
 with multiple weapon systems.
  
  In addition to a typical hitpoint system there is also morale. While units in a squad take damage 
 individually, morale damage is applied to a squad as a whole. When morale drops to zero the squad 
 is broken and whilst the player retains control of the unit, its combat ability is greatly reduced 
 - the accuracy of the squad members is reduced to effectively zero, meaning the squad can no longer 
 function as an effective combat unit until morale is restored. Different weapons deal different 
 amounts of damage to health and morale. For instance, a flamer does very low amounts of damage, 
 but severely damages morale. With the addition of a squad system and more realistic ranged-close 
 combat dynamics, Dawn of War is different from the majority of strategy games. Terrain in the game 
 also offers various advantages and disadvantages depending on the type and location, with walls 
 and buildings offering additional protection and cover from ranged weaponry, and swamps hindering 
 movement and ***Strategy***
  The strategic-point system in combination with the minimal emphasis on base defence means that 
 defensive players will find themselves quickly overcome, as such, the game favours an aggressive 
 gameplay style.
  The game is, overall, very micromanagement-oriented. With the reinforcement system, extra armament 
 for troopers, and special skills, the player is often forced to switch back and forth between different 
 squads and vehicles quickly, making fast decisions to maintain their combat effectiveness.
  
  The scope of the squad mechanics means that strategy plays an even bigger part in the game, 
 especially with infantry warfare. Holding of strategic avenues (not necessarily Strategic Points) 
 - such as those with valuable heavy cover near a bottleneck leading to a player's base - with infantry 
 becomes a worthwhile task, unlike in others, where the strategic value of a location without a 
 building or resource on it is usually next to nil and not worth defending.
  
  In other strategy games, retreat and pulling one's losses are not effective; unless infantry are 
 retreating to a place where they can find more units to help them fight or to take shelter in turrets 
 or buildings, the squad will fight as well in any other location as it does at the point at which 
 it is already fighting. Strategic retreat is thus an ineffective tactic in most circumstances. 
 In Dawn of War, however, with the added scope of squad-based infantry combat and reinforcements, 
 withdrawing a squad can allow it to replenish and regain its morale at the next set of fortifications 
 or the player's base, allowing it to perhaps drive off its attackers once they attack again - this 
 is almost unique in the field of real-time strategy gaming.
  
  ***Setting***
  The setting of Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is Games Workshop's Warhammer 40,000 universe, a gothic, 
 dystopian far future. Humanity has forged a large galaxy spanning empire, The Imperium, with the 
 Immortal Emperor as humanity's leader and God. The Imperium is in a state of constant war with 
 a multitude of alien aggressors, including the Orks and Eldar. In addition, humanity is waging 
 a constant war against those that were once their brethren: fallen members of humanity who now 
 serve the gods of Chaos and seek only to destroy the Imperium of Man. [The single player campaign 
 is set on a remote jungle planet called Tartarus which is currently settled by the Imperium.
  
  ***Races***
  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War features four playable armies, which share units 
 and characteristics with their tabletop game incarnations.
  
  The Space Marines are genetically modified superhuman soldiers, and are the elite soldiers of the 
 Imperium. Due to their elite nature, Space Marines have the highest morale in game and are unit 
 for unit stronger and tougher than the majority of other units in the game. Their troops and vehicles 
 are however more expensive and fewer in number compared to the other races.
  The Space Marines are the only playable race in the single player section of the game, and the 
 11-mission campaign features the Blood Ravens chapter as the protagonists, led by Captain Gabriel 
 Angelos and Librarian Isador Akios.
  
  The Chaos Space Marines are traitor Space Marines that have chosen to abandon The Imperium and 
 their duties to humanity, and instead worship the Gods of Chaos. In Dawn of War they use skilled 
 close combat troops that are similar, but slightly weaker compared to the their Imperium equivalents, 
 in addition to morale-draining daemons and powerful psykers.
  
  The campaign features the Alpha Legion, with their leaders, Sindri Myr and Lord Bale.
  
  The 
 Eldar are an ancient, technologically advanced race. Eldar in Dawn of War are fast and fragile. 
 Their squads are highly specialized, and require careful micromanaging to be used most effectively
 
  
  They are also able to move quickly across the map via webway gates. The campaign features the craftworld 
 of Biel-Tan, and their leader, Farseer Macha.
  
  The Orks are a savage, warlike race. Individually the most lightly armoured race, they rely on 
 a tremendous amount of infantry, compensating for their lack of individual toughness and also granting 
 morale immunity with large enough numbers. With everything done en-masse, micromanagement is minimal 
 when using them as an army
  
  The tech tree for Orks differs compared to the other races in that it depends on the amount of 
 orks currently in your army and the number of erected WAAAGH! banners. Several clans are featured 
 in the campaign, and leading them is Ork Warboss Orkamungus.
  
  In addition to the four playable races, the Imperial Guard also make appearances in the single 
 player campaign as computer controlled allies of the Space Marines lead by Colonel Brom. They would 
 later be expanded upon and made into a playable race for the first expansion pack, Warhammer 40,000: 
 Dawn of War: Winter Assault.
  
  ***Characters***
  
  Plot
  The Single player campaign is set on the planet Tartarus, an Imperial planet that is currently 
 being besieged by a large Ork Waaagh!! The campaign begins with Colonel Brom and his 37th Tartarus 
 Planetary Defense Force Regiment under attack by a large group of Orks. The Blood Ravens 3rd company, 
 led by Captain Angelos makes planet fall and saves Brom and his remaining men and then proceed 
 to exterminate the remaining Orks in the vicinity. In the aftermath of the battle, Gabriel is joined 
 by the Librarian Isador Akios. Brom asks Isador about a recently conducted Exterminatus of the 
 planet Cyrene, however Isador makes it clear he is not to bring it up again. The Blood Ravens then 
 prepare for a mission of extermination of the Orks surrounding the port, in order to protect the 
 evacuation craft.
  
  Isador, sensing that the Captain's mind is troubled, realises why, and tells him that there was 
 nothing he could have done to save his home planet of Cyrene. However, Gabriel tells him not to 
 mention it again, stating that his homeworld was his responsibilty. After the extermination of 
 the Orks, scouts reveal to Gabriel that Chaos are operating on the planet. Soon after this they 
 are joined by an Inquisitor, Toth, who orders them to leave the planet, warning that a Warp Storm 
 is approching the planet and will consume the planet in 3 days time. Toth orders a complete evacuation 
 of the planet. On further investigation, it is revealed that the Eldar are also operating on the 
 planet. The Blood Raven's find an altar dedicated to Chaos, confirming Gabriel's suspicions, and 
 resolves to destroy the traitors, unknowing that Isador is already under the influence of Sindri, 
 the chaos sorcerer of the Alpha Legion.
  
  Upon destruction of most of the remaining Eldar by Gabriel's forces, the Farseer pleads with Gabriel 
 to heed her words; however during their moment of distraction, Sindri steals an artifact, which 
 Macha reveals to be a key to the undoing of this world . Upon inquiry, the Farseer shows surprise 
 at their ignorance, commenting that the Inquisitor 'keeps them on a short leash' and implying that 
 he knows more than he is telling, and advises them to ask him, before telling the Blood Ravens 
 where to find the entrenched Chaos forces. Gabriel and Isador confront Toth in the ruins of an 
 Imperial Temple, following a pitched battle with Alpha Legion forces, who reveals that the world 
 is cursed, and bears an artifact of chaos: the Maledictum, a stone that contains the essence of 
 a daemon. The forces of Chaos now bear all that they need to unearth it. Toth also explains that 
 the Eldar were fighting to protect the stone, as it was they who imprisoned the demon in the stone 
 originally: as he puts it 'as Chaos's oldest enemy, the Eldar see themselves as the only capable 
 defence against its influence. And we have paid for their arrogance'. Toth also says that the power 
 of the Maledictum is enough 'to turn the faithful and drive men mad', having already corrupted 
 much of the population of Tartarus and the Imperial Guard, as well as affecting the Blood Ravens 
 somewhat. Gabriel and Toth form an alliance and make plans to find and destroy the Maledictum, 
 however, Isador is then completely overcome by the temptations of Sindri and chaos, and resolves 
 to steal the Maledictum for himself.
  
  The Blood Ravens destroy the army of Lord Bale, who was betrayed by Sindri, during which time Isador 
 seizes his chance and steals the Maledictum. In the face of Isador's betrayal, Gabriel pursues 
 him in an effort to bring him to justice. The Blood Raven forces are successful in decimating Isadors 
 troops and Gabriel defeats Isador in single combat. Isador pleads for forgiveness to Gabriel. Gabriel 
 tells him, If redemption is what you seek, then redemption is what you shall get, before shooting 
 him in the head with his bolt pistol, using him as an example to his men about the dangers of Chaos.
 
  
  Meanwhile Sindri has used the power of the Maledictum to turn himself into a Daemon Prince. Inquisitor 
 Toth bequeaths the Daemon Hammer God-Splitter to Gabriel. They then, with the Blood Ravens and 
 the aid of the remaining Eldar forces of Farseer Macha, attack the Chaos forces, eventually killing 
 the daemon prince Sindri. The final scene sees the Eldar and Blood Ravens standing around the Maledictum. 
 Despite the warnings of Farseer Macha, who begs them not to destroy the stone, Gabriel obeys Inquisitor 
 Toth and his own judgement, and destroys the Maledictum with God-Splitter. The Eldar forces then 
 retreat, Macha warning propehtically Gabriel has doomed them all, and the Blood Ravens leave to 
 be evacuated. However, Gabriel stays back, and encounters the Daemon of Khorne which he unwittingly 
 released from the Maledictum. The daemon lets Gabriel and his men leave safely as thanks for its 
 release, but tells Gabriel that he will soon come to claim him and his men. Gabriel vows to destroy 
 the daemon, before following after his departing men.
  
  ***Voice cast***
  
  Brian Dobson - Space Marine, Assault Marines, Terminators, Apothecary, Slugga/Shoota Boyz, Tankbustas, 
 Stormboyz, Killa Kan Mark Oliver - Librarian, Aspiring Champion, Imperial Colonel Carus Brom Michael 
 Dobson - Space Marine Scouts, Big Mek, Imperial Guardsman (Singleplayer Campaign) , Imperial Citizen, 
 Imperial Leman Russ (Singleplayer Campaign) , Inquisitor Toth Nicole Oliver - Farseer Macha, Howling 
 Banshees Paul Dobson - Force Commander Gabriel Angelos, Chaos Space Marines, Raptors, Obliterators, 
 Possessed Chaos Marines, Chaos Rhino, Chaos Predator, Warboss Orkamungus, Grots Peter New - Mad 
 Dok, Nobz, Wartrukk, Wartrak, Looted Leman Russ Richard Cox - Cultist, Heretic, Guardians, Warp 
 Spiders, Avatar, Wraithlord, Falcon Grav Tank, Fire Prism, Vyper, Rangers, Dark Reapers, Warlock, 
 Bonesinger Scott McNeil - Space Marine Sergeant, Servitor, Chaos Lord Bale, Chaos Sorcerer Sindri 
 Myr, Daemon Prince Tony Gronick - Dreadnought, Land Speeder, Rhino, Whirlwind, Predator, Land Raider 
 ***Additional Releases***
  
  ---Winter Assault ---
  Main article: Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War: Winter Assault
  The first expansion pack for the 
 game was Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War: Winter Assault. Released in 2005, this expansion pack added 
 a new army, the Imperial Guard, as well as a new unit for each army, and a new single-player campaign, 
 where the player could play as the Forces of Order (Eldar and Guard) or Disorder (Chaos and Orks) 
 as they battle over the planet of Lorn V.
  
  ---Dark Crusade ---
  Main article: Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War: Dark Crusade
  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War: Dark 
 Crusade is a stand alone game as the game mechanics have been revised. Dawn of War and Winter Assault 
 are not required to run Dark Crusade. In addition to the races from the previous games, two new 
 playable races are available: the Tau and the Necrons. The single player campaign mode has been 
 re-worked as well, each having their own race and fighting for control of the planet Kronus. The 
 player can attack and defend provinces, collect planet resources from units when starting to forward 
 bases, similar to the board game Risk, and as various challenges are completed, wargear can be 
 obtained to upgrade the commander unit.
  
  Dark Crusade is sold as a 'stand alone expansion pack'. If only Dark Crusade is installed then 
 users will have access to all of the factions in the campaign mode and skirmish but will be limited 
 to the new races, Tau and Necrons, in multi-player mode. All seven factions are only available 
 in multi-player mode if all games are installed.
  
  ***Game of the Year Edition***
  Dawn of War was re-released as a game of the year edition on September 20, 2005 in the USA and 
 on September 23 in Europe. In addition to the regular game the game of the year edition also included 
 8 new maps, 4 of which were exclusive to the package, new multiplayer features and all the patches 
 released up until that point.
  
  ***Collections***
  Subsequent to the release of the Winter Assault expansion pack, both Dawn of War: Game of the Year 
 Edition and Winter Assault were released in a single package, called the Gold Edition in the USA. 
 In addition, THQ has also released the game and the two expansions in a single package, called 
 The Platinum Collection in the USA or as the Dawn of War: Anthology in the PAL regions. In addition 
 to the games, the Platinum collection also included demos of the THQ games Company of Heroes, Supreme 
 Commander and Titan Quest.
  
  Novels
  In December 2004, Black Library released a novelization of Dawn of War by Cassern S. Goto (Goto, 
 2004) . The book expands on the story found in the Single Player campaign, with additional characters 
 and in more detail. A follow-up novel, Dawn of War: Ascension (Goto, 2005) was released in November 
 2005, continuing the story of Captain Angelos and the Blood Ravens. A third book titled Dawn of 
 War: Tempest, again by Goto, was released 2006; telling the story of Blood Ravens Librarian Rhamah 
 and his struggle to rejoin his chapter after being lost in the Eye of Terror, as well as continue 
 the story of Angelos following the events of Ascension. Whilst the first novel remains close to 
 the story of the PC game, the subsequent novels are increasingly independent from the game's storyline, 
 and Goto develops Black Library's interpretation of the Blood Ravens.
  
  ***Miscellaneous***
  Dawn of War has an active modding community. Relic Entertainment released 
 official modding tools for the community to use. Dawn of War is also the name of a cancelled Real 
 Time Strategy game set in prehistoric times by SouthPeak Interactive. A model of Captain Gabriel 
 was created as showcased in the back of Codex: Space Marines. Full Review Wrote by:
  M_J007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodcow666
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Every once and a while, a game comes that totally blows you away, for me, this is one of them. 
 This game blew away all of my predictions that it would be just another sucky little RTS. Firstly, 
 victory in this game can be achieved in many ways, one way is by controlling strategy points, critical 
 areas, or the classic destroying your opponents base. This forces you to use strategies that you 
 wouldn't use for a change and takes away the old monotony of destroying your opponents base (although 
 it can sometimes lead to an utter stalemate) . What I also loved was how it captures the brutality 
 of the Warhammer 40k universe. Imperial Dreadnoughts pick up enemies, crush their skulls in a shower 
 of blood and trow their lifeless bodies like rag dolls. Banshees dispatch enemies in a bloody onslaught 
 of blades and men spurt out blood as their shot. It creates this great atmosphere that just makes 
 it for me. Although the cut scenes look like crap, their made great by the over the top voice acting. 
 The game also has an interesting story with a great twist. And the in-game graphics look excellent.
 
  
  Overall I loved this game and hopefully you do to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyslopytalk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of war is one of the best RTS games ive ever played and the best at the moment. It isnt about 
 large scale battles, but about small scale with extreme detail. There ae many different killing 
 animations and every unit has plenty of abilities. The single player campaign is awful though , 
 its all about the multiplayer which is perfect.
  
  If you do get this game ther is nothing more fun than playing the map Kasyr Lutien with QS ( Almost 
 infintie resources) resouces in a 3v3 match. Or the most fun of all Mortalis 3v3 std. For many 
 months thats the only map and setting i played. I have had many satisfying moments. For example 
 once My allies were rushed ( attacked early using basic units in a mass) i had already decided 
 to tech up to tier 2. When all hope was lost i attacked the enemies with a defiler, which is an 
 artillary attack with a powerful secondary cannon and very small sqauds of marines with nothing 
 but plasma. My army was a bout 4 times smaller, but i killed them all. If there is something more 
 satisfying in gaming than that i would love to hear it Oh Mortalis qs free for all is also fantastic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hobeck5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Never thought I would find a game to rival Stargraft but this is it. The gameplay is brilliant 
 and the graphics likewise. I have found it a little hard to keep up as speed of thought is essential 
 but I am getting more used to balancing my tactics between building, defending and attacking. It 
 is essential to read the manual and use the forums. The ability for marines to jump from one location 
 to another is a neat element and helped me out a few times. The only problem is the squad limit 
 which sometimes catches you out in the heat of battle but overall this is a brilliant game and 
 well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpha_raptor
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  this game has redefined the word war . destroy your opponents units that try to breach your defences 
 to destroy your HQ or assasinate your hero and watch how the piles of bodies grow. and when things 
 get overcrowded, upgrade your squads with spesial weapons like grenade launchers, plasma guns and 
 flamethrowers. or you can make a few scout squads and give them a sniper or two, move them in possition 
 and you'll see how the AI's squads hesetate to move in!
  
  choose your side, the good guys that have sworn to kill the mutant, destroy the wrong, and annhialate 
 the alien. or the bad, who want to control the uneverse and kill or enslave anyone in it. your 
 choice, no pressure.
  
  want to give your army their own squad colours, banner, name and ensignia? no of course not, lets 
 go with the frilly pink soldiers! we can hug them and feed them... or we can make them big, red 
 and gold and strike fear in the hearts of every litle breathing creature known to man.
  
  the battlefield can differ between an urban jungle ,snow, mountains, desert, swamps. all with their 
 own history. permanent scarring in the options menu can cause a lush, tropical island to turn into 
 a scarred, bombed and burning bloodbath.
  
  choose between 4 races, each with its own strenghts and weaknesses, building styles, and units.
 
  
  a great campaign that not only takes you to the frontlines of massive battles, but also secretive 
 missions where you have to sneak past armies of big bad green orks, and have to resist the temptation 
 to save your allies when the orks have surrounded them, and risk failing the mission.
  
  this game has redefined the word war , THE DAWN OF WAR!!!!!
  
  (GET THIS GAME OR I SWEAR ILL 
 CLIMB TROUGH THIS COMPUTER AND  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of real-time strategy (RTS) games and have played most of the major ones that have come 
 out over the past several years, such as Age of Empires, Empire Earth, Warcraft, and Rise of Nations. 
 However, there is something very special about this one. Most RTS games have you sparring with 
 your opponent (s) until one of you gets knocked out or assimilated. Not with W40K: Dawn of War. 
 It's non-stop kicks in the groin until one of you doubles over and then gets decapitated with a 
 buzzing chainsword. This is by far one of the most graphic games I've ever played. It gives you 
 a front-row seat to an all-out brutal spectacle of carnage and savagery. The game is at once cute, 
 entertaining, dark, grim, and horrifying. Rarely does a match last over 45 minutes and most are 
 over (at least the single-player matches) in 30 minutes or less. It's heart-pumping, adrenaline-rushing 
 action from start to finish -- and it's great the whole time. Overall, DoW is very well put together 
 and should be in the collection of any strategy gamer. Overall Rating: 4.5 out of 5.
  
  Starting with sound.
  Very good voice acting (except for the Chaos side) , well-done music, and 
 the sound effects are perfect. There are a lot of little sound bites in the game that are witty 
 and dark at the same time. I have no real complaints in this area, except the Chaos forces sound 
 a bit too whiny.
  
  Now onto gameplay
  W40K is much like other RTS games in which you build buildings which produce units which seize 
 territory and kill enemy units. However, all of the collecting of resources has been nicely steamlined. 
 Instead of hoarding the usual food, gold, timber, stone, and so forth, you seize strategic points 
 and build plasma generators. That's it! Your peons are used only for building and repair, no collecting. 
 Thus, the game allows you to concentrate much more on battlefield strategy. And believe me, you'll 
 need to. Unlike Age of Empires or Rise of Nations in which national borders or walls can protect 
 you for a while from your foes, your enemies in this game often stop by within the first 30-60 
 seconds of gameplay. And they don't send a nice welcoming committee either. The gameplay is visceral, 
 bloody, and furious from then on. You absolutely can't win without capturing strategic points and 
 to do this means that you have to always be expanding. Of course, this means that you are always 
 at war. Thankfully, each of the four sides that you can play are all designed for war. The space 
 marines (my personal favorites) are the human faction. They are tough and well-rounded and fight 
 well in close quarters and at a distance. The Chaos marines are an evil version (but not a duplicate) 
 of the space marines and employ demons and dark magic, as well as a good mix of infantry and artillery. 
 The Orks lust for war and often attempt to wipe out enemies by their sheer numbers. The Eldars 
 are a very advanced race of aliens who specialize in various military tactics and have teleportation 
 abilities. Overall, the races seem pretty balanced with the 1.3 patch, though I have only played 
 single-player games and always play with the space marines. The single-player campaign has 11 missions, 
 and it is quite good. However, I wish the game had shipped with one or two more campaigns. Fortunately, 
 there is a good variety of maps which come with the game (and the patches included a few more) , 
 which should keep both solo players like me as well as the online crowd happy for a while. Also, 
 you can download maps and other mods from the dawnofwargame. com website. You can also replay recorded 
 games to see how the computer plays. This will probably be worthwhile to some gamers, since the 
 computer plays very well on the standard and hard difficult levels and is probably near impossible 
 to beat on the insane difficulty setting (which I haven't tried yet) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xalenite
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Right when you start the game, you see an opening cut scene that gives you a taste of how the game 
 will basically look. This scene was AMAZING. It shows the brutal action of the Warhammer universe 
 and shows you exactly how bloody the battles will be. Once you actually play the game, that's when 
 the fun starts. This game looks amazing even with it's age. I love the great animations of the 
 combat and so will you. The game has the basic base building methods of other RTS games and the 
 similarities end there. You will die if you stay at your base and play defensively. The game forces 
 you to forward and capture strategic points to gain points to build new buildings and upgrades. 
 You WILL experience battles early on the game. These encounters may seem simple but it's insanely 
 fun. When you have 5 squads of Space Marines against 7 squads Chaos Marines, it gets AMAZING. With 
 the addition of great vehicles and even SUPER UNITS, it turns into all out WAR. The act of reinforcing 
 is GENIUS which lets you add more members to your squad at any time. There's an army painter but 
 it isn't as revolutionary as the box said. It still gets the job done and let you personalize the 
 game a bit though. After that you'll want to take on the multiplayer. While it's hard to find a 
 game to play now since the game is 2-3 years old, you should play a good game with no problem. 
 My only complaint about the game is the Campaign. It's relatively short and a little bit unbalanced 
 in difficulty. It's no place to practice for multiplayer games. You do that in the Skirmish Modes 
 which is where you'll spend HOURS playing. And it honestly gets hard on the standard mode. Easy 
 is of course easy but after that it can get overwhelming thanks to the great AI. While the gameplay 
 may seem a little repetitive at times, I still manage to love it all. I even play the tutorials 
 alot because I found it one of the best and funnest tutorials in a game. This game brings something 
 unique to the RTS genre and simply should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skate411
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Awsome game. Best RTS ive played in a while, brings a whole new experience to playing RTS games. 
 Fast and constant action, intense fire fights and awsome hand to hand combat. You can even zoom 
 in to see you army battle it out up close. Great graphics, gameplay, sound and re-playability. 
 With 4 races to choose from and they are all totally unique. You can choose to play as the Eldar, 
 Space Marines, Chaos Space Marines, and Orks. With a Customizable army painter, you can bring your 
 own army online and battle it out with a great online setup. A must have for RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Npaviour
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  Dawn Of War is one of the best RTS games out, with it's superb graphics and damm good gameplay 
 this game is a must play game! if you have a pc and you have a decent amount of RAM and good graphics 
 card, you're gonna spend hours on this game by its addiction to conqure the outstanding planets 
 and to kick some Ork ass. the blood effects are great and give a good feel to the game, with the 
 amazing explosions from the bombs and the great maps of destroyed cities and war torn countrysides. 
 there are a mixture of armies to use (we all know the space marines are the best) but you can also 
 fight as the chaos space marines, orks and the eldars. all in all this is a great game to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerzombieman
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k is a futuristic sci-fi rts. There are 4 races, Spaces marines which are basically 
 Super Humans, there are Chaos space marines, which are tormented/mutilated humans who are currupted 
 by evil and power. There are the orks, basically your standard grunting, not very smart who love 
 war orcs. Lastsly theres the elder, a typical alien race, i havent played them much. It has a lot 
 of innovation and the strategy in it isn't mostly about countering the opponets units and microing 
 a lotlike most good real time strategys such as warcraft 3, starcraft, command and conquer 3. It's 
 a lot more about controlling the the map, usually the middle. The game gets right into the action, 
 it takes maybe 2 minutes to get your early base set up and to get your first squad pumped out. 
 So you usually make contact with your opponent within 3 minutes of the game. It's pretty well balanced, 
 accept for i've heard complaints about the eldar being a little overpowered, I haven't really noticed 
 that, but thats me. The battles are what make this game so great, the fighting in it is so fulfilling 
 and different, you'll see one of your guys have defeated another unit and it will perform a fatality, 
 and most units can do both ranged or close combat fighting which is basically the only micro in 
 a battle. You don't micro much because of the fact you control squadrons instead of 1 unit at a 
 time. The graphics are amazing for a 2004 game, decent for now in 2007. The sounds in the game 
 are very likeable and help give off a nice feeling when you fight. Also for the multiplayer which 
 is new and cool, you can paint the color of your army and choose the symbol you would like. There 
 is a wide variety of colors and symbols it's really cool. The multiplayer again as i said before 
 is pretty well balanced. There can be tons of action, but also there can be a lot of camping and 
 guarding the middle. It obviously depends on the players on how much acton will be in the match, 
 but from my experience their is a lot of fighting, a lot more than most rts. But the online is 
 very VERY dead the most players you will see online is 40-50 people, usually you will see around 
 10. Which sucks because it is a very fun multiplayer game, but i mean you will be able to find 
 and play a game once n a while. So this is a very great lan game and tuns of fun to lan with friends. 
 The singler player is okay, nothing to brag about. The campaign has an okay story, it fits nicely 
 with the game. Every second of the campaign is basically fighting it really doesn't get old the 
 first time you beat it, but it probably will the second time through. It has some cool different 
 missions you usually wouldnt have an rts. The difficulties are really well put there is insane, 
 hard, and normal. Normal is pretty easy and you can beat it pretty fast. So i recommend that for 
 casual players who just want to play it and see the story unfold. Hard is just a bit harder than 
 normal and same thing goes with this as normal, just gives you a little more of a challenge. Insane 
 is pretty tought and can take ALONG time to beat the whole game with it on insane. So overall, 
 for when this game was released in 2004 i'd give it a 9.7. But for a game in 2007 i'd say its about 
 a 7.5., and i would still recommend it to anybody who likes games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cristialex317
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 29, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  If you played company Of heroes and you love the style and the excitment then you will love this 
 game. The Graphics are good not great like company of heroes but better then normal. The Style 
 of play is good most of the time ur not worring about if you have enough resource to do something 
 most of the time ur makeing guys and watching ur fron line. As for the sound egh its far good. 
 Dawn of war is defentily a must by if you like company of heroes and if you dont like it even then 
 you should give it a try download the demo and start playing but i warn you DONT GET addicted like 
 i did. If your a fanatic of Company And Dawn Of war then we can be friends cuz i love those games 
 well Good is Style of gamplay and not woring about to much resources the bad i could of expected 
 better out of the game but it does the best it can and im glad GREAT GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War is a completely original game based upon the world of Warhammer 40,000 made by the 
 Games Workshop.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  It ain't exacly perfect, as the patches crap it up, but the squad based gameplay is just addictive, 
 and upgrading them with weapons makes it even better! The guns, the armies, the battles, all amazing! 
 All of it wrapped up in a great singleplayer story campaign.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Some of the best I've seen in RTS games to date. You can actually see the details on your units 
 if you have high enough settings and are zoomed in.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Great, just great. The units voices are unique, the weapons, explosions, and building sounds just 
 great.
  
  Value: 10/10
  The best! Buy the Gold Edition with Winter Assault in it!
  
  Simply put: Buy this game! It's pure bliss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfmanstout
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War faces the daunting task of translating a decidedly slow-paced tabletop game in to a 
 lively real-time affair, and there is no doubt that it has succeeded admirably.
  
  Dawn of War's greatest strength comes from the sheer intensity of its battles. Artillery fire will 
 send infantry flying, mechs will pick up and dissect units in gory detail, and all sorts of futuristic 
 weaponry will permanently scar the landscape and cause some pretty fireworks in the process. What's 
 so amazing about Dawn of War is that this intensity does not come at the price of tactical depth. 
 Dawn of War is all about well balanced combined arms forces that can meet any contingency. Balance 
 is important because specialized units can wreak serious havoc on their preferred targets - an 
 anti-infantry mech can drop squad after squad of men if they lack sufficient anti-armor weaponry. 
 Building a combined-arms force is mad simple, as most units arrive from their spawn building without 
 much in the way of specialization - you outfit them with their weapons once they are built. This 
 feature works very well, as it essentially makes each unit customizable. As far as squads go, this 
 means that you can create a team of anti-armor specialists, or a diverse squad with mixed weaponry 
 to be a bit more self-sufficient. As such, most of the battles in Dawn of War are won or lost on 
 having the right people attacking the right target at the right time. This could easily have been 
 a micromanaging nightmare, but so much of Dawn of War is beautifully streamlined that this isn't 
 the case. Infantry are assembled into squads of around 10 men, and if one of them dies, they can 
 be replaced in the field by selecting the squad and clicking the reinforce button. This makes keeping 
 tabs on your squads and making sure they are full strength a very manageable affair.
  
  This is good news, because that means you can focus on tactics instead of office work. Lots of 
 units, but mainly infantry and the leader units that can be attached to them, have special abilities 
 like physic attacks or equipment like grenades that require active involvement from the player. 
 These bonuses can turn the tide of battle, however, so there is huge incentive for the player to 
 be fully involved in every firefight. Morale is a feature that is handled simply but elegantly 
 in Dawn of War. Every infantry squad has a morale bar in addition to a health bar. If the squad 
 takes a beating (or is subject to special morale-breaking attacks such as artillery fire, flamethrower, 
 or psychic attacks) , their morale shatters and they become cannon fodder. Special units that can 
 be attached to infantry squads can rally a squad, however, so a good leader can keep tabs on his 
 army's morale (which is easy to do because you are given big visual clues) and rally as needed. 
 With all the attention needed balancing squads, abilities, and morale, it's a good thing that the 
 economic side of things is so simple and streamlined. Supply points (think gold) is accumulated 
 automatically if you control strategic points on the map, a fact which can turn many rounds into 
 fierce turf wars as sides battle to secure and hold limited resource points. Energy, the other 
 resource, is continuously added via power plants, which can be built in a base. Other than the 
 ability to research upgrades that speed up the money-making process, that's all there is to know 
 about the economy.
  
  The single player campaign is simply amazing - at the hardest difficulty level, it provided challenging 
 and intense slugfests filled with many tough decisions. It is long, but very well paced, and most 
 missions are sufficiently long and involved that their completion brings on a feeling of satisfaction. 
 The game looks great and is filled with amazing flair and detail. The sounds are appropriately 
 futuristic and gritty (turn up the bass to really feel the artillery strikes) and the music is 
 appropriately epic.
  
  If you want an accessible yet involved real time strategy game that is pretty to look at, then 
 look no further than Dawn of War. Rarely can a game simplify so many aspects of its gameplay and 
 interface without sacrificing depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snfonseka
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 16, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a great RTS, with great game play and story. Taking about game play there are four factions 
 to play (Not in the main campaign) , where these factions are totally different from each other. 
 So player can have totally different game play experience in multi-player games. In single player 
 campaign you can control several types of units with different abilities and also several types 
 of vehicles with different abilities. But the bad point is not enough specialization of attack 
 available for these vehicles, so if you can build the most expensive vehicles and upgrade them 
 those vehicles are good against many units and buildings in most of the time. Also we have to talk 
 about the story of the game too, because I think it is a great story which suits for a RTS. Finally 
 I like to talk about the battle field view of the game, since it provide great functionalities 
 to the game, which include great zoom in/out, rotate and other important functions that can provide 
 a good game play (As I believe you can play this game by only using the mouse) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 15, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really a fan of squad based RTSs, however, this game is incredible. Some major action can 
 happen right off the bat in any skirmish game. All the sides are very fun to play as. I haven't 
 played that much, but from what I see it seems fairly balanced all around (which is very tough 
 for games with more than 3 sides, and the expansions add even more than 4) . Have not played the 
 campaign yet, although you can only play as one side (again, expansions add more campaigns for 
 the other sides) , but I have heard good things. Team color customizations is very unique. You can 
 add any color scheme to all sides and play as it.
  
  Graphics are very good for an RTS, from far up and even at ground level. Overall, if you like RTSs 
 (squad based or not) , give it a try, you wont be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandresvillare
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  MY STORY ( IF YOU WANT YOU COULD READ IT)
  yeap is true this game is to fast and to rare at the same time when i played it i sayed this thing 
 is like &acute;&acute; fusion starcraft &amp; warcraft &amp; star wars eaw &amp; command &amp; 
 conquer `` then one day i saw company of heroes and i get crazy i played until every enemy were 
 dead and now that im waiting opossing fronts i decided to search rts games and now is when the 
 review comes
  
  REVIEW
  gameplay: aweosome is really fast easy and with a good, style of gameplay not seen from the other 
 rts because in the other rts you have to gather resources and that make you be only in one place 
 gathering and gathering resources all the time , the other rts they event dont have resources but 
 in this style you hve to go and give your 110% and destroy your enemies is that why you feel the 
 game get better and more faster than others
  graphics: they are just right not the best i have seen but they are good
  sound : &acute;&acute; rocks`` 
 . xplosions, voice acting all
  
  RECOMMENDATION
  play company if you like company of heroes then youre going to love warhammer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thehorror2
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 2, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40000 has been around for a good decade or so, and as a relatively new convert, I can 
 say that it is one of the most engrossing hobbies ever to come across the pond. Relic has captured 
 the spirit of the game and condensed it into a three-disc set that is an absolute blast to play.
 
  Although the base game only includes four factions, they are different enough that it doesn't 
 matter. They break down into classic stereotypical factions with some tweaks, for example: the 
 space marines here are the standard high-cost, out-numbered buttkickers, but have access to some 
 seriously powerful vehicles in the late game, Orks can swamp enemy units with sheer numbers but 
 have relatively weak tanks, the Eldar are fast and weak but have a few units like the Avatar or 
 Banshee squads that can devestate enemies in CQC (Which is implemented flawlessly I might add.) 
 and the Chaos marines are almost identical to Space Marines, but with more melee options, fewer 
 vehicles and the Bloodthirster, the most deadly single unit in the game.
  Relic has done a fantastic job translating the massive amount of options players of the real game 
 have into logical upgrades and powers, although Commander units are more overwhelmingly powerful 
 than in any game I've played to date.
  Fans of RTS or Warhammer (or both... especially both.) will find nothing to hate and lots to slake 
 their lust for battle in this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  RTS games have been dominated by ones such as Warcraft and C&amp; C for years. Its amazing that 
 few have been able to make new ground. We turn to our unlikely protagonist, Warhammer 40K. Renditions 
 of Games Workshop games have been made before, with mostly little success. So in a bold gamble, 
 Relic studios have took on the series.
  
  And my god, they got it right! What you have is a highly tactical RTS with units that look awesome 
 and terrain that looks beautiful. The main story takes on the role of the Blood Ravens, a chapter 
 of the Space Marines. They are trying to defend a planet against old enemies, the Space Orks, along 
 with some Imperial Guard allies. What the two allies don't know is that Chaos has appeared on this 
 planet, with a plot.
  
  Firstly, lets get down to the system. It's different. Instead of mindlessly blowing each other 
 up, terrain is littered with Strategic Points, Critical Locations and Relics. These all help in 
 accumilating resources. Power Plants are also needed for resources, and Slag Deposits help increase 
 this too. So the idea is to take key points to starve the enemy, then wipe them out. The units 
 are mostly placed into groups, and all units have one or two abilities that can be obtained from 
 certain buildings.
  
  There are four races to play with, even though a fifth is around in story mode. (That's because 
 they're an expansion pack race) . They are the Space Marines, Space Orks, Eldar and Chaos Space 
 Marines. This leaves room for the other races to come in, which is nice for those familiar with 
 40K. The units avaliable look amazing, and the variety of unit types and tactical involvement, 
 are remisant of the table top game, which is also nice to know. There's also online support, play 
 and Skirmish mode for those who wish to pound AI enemies. The AI isn't too forgiving, but does 
 let up the better you are fortified.
  
  The game's visuals make you wonder how your computer can run them. Indeed it is a marvel. The units 
 look fantastic, but the best thing is that you can paint your squads! The game comes with a tool 
 to customise your races. The presets include most of the ones that appear in the normal game, for 
 example, Ultramarines, Space Wolves, Blood Angels and Dark Angels have presence with the Space 
 Marine army. If your settings are too high, the frame rate may take a hammering, but even on lower 
 settings it is a marvel to look at. The game also sounds great too. From voice-overs on sequences, 
 to the full blown intro itself (which is amazing) , and indeed the units when selected. One or two 
 are purely comical in nature, but again, Warhammer 40K was never intended as fully serious stuff.
 
  
  If you love RTS games, or Warhammer 40K, then this game is for you. Its fun, easy to pick up and 
 will entertain for hours. With expansions set, this is the most in depth RTS game that will be 
 released for years! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hotrommel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  I've not tried this game until a week ago, and it blew me away! Even though its about 3 years old 
 the graphics still rocks - especially when it comes to gory death animation. The game play is intense 
 and action packed because you don't have to waste time on gathering money and so on. Also the maps 
 are really good - in particular the ruined cities. I also enjoyed the fact that each squad can 
 be upgraded differently. All in all a really action packed, good looking, good sounding, and just 
 extremely fun game! p. s it DOES kick ass on C&amp; C 3
  
  Good: Graphics - gory and cool post-apocalyptic feel
  Sounds - Very fun voices, nice background 
 sounds, okay music
  Action packed and intense - the adrenaline just keeps pumping!
  Cool factions and nice buildings/machines/units
  Good campaign especially in Dark Crusade
  
 
  The Bad!
  Some balance problems - the space marines and chaos are REALLY good!?
  Minor graphics problems, gets a bit repetitive... but these are MINOR problems
  Some really though 
 battles - no no seriously THOUGH battles!!
  Some AI problems as well... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidwwone
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I played this game about one year ago, I really liked it but like most games it went to the bottom 
 of the pile when I had enough. My computer recently crashed and I lost all off my data on my hard 
 drive so I had to reinstall all my games. I must say im so happy I installed warhammer its superb! 
 I cant believe this game has stood the test of time so well. The graphics look good they could 
 easily stand up to a game today on the higher settings. The game play is superb even on the standard 
 difficulty setting but if you want a challenge I recommend medium to hard. There is so much to 
 do in this game skirmishes all over the map, upgrading squads of soldiers with more men, weapons 
 and technology. Truly a superb game reinstall if you have it and it you dont buy it &pound;35 
 for the original plus two add ons one being the amazing dark crusade . If your current spec is 
 struggling with the likes of company of heros and supreme commander then this the RTS game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonfaith
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm not writing your average review for Dawn of War because by the time I got around to writing 
 this you could have already read 20 other different reviews giving you all the technical information 
 about the game you can stomach. Instead I'm going to tell you something the other guys might not. 
 Dawn of War is plainly an awesome RTS game in an overly crowded RTS genre. What sets it apart from 
 the others is not it's great graphics, though it does have that, but the gritty feel of the Warhammer 
 40,000 universe. It gets the look and sounds of this fictional world so right that if you are not 
 a Warhammer 40,000 aficionado you just might be one before your done with it. Your going to want 
 to know more about the Universe that spawns such a fascinating game. From the Orc Waaghs!!! to 
 the Space Marines God Emperor there is an underbelly to this story that begs further investigation. 
 The biggest complaint I've heard or experienced myself with the game is that the single player 
 mode is too short. I'll have to agree. But this does leave open the opportunity for modding and 
 the expansions which are already out. In short play this game. Most won't regret it and the ones 
 that do probably shouldn't be playing it anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delpidelpi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k: Dawn of war &egrave; il pi&ugrave; bel gioco della sua serie, neanche l'ultimo uscito, 
 Mark of Chaos, &egrave; al suo pari!
  Online non s&ograve; dirvi come potrebbe essere, ma se &egrave; cosi incredibilmente spettacolare 
 offline, online sar&agrave; sicuramente il massimo! Sempre che si trovino giocatori esperti e bravi 
 contro cui battersi! ^^
  Per quanto riguarda l'espansione, Dark Crusade, &egrave; molto carina e simpatica, a quanto pare 
 vi sono nuove razze da scoprire e nuovi edifici, per non dire degli scenari e delle campagne! Se 
 siete indecisi su che gioco comprare (o scaricare :p) del genere Real-Time-Strategy, Warhammer 40,000 
 &egrave; il gioco che f&agrave; per voi! Fidatevi di me :D L'unica cosa che mi preoccupa ora &egrave; 
 che il BELLISSIMO sito di Gamespot &egrave; in inglese, mentre io ho scritto un'intera recensione 
 in italiano quale io sono XD spero che sia proprio un italiano a trovare queste parole cosi d&agrave; 
 poterle capire! Cordiali saluti da delpidelpi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul573
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War is a great game by Relic and Games Workshop. It was a little difficult at first because 
 I was so used to moving and then firing, not fire at the same time as moving. The controls are 
 pretty basic but shortcuts are kind of confusing. The graphics are ok, but i wouldn't give a 10 
 for them, more like 6 or 7. The really great part about the game were the main characters and the 
 short scenes. Each scene really made you want to listen because each character has its own personality 
 in the game. Treachery, Valor, Honor, Faith, Destruction, and Doubt all are shown. Sindri is probably 
 the best character in the game because he is practically a genius and all things go his way, except 
 for the end of course (but a new problem arises with his demise) . Overall i'd give it an 8.4 rating. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Git17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k Dawn of war is a truly epic RTS game with extraordinarily good gameplay. Relic has 
 created a true masterpiece and a wonderfully entertaining game, potraying the 40k world perfectly.
 
  
  At first I was slightly reluctant to purchase the game, having thought it would be a simple run 
 of the mill RTS, with relitively little to no support. I was proven wrong the second i ran the 
 game. The CGI opening for the game is nothing short of astounding, as the a small group of Space 
 marines attempt to hold back the Orks, and eventually turning into one big swirling melee battle.
 
  
  There are four races to choose from. The Space marines, Chaos, Eldar and Orks.
  
  The Space marines, good guys of the 40k universe, being genetically modified super humans, who 
 are the best warriors humanity has to offer. In-game they are the most balanced of races, having 
 a good mixture of ranged specialists and melee specialists.
  
  The Chaos forces are bassicly the evil counterparts of space marines. They are almost the same 
 other than the darker feel about them, and the slightly more focused aspect on melee combat. They 
 also have additional troopers called Daemons, who are adept at filling rolls from Anti vehicle 
 to just being close combat power houses.
  
  Then there are the Eldar, an ancient race of aliens who are a very specialised race, having units 
 who are made to specialise in one speific role, than on a balance. They are bassicly elves in space, 
 just with advanced futuristic technology.
  
  And finally there are the Orks, my personal favourite. The Orks are large green hulking humanoid 
 type aliens, who are incredibly focused on melee. Their individual troopers are weak, however their 
 numbers more than make up for this, and their melee power is second to none.
  
  The game itself offers a lot, more than most RTS's now available. First off il talk about the gameplay. 
 Unlike older RTS games, the game uses squads instead of individual units. This takes the preassure 
 of intense micro management, but still requires its own fair share of micro and strategy. The units 
 themselves are very unique in general.
  
  Also it is different to other RTS games in the resource module. You dont harvest gold, or gather 
 wood, you must go outside, and capture small points called Strategetic points, to gain resource, 
 forcing you to engage your opponent across the map and allowing you to quickly get int othe fighting.
 
  
  Some units can fire on the move so monouvering troopers during battle can help considerably unlike 
 older RTs games, and some other units cant fire on the move at all, making positioning of units 
 very important. Units also have the ability to reinforce, so instead of having to go back to the 
 barracks to rebuild that one man lost, you can simply reinforce there and then on the battlefield.
 
  
  The game also offers excellent visual effects. Watching your units fight in melee is nothing short 
 from epic, as the units have excellent fighting animations. You could have a Ork Leader hit a Space 
 marine grab him with its giant claw like weapon, and beat it to a bloody pulp by slamming it head 
 first into the ground continuesly, until finally throwing it away.
  
  Or from a regular Space marine plunging its sword into a Orks chest and kicking him off. The general 
 combat animations are also excellent to watch, as you will watch units block blows, or recoil in 
 pain. It really gives a more visual and visceral atompshere to the game in general.
  
  The Campaign is short, but quite engaging. You play as the Space marines, using a army of them 
 called the Blood Ravens, who are on a world called Tartarus there to wipe out the massive army 
 of Orks, but later learn of the Chaos and Eldar. While it does have a good storyline, most of the 
 missions require you to simply build up your base and roll out and kill the enemy. It is probably 
 the only real downside if any of this game, but it still has a very interesting story and characters. 
 And finally the voice Acting is simplay amazing. The Orks are very well potrayed with their heavy 
 cockney accents, and also shows their barbarity through their simple but savage quotes. One of 
 the Ork quotes is Up yours! which bassicly explains enough in itself in what the Orks are like.
 
  
  What really made the voice acting so good to me is also the passion. There is no dull voice actor/actress 
 in this game, they all have a lot of passion in what they say, and really makes the characters 
 come to life.
  
  In conclusion i would heavily recommend this game to anyone looking for a high quality RTS game 
 which has a brilliant mixture of visuals and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorcererofhell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  DoW has excellent gameplay, and it is very challenging due to the advanced AI and tactical options. 
 The range of armies is diverse, yet easy to grasp. It stays true to the original warhammer 40k 
 universe, as far as I know. This game introduced warhammer 40k to me.
  It has character, lots of good unit catchphrases, and 4 armies which each have their own tactics. 
 It's hard, I can say that. The AI are challenging, and hard to outwit. The graphics are good, and 
 will run on most medium spec PCs, whilst the sounds are excellent. If you're a fan of RTS games, 
 then this is a game that you must get. It involves plenty of strategy, and has a unique style. 
 In place of mines, you have strategic points and generators. Not only that, but you can view it 
 all up close in 3D view.
  
  It can be played for hours upon hours. Whilst it has a few drawbacks, in terms of pathfinding for 
 large amounts of units, and I find the capabilities of some elite units disappointing. I love the 
 action and animations, it's never disappointing even if you lose.
  
  P, S There are great mods for it, and I recommend Steel Legion for any tank fanatics. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I never liked that much games in a SF or fantasy universe, an exception being the Star 
 Wars series. But I heard that this game was very nice &amp; I bought it. At first, I wasn't impressed 
 at all. A boring gameplay, I said. But after more hours of playing it, I knew I was holding in my hands 
 the best RTS ever.&amp; it had that title untill Company of Heroes (a Relic production too) took 
 it. The graphics are simply superb, with the 3D camera &amp; exciting effects. It had the best graphics 
 in a RTS untill Company of Heroes arrived. A mastepiece at the sound chapter, too. The music &amp; 
 sound effect are very good &amp; make that apocalyptic atmosphere &amp; you feel that you're the 
 only one who could save it,&amp; the voice acting is simply the best in any game, even better than 
 in Mafia, The Godfather or GUN. The gameplay looks boring &amp; repetitive, but it isn't. You can 
 form squads, take cover, upgrade weapons &amp; build massive defensive structures,&amp; attack by 
 improvising great strategies. The gameplay is similar to the one in Company of Heroes, just that 
 in Dawn of War there are more types of units, buildings, but less abilities. The best factions are 
 Space Marines, than Chaos, Orks &amp; the weakest are the Eldars. It's clear that Relic is the best 
 RTS producer ever,&amp; Warhammer 40000 Dawn of War proves to beat very good RTS-s, including Rise 
 of Nations, Warcraft III or Age of Empires III. It is simply one of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Great Game might I say. Well worth your time. Dawn of War a game like Red Alert or any of those 
 real time strategy's. This one blows them all out of the water. You can choose your army like in 
 the real life Warhammer games. This game lets you choose your army and even make it look like your 
 army (if you ever collected the pieces before the game) . The story mode is pretty fun, and multi-player 
 adds up loads of fun. The graphics aren't AMAZING but I don't have the most recent computer either 
 so I don't take that into consideration. Different tactics can be made by your playing style, for 
 example you can advance your army to the best infantry unit, or you can just jump right to the 
 tanks. Its up to you and how you like to play. I highly suggest getting the game. It will be worth 
 your troubles. Go Chaos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlaklyon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game that hasn't already been said about it already? I Kind of that a 
 problem... But, here goes anyway! Lets start with the bottom line. This game is Awesome. Point 
 Blank, Its just awesome! Remember that time you finished that classic NES game Contra without using 
 the 30 lives code? and you got that great feeling? this game is like that but, better! How so, 
 you say? Lets start with the presentation. It makes you feel like you are really in a life or death 
 battle where, everything is on the line. What helps this feeling of unwavering attention is the 
 graphics. you have the option to zoom in and get up close and personal with the battle. This allows 
 you to see the brutal heartless unremorseful savageness of war. War in my opinion, is always brutal. 
 Add some Hi Tech, futuristic weapons and, 4 different factions that hate each other And, you got 
 yourself a bloodbath. Especially if you are not prepared... The difficulty setting goes from forgiving 
 streight to HOLY CRAP! WHAT ARE THESE GUYS ON! So don't think just because this game is easy to 
 pick up and play, You will waltz through it like you have played Warcraft 3, 70 times before. You 
 should see the video review to get more in depth with this daimond of a gem of a game. The only 
 reason I didn't giv it the all mighty 10 out of 10 is because, To see the game in all its savage 
 glory, You will need a P. C. equipt with some bad ass and, you can only play the campaign with the 
 Space Marines... BOOOOO! shame on you THQ! Other than that, There is no reason why you shouldn't 
 be playing this game if, you have a decent P. C. Forget Dynesty Warriors and Final fantasy's Vision 
 of war. I bet you $10 NONE of those wimps could stand a chance against any of the 4 factions you 
 will encounter in this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I wish they had made this game in 1989. It would have saved me a lot of time and energy painting 
 a slew of miniatures and filling my parent's basement full of RPG crap. Dawn of War is a much better 
 way of getting your Warhammer on. Dawn of War is a by-the-numbers RTS along the lines of Starcraft. 
 Great visuals and involving gameplay wrapped around a compelling fantasy system keep it from being 
 just another RTS also-ran. The Space Marines, Orks and Eldar (elves in spaaace!) each have unique 
 units and attributes that make playing each of them a different experience. Multiplayer games are 
 a little unbalanced toward the marines with the Orks being the weakest faction. I can forgive this 
 because I have liked the Warhammer setting since I was a kid, the average gamer may not. Still, 
 I think any RTS fan will find this to be a fun single-player game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jes3907
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  WoW. Thats all there is to say. Everything about this game is innovative. Every race plays completely 
 different from the others and it only get better with the expansions. From the stoic Space Marines 
 to the... odd Orks this game has everything. Oh and the meteor buildings, like in every other RTS 
 game I've ever played construction is pretty straight forward. Not in this one. The Space Marines 
 buildings come from drop pods from space (my personal favorite) , the Eldar's buildings are a little 
 weird with their plasteresque things but its still pretty cool. The Chaos Space Marines, their 
 voices are probably the hardest thing to get used to especially the cultists...*shudders*, summon 
 their buildings, intact, from the warp while the Orks have their buildings drop in piles of rubble... hah!
 
  
  The graphics are incredible, just absolutely amazing. Each man in the squad has his own animations. 
 Like the Space Marines pull out swords and stick people if they're within range. And the finishing 
 moves are something else. First time I saw it, I did a double-take. An RTS with that level of detail 
 is destined for greatness.
  
  Anyway, if you like RTS games, and even if you don't, at the very least get the demo. Chances are 
 you'll buy it the next day.
  
  Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YazanAK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Not only is this game one of the best rts I've played so far, but its also one of the most geniusly 
 designed. The tactics inserted into the game for controlling strategy points, the new morale system, 
 and the cinematic cutscenes add more depth to the rts saga. Something new which i like about this 
 game is the flexibility you have in controlling units. You can select all the units on the screen, 
 and manage each ones upgrade without having to deselect the rest. Also, the fantasy and the story 
 line are truly appealing. If you have a good graphic card, you can zoom to the units face and watch 
 the war actions as if you were there already. Plus, with 4 factions to choose from, who's complaining? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephirothrulez9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is what a true RTS player is looking for.
  
  Gameplay: The story mode is amazing, the actual playing is amazing, And the strategy of winning 
 is awsome. You have to capture control points, and build listening posts on them to get some requesition, 
 but the enemy can come and conquer it and build there own on it... a very original game, that no-one 
 should copy from or it will make DoW look bad.
  
  Graphics: the graphics in this game are awsome, and they can play on an average computer. The models 
 up-close look awsome ( on high quality ) the terrain, buildings, foliage, everything is awsome
 
  
  Sound: The gunfire, sword fights, melee/ range battles' sounds are awsome too, you hear every last 
 bullet being fired, every last soldier dieing, every last blade ( or chainsaw =] ) cutting through 
 there flesh!!!
  
  Value and Tilt: You can get this game at a very reasonable price for what its worth, i love the 
 game so id get it again because my CD has an error and i cant install it again = (.
  
  I TOTALLY RECROMEND THIS GAME TO ANY RTS PLAYER ( OR RTS STARTERS) AND I TOTALLY RECROMMEND GOING 
 ON DOWFILES. COM TO DOWNLOAD MODS, BANNERS, CUSTOM EVERYTHING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  As far as the whole Warhammer universe I am a noob. It's ver yaddicting to get into simple to figure 
 out what to do and have fun playing it.
  
  Graphics are good but I don't care about that. Gameplay is smooth and playing each race is fun 
 as they offer a unique approach to gameplay and tactics.
  
  There are sometimes parts where you will get frustrated the Squiggoth for example can take a heavy 
 beating and none of the races seem to have a good defense against it.
  
  The army painter is kinda cool as it lets you customize youre army's colors giving them a uniqe 
 look.
  
  A good buy shouldn't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeGamespot
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  Well, Warhammer is a good game indeed if you have the original game so that you can play it on multiplayer, but 
 if you don't have the original one, it's not really a must buy.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay is really good, you can do many things in it and it's realistic even thought it got some 
 fantasy units such as orks ,you'll have some fun with it because you even need strategic points 
 to build up your army.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Really great graphics, you'll need a good computer to run this game at high graphics configuration 
 and patience to wait for it till it finishes loading a match but that's worth it because you can 
 even see some different kinds of animations when your unit kills an enemy unit. ( if that unit 
 is a infantry unit or some kind of machine )
  
  Sounds:
  
  For a futuristic game, it got great sounds that sounds like the weapons we've got today in the world 
 in the wars. You can hear them shout when they're going to the battle, most of the units have great 
 voice acting and that kind of things, so concluding, great sound system.
  
  Value:
  
  This game isn't all that cheap, but it's really worth it if you buy the original version because 
 you can even download a program that lets you create your own good maps to share with friends and 
 have fun with even thought it's complicated to make maps.
  
  Concluding:
  
  This game is a great RTS game, I don't think it's a must buy but Im pretty sure that if you're a 
 RTS fun you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09n
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Now I've been a fan of teh tabletop Warhammer 40K for at least 10 years and I have enjoyed seeing 
 this game bring the minitures to life. Nothing is more fun than watching a space marine blast his 
 Ork enemies to peices. The characters are beautifully modelled, enough detail to feal realistic 
 but it doesn't hog your system.
  Blood spurts, bodies hang around and tanks explode all very nicely. Watching the guns fire is something 
 a tabletop gamer like myself enjoyed, watching the pale blue lascannon vut through your enemies 
 is something left only to your imagination before but you can now watch it, realistically created 
 in full 3D. The engine for this game is really one of the best for an RTS. This of course excludes 
 the Total war series' battle scenes.
  In fact my only problem with the engine is it doesn't have anti-aliasing built in, I have to force 
 that through my drivers.
  Nothing beats 90 bolters firing at once when it comes to sound, with explosions blasting out of 
 your subwoofer and waking the neighbours. The sound in this game is very realistic. Although at 
 times it gets a little confused.
  The creators of Dawn of War clearly put a lot of effort into making the game easy to control. First 
 off, unlike age of empires, you can select whole units at once, allowing for much more versitile 
 combat and faster movement of trrops. It also mean that if you select a group of Eldar Guardians 
 you wont get any Dark reapers or something in their. Their is a limit on the troops you can have 
 but its still a large army you can amass. Their is a campain mode, and your typical Warhammer style 
 plot to it. Your Space Marine Chapter, the Blood Ravens, has been called to a planet to defend 
 the population from orks. The imperial Guard are over run and the people are dying. As you fight 
 your way through you will discover other factions at work on the planet, the hordes of Chaos, loyal 
 to a false emperor, the Eldar, who have great disdain for humanity and of course the blood thirsty, 
 relentless orks.
  The difficulty is well sacled, ranging from Easy to Insane for you veterans out there.
  Where 
 this game really shines for me is the multiplayer, I really enjoy it. I've had enough fragging 
 my friends in counter strike, I've played enough racers, and dont get me started on other RTS games. 
 Somehow this game is addictive, I never get tired of waging war against another player, even after 
 almost 30 hours of online play. Its hard to put my finger on why but this games multiplayer keeps 
 me coming back again and again.
  This Game is good for both Warhammer fans, Die-hard RTS fans and anyone else vaguely interested 
 in it. At the &pound;10 I've seen it selling for you get loads of hours of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FAS_TwaiN
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  DoW is enjoyable the whole game long. If you like RTS games, go buy it and do it now (it shouldn't 
 cost you more than 15$ now) . It delivers cheap thrills in every match.
  
  For starters, you have 4 races: the space marines, the chaos space marines, the orks and the eldar. 
 Each race has its own benefits and weaknesses, although they're not drastically different... For 
 example, the space marines and chaos space marines are more or less identical. The orks also copy 
 a lot of units from these 2 races (the flying, fast infantry units are exactly alike) , so that 
 feels a bit lame. The eldar on the other hand vary enough from the other three to give you at least 
 2 completely different ways to play the game.
  
  Gameplay itself is solid. Nothing really new, but no serious errors either. You pretty much get 
 a basic RTS (build your base, build army, destroy enemy) but with one major difference: resource 
 gathering. You're forced to capture strategic points on the map to increase your resources. This 
 makes the game more aggressive, especially early on (much like Warcraft 3, where you're forced 
 to do battle to increase your hero's level) .
  
  A few twists that work really well are cover and morale. Cover lets your infantry take strategic 
 shelter in bomb craters and the like to increase their defensive capabilities (works especially 
 well with the (chaos) space marines) . Morale gives your troops extra firepower when its high, and 
 lets them run away in fear if its low. This lets you easily scatter an unbalanced army, which forces 
 every player to add some tactics and different troops to its army.
  
  A final notable feature, is the upgrade system. You can arm your squads yourself (yes you work 
 with squads, no individual units) ! This gives you the option to make different combinations of 
 units. For example, with the space marines you can make a space marine squad (main infantry unit) 
 armed with rocket launchers to destroy vehicles and buildings, or heavy bolters (a type of gattling 
 gun) to easily overpower other infantry, or plasma rifles in order to create a versatile and fast 
 moving squad (rocket launchers and heavy bolters can only be used when standing still) , or any 
 combination of these. A final option is the flamethrower, which lets you destroy an enemies morale 
 very quickly from close range. These additions work very well and make your basic units still usable 
 in the final stages of a match.
  
  Graphics and sound do what they have to do. The game looks good (very much like the figurines) 
 and gory, just a bit blocky (a pretty cubic future if you ask me :D) . Animations on the other hand 
 are simply outstanding... Every unit reacts on the opposing units, especially in close combat. 
 By example, when one unit strikes, the other will try to block it and counterattack, but not with 
 the same animation over and over again. The first time you see a dreadnought (space marine walking 
 tank) slaughter his way through an infantry squad, I guaranty you'll be amazed. The music supports 
 the fact that you're commanding an army and the guns and vehicles sound like you'd expect them 
 to sound. The only minor part are your troops speeches, they really get repetitive pretty fast.
 
  
  All this said, Warhammer DoW is a solid game, with only a few downsides. The game isn't very original 
 (except for the few twists described above) and the campaign is fairly short and lets you only 
 play the story from one perspective (the marines) . Nevertheless the story is good enough to let 
 you always play yet another level :) .
  
  If you like RTS games, you'll enjoy this game, just don't expect an all time classic like Warcraft 
 3 or Starcraft (yeah, i really like Blizzard, sorry about that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StOcKoHeArTs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k is a good game because the mix of real-time stragy and of course Warhammer 40K.
 
  
  Gameplay: Easy to pick you gameplay ts is a bit furating. it will get easier each time you play.
 
  
  Graphics : Very good graphis but some time blury. But still very good.
  
  Sound : Brilliant SFX battle sounds and the funny voice acting.
  
  Value : Lots of Missions 
 to complete and the free play is very fun!
  
  Overall : If you like Warhammer 40k and real-time stragy well what can i say this is for you!!!!
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  Sonic rivals out now!!!!!
  ON PSP!!!
  (im just doing random word to get 100 words) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hangrow
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  From the space marines to the orcs this game dominates the field of real time strategy second to 
 only Company of heroes of the games i've played. I love RTS games so my standards are very high, 
 Dawn of War exceeds my expectations.
  
  there are 4 races in the original, these include:
  
  Space Marines
  Chaos Space Marines
 
  Eldar
  Orks
  
  Most Units are in a squad or Hordes starting with about 4 Units but you can upgade the squads with 
 more men and better weapons like HMGs, Flamethrowers etc. Battles are amazing with explosions going 
 off everywhere. It takes a while to get used to playing the hard difficulty AI because it i very 
 intense, always making sure your producing men, upgrading technologies, setting up defences (the 
 use of Artillery is a big help) and of course battling.
  
  Resources cant be harvested like most other RTS games. There are 2 types of resources: requsition (aquired 
 by capturing strategic points on the map) and power (Building generators) .
  
  A cool feature of the game is you can customize your multiplayer army. You can change colours, Name, Logo 
 and Banners of an army.
  
  But what really amazed me was the 3D camera with zoom and rotation so you can view the battlefield 
 up close. Make sure ou check that out.
  
  If you are are as bigger warcraft, AOE, C&amp; C fan as i am.....
  
  GO BUY THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Okay im going to start off right away
  Gameplay: This game is pretty fun! There are 4 races to choose from online or single player skirmish.. of 
 course there is a campaign but its a bit brief and you control only 1 race... All races have Advantages 
 over a few of the 3 Stats, Attack Defense, and speed.. and some have disadvantages... the Space Marines 
 have virtually high attack power, are Resilent, and have average speed.. so if you go head to head 
 with them, the battle ends up depending how good you are.. Chaos is very similar to the Space Marines, except 
 phsychotic people and different named units.. The chaos space marines are a little bit slower when 
 it comes to Attacking but.. they are also stronger then normal space marines... just slower... and 
 once again they are still very resilient.. The Orks are like the zerg from starcraft... they come 
 in high numbers and are fairly resilent, and have between Average-and high attack power.. in both 
 ranged combat and close combat.. the Eldar is a very fast race and if your skilled enough, in multiplayer 
 you can rush the enemy and defeat them... instead of units coming in one unit, they come in squads.. which 
 makes battles much longer and much more satisfying then most games... and this game isnt like most 
 RTS games.. in real life a machine gun would do almost nothing to a tank... in games like Starcraft 
 4 marines can take out a heavy siege tank... in dawn of war however... you need anti tank weapons 
 like a rocket launcher in order to defeat heavy vehicles...
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good... it also depends on your graphics card.. and this game comes 
 with an Army painter to customize your race's colors anytime you want! explosions are well detailed 
 and battles look great and are fierce
  
  Sound: The voices match a lot of the units looks and explosions and the sound of a Heavy Bolter 
 shooting is very satisfying and can satisfy you even if you lose!
  
  Value: I value this game a lot but i have not played the table top version at all before... im an 
 RTS fan so this is what got me interested in this game... it looked good, and cool... and it got Game 
 of the year! So i liked it a lot...
  
  Tilt: Warhammer 40k fans and RTS fans... buy this game! The good: Races are their own Advantages and 
 Disadvantages... Game is very well detailed, can satisfy even the most demanding RTS fan..
  
  The Bad: A few races like the space marines are actually awfully unbalanced when it comes to vehicles... you 
 can make unlimited land raiders until you get to the limit! plus machine spirit protects them for 
 awhile and although they have slightly less health then most strong units like the Avatar...4 Land 
 raiders can easily take out a bloodthirster, avatar, and espically Squiggoth! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  I'm not usually into these types of games but this one caught my interest. My only complaint being 
 the low number of single player missions.
  
  It would've been nice if they added more. The main storyline was good enough except it wasn't continued 
 with the expansions... why.... /shrug.
  
  The game also seemed to be much faster paced then other strategy games. I really liked how you 
 can zoom in to get a first hand view at ground level of whats going on in battles and where troops 
 are. You also cannot cheat in the single player campaign. I found the AI lacking, as it tends to 
 just rush you instantly upon creating units. It also cheats, where even if you destroyed enemy 
 HQ's it randomly spawns units to constantly try and deplete your units.
  
  I found the most useful strategy was to build defensively around the main base, emplace numerous 
 turrets, then create a number of whirlwind artillery tanks, and with scouts, simply pound enemy 
 units from afar. The enemy AI was such that it just stood there taking the artillery...
  
  I haven't tried mutiplayer yet, doubt I will.
  
  While there might not be enough single player 
 missions you can skirmish and pick maps and fight the computer in set battles. Theres a huge number 
 of maps available and the expansion Winter Assault adds another army, the Imperial Guard to the 
 existing, Eldar, Space Marines, Chaos Marines, and Orks.
  
  While nothing innovative, this game was interesting to follow through but having beat the single 
 player campaign I don't have much interest in continuing to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishsurgeon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  A truly graphic and vivid futuristic RTS game, Warhammer 40k: Dawn of War is the first big step 
 into a tedious, repetitive genre. There is an underlying dark and foreboding feeling to the entire 
 game which really ads to the natural atmosphere, and everything from the torn up landscape to the 
 screams of dying soldiers and rippling explosions really immerse the player in a world of death 
 and destruction. Each of the four factions really offer a wide array of unique units and means 
 of mayhem, and the voice acting plus incredibly detailed graphics really add to the appeal of the 
 game. The single-player storyline is nothing too gripping in itself, but oddly enough the seemingly 
 endless waves of enemies and ease of resource management never make the game boring; there is always 
 a variety of ways to rain down hell on the enemy or rush his base with guns blazing. All-and-all 
 an extremely enjoyable title, with an appropriate focus on managing your armies and building up 
 your military strength versus mounding resources to make sure you survive the entire game. Warhammer 
 40k: Dawn of War paints a beautiful picture of the pleasurable destruction of war in a way that 
 revered titles like WC3 even fall short of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Lindo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome even if you don't like or don't know about the tabletop game. This game has 
 many positive aspects these aspects are: This game has a highly unique game play and the way you 
 get resources is by capturing strategic locations This game you can be the space marines, orks, 
 eldar, and chaos in multiplayer This game cost less than a squad in the tabletop game This game 
 has a somewhat long storyline Some of the negative things about this game are: This game doesn't 
 let you play as the ork, eldar, or chaos armies in single player This game doesn't include all 
 the armies from the tabletop game
  
  All in all this game is a very unique game and a very fun one. If you have a computer that will 
 run this game, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cifru
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Warhammer started as little as little minature figures, and made a great sucess. Many other Warhammer 
 games were released before this, but this one is the best of all. The Game is set in the future, 
 41st century, Were humans aka The Space Marines battle gainst the orks. In The Campaign you can 
 only play as the Space Marines and there are about 12 missions in total. You can play Skirmish 
 too, you play with anyone from the 4 factions, Space Marines, orks, Chaos and the Eldar.
  
  The Graphics are Amazing, you can zoom in and see all the details, scratches on thier armour, bullets 
 ejecting from the heavy bolters and many more.
  
  The Gameplay is awesome, Units start to fire with their guns, but when the enemy is close the switch 
 weapons and use swords of axes. You can upgrade you battalions, increase the number and give them 
 different weapons: flamers, plasma guns, rocket launchers and heavy machine guns. Playing the game 
 online is amazing too, and really funny. The only bad thing is you can only play as the Space Marines 
 in the Campaign.
  
  If you really like RTS games, checkout this Game; It's Amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  There are so many strategy games out there. Every year there are new developers trying to sell 
 some copies of their Age of Empires look alike game. And now, the only ones that still break out 
 of the crowd are the well known game series. But Warhammer 40.000 Dawn of War is an unmissable 
 game, it's something fresh and it's something gory! Read on if you want to know why this is one 
 of the best RTS games to hit the shelves for a very long time. The graphics are very impressive. 
 You can zoom in and rotate the camera to every angle so that you can get a good look at your macho 
 Space Marine unit. And then you will notice that your units looks awesome. They have a great amount 
 of detail and they look battle ready and are, of course, identical to the Warhammer 40k board game 
 figures. The environments looks kinda off compared to the unit models, but they are still very 
 good.
  
  The sounds are amazing. The music is hard and rough, and fits perfectly into the Warhammer universe. 
 The sound effects are awesome. Space Marines shouting battle calls and crushing their enemies. 
 Many of the games battle calls are quoted on fansites and in forums cause they are really great. 
 Walk softly, and carry a big gun! Hearing the plasma cannons ripping through the enemies defenses 
 is very satisfying. Dawn of War is not about gathering resources. It's not about finding some food 
 for your troops, nor building houses for them to live in. No, it's all about holding strategic 
 points and pushing forward. The two resources available in DoW is requisition and power. You gain 
 requisition by holding strategic points located all across the map, and you gain power by building 
 power structures. This is a very easy formula, but new thinking and very functional. I mean, in 
 real war, do we look for food, wood and money on the streets? No, we push forward, gaining territorial 
 ground. This is what makes DoW so different, you have to think attack and defend the very moment 
 you start the fight. And the fights are awesome. This game has got some of the best fighting battles 
 I've seen in a strategy game. The shooting looks great and feels precisely how it should. And that 
 is hard and gory, cause that's what the Warhammer universe is. All units even have several finishing 
 moves that randomly occurs during battle, and they look great. Especially seeing your Dreadnought 
 crushing the enemy in his claw while the blood sprays around is just awesome. Heading on to something 
 else, the single player campaign. It's quite good, though you only play one of the four factions, 
 the space marines. They are the good guys and they're missioned to kill the orks that threaten 
 their land. The other two factions, the choas and eldar also join the fight after a while. The 
 campaign isn't that long though, it'll only last you like 10 hours and is never that hard. But 
 you'll be spending a lot of time with the skirmish which features many maps and of course the option 
 to play the other factions as well. All the factions are great, they are quite different, and the 
 orks even have their own kind of resource, which is cool. In the end, you're likely to be playing 
 this game for a long time. It's a great game, and I recommend it to every fan of the strategy game 
 genre. And of course if you like the Warhammer universe, this is a must.
  
  +
  Fresh and new thinking strategic gameplay. Four well balanced and interesting factions. Many difficulty 
 levels, which span from being okay to impossibly hard. The game has a paint mode where you can 
 paint you units. The graphics and sounds creates the perfect W40k mood.
  
  -
  Short campaign which lets you play only one faction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghimly
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  I remember buying Warhammer when it was released, but I never really bot around playing it. Now 
 after some time I re-installed the game and stuck with it.
  Wow... this is a RTS that really gets to you. Huge battles, lots of armies, greats graphics and 
 excellent story... what more can you expect from an RTS?
  
  At first Warhammer seems a little strange, being used on playing Warcraft III day in and day oout. 
 But after just a few skirmishes you really get the hang of it. The controls are easy to learn and 
 intuitive. Like in other RTS they are efficient.
  
  The thing that got me hooked was the story. A little mystery never hurt anyone. With the four races 
 available, the story unfolds during Single Player campaign. And you really want to know how it 
 ends.
  
  The graphics are great (if you have all the options set to High) and the battles are well animated. 
 The tons of units you can create make the game so much more fun. However, you don't know all the 
 time if you found the right mix. So it can be that the enemy is annihilated with your standard 
 Space Marines, and some other time you need Assassins to get the mission done.
  
  I am really looking forward to the next installment and the expansion. For sure any RTS-lover will 
 have this game in his collection. If not... get up and get it a. s. a. p. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEWO
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  the W40k DoW was one of the best RTS i ever played, the speed of gameplay, the climat of the game, 
 very interesting story, and stunning music made me love this game. But it has some minuses. My 
 favorite sides are Chaos and Space Marines, but playing whole campain with one rase is little bit 
 too much for me, i wish they would make a campain for all races how the war could end when you 
 are playing with a diferent race, or let player choose a side he want to be on in every mission. 
 The next thing that is irritating me is... number of missions in campain. i ended this game on 
 Hard difficulty in 2 days (evenings)
  
  All of that is just crushed by the Multiplayer and Skirmish option, just download a patch witch 
 is ballancing the game, and you have the best RTS for Online play. I played Warcraft 3 / TFT for 
 a long time and i thing this game is good as W3 witch is the best rewiew i think. Making an alternative 
 for W3, great job GWI :] I'm w8ting for the new W40k game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  i like dawn of war but this one got the same rating as dark crusade and higher rating then winter 
 assult! arn't they suppose to create a game better and better, well gamepsot rates this game higher 
 then the secon one, whats up with that! well anyway, thats the bad review the good review is, this 
 game is perttey good, and it got the best graphisc (not better then dark crusade) . if your a huge 
 fan of RTS, they will sell this game with winter assult, the gold edition pack! sometimes, there 
 is better rating then dawn of war, lots of them, i wonder, why a such a high rating???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Summary, if you liked blizzards offerings in the RTS genre, especially starcraft, you have to get 
 this game, though the single player pales in comparison to anything that blizzard has put out, 
 the stratigic model and the multiplayer are simply the best this genre has to offer, the only game 
 that beats it currently is company of heroes, but alas this game came out two years ago, and i'm 
 still playing it. and buying the expansions and hoping for more. because i simply can't get enough 
 of this game and it's sureal races and awsome combat. similar to starcraft and warcraft games this 
 game has different factions that not only look different but play in a totally different fashion. 
 one factions tactics vary greatly from another, and as such this game has plenty of replay value 
 since as you tire of one play style you switch races and play a different way and it's like a new 
 game. the visuals are awsome, the art design is awsome, the level design is darn good, the combat 
 is viscereal and oh there is so much to love about this game.
  
  THE GOOD
  GREAT VISUALS, GREAT GAMEPLAY, GREAT DESIGN, SO MUCH VIOLENCE, great multiplayer (though it is very 
 difficult and full of the hardcore of the hardcore) greatskirmish, great races, awsome squad mechanics, 
 good micromanagement (its fun not hard like some games) i just love the feel that every unit is 
 awsome. the camera is easily manupulated unlike in some games.
  
  THE BAD
  a simple boring single player, and with a game this promising you are always hoping for a expansion 
 or something to add more good, to the already goodness. in other words i'm blaming this game for 
 making me lust for more, though i don't know what i want i want more of it.
  
  THE MEAT
  (skip to the end if you want to avoid my rant)
  i simply love the awsome combat, watching a mech 
 pick up a infantry unit and smash it in his hands while blood goes every where, the infantry will 
 chiansaw other infantry, oh the glory, the animations are so fluid, especially for a rts game, 
 i love just watching a fight in this game, i love the impunity that armored anything has to the 
 regular ballistic infantry weapons, only by having a rocketer can you hope. i love setting up a 
 anbush of four snipers in a crater by a key control piont, and when any one approaches they instantly 
 die, unless they are armor, then i'm skrewed. i simply love the feeling of this game, you know 
 how some games just get you in the right way, well this game got me, and i can't tire of it, like 
 i haven't tired of warcraft and star craft in five years i'll still probably sit down and play 
 this one. unless they out due themselves with a sequel. i'm not gonna go on any more time to break 
 it down
  
  BREAK DOWN
  GAMEPLAY
  simply fantastic, i'd love to go with a ten but the single player gameply is vanilla.
  9
  GRAPHICS
 
  fantastic, earth shattering, combine the look with the presentation, aka the animations and everything 
 and you get a beautiful timeless look for the game.
  10
  SOUND
  good, i did find the sometimes over used problem of audio clips being way over used, aside from 
 that the sound is amazing.
  9
  VALUE
  even with the great strategic model this game needs a stronger single player.
  9
  REVIEWERS 
 TILT
  i still feel the lack of the single player goodness keeps this game from the hall of famers like 
 starcraft, witch had it all.
  9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetrider69er
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  this game is set in the future 38 thousand years to be exact and all thats let in the grim future 
 is war. this game is set around the novels and minitures of warhammer 40k. this game alone tells 
 one of the storys of the blood ravens battles and once you have done all them open up massive wars 
 with scrimish and with many mods avalibile the possibltys are endless well until you kill every 
 thing XD ,like said in the title this game must be good if it has that to cover for it if won awards 
 and still is player by thousand online/off line. it has serious fire power behind it the big guns 
 relic and THQ both leaders in the gaming world. i recommend this game above all and with the new 
 expansions dark crusade coming soon and winter assualt out now who can stop all the amrys of the 
 future of war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  People say the game is all about over powering and that there is no strategy to the game what ever.... in 
 a way it's true, but in the way it is true with EVERY RTS out there
  
  Dawn of War has a really good story for a RTS, it has some really fun races to play with, and is 
 a great LAN party game
  
  Each race has goods and bads
  
  I honestly dont like the Orks at all, but think the Chaos are amazing
  
  The gameplay is fast 
 paced, but you can also take it nice and slow and build a power house base
  
  I wouldn't call it as good as WC3... but to me no RTS is
  
  If you like RTS games pick it up, 
 it is a blast and it has a few add ons worth getting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: citamotua
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Most Real Time Strategy games depend on a person summoning a ton of peons to amass a fortune of 
 resources to, in turn, build up an army and crush the enemy, or to construct a varitable Fort Knox. 
 If you are one of the players getting your butt whipped online, then Warhammer is for you. This 
 game requires actual tactics. How to spend your resources, which outpost to attack and when, and 
 where to place your troops are but a few strategic elements that make up the masterpiece that is 
 Warhammer. The best part of this game is the fact that all factions are pretty much equal. The 
 game is very balanced in that, while one faction has great infantry, its vehicles are lacking in 
 usefulness. This inadvantage technique makes for a better online game, in that no said person holds 
 the advantage because they have mastered a certain faction. Also, the combat, (which is the foundation 
 of the game) , is solid. Units act independently, and intelligently, allowing for smooth gameplay. 
 No more telling one squad to move to the other side of the map a million times. The graphics make 
 the combat even more visceral and appealing. For some odd reason, watching an imperial dreadnaught 
 crush an enemy general like it was a bug is quite satisfying. The sound is also a big part of the 
 game. The combat sounds are quite ambient and fit well with the chaotic battles of armies. All 
 in all, this game will test every stategic bone in your body with amazingly devious AI, and intense 
 combat situations. A must for any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apokalipse
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The Pros: Near perfect multiplayer game. The online is awesome if you get in a 4v4/3v3 game, but 
 its a good idea to practice 1v1/2v2 first. It also has a huge built in map inventory. If you don't 
 have it, but plan to get it, then get the gold edition. Very cheap. Extremely awesome. The Cons: 
 After a while, the races start to feel all the same. Same light infantry, same heavy infantry, 
 same buildings. The campaign is also a bit narrow, since it allows only the space marine storyline. 
 It's also not that difficult, so things get really hard online if you rely on the campain as an 
 example of other players. In other word, the camaign is kinda boring, and totally useless. And 
 updating is slower than a turtle's bowel movement. The Verdict: Consider this a multiplayer-only 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daggersquad
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 15, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  By far dawn of war is one of the best RTS games I have ever played. What makes me say that? Believe 
 it or not, its the little things. One big factor is the fact that the units can RUN AND SHOOT AT 
 THE SAME TIME! I was getting so irritated with games where the units and stop to shoot, run and 
 stop to shoot. This small addition impressed me greatly. Another factor is the units are organized 
 by squads. It removes the tedious micromanagement from the game and makes the armies much easier 
 to control. Also, the campaign wasn't too difficult but challenged you almost every scenario. The 
 graphics are very nice as well. Overall, like I said, best RTS I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Wondrous Graphics, Accurate depiction of WH40k carnage, Superb Sound and well thought-out factions, 
 but that's where the good stops. Game is great for single player and skirmish, but go online and 
 be prepared for at max 200 ppl and all of them are standard computer nerd wannabe's with the same 
 crappy attitude. And don't expect to win anything for you first hundred games or so unless you 
 are some kind of veteran rusher. There is absolutely 0 strategy other than to rush the other guys 
 position and crank out as many low level units as possible, cross your fingers, and hope you pumped 
 out more than the other guy faster. Which is fine for some people... but not for me and not for 
 a game labeled as an RTS. Though to be fair, all recent RTS's suffer from the same flaw (just not 
 as criticaly) Don't get me wrong, rushing is a viable tactic for RTS's.... which I suck at, it's 
 just that this game ONLY has rushing in mind.
  
  Where are the days of AoE2? BFME 1? Starcraft (even though it's still around) ? Gone, and unfortunately 
 forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesbox
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I always used to play Warhammer 40K as a kid and it's cool to see Space Marines on your PC.
  
  Despite not having many levels, the gameplay is good, you can upgrade each squad members weapon, 
 upgrade juggernauts weapons and so on, there are a lot of small things during the gameplay which 
 make it worth while.
  
  The graphics are awesome considering the game's age and there's a cool function where you can view 
 fights on the battlefield from ground level. Some of the cut scene's are a bit poor, the characters 
 move round very scatty and the dialog can be teadeous and drawn out. The voices seem a bit cheesy 
 to me as well.
  
  I had enjoyed playing the game and would recommend it to people who have never played it, but I 
 was dissapointed with the short ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to say that this game rocks. Why? because the game, unlike warcraft, is not too hard to 
 understand, and the storyline is so unique. It's so much more than some sort of star wars/star 
 trek game. Not only is it sci-fi but also military-ish enough. The characters and races are magnificent. 
 For instance, you get to make squads of four at a time, faster than warcraft. You can capture strategic 
 points, relics, and critical locations. These are new ways to enjoy startegy making. However, some 
 of the character designs aren't so great. The orks are still in the Middle Earth Age while it is 
 the 40000th millenia (hard to even see that they made it so fr without extinction) . Eldar vehicles 
 are plain, basic, and simple. Voices are good, but it should show the character actually in motion 
 while talking. Upgrades expand the gameplay, and the overall score is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piztolero
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  the gameplay is cool something like LOTR: Battle for middle earth, i like that capture strategics 
 point is more chalenge cos the enemy can destroy and take it, it's exciting
  
  the races are comun with diferent name but are great.... and with a bunch of diferent creatures 
 like the space marines, terminator, falcon etc. Campaign is very , very short only 11 maps is too 
 short but the skirmish is entertained.
  
  cinematics can be better but hey nobody is perfect but naa i really don't like that.
  
  grafics 
 they make an impression but the game look pretty, sound is great, the music it surrounds on the 
 game i like.
  
  to conclude is an interesting game no like other but entertained although it carese of history... i 
 hope the expansion is best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooleooooo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Some of the RTS out there are lame, boring, or buggy, but that does not apply for dawn of war. 
 The game is highly addictive and ingenious to say on Relic's part. The one thing that stands out 
 is the noticeable accomplshiments on the game. There is the huge battles, music, and graphics, 
 and the expansion packs. The funnest has to be playing on line on a four player map, locked in 
 a struggle were to many losses can tip the balance. In most RTS its not the losing your army that 
 can kill you in an matter of minutes, its your resourcing infrastructures. Really look at BFME 
 2 cool game but lose to many tunnels and bam you can't buy an army. That what makes this game unique, 
 it underprices units and makes everything more easy to do. The sound track has to be one of the 
 best well picked soundtracks on a RTS second to BFME2. So in other words if your a person who's 
 picky go with this game. Games can make or break depending on how well you make the soundtrack. 
 That's why I gave it a TEN Baby. Last but not least is the amount of detail that went into the 
 characters of this game. Sure they may look nice a far, but have you actually ever zoomed in and 
 looked at them. To compare look at BFME2 and DAoW and you'll see the difference. The zoom in ability 
 is a great add on, being able to get close and personal of your chaos lord slashing away naughty 
 Eldar, that's awesome. So this little review shows what this happy customer has to say about this 
 game. Good graphics, an extremely well done soundtrack that goes with it to a T, last there is 
 the ability to have such a large amount of units without frame rate drop its... its amazing. In 
 short like RTS games get Dawn of War with the expansion packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stick35
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Warhammer 40k universe, having this game as a RTS was really cool and I am 
 a big fan of RTS games also so this was a great combination. Graphics were good especially if you 
 had a graphics card such as GeForce 6 series and above, the graphics ran smoothly and the framerate 
 was constant even in the amidst of a big battle. Campaign mode was pretty good and the stroyline 
 was unique, and the characters maintained a good "Battle sense" as to the action going on around 
 them. I thought also the voice acting was well placed in the game. Sound was amazing. If you had 
 Dolby Digital Surround Sound 5.1 the sound was extremly good. The combat noises were well made, 
 as were the voices. I have many quotes from that game burned into my head because I really liked 
 some of the things they said. I still have a onboard sound card it sounded and mixed very well. 
 Gameplay was put together well. It ran smoothly and the squad-based gameplay made it allot of fun 
 as opposed to the traditional select single units and make groups. The 4 races were fun to play 
 and unique in their own ways. The Space Marines were my favorite race to play since they are human 
 after all and I like there words and units the most. Chaos were also fun branching off from the 
 Space Marines and following the Blood God while still maintaing to be space marines they did have 
 unique units such as Obliberators which were kinda like terminator marines. All the vehicles were 
 unique. The Orcs were pretty cool and they personatlity as a whole "Meet war with war" was awesome. 
 Massive beasts running around and shooting guns always looks good in a massive battle. The Eldar 
 although looked pretty and all nicely polished kinda sucked as a race unless you had some good 
 support from a friend playing a more powerful race. The Eldar did have some cool technologies such 
 as the moving of their buildings through usage of warp gates. This game was a nice addition to 
 my collection and I enjoyed playing it allot. It does have allot of replay value even after you 
 finish the game there is always skirmish games to play, new angles and strategies to work on. There 
 is also multiplayer which is allot of fun, lags sometimes but other then that no drawbacks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonePirate
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  A lot of people liked this game, but I think it wasn't as good as its reviews said it was. Real 
 time stragedy is slowly losing its appeal to the public, and this was made more obvious with Dawn 
 of War. The game does depict the brutal aspects of the Warhammer world well enough, and the graphics 
 are realistic, aswell as the different buildings for different races. The types of unit are entertaining 
 to watch while fighting and you can easily distinguish one type of ork from the other. The campaigns 
 are also quiet good and entertaining for a while.
  The game does get tedious though, as all the maps seem the same, ruins here and there and capturing 
 certain areas again and again. The ablitity of only chooseing four races is a big dissapointment 
 as you could introduce so much more to the game by adding other races, like Necromancers, Tau etc. 
 I have to say that the game looks good on the outside but quickly looses its appeal to the gamer 
 over a short period of time. They should introduce a sort of diplomatic state while fighting, so 
 that you can sign a peace with another race or the same, embark on a crusade with your fellow space 
 marines to annhialte the orcs, or a pact of non-aggression like thing. This would add more depth 
 to the rather shallow game. Having said this the game does have some strong points, but is flawed 
 becasue of lack of depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign, not so hot. The animations during the cut scenes were a bit lacking 
 in personality, and the acting was over the top, however the RTS was amazing.
  
  The value of the game certainly increases exponentially when you begin to test your skill against 
 the computer, and then against other players in the ultimate test of whos best. This kind of thing, 
 everyone already knows. I was late to pick this game up (2 years about) , so now Im rushing to 
 catch up.
  
  It's a relatively easy to transition from one race to another as well, but they still hold their 
 unique traits. Strangely I found a WarCraft meets StarCraft feeling about the whole thing. Silly 
 orc (k) s, mysterious cyborg race, and humans marines in full armor. It also has a Roman Empire theme 
 to it. A good blend. You know this of course, Im just writing to kill some time at work.
  
  All in all, awesome game. Unlimited value outside of the SP game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hybridace
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  I played this game like... a year or maybe 2 years ago, but i still remember how much fun i had 
 with this game. Ok, at first, i was like..."Ok, this isn't anything new.." then when i started 
 recruiting infantry, i was becoming more interested in the game because it featured a squad feature 
 where-in you can attach your individual units to a squad to make them more effective. Whats even 
 cooler is that you can have some of the units in that squad have a heavy duty machine gun or flamethrower 
 for effectiveness against other infantry units or maybe even a rocket launcher for better effectiveness 
 against armored units :D. Another FREAKIN' COOL FEATURE that this War Hammer game has that really 
 made me yell "OH HELL NO!! DID THEY JUST DO WHAT I THINK THEY DID!? OH MY GOD! THEY DID! THIS IS 
 SO COOL!!!" is its melee combat system. I never tought that i'd see the day when a RTS game would 
 be able to make the melee combat of the units look so real and cool. Usually, a normal RTS games 
 melee combat system would just consist of the units just pounding away the HP and when the bar 
 runs out, the unit just drops dead right? Well, in this game, when the unit runs out of HP the 
 enemy unit will do something like a fatality to end the other units life like stab him with the 
 sword and run him to the ground or chop the head off. This melee combat system is so cool cuz there 
 are units in this game called the avatars i think and when they get to work... MAN CAN THEY RAISE 
 HELL!! They'll eat off your infantry units like they were nothing! Anyways, another good thing 
 about this game is it has 4 playable factions, the orcs, the space marines, the chaos marines and 
 the Eldars. The story line of this game is also pretty cool, although the ending leaves you wanting 
 more :D. All in all, this game is definitely worth buying if you like RTS, maybe even if you don't 
 because its just a fun game that looks freakin' COOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotomah
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  It remembers me the old glories of RTS like Warcraft III but with fire-while-you-walk features.
 
  It features big miniatures that you can paint as you like.
  The Ork faction appears to be as "funny" as always.
  The graphical quality is superb, with a 
 different effect for every single kind of weapon in the game.
  And comments like: Walk soft but carry a big gun make for an atmosphere that recreates the board-game 
 in its all rage!
  
  The game delivers one big thing: Quick action, with low army building time-count.
  And the capture 
 of resources on tactical locations adds for better challenge than the usual this is my source, 
 go find yours
  
  Can't walk away without trying it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ants_pants
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  Having played the tabletop game for several years (which has got to be the best game I have ever 
 played) , I was naturally wary of the games take on the Warhammer universe and if it would live 
 up to the atmosphere and the armieswere protrayed in a way that suited them. Whats more each army 
 is different enough, that they actually are different and invlolve different styles of game play, 
 but are similar enough that you don't have to learn to play the game 4 different ways, just have 
 to work out the best way to utilise each army, hence way the learning curve is up at 1-2 hours.
 
  
  Well what can I say... Its spot on. Its like the models I have collected over the years have come 
 to life. Every aspect of how the armies look, feel and handle is exactly how I would expect. The 
 battles also feel the same as the TT game. So for capturing the tabletop game I would give it top 
 marks.
  
  As for the game itself, this has to be one of the best RTS Ive got my hands on, its much for fast 
 paced they many Ive played and almost forces you to advance your armies and get stuck in, which 
 keeps the action reasonably constant, which I have found really refreshing.
  
  The gameplay is fairly typical of any RTS, and I love the squad based formation and managment. 
 Being able to customise each squad with special weapons or heavy weapons and various upgrades really 
 adds to the game and gives your army that personal touch. Generally I've found the game play an 
 absolute dream.
  
  The graphics while not ultra amazing are extremely detailed and the explosions and gun fire really 
 bring the battle to life. The SFX again pretty good too, but the soundtrack really adds to the 
 stmosphere.
  
  The only thing that lets this game down is the single player campaign, its too short and the cust 
 scenes that carry you through the story, seem to be a bit of an after thought, but thats not the 
 end of the world when the rest of the game is just soooooo good.
  
  Overall this is a superb RTS and a fantastic take on the WH40K world and definate buy for any RTS 
 fan and/or any WH40K fan
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guybiggsl
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing games like this for about 2 years now, well at least playing online. If any 
 of you have played the new LOTR: Battle for Middle Earth 2 and aggree with me, I highly believ 
 that these 2 games are just about equal in game play, graphix and online play. I love the fact 
 that you can customize each and every one of your units where you can change there coors and banner 
 and Patch. Also there are alot of different Maps that already come with the game but also there 
 is a wide veriety of Maps and Mods that you can download from this sight. Now this is the best 
 part about the game .... well atleast it sets it apart from LOTR, there are pleanty if missions 
 to play in the campain mode where LOTR is a very short game to play in Campain mode. I highly suggest 
 this game to anyone that like Strategy games. It will definetly get you hooked. My personal wish 
 is that one of the companies that will be making games for the PS3 will make a NEW Dawn of War 
 game to play online with the PS3.
  
  Thanks for reading my post,
  
  Guybiggsl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hub0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  Do you sometimes get pretty tired of the endless resource gathering of some games, well DOW is 
 gonna change all that. DOW is very different from the typical RTS games like Age of Empires and 
 Warcraft. This game concentrates fully on conflicts, and a small skirmish in this game is as large-scaled 
 as final battles in Warcraft 3.
  The resource gathering is different, simple and effective. You get resources by capturing strategic 
 point with your squad and building power generators, power generators are bit straight-foward, 
 the more you build, the faster your power generates. The strategic points is the main reason for 
 the earlier conflicts too, the more strategic points you capture, the faster your resouce grows. 
 So flatten your opponents, you'll need to capture loads of strategic points, that's where fire 
 fights begin.
  The AI in this game is pure genious, different units from different races have completely different 
 actions, for example a chaos marine will actually flinch and do evil laughs, and while playing 
 as the space marines when the first band of chaos marine comes into sight, they'll saw something 
 like "Chaos sighted", there are so many speeches in there that after playing for a long time, you'll 
 still hear something different. They have various war cries during battles, the coolest thing is, 
 a normal squad of marine's battle cry is actually different from a squad of marine with the serquant 
 added in. There are many more AI specticals in there and watching them fight is plain satisfying.
 
  The four races are very unique and fun to play, there are also special strategic points call Relic, 
 they are much harder to capture but capturing them will allow you to witness to the greatest moments 
 of DOW, imagine a huge battle, you are the Chaos and you summon a Bloodthirster, that feels awesome, 
 or how about witnessing a one VS one fight between two daemons? These will all be brought to you 
 with unique and gruesome animations.
  The battle is very fast paced and will keep you very busy, while you continuously build more troops 
 to send to the frontline and trying to move your more vulnerable troops out of harms way for them 
 to recover morale (A great simple feature that adds more strategies to the game) and add more members 
 to the squad, when you first play you'll find vehicles over-powering, but they will be nothing 
 compared to a few shots from a space marine's simple rocket launcher, so swarming your opponents 
 won't work all that well. 
  I really shouldn't go on for so long, try it, RTS fans will appreciate this very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil812k1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  I was always a bit skeptical about Warhammer 40k. I had a friend who was totally into it and he 
 was a little... "fruity?" Anyway, I read about it in a magazine and decided it warranted a purchase. 
 I was hooked as soon as I started the first mission. The melee combat was the coolest thing I had 
 ever seen in a RTS before and I found the squad organization very easy to use. So I proceeded through 
 several missions until I started getting bored. I told myself, "You've just been playing too long. 
 Come back tomorrow." So I did. I got bored a lot faster. Then I realized that I had essentially 
 been doing the same thing the past # missions: killing little green thingys on the screen. Very 
 repetitive. I found myself actually dragging out each mission and holding my troops back while 
 I maxed out my unit cap just so that I could view an epic battle, only to have it turn out that 
 there were only five squads of orks and that I had killed the other 3 at the start of the missions. 
 Needless to say, I was disappointed. But that was the only thing I found wrong with the game. The 
 skirmish and multiplayer modes are still fun to play, mostly because of the "choose your race," 
 but I doubt that I'll finish the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asian_marine
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game 3 days ago and I gotta say it just might beat star craft. And that's saying 
 a lot because that a high bar to pass up. The graphics and sound are amazing. The added realism 
 is added due to the fact that EVERYTHING is properly scaled. The zoom is pretty cool so you can 
 watch the battles close hand. I've played the board game 40K and I used to love it, well i still 
 do, it's just really expensive to keep it up. But it's neat to see the figures come to life in 
 this game and watch all out battles instead of having to wait for each other turns.
  
  Another cool thing is the color configuration on this game, really neat how you can customize you 
 own army. I personally favorite are the space marines. I guess because I'm just used to humans. 
 Awesome RTS game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War does not disappoint, it accurately portrays the story and fun of its 
 tabletop brother. Although my computer doesn't live up t the full requirements to really get the 
 best out of this games graphics it is obvious even from the default camera view that this is a 
 very good looking game. You have full view of the game being able to zoom in with, zoom out with, 
 rotate and move the camera around the battlefield these camera angles show off the detail on your 
 characters as well as getting some scenes I often have to try and keep myself from repeatedly screenshotting. 
 I must sadly say I am also forced to say the gun shots and blood look cool :P . The gameplay is 
 very cool RTS although those who have played the tabletop game may feel a bit funny at first with 
 buildings to manage as well as new rules for Morale but the addictive gameplay and feel of pride 
 when you storm your enemy's base (or feel of frustration when you get crushed) will help very much 
 ease you into this and it won't be long before Warhammer with bases feels as natural as carrying 
 out an assault phase. This game of course differs from the tabletop in that it is much more fast-paced, 
 you must think on your feet and devise a strategy before you are annihilated by one of the several 
 levels of intelligent AI or an online gamer. Without expansions on this game you will only have 
 Da Orkz , the Space Marines, the Eldar and the Chaos Space Marines but I am sure enough expansions 
 will be released for us to be able to experience all Warhammer armies (and possibly some day all 
 models) . There is an army painter in the game for you to design new colour schemes for each army 
 and you can also play all sorts of missions from Take and Hold to Assasinate. The music for this 
 game is very dramatic and fitting, you will also hear clearly all kinda of phrases you would expect 
 from each army such as the famous Space Marines For the Emperor . The plot follows more struggles 
 between the Imperium of Man, the Eldar, the Dark Gods and the Orks, just what you'd expect from 
 Warhammer 40K. If you are a Warhammer 40,000 fan this is a must have, if you are an RTS fan this 
 is a must have and if you are a PC gamer this is a must have. In my opinion this game very much 
 deserves the title of game of the year 2004. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NubleX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I played warhammer for many years on tabletop; I was skeptic when heard of THQ and 
 Relic bringing this worldwide known game on our computers. Let us not forget the feeble attempt 
 by SSI years ago, when 40K was turn-based and for a PC game had no energy in it to make it exciting. 
 This game however (not very good single-player) blew my mind when Ive spend more than 2000 games 
 playing online. Each battle was extreme fun if not for the droppers who spoiled all the fun. The 
 game has a lot of macroing and if you can use your entire keyboard and study the races and units 
 throughout, your game will be extremely intense against/with good players (which is a great plus, 
 as many RTS games lack this intensity) . The 3D engine is pretty good and camera control is perfect 
 as it is easy to use and can help in certain circumstances. This game is worth buying for sure. 
 I am looking forward to playing more of these new-age W40K games. Thank you Relic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  One of the main things that got me with this game is how most of the armies contain thier own variety, 
 and they are not really cookie cutter versions of each other.
  
  Graphics, not its strongest suit when compared to many of the other titles out there, but you get 
 the satisfying amount of gore, and destruction, expect lots of blodd in a few instances!
  
  Sound / Audio, music isn't the best in fact after a bit I made sure the music was off entirely, 
 but each army has their own reponse, and battle sounds. This I felt was a real plus.
  
  Gameplay, Since each army has it's own distinctive differences, it is really nice to change up 
 battle strategies now and again. Single player wasn't a real stunner in my opinion, but multiplayer 
 really was a fundamental plus in my opinion. The game online has never crashed, and always provided 
 an entertaining escape for me, and my friends. 
  
  This game should be a definitely look to if you do like your RTS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazzer_1313
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40000 was a good RTS with many interesting units and effects, such as a huge meck picking 
 up an infantry unit with its mechanical clawl and crushing the unit until it is nothing but a dead 
 peace of bloody flesh. It is also very cool that you can zoom in right down next to your troops 
 and watch the battle first hand, but i really feel that that campain is much to short and easy 
 for a game such as this. Also you can only build a certain amount of troops and to build the troops 
 that you are allowed to build you need to get certain resources which can take a while. On the 
 positive side the multiplayer can be very fun to play with friends or just other players.
  
  Well it is safe to say that Warhammer 40000 Dawn of War is a solid RTS, but does lack in some 
 categories. If you are looking for a game an awsome RTS this game really doesnt fall in that category. 
 So if you are just bord and have no other games in mind check out Warhammer 40000 Dawn of War. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meneerjerry
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  this game is great , certainly for people who love warhammer and rts games . it is fairly realistic 
 for an rts and has a bigf singleplayer gampaign , options wich allow you to "paint" your own army 
 , wich means you can choose from different army tags , banners and colors for your trooops. the 
 game includes four races , humans , eldar , orks and troops of chaos and different humans or story 
 mode , the humans are : space marines and imperial guard , check out gamesworkshop sites for more 
 info on these races. thats about it it think , good luckwith the game people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystmaster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  this game oozes quality from every pore. From the incredibly impressive graphics, that yes, DO 
 hold up to today's standards, to the incredible gameplay, this game is certainly unrivaled in the 
 current rts genre. Yes, Age of Empires III looks better, but, when the AI in AoE 3 is no more intelligent 
 than it was in AoE 2, then you have to wonder where the rts genre is heading. Warhammer on the 
 other hand, has impressive visuals, sound, and incredible gameplay all packaged into one amazing 
 presentation. be forewarned, you will lose alot of days playing this game! also, one thing with 
 this game, if you are relatively new to the RTS genre, stay with this game. It's learning curve 
 is higher is higher than most other games of this ilk. However, if you stick with it, you will 
 find an unrivaled gameplay experience, thus why I put the learning curve at 1-2 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Im very picky about PC games. Im even more picky about RTS PC games. Being spoiled on games like 
 starcraft and warcraft , everything has to be just right. This game is just that and more.
  Dawn of war is the first RTS game ive played based on capture points. At first I thought this would 
 be a bad thing, but i was wrong. This makes the pace of the game stay faily constant. If you wish 
 to survive you MUST move out onto the map and attempt to capture or hold these strategic points. 
 All of the races have their ups and downs, and with patching , there arent any really over-powered 
 races. Singleplayer is very enjoyable, is lengthy, and even has a plot. The multyplayer is a blast 
 and there are always people playing. The only really hard choice you have to make is wich race 
 you will choose to crush your enemies with. The graphics and FX are just amazing. The animations 
 are perfect ; theres nothing like watching a Killa Kan buzz sawing through infantry squads left 
 and right. The sound and soundtrack are movie blockbuster quality. All in all this is a must have 
 for RTS fans of any flavor. Now go buy it, pick out an army color scheme , and dominate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War's strongest point is immediately obvious the moment the game begins - sheer graphic 
 beauty. The beauty is more than just a powerful 3D engine, though. The game's art design is simply 
 stunning. Zooming in any unit or building in the game reveals a wealth of fascinating detail that's 
 been included on the game's models. Hardened human soldiers sport old scars. Space Marine battle 
 armor bears a variety of insignia, ribbons, medals, and battle standards that, while not affecting 
 the gameplay directly, serve wonderfully to pull the player into the world. One particular example 
 of this really brought home how much effort Relic put into essentially bringing the miniature figures 
 of the tabletop game to life - the Librarian unit. Librarians are powerful psychic soldiers that 
 also serve as Space Marine archivists. The identity of the unit could have been easily established 
 just by putting a book shaped design on the soldier's armor. Instead, Relic went to the trouble 
 of creating a real 3D book strapped to the Librarian's shoulder pauldron -- including brackets 
 to hold it down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Zealot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 11, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War is unique in many ways compared to the normal Age of Empire's 2 style of game. In fact, 
 the differences are numerous. 
  
  Dawn of War has an innovative resource gathering system. You capture "strategic points" on the 
 map (like Star Wars Battlefront 2) and they generate "requisition points". These points are supposed 
 to represent your personal attack's value to the overall campaign of the planet. You also gather 
 power via power generators, which are built anywhere. Since you gather more requisition resource 
 by getting more strategic points (and for that matter critical locations and relics) players are 
 forced into a more aggressive style of playing. This constantly forces players to have minor skirmishes. 
 However, if you are too aggressive, you can get crushed as your forces are spread too thin...
 
  
  Race wise, it has 4 completely different races, which are genuinely interesting and unique. They 
 all have different troops and tech trees; in fact, you almost need to re-learn all your strategies 
 as you learn to cope with these forces. (The Orks are especially different, with a whole extra 
 resource and the unlocking of higher level troops by having more troops already on the field)
 
  
  On Balance, the game's fantastic. I've played all the races, and I've been able to win with all 
 of them on skirmish mode. (Though I have a difficulty with the Orks, thats because I just suck 
 with races that focus on close-combat * I HATE ZERG*)
  
  The Sounds are some of the best ever. They are terrifying and magnificent at the same time. I love 
 how the Space Marines (who in the Warhammer 40K universe follow the God Emperor to death) fight 
 with a sort of fervor not found in the other races. Chaos is terrifying with their blood curdling 
 cries, and the Orks are funny with their crude tech and language.
  The sounds of war in general (explosions, gun effects, etc) are cool as well. When I zoom in on 
 a large fight, it feels as if Im taking part in it as well, with the sounds of chain swords slashing, 
 bolters shooting and rockets zooming.
  
  The Graphics are the best EVER. It is filled with beautiful particle effects, the models are unparallel 
 for and RTS and the animations are a work of art. The animations in particular are amazing. For 
 instance, in close combat, troopers dodge and weave, clash swords and axes, and have terrific death 
 animations. Ranged combat is improved as well, though not to the same degree. For example, in Star 
 Wars Empire at War, ranged troops have the same animation: shoot/aim, recoil, shoot/aim, recoil, 
 etc. In Dawn of War, troops are always switching their aim between enemy grunts, reloading, throwing 
 grenades, etc. These animations really help make the feel of a total-scale war.
  
  If there is 1 problem with the game engine, its the fact that you can shoot enemies through buildings.....
 
  
  It should be noted that with the plethora of MODS out there, you can really get a bang for your 
 buck. There's pretty much a MOD for each of the W40K races out there (like the Steal Legion, Tyranids, 
 Daemon Hunters, and Tau)
  
  I easily recommend this to anybody who loves RTS, W40K, and everything in-between....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuseking
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  .Dawn of war is a intresting game. I am used to my RTS's having more then a 100 units caps but 
 dawn of war is a smaller RTS that relies more on strategy then brute strength and rushing. The 
 features of the game also make it feel like the baord game with custom painting and decals. This 
 series is also unigue that there is so many expansion. Most game creators make 1 and thats it but 
 dawn of war already has another on its way.
  
  The gameplay seems to be the main focus of the game which is good for a change since you don't 
 have to worry about politics or goverment in your game. No its gets down and gritty with fast action 
 and great gaemplay which make this game so good. 
  
  The base building is more of sa side thing but good base layout is key since sometime i have trapped 
 my orcs mega unit in my base cuase it couldn't move around. Stil all and all its a great game you 
 need to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aligokalppeker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece in RTS genre. Gameplay , Graphics , Sounds are great.
  
  Firstly , in DOW Player has a better control of battlefield according to other RTSs. And strategic 
 factors are all balanced. Also resources are all focused to battles and tacticals. So managing resources 
 are not so discreet from battlefield.
  
  Graphics and Sounds are great , Musics are appropriate for atmosphere and detailed sounds of units 
 make the game more enjoyable.
  
  The only missing thing is single player campaigns. Single player part of game can be finished with 
 9-12 hours gameplay. This is quite a short length for such a perfect game
  
  Lastly , every RTS lovar should play this game , single or multiplayer. This is sure Relic and THQ 
 has done a very well job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienorganism
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is great. It is a perfect game for any RTS lover. This game is very fun. The game utilizes 
 entire squads instead of singular soldiers which is better than some RTS titles like Age of Empires 
 and others that use single units. The campaign is something to brag about with great game play 
 and a good storyline. The sound effects put you right in the middle of the fighting whether you 
 are fighting in the city streets or fighting out in the forest. The units firepower is unbelievable 
 and the squad sizes are even better. Firefights are beautiful and perfectly made from the close 
 combat to the perfectly executed artillery strikes. The game forces you to be strategic in the 
 placement of your troops. No more are the days where only brute force wins you the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skuzzel-butt
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Warhammer Dawn of War is the best RTS game Ive ever played in my life. has a very good story, awesome 
 units and very good maps aswell. The design is pretty good and well I cant stop playin the game, 
 The four Races are very good: Eldar, Space Marines, Chaos Space Marines, and Orks........ these 
 4 races have all a special unit and are very kool, but i say that the Chaos are more powerful and 
 most koolest. Orks are a pain in the you know where. The Eldar are the weakest and the Space Marines 
 the most cheapest and faster to built-up. the thier amazin, and the Legions are very kool, still 
 theres alot of legions which the game doesnt give you which you'd had to download, but are very 
 kool, the weaponry are very good and the vechiles are very kool too. but they should try to add 
 more to the Chaos next time they might be Heretics but they did it for a good reason.
  
  STAY SIC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgolden
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  At first I was quite skeptical, Warhammer 40K for the pc... I was doubtful. Has GamesWorkshop lost 
 their mind? Well, I was in EB the other day, and there it was, Dawn of War for only $19.99! I was 
 thinking, hmmm price has dropped, is this a good thing or bad? I plunged in and bought it. 
  
  I'm glad I bought it, DoW is the best rts since starcraft and thats high praise considering 
 starcraft is the best game ever, period. This game has it all, violence, action, gore, its your 
 Warhammer 40k blood lust fix with out having to set up the table top. I think gamespot is being 
 conservative by only giving it a 8.8, what are they thinking? I guess they're not table top gamers... too 
 bad. 
  
  This game is so good, you'll gather up your minatures and auction them off at EBAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fender2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Graphix are great, gameplay kinda is repative in meaning almost every mission is a search and destroy 
 mission, nice story-line, and online is cool. first u only start out wit 4 races Space Marines, 
 Orks, Eldar, and Chaos Space Marines, for the winter assualt expansion pack u get the Imperial 
 Guard.... (i used them as cannon-fodder in DoW lol) but for Dark Crusade however were gunna get 
 the Tau, and the Necrons, omg i cant wait for Dark Crusdade. 
  
  BUY THIS GAME
  BUY THIS GAME
  BUY THIS GAME
  BUY THIS GAME
  BUY THIS GAME
  BUY THIS GAME
  BUY THIS GAME
 
  BUY THIS GAME
  BUY THIS GAME
  BUY THIS GAME
  BUY THIS GAME
  BUY THIS GAME
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whathaxya
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is as different from its inspiration as it could be. Not only has 
 it changed from turn-based to real-time, tabletop to electronic, and luck to skill, but it has 
 also given the in-game world a completely new perspective. This comes in the form of a campaign 
 that has little to do with the original story, besides the continual, interracial conflicts. All 
 of this involves and immerses the player or players into the Warhammer universe in such a way that 
 is only possible in a game. And while it may be difficult to create a game that is both, of a high 
 quality, and also faithful to its target material, THQ has managed this and more.
  
  Some may wonder how a concept can be changed in so many ways and successfully capture the feeling 
 of the Warhammer universe. This game brings to life conflicts and scenery that could only previously 
 be portrayed in writing. Be it giant battles with grenades flying and detonating everywhere, corpses 
 lying on dead-seeming, crater covered ground, rife with bullet wounds in an ever increasing pool 
 of blood, while huge tanks rove the battlefield looking for more to kill. It could be the way an 
 explosion goes off, clouds billowing, and bare earth flying in all directions. Or it could simply 
 be the way that a single squad of units ducks and seems to look around carefully for enemies, when 
 inside cover. Just looking at the game gives the feel of being in a war-zone. The number of character 
 models makes the game look even more stunning, as it is easy to tell one squad from another, and 
 also one player from another, as colours are customisable. Watching a squad run down a hill into 
 an oncoming rush of enemies, then crush them, gives an immense feeling of satisfaction, especially 
 since all units have finishing moves when in melee combat, as do some vehicles. And seeing a huge 
 machine grab a single character, crush him in its hand, then slam him into the ground and fling 
 away the remains, all the while the unit sprays blood in all directions, never gets old.
  
  As a bonus to the feeling of the game, and something the tabletop version would never be able to 
 depict, the music that can be heard in the game is nothing short of beautiful. It gives the feeling 
 of either impending battle, in sinister tones that make the player wary of even the closest shadow 
 or the furthest hill. Or in battle, somewhat covered by the sounds of bullets flying or units yelling 
 war-cries, the music gives the mood an excited quality, causes heart rate to increase, and gives 
 the sense that the player is under the pressure to command. The voice acting is simply brimming 
 with emotion, whether in the movies on the campaign, or merely for a single unit during a skirmish. 
 Characters say or yell exactly the kinds of things that would be expected, in a voice that is easily 
 identifiable. From the Ork Mad Doks shrill, maniacal cry of; Its gonna hurt, a lot, but youll 
 be be-tah to the Eldar Bonesingers dreamy and mysterious; I will call it forth from the Warp, 
 every unit in Dawn of War has its own voice and accent, and more than one saying to choose from. 
 The quality of the sound effects puts the player in a position to actually feel the unforgiving 
 environment, the imminent danger, or the heat of the fray.
  
  The actual game is simple to control under most circumstances, though the interface may be overwhelming 
 to some people at the beginning. A straightforward point and click interface is what awaits future 
 players of this game, hotkeys can be used for a variety of functions, but are difficult to remember 
 because of the sheer number of them. It is sometimes problematic to select a single unit in a battle, 
 or even in a larger group of soldiers. It can be difficult to tell which particular group a single 
 soldier belongs, and then may also take a long time to thread through other units and arrive where 
 the player wants them to be. Most real-time strategy games give options to attack or defend, in 
 a way that suits the players style. Dawn of War however, makes players think on the move, as they 
 will not be able to survive if they sit back and defend their base. This creates a love or hate 
 situation, as players whose strategy is to sit back and mass a huge army will invariably detest 
 the fact that this game does not allow them to do so. But at the same time, this gives attacking 
 players the challenge of having every computer or person adopt the same strategy of desperate or 
 deliberate attack after attack.
  
  For players to enjoy this game they must be adaptable, as Dawn of War gives many options when it 
 comes to attack style for players and their opposition. The player may use small raids that lure 
 rival forces into traps, while the hostile computer may create huge forces that come to crush them 
 directly, this keeps players on their toes as any strategy could come into play at any time. This 
 game has races that fit any offensive tactics; from Chaos hit and run of fast units, to the Space 
 Marines versatile squads that can be changed to fit the situation. Overall, this game gives players 
 such an astounding amount of choice in the way of races, maps, tactics and difficulties that it 
 would not allow them to step away for want of trying everything. The campaign may be slightly disappointing, 
 as there are bugs that can make players skip large portions of some levels. It sometimes becomes 
 boring, blasting through waves of enemies using only the Space Marines, and infrequently, the Imperial 
 Guard. Despite its shortcomings, the campaign it is lengthy and full of depth. And the extensive 
 skirmish mode easily makes up for any faults in the campaign as it has a multitude of options, 
 difficulties and maps that are sure to exhaust many an hour of a large number of gamers.
  
  Although some people will definitely abhor this game, it should be tried by everyone. It is not 
 every day that a game is released that combines a solid historical backing, a soundtrack that makes 
 players feel in the moment, graphics that are astounding in both quality and quantity, and gameplay 
 that is generally simple to use and understand, all the while staying faithful to its source material. 
 The only reasons that gamers could give for having bad feelings for Dawn of War are; if their favourite 
 race was not in it, or if they have an overwhelming animosity to changing their tactics. A game 
 of this calibre deserves to be in the collection of any person who enjoys strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titoserbianhero
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, the graphics are beautiful and the 360 degree camera makes for some pretty 
 amazing cinematic battles. The campaign is too short but the skirmish and multiplayer make up for 
 it. The space marines are by far my favourite faction and the heavy bolter is devastatingly lethal. 
 The chain sword is all I thought it would be since when I first saw it on the tabletop, brutal.
 
  I have to admit though the graphics are a bit ugly during the cinematics and when up close. I 
 loved the sound, it really got me into the battle and helped me focus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morrissey1959
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Absolutley love this game. Soon as I played it I was reminded of playing Starcraft in the dorms 
 at University, like 10 years ago!
  
  I enjoy the RTS genre, but so few games employ the futuristic theme, and the ones that do seldom 
 do it well.
  
  I found the races to be well balanced, and quite varied. Enjoyed the space marine campaign (reminded 
 me of Terrans in Starcraft) . However once you get used to Chaos, you love the evilness of the race 
 (remember infested terrans - just less work) . 
  
  Also liked that this game can be played in short doses and quick rounds - handy for us older gamers 
 that have jobs, wives, houses etc. I used to be a hardcore RPG junky, till life got in the way..
 
  
  Anyways, great game. If you loved Starcraft (one of the greatest games ever) , you won't be disappointed 
 with this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Where to start...
  This is one of the best RTS's i have ever played. They really did an excellent job on this game.
 
  The action is superbly definitive. It feels real, the suspense behind every attack is just right 
 into second guessing your logic. The mass fire and different maneuveurs make skirmishes a site 
 to behold.
  The entire RTS element is how an action RTS should be. It doesnt require you to spend the first 
 30 minutes of the game building resources, it immedialtly makes it clear to you that troops and 
 a strong defense is what matters. The gathering is a background task that must be monitored, but 
 not so closely like other RTS's.
  The AI is one of the confusing attritubutes. Sometimes they are impossibly good (like Rise of Nations 
 "Hardest") and sometimes they put up a decent fight, but nothing i couldnt handle half playing 
 half watching anime. But i would still say they did a great job coding them.
  The sound effects and visuals are, of course, well put together. Everything seems like it should 
 be, and sometimes even a bit more.
  Overall, a worthy game, for a worthy gamer. Drop the time or money and check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHAckerReaper
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Enjoy the sounds of guns firing wildly in the air, missiles flying to its target either missing 
 and hitting your allies, the sounds of axes, swords and other wild noises of war? Well you've found 
 the right game, with only 1 campaign with 12 missions however, it goes into a in-depth story about 
 a space marine chapter (army) . 4 playable races each with unique attributes, and with the new expansions 
 like winter assault and dark crusade featuring a total of 3 new races and many new missions. But 
 the thing that caught my eye is that you get to design the look of your own new army! All in all 
 a great game, with a new style of rts game-play, utilizing cover, customizing squads to fit situations, 
 and many other things which makes this game fun and not to hard to learn.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Vox
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 16, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Real Time Strategy games aren't exactly in their golden age these days. Back in olden times, i'd 
 often sit at home of a saturday night, neglecting any social life for a few hours of Westwood's 
 "Red Alert". Nowadays, immitators and cheap rip-offs have saturated the market to the point where 
 the PC section of any game store is overloaded with generic strategy games.
  
  Dawn of War gets rid of all that and produces a refreshing outing into the world of RTS. Scrapping 
 the usual "get money to build stuff" convention, the game sees you capturing a number of key locations 
 on the map to increase the support you can receive. Sure, in essence it's the same system, but 
 the new approach is just one of many innovations which make the game so appealing. Rather than 
 secure the mundane necessity of getting gold/money/resources you instead have to capture locations 
 on the map, with each player having one or two right next to their base to ensure you have enough 
 to get going.
  
  Capturing a point increases your requisition score, which means you are allowed more support from 
 your superiors. Just starting out with a single captured location will see you with low requisition, 
 building basic structures and fighting with smaller units. Fight on and gain a strong foothold 
 on the map however, and soon you'll be building complex fortifications backed up by tanks and specialised 
 units. 
  
  Then there's the fighting itself. Aside from the usual buildings and defenses, there are four armies 
 to choose from (five if you have the expansion pack, with another two arriving this september) 
 ranging from mysterious Eldar, who specialise in intricate weaponry and tactics, to the Orks - 
 who basically throw themselves at you until you run out of things to throw back. 
  
  The forces to choose from are very diverse, allowing you to play in a completely different style 
 depending on the race you choose to battle with. And then the battle itself is really something 
 to behold. Gone is the command and conquer style of two lines of forces standing opposite each 
 other exchanging bullets. Your troops move in squads, engaging the enemy ferociously, with one-on-one 
 battles occuring all over the place. There's no generic exchange of blows either. Zoom in and you'll 
 see your men fight their opponants with close-quarters moves, blocking and parrying to ensure victory. 
 All very impressive.
  
  As far as the content goes, it's all pretty standard. You have your story-driven campaign mode 
 which should last you around 10 hours or so. Then you have your skirmish mode, which allows you 
 to choose a battlefield, your team mates and your opponants and head straight in for a miniature 
 war of your own creation. Of course, you can always replace your opponants with human counterparts, 
 should you decide to take it online.
  
  Downsides? Well, there aren't many. The only real issue i've had with the game is one of balance. 
 For example, the Orks are very capable of attacking and winning within a few minutes, whereas armies 
 like the eldar only really gain strength after a good fifteen minutes of building up stronger forces 
 with more complex units. This makes rushing your enemy very easy, and infuriating for those who 
 wish to play as the races who take a bit longer to build up strength.
  
  On the whole however, this game is as solid as an RTS can get. I'd recommend it to anyone, whether 
 you dig the tabletop equivalent or not. A must for any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 15, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  
  After playing this I though "Finally a decent game based on a GW product!" 
  
  Relic have done an excellent job with game, I got a slight feeling of familiarity with the game 
 engine (possible because it's based on the the one for Impossible Creatures?) - graphically nice, 
 good sound and music.
  
  The campaign is good, if a bit easy for me, this game comes into it's own is custom games/maps 
 and multiplier. It's excellent fun and possible to have to quite large games (up to eight players) . 
 There are may mods available for the game too, which makes it well worth buying as it has so much 
 replay value.
  
  Resources are (generally) based on power production and acquisition points, these you gain for 
 holding objectives. 
  
  Generally well balanced and stable - particularly with the patches relic has released (again, my 
 pet annoyance - buggy games must be fixed! Relic has done well here I feel) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_cop
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  As a collector of Warhammer: 40.000 Space Marines i will say that this game has been the very best 
 RTS game all time. Especially for people who play the tabletop game. The game is very action packed 
 and takes you to the fantastic universe af Warhammer 40.000, where war is the only thing happening. 
 The graphics are superb, very much detail and gunfire og explosions all over the place gives a 
 very good feel of really being a part of the battle. As with that, the cool camera functions give 
 you the possibility to the experience the action from the soldiers eye. A very good feature. 
 
  
  Unlike other RTS's DoW is almost 100% focused on the front line action, which means you do not 
 have to worry about your harvestors being attacked, because there are none of them. Instead, you 
 get resources by taking over strategic points, and then automaticly gives you requisition which 
 is the "money" in this game. I thank to god that they made it this way, it makes the game focus 
 on the war only. 
  
  There are three races to play as, the Space Marines, Orks, Eldar and the Chaos. They all have their 
 weak and strong points, so no one have the upper hand in the battlefield. For an example, the Space 
 Marines and the Chaos has far more powerful soldiers, but also less of them. Opposite the Orks, 
 which is more weak but has far more soldiers. 
  
  As in the tabletop game, tanks and other vehicles are essential. DoW has the best vehicles in the 
 game such as the Predator tanks or the Eldar Wrathlord with many more.
  
  So if you like the excitement of the tabletop game, you must have this game. If you do not know 
 Warhammer or havn't played the tabletop game, you can still enjoy this beautiful game with ease. 
 
  
  The best RTS alltime.
  
  - And they shall know no fear! - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomi_Nakamoto
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  GREAT!!! this is one of the best RTS in PC I've ever played!
  Not like other RTS which make u collect many kind of resources, Dawn of War is so simple, absolutly 
 U just need 2 resources PLUS one resource to upgrade ur Trop to Highest level!
  
  The gameplay itself just like combining from Starcraft and Warcraft! In Campaign Mode, U'll play 
 as Space Marines! They fight using riffle just like in Starcraft, Fought other races like orc, 
 etc! But............... Even u Fight use riffle, when the combat range become closer, U'll be draw 
 Ur Sword (But its more like combining of Sword and Chain Saw....... Weird? But its True) and fought 
 em using that!
  
  And just like Warcraft, When ur trops go to attack they will yell... Like "For the Emperor!"
  
 
  Uniqe isn it? Fight use modern technology just like Starcraft but the atmosphere there is ancient 
 just like Warcraft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironsoap
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Playing Warhammer 40,000, the tabletop miniatures game, requires a certain dedication to the cause. 
 The game is complex and detailed... more so than many pen and paper role-playing games. And that's 
 just the basic game mechanics. When you add in the special rules and army construction specific 
 to each playable faction and the near infinite level of customization you can perform with your 
 chosen army, the game spins over a lot of people's heads. And that doesn't even touch on the modeling 
 and painting of the figures themselves.
  
  This level of commitment, especially to activities that don't involve actually playing the game, 
 might sound strange to a video gamer whose only preparatory activities to their gaming might involve 
 a twenty minute car ride to EB or Blockbuster for the latest release. But aside from that, the 
 Warhammer 40K universe offers two very compelling things: One is the game itself which is quite 
 a lot of fun with it's simulated battles involving all manner of excellent warriors, weapons, tanks 
 and assorted war machines and the other is the fictional setting and backstory behind all the warring 
 factions and races. The quantity and depth of this source material makes for a very compelling 
 game and is a source of inspiration that perhaps begs to be translated into other mediums.
  
  Enter Dawn of War. Taking the Warhammer tabletop game and translating it to a Real Time Strategy 
 format seems pretty straightforward at first. The end result from resource gathering and army building 
 should be roughly the equivalent of starting forces in a standard WH40K game. Except that to a 
 certain degree this has already been done and done so well that the result was practically a unanimous 
 Game of the Year.
  
  If you look, even casually, at Blizzard's StarCraft, you'll see some striking similarities to Warhammer 
 40K. The Terrans are very similar to 40K's Space Marines; the Zerg owe more than a passing nod 
 of inspiration to the Tyranids (whom in turn were very much inspired by the Alien movies) and there 
 are quite a few similarities between the Eldar in 40K and SC's Protoss. Which is not to detract 
 from the greatness of StarCraft but rather to point out that to a certain extent, a 40K-style RTS 
 has already been done and done very well.
  
  So what does Dawn of War have to offer besides an official license?
  
  Dawn of War's presentation, 
 for one thing, is stellar. Many people continue to play StarCraft to this day but they do so in 
 spite of the clunky old isometric sprite-based visuals. DoW uses impressive modern 3D graphics 
 and some pretty clever animations and special effects to bring the tabletop skirmishes to life 
 in an engaging way. The music and voice samples are, for the most part, top notch and the interface 
 is maybe a bit standard for the genre, but perfectly serviceable.
  
  There are some nifty little touches here and there like the ability to paint your army and the 
 introduction of the Cover concept where troops that are in protective terrain get a defensive bonus 
 that help to bring a lot of the flavor from the tabletop game to your PC. Of course having the 
 official armies and their associated models helps, too, and they all look quite good especially 
 some of the larger units like Chaos' Defiler and the Space Marines' Dreadnought.
  
  If you have had an interest in Games Workshop's flagship games but have avoided getting into the 
 hobby because of monetary or time constraints (tabletop gaming is expensive and time-consuming 
 to say the least) , Dawn of War is am acceptable approximation of the experience. Addicted Warhammer 
 players can also get some enjoyment from the game by giving them a small fix for those moments 
 where no opponent is readily available.
  
  And Dawn of War offers a pretty comprehensive online multiplayer option as well which can be quite 
 a bit of fun and a decent introduction for new players into the Warhammer universe.
  
  But DoW is not without its faults. For one thing there are at least nine major armies and 11 distinct 
 army entities for Warhammer 40K. Of these only four made it to Dawn of War and two of them (Space 
 Marines and Chaos Space Marines) are quite similar. Obviously later expansions for Dawn of War 
 ought to address this but it would have been nice to see a bit more diversity and a few more default 
 armies. Certain armies like the Necrons, Daemonhunters and Tyranids would make excellent expansion 
 fodder, but if you're including Chaos and regular Space Marines, why not include regular and Dark 
 Eldar? Would it have been so difficult to include Imperial Guard and Tau as base armies?
  
  At least the armies that are available are pretty popular in the tabletop realm and they are pretty 
 nicely balanced although beginning players should probably shy away from the less directly powerful 
 Eldar until they can learn a few of the game basics and then dive in to try playing with a slightly 
 different approach.
  
  Regardless of the quantity of armies available, what does seem somewhat unforgivable is the lack 
 of single-player campaigns for any army besides the Space Marines. There is a tutorial for each 
 army but that hardly makes up for the fact that the one-player game in Dawn of War is extremely 
 short and very restrictive. Compared to StarCraft's sprawling, engaging and cross-species epic 
 campaign mode, Dawn of War feels like a cheap knockoff (consider the irony) .
  
  Also while the game looks pretty good in some respects (especially battle scenes where the dynamic 
 fluidity of attack animations makes for some cinematic clashes) , the textures on a machine anywhere 
 near the minimum system requirements are blurry and indistinct. The models are also a bit lower 
 in fidelity than would be ideal and all in-game cutscenes are handled in-engine so even the story 
 unfolds with a relatively crummy visual apathy.
  
  In terms of actual gameplay the resource collection aspect of the game is pretty toned down from 
 other RTS games (especially fantasy themed ones like WarCraft III or Age of Empires) but still 
 doesn't quite work. Fortunately a lot of the other little touches help bring the flavor of WH40K 
 to Dawn of War (things like the Infiltrate and Deep Strike special rules) without breaking the 
 game engine.
  
  The end result of Dawn of War is a fun but flawed game based on a great license that will probably 
 have enough nostalgia for old tabletop gamers to warrant a look and possibly enough flavor to entice 
 new gamers to check out the original but will never actually replace it with anyone. Not that THQ 
 was trying to replace 40K, but maybe with just a bit more effort they could have at least given 
 it a closer run for the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:07 am PT
Review:  I believe this game takes all the regular mechanics of the RTS genre and reworks them into something 
 truly outstanding. Battles are truly exciting and hording resources and using mass tactics in no 
 way insures victory. I played the tabletop game a little bit when I was younger and the look and 
 atmosphere in the game match exactly how I thought it would be. 
  I have had many exciting and satisfying battles on skirmish mode and multiplayer. The battles that 
 I won where won by identifying gaps and oversights in the enemies defense and then ruthlessly exploiting 
 them. 'aggressive manuver' is the best way that I can describe the key to victory, especially in 
 multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alenfishman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  this is a vary impressive Real Time Strategy, i spent a lot of years playing RTS style games, all 
 the red alerts, star craft brood war, war craft everything. total annihilation. lord of the realms. 
 Age of empires 2, star wars galactic battlefront. The list goes on and on. I am a vary spoiled 
 RTS player. But THQ did a great job of creating this game. Dawn of War is a vary fast paced constant 
 combat RTS. Personally I think they did a perfect job. If youre a person who loves RTS games and 
 loves quick based battles then this is the way to go. Good job THQ please keep it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protossdragoon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k is a stratigey game based on the popular table top game. its about the forces of 
 Chaos who seek to dominate the universe with the help of their puppets, the space orc. this is 
 where the space marines and the Blood Ravens come in. u command the forces of the imperilum which 
 are the space marines and defend earthlings brom being blown away or cut into peices. this game 
 was quite satisfying at first and can keep u comming back for more but its only for the die hard 
 fans that will cling to it like blood sucking leeches and expansion packs line winter assault. 
 the graphics are the best that i had ever seen and every soldier is is detailed. but is looks more 
 like only the two main ravials, Space Marines and Chaos are more deatailed. the only thing that 
 troubles me is that... Where did the orcs come from?!!! they are suppose to be extinct or something 
 but they are still here in the year 40000??? comfusing. one theory might be that the humans saw 
 that they were in the brink of extinction due to the power of man and were stored in a lobortary. 
 then they escaped and *somehow* became "intellegent" creatures and held guns and wanted revenge 
 on the humans. for me the orc were not a race. they were more like wildlife with limited technology. 
 still this game has a few good stratigic elements and can last for quite a while it gets boring 
 and u feel like playing another command and conqure war game with the same style and not much varaity. 
 only the fans of this series will enjoy it and u might want to rent it first if u are new to the 
 Warhammer 40k universe. overall its a solid game but without much varaity in gameplay even if u 
 switch between the four races. that's about it for this review. 
  
  -Keep gamming!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Hunter44
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a very excellent game. It is unlike most rts's you may have played before, and its universe 
 and diversity is based on a well established tabletop game, which has millions of fans enjoying 
 every bit of it, so you don't have to worry about its settings, war intention etc.
  
  Graphics: The graphics may not be top-notch, but its stil pretty good graphics. Unfortunetly Im 
 not much of explaining about game graphics since I never really cared much, sorry.
  
  Sound: The sound is awesome. The background music dosent get on your nerves, and the weapon sounds 
 are very realistic. The unit voices also seem to be very fitting, and you'll be glad that it wasnt 
 jsut some wierd bum they found on the street voice acting it. 
  
  Gameplay: Now the good part. The gameplay is amazing! You can have space marines taking cover in 
 a crater, all the while shooting nonstop bullets into the enemy. Corpses lay around for the whole 
 game, making it tons more realistic. Multiplayer games are a hoot as well, but unfortunetly can 
 also be annoying when the foe rushes you early on with spammed weak units. The campaign is also 
 a bit dissapointing due to its shortness. The skirmish mode is a real highlight. The computer enemies 
 (and allies) are pretty smart, so it makes a fun challenge any day ; and when you though it couldnt 
 get any better, theres also an army painter to let you customize the look of your army units/buldings, 
 as well as mods, maps, skins, models, and more you can download to make warhammer 40k dawn of war 
 a more breathtaking experience. 
  
  If you havemt already, read the gamespot review, as theirs is, as always, more thorough and persuasive, 
 but I hope this has gotted a spark of interest from you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caisas
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  This game is definaly wearth buying if you are looking for a great RTS. The story is good but it 
 could go for a bit longer just to drag out the 1 player experience. The online playing is awsome 
 expecialy if you want to verse a couple of mates and show off your skills on the battlefield. Also 
 the fact that you can design your own teams is preaty cool, to bad that you cant design your own 
 badges. All up this is a game that will still be a hell of a game for years to come. Also if you 
 do manage to finish this game and you get bored I recomend that you buy DOW winter assault, which 
 is the expansion, the larger tech tree and the more upgrade's really lets your have a large range 
 of choices when deciding how to build your army. Well happy Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  A massive orc army is invading the planet Tartorus along with there two allies, the Eldar and the 
 Chaos Space Marines. You must serve the holy Emperor and slay these heretics. Warhammer 40k: Dawn 
 of War was a long awaited RTS that was based on the great table top game. WH: DW has intense gameplay 
 that lets people new to the RTS scene (like me) have fun. People who don't even know what Warhammer 
 is can play this game with a nice sense of unity but the game also plays with the true hardcore 
 fans in mind. Many of the armies and units from the table top game appear in the game and are accurately 
 portrayed. Requirements are fairly low since the game came out in '04 and still looks very nice 
 but nothing next-gen. WH: DW has a save anytime policy that many players will like along with the 
 quick loading times that provide a tactical map that shows the player positions of armies on the 
 battlefield before they engage them. With that said the missions also get more challenging as the 
 game progresses which is a nice touch. Some downsides of WH: DW are the cutscene characters act 
 cheesy along with there weird walk. Glitches can be noticed such as whirlwinds not firing at targets 
 and the end boss getting stuck in a building making him a sitting duck to player's fiery. Vehicle 
 units also constantly block other friendly units which make them get to the battle slower. WH: DW 
 also has fairly long missions but this isn't a problem with the anytime saves. Warhammer 40k: Dawn 
 of War makes a great addition to any RTS fans library and travels a path that differs from other 
 RTS games even with its few glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilminion14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  This is the most fun I've had playing an RTS in a LONG time! 
  
  Let me start by saying that the detailed animations of the various squads in combat just has to 
 be seen to be believed! Go check out the online gameplay movies available and you'll know what 
 I mean. Even just watching a replay of an epic battle with the camera zoomed in close is a lot 
 of fun! The graphics are pretty visceral and the animations are amazing! Nothing beats watching 
 a squad of Orks getting tossed into the air by the mighty sweep of an Daemon's sword! 
  
  This game is different than other RTS's in that there is no resource gathering, at least not in 
 the traditional sense. You only gain "resources" by expanding and capturing strategic points in 
 the map. This element alone changes the gameplay dynamic. You have to come out and fight! Some 
 people may not like that I suppose, but the title is Dawn of WAR! 
  
  The combat is also more tactical. You can upgrade your units and vehicles with different weapons, 
 units have different attack modes and stances, and terrain most certainly matters! 
  
  Praises aside, I do have a few complaints against this game. I can't help but feel the develoer 
 Relic was a rushed to complete this game. The manual is pretty bad. Yes, there are all the unit 
 descriptions but there are UI elements that are just given a glossing over (What the hell is Overwatch 
 mode and what is it for?) . Also there is only 1 campaign for the Space Marines in single player. 
 What about the other 3 races? Expansion or download I hope! 
  
  In summary, if you are a fan of battle-intensive RTS's or fan of the WH40K universe then getting 
 this game is a must! 
  
  
  Graphics: 9 
  + Amazingly detailed animations 
  + Army painter to customize your units 
  - Need a buff system for all the details! 
  
  Sound: 
 9 
  + Love the voices! "Squad broken!!!" 
  
  Controls: 8 
  + It's an RTS! Pretty standard grouping and hotkeys. 
  - Could improve the Unique Unit/Hero selection 
 by using F1-F2 or something. 
  
  Gameplay: 9 
  + It's refreshing, fast-paced and intense. 
  + Single player's story is interesting. 
  + Online 
 multiplayer action!!! 
  - Only 1 Campaign in single player? 
  - Online lobby interfaces could use some work 
  
  Documentation: 6 
  - Lack of description 
 regarding features: e. g. Overwatch, Different stances. Though you can mouse over the buttons in-game 
 for a description in tooltips. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robg3176
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 31, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Finally bought this game... two years after my co-worker said it's like St@rcraft on Coc@in!!!
 
  
  -Gameplay: awesomely balanced, controls like starcraft, love the minimal resource management, simple 
 team commands
  -Graphics: stunning, you can zoom in and see every weapon upgrade on each marine, and the effects 
 just you in, you can't help but watch all the bullets and laserz beam towards one target and blow 
 it up
  -Sound: love the sound, especilally the Dreadnoughts, for all you who've seen Robocop... two legged 
 walkers weilding dual Vulcan Cannons!!!
  -Plot: so far I've played through five missions, and even though it's just battle, it's like a 
 WWII movie going back and forth between factions
  -Tilt: full tilt, plus I got the gold edition for 29.99 with winter assault expansion included!!! 
 Great Value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janschreurs
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 30, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  The game is excellent , if your not much of a pacifist! Crush your enemies with high tec or ruthless 
 GOdzillas. this game is 2 good for 2004! lol
  the races are great, ELdar; the quick martial arts highly developed beings , for ppl who just love 
 to be different! The Space marines, popular for ppl tht have never played before, combining human 
 domination with a neatly formatted army. Orcs, All ye who wanna bash and slash , use orcs the most 
 chaotic army (even more chaotic compared 2 chaos!) With brute strength and quick breeding , you 
 can swamp your enemies with a large green crowd, who all seem so eager to ... KILL KILL !! pity 
 they left the tyranids out. i'd fancy takign a hive fleet to a small group of eldars.. whahahah 
 
  
  then there is chaos, basically for all the ppl who just want 2 be evil.. the real evil ppl will 
 choose space marines.. heheh .. cos theyr all religious and stuff, living in an empire of fear.. 
 KILLING INNOCENTS.. EXTERMINATUS!! AAAAHHHHH AAAHHHHH AHHHHH ... srry lost myself there...
  
  anyways the game is good for maybe a month and multiplayer action is *** amazing.. 
  
  
 CIAO
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiemmeh
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  When I first got Dawn of War I was impressed with the sheer size of it, the amount of forces you 
 could come up with was quite staggering. You can play either campaign or skirmish, unfortunately 
 you can only play space marines in the campaign, but the skirmish is where the most fun is to be 
 had.
  
  You can choose 1 of 30ish maps, from 1 on 1 to 4 on 4 or even 1 on 7 :P Then you can choose your 
 Race, either Space Marine, Chaos, Orc's or Eldar, each having their own powers and weaknesses. 
 I'll just go through a brief summary of each:
  
  Space Marines are loyal soldiers to the Human Race, they are super Human if you like, built from 
 robotics and flesh, engineered to be an ultimate fighting force. Most of their power comes from 
 the 2 Commander units, the Force Commander and Librarian, both having significant advantages in 
 battle.
  
  Chaos are Rouge Space Marines, split from their brothers over their religion. They left Human Space 
 and hid in the void for a long time, until their numbers grew. Most of their powers comes from 
 Sheer Force, they are the strongest units, and have the best armaments.
  
  Orc's are green and dumb, but they have huge numbers and will go into a frenzy with certain upgrades.
 
  
  Eldar are like Elves, elegant and stealthy, they can make whole bases invisible and are very hard 
 to detect.
  
  Once you've selected your Race and your opponents race, the bloodshed begins. I'll follow the path 
 of starting a game as Space Marines.
  
  You start with your HQ and 1 servitor (build unit) , you can then built a Chapel Barracks, power 
 generator and bolter turrets, depending on the difficulty of your opponent depends on how quickly 
 you will need to get your defences up. Once you've built a Chapel Barrack you can create an armoury 
 where all your space marine upgrades can be done. When this is built you can also upgrade your 
 HQ to Level 1, allowing for more structures to be built. A great part of this game is reinforcing 
 your squads, you can click any squad and click reinforce squad member, and up to 8 squad members 
 can be teleported down to be part of that squad, you can also create sergeants who increase morale, 
 which is important as the less morale your squad has the less fighting power they have. You can 
 also attach your commander units to the squads to make the squads even more powerful.
  
  But my favourite thing about the space marines is the use of an orbital relay, this allows you 
 to have up to 6 squads (or 3 mechs) orbiting the map (unseen) and will allow you to use drop pods 
 to drop them anywhere in the seen area (so not in the Fog of war) . This allows for huge reinforcement 
 of weak and vulnerable locations.
  
  Anyways, lets do a rating shall we :)
  
  Graphics : 8/10 - its getting on a bit, and if you zoom in it doesn't look fantastic, but I still 
 really like the way they move and the armour :)
  Sound : 9/10 - Its got some really good sounds for crushing people, although the bolter fire I 
 think could be a bit better
  Gameplay: 10/10 - Fantastic gameplay, not much resource collecting going on, you don't have to 
 waste time with harvesters etc.
  Value : 10/10 - A definite must have game for anyone who likes hardcore RTS :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triplehrulz
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k Dawn of War is a futuristic battlegame in the year of 40, 000. THQ made a great effort 
 on Dawn of War, and it really paid off. The great gameplay of Dawn of War is unparalleled to any 
 other PC game. Once you start playing, you can never stop. It sticks with you for a (gamer) lifetime.
 
  
  The graphics are also very good in Dawn of War and are very realistic. The blood looks real and 
 so do the characters. The disadvantage of Dawn of War is that there are only four armies: Eldar, 
 Space Marines, Chaos Space Marines and Space Orks. But these disadvantages are covered up by the 
 great advantages of this game.
  
  The sound in the game is fantastic. When a character dies, they have individual people saying "arrrrgh" 
 or "avenge my death". The voice overs are really great in Dawn of War.
  
  Overall, Dawn of War is great and is definitely worth its market value. Dawn of War should be owned 
 by every serious gamer, warhammer fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 21, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Ever heard of a game called Warhammer? This is a strategy game based on it and four different races: 
 Space Marines (super humans who try to defend the galaxy) , Eldar (an alien race trying to kill 
 demons and evil) , Orks (green skinned and love war but evryone knows that) and Chaos Space Marines 
 (evil super humans who worship the gods of Chaos) .
  
  First of all though the single player campaign. This is just like Command and Conquer campaigns 
 but with a few differences, you only get Space Marines, you have to play every mission, you can 
 only have a set amount of troops, you fight more than one enemy, you must capture strategic points 
 to gain resources and you get computer controlled allies. However dont let these things get you 
 down as the campaign is extremely good fun, is quite long and you helps you learn alot of the game 
 you need to know to stand a chance online. It goes like this: an Imperial planet called Tarturus 
 which is overun with Orks and the Space Marines are sent in to clear them out and find out why 
 they are there. Soon they find out that the Eldar are involved and finally thier most hated enemy, 
 the Chaos Space Marines and must join with the Eldar to defeat them.
  
  Next we have skirmish the friendly little game where you need to wipe out the computer before he 
 does it to you and there are four different difficulties: Easy, Standard, Hard and Insane which 
 is probably the developers skills as they can wipe you out in 4 minutes! Also there are at least 
 twenty maps which is really good as you can have up to eight players battleing it out, and there 
 are alot of different objectives such as control area where you have to control as many strategic 
 points as possible to win, assasainate where you must kill the enemy general, annilate where you 
 must just destroy them and there are around 5 others so it makes for great action.
  
  But the best part of the game is online where you can face up to seven other human players in a 
 massive online battles which can last hours if both generals are evenly matched at skill, however 
 ussually if you make the first strike you can cripple them before they can make large expansions 
 to thier and this will most of the time win you the battle because they will have less resources. 
 The four races add alot of dimension as well because they are all very different with thier strengths 
 and weaknesses so learning how to play with them properly is the key to sucess.
  
  So overall an excellent strategy with plenty of replay value online and in skirmish and one that 
 i would recommend for anyone who likes RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_nyuckles
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 13, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for more hours than I wish to remember. This game can be very frustrating, 
 but can also be very rewarding. Here are some ideas to help you out:
  
  1) Learn the best build order for a race, and stick with them. If you don't like the race, or it's 
 troop types, then switch. Just be versed in where the race excels and where it it weak. The Orks, 
 for example, need a few full mobs of boyz to do any real damage. The SM on the other hand, can 
 have fewer units and do the same amount of damage.
  
  2) Remember where you build your buildings. This frustrates me each time. I sometimes lose track 
 of where my buildings are, and can't find them when I need to bring in new units.
  
  3) If you built something, use it. More often than not, I would have a unit of boyz or scouts next 
 to the barracks and just waiting. If you build a unit, use it. Re-enforce it, and send it out to 
 do the Emperor's bidding.
  
  4) Multi-player. It's fun playing the computer, but the AI can easily be too weak or too powerful. 
 Don't forget to communicate with your friends if you need help. If you play against them, and are 
 not doing well, don't get frustrated, you might have started off worse, and it could have easily 
 went the other way.
  
  I really like this game for I love the table top game it is based on. Just being able to see the 
 renderings of my Warboss or my Chaos Lord rip apart my enemies is wondrous to my eyes. This game's 
 graphics are a bit dated, but not all that bad if you have a good computer with a good video-card. 
 Give it a go, I hope you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ribicaman
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Dawn of war... What to say?
  
  The game has, like the best zoom of any games i ever played.
  The graphics are marvelous and 
 the sound is so damn good.
  The gameplay is awesome and the multiplayer is so interesting.
  I played the game for a month now and i am still not uninstalling it.
  AND YOU CANT MAKE ME!!!!
 
  The bad thing about Warhammer dawn of war is that its dull. All the missions are the same - Build 
 a base, and exteriminate the enemy.
  WAAGH ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  ok so i havent got the game but i have played it for 1 hour at a friends house and i must say.... 
 they really REALLY did an amazing job everything about this game is very well put the gameplay 
 where your men if in range of cover will take cover blind fire and do what any marine or the other 
 races will do... and its really different from other games like this for example warcraft... age 
 of empires... or any game that has you build an army and destroy whats in ure path and some of 
 those games never really added to my taste not alot of action more defending and just boring after 
 a few times but DoW id say after 3 to 5 min ure attacked or you will attack the enemy in the distance 
 from ure base and when this happends you have 20 vs 20 or 40 vs 60 and its really destructive so 
 you dont really stand there and do nothing or wait and wait for more gold or wood to be produced 
 to make another barracks...
  
  graphics are amazing gameplay is outstanding and the features that come with it really are amazing 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbismonster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this game is lots and lots of fun. The idea of capturing command points rather than gathering 
 resouces adds alot more action to the game, and it captures the gritty and dark nature of the 40k 
 universe. Watching dreadnoughts slam into hosts of orks and tear them to pieces is lots of fun 
 to watch, and huge melees or firefights involving space marines, eldar, or chaos marines is also 
 very entertaining. the opening cutscene looks great, but the game itself does not look quite as 
 good. It's still a great looking game however. The campaign is fun, but seems a bit too easy for 
 its own good. However, skrimish mode is lots of fun, although it gets repetitive sometimes. Multiplayer 
 is not quite as good, as the server system is bad, and there usually arent too many players online. 
 Still, the pure fun of this game and the way it captures the 40k universe makes it well worth the 
 purchase, despite some of its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War is a very fun and solid game. It really gives you the feel of being in the Warhammer 
 universe, and being able to command around Space Marines has been one of the high points of my 
 life. The drop pod system is an innovative idea: you still have little easily-killed builder guys, 
 but you don't have to build them to harvest resources for, which is a big advantage. You can devote 
 your full attention to the fighting.
  The combat looks good, too. Each unit, when fighting actually interact with each other, dodging 
 and hacking and shooting instead of just basic hacking animations. There's lots of blood shootin' 
 all over the place all the time too.
  On the minus side, this game, while it has a good moderate setting, doesn't have any other good 
 settings to speak of. Easy is much to easy and hard is much to hard, and you can get used to beating 
 medium pretty fast so it gets a little boring as time goes on. As I've said, though, it's a very 
 fun and innovative game, definitely worth buying now the price has gone down a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 26, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  We are in fornt od a great strategy game, For me than was so much time waiting for a kit of strategy 
 similar to the StarCraft, this is my consolation; I can't say that this game is better than StarCraft, 
 but neither We would be able to say that StarCraft is better than this. They are just different.
 
  
  The graphics of game are incredible for a strategy game in real time. You can make zoom on the 
 scenario almost as much as you wish to; You can make a zoom in the scenario as mucha as you want, 
 and with the changes of angles in the view you will be able to be in the center of any battle. 
 We should see the butchery just in front of itm as if we are one of the soldiers in battle.
  
  The special effects are too good, except by the music which is good but bored, and it's the 
 same in all game. However, the sound in battle, the war screams, the enemies attacks will really 
 take us to the suspense of the battle and make flow the adrenaline. 
  
  The campaign mode is the best of all. The history surprise us may times, and every character has 
 its own personality. The game also have a good multiplayer but without any innovation and without 
 any big faults.
  
  In this game the playmode focus in to know how to move our units at the moment of truth. It isn't 
 relevant the resources, what really matters is the dominations of the territory, and our first 
 actions in the episode will be critical in the progress of the game.
  
  In short, Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War is one of the best strategy games in last years, in my opinion 
 one of a little group of games that compares with Starcraft and that have some aspects also. I 
 recommend it much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauronald
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  this is the best game you will ever play and it is worth buying. u get to paint ur own army. this 
 game has an interesting story and has a great game play and has great graphics. it has unique animation 
 with each of the units so the little soldier won't look weird. it is easy to learn and also addictive. 
 this game is the only game i play if i have the time to. you don't need alot of worker like other 
 games where need to gather gold and food, but instead you can just build a building over the resource 
 and let it generate the resources is good so u can just concentrate on ur army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob1354
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok im a big warhammer fan especially 40k ive played the tabletop version (which i recommend that 
 if your going to play this game to truely appreciate the storyline and the units in it you must 
 at least check out, maybe even play or at least read some literature on.) so when i found out this 
 game was coming to the Pc i flipped about 12 fuses. In all honesty the graphics of this game are 
 awesome and second to none in the RTS world. the combat is great. and the hand to hand combat where 
 Space Marines and Orks duke it out is to drool over. i would say that. the only problem i found 
 were that if you have an older or low class graphics card you had to set the graphics settings 
 to the extreme lows. which really ruins gameplay. All in all the game is great gameplay is great. 
 learning it is simple. i love how the resources setup works. i love the accuracy with which is 
 unfolds in the warhammer universe and i honestly think it has truely found its way into the hearts 
 of warhammer fans old and new alike. if your not convinced play it yourself. especially if your 
 an RTS fan you'll find the combat to be a nice change from Generic C&C style warfare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bretteo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  Dawn of war is a great stratergy game based on the collectable warhammer 40k models, it is the 
 best stratergy since command and conquer.
  
  There are four teams to choose from,
  : eldar : aliens from outer space, 
  : orks : creatures from outerspace, 
  :space marines : 
 the last human stand,
  : chaos : the evil version of the space marines.
  
  On the main menu you can pick a skirmish or a campaign, on the campaign you play as the space marines, 
 eventually working your way through all the different enemy teams, on a skirmish you can have as 
 many enemys or team-mates as you like, you can pick a map or be any of the different races, you 
 can coustamise your army colours to however you like.
  
  The game has great graphics and brilliant sound effects, i recommend this game to stratagy lovers 
 and fans of warhammer 40k.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egameht
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  When I installed this (albiet, massive) game for the first time, I was expecting a good game, one 
 that used a control scheme similar to Warcraft 3 (from the screens I had seen) , though I wasn't 
 anticipating what I got; an imersive opening movie, a great interface, and a strong design all 
 around. The unit displayed on the main screen is wonderfully rendered, and the option to paint 
 your own army being immediatly availble was great. Being the story-driven gamer I am, however, 
 I jumped headfirst into the story before I started playing with the other goodies.
  
  Right away I'm introduced to the Blood Ravens, a strong faction of the Space Marines, and their 
 plight on Tarturus. The basics of the system took a little getting used to at first, such as the 
 idea of 'squads' instead of single-member units, though the game played smoothly. The use of 'Requisition 
 Resource' was great, as it keeps the action focused on the action rather then resource management, 
 and the Power resource gave the game just a little bit of complexity to keep it from feeling like 
 a Command and Conquer game using the Warcraft style. The story unfolded nicely throught the campaign, 
 and the strengths and aditional units given access to were great and it felt natural, though the 
 story line has one major problem.
  
  It's way too short.
  
  All in all, at the end of the last mission, I was kind of left hanging. The fact that there weren't 
 campaigns for the other 3 races also kind of sucked. I wanted to see a story that gave me precidence 
 for playing the Chaos Marines, or gave me some history on how the WAAAAGH! worked. Instead I got 
 a brief tutorial that is slightly modified to fit any race and the option to play them in skirmishes 
 and online. After a bit of playing I did get used to them, but without the campaign it's difficult 
 to understand the playing styles of these races, especially the Eldar who are far different from 
 most RTS players' styles.
  
  While I havn't played much of the online component, it is fairly stable and easy to use, which 
 is great. The painted armies look wonderful and I havn't had any connection issues to date. The 
 map selection is a bit on the light side, but there are already modders at work out there making 
 great maps for this game.
  
  In the end, any RTS fan shoud deffinetly pick up this game, but weather it's a 'classic' or not 
 is up to debate. I think it is a great game, but it's certainly not the best the genre has to offer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodfang36
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Well, some might think this is a somewhat late time for me to review a game that is already 1 1/2 
 years old. My answer to people who think that?
  
  You're wrong. Why? Heres why.
  
  Going past the release of DoW, we've also seen games with great gameplay and pretty graphics like 
 Empire Earth 2 and also AoE 3. These games were both fantastic, without a doubt, but you know what? 
 I actually find that Dawn of War, though older, is a much more compelling and interesting game 
 than either of these newer RTS games, plus it still has absolutely stunning graphics.
  
  Another thing that draws me towards this brilliant game, besides the beautiful graphics and amazing 
 gameplay is the depth in the game. Anyone who has played the tabletop games instantly knows that 
 a Warhammer game can last for ages if strategically and well played, plus collecting your army, 
 painting it, and knowing the damn army is also a very exciting experience. Well, you'll be happy 
 to know that all the detailed and wonderful units save a few are all found in this game, of 4 armies, 
 those being Chaos, Orks, Eldar and Space Marines. True, the choice of armies isnt much, however 
 each one is unique in its own way.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Orks : Weaker in terms of firepower and amour when compared to Chaos Marines and Space Marines, 
 though stronger in both respects when compared to the Eldar. Their slightly weaker stats are more 
 than made up for, however, in their HUGE numbers. Whilst other armies can max out at 11 per squad, 
 orks go up to 15, and one more with a squad leader.
  
  Eldar : Very weak in terms of amour and average with their attack, but their heavy weaponry will 
 be sure to kick your ass, apart from them owning the fastest and great vehicles. Their foot units 
 are also very fast and hard to hit, so its all well balanced out.
  
  Chaos : Annihilate armies when played offensively, but quite a poor army when strategically/defensively 
 played. Their units are drastic if powerful, plus their vehicle until the "defiler" can be an absolutely 
 destructive and fearsome unit in the battlefield. Beware.
  
  Space Marines : The good counterparts of the Chaos Marines. Nearly identical to Chaos, apart from 
 their slightly different look (not so twisted, evil looking, and messed up as chaos.) and paint 
 jobs from Chaos, the only other difference is a few of their units and most of their vehicles. 
 
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Overall, the armies are extremely well balanced, so no problems there.
  The Gameplay mechanics are also fantastic, with *nearly* no flaws in the system (a few very minor 
 AI issues) . The gameplay is unique and innovative, with no resource mining, just power and requisition 
 points. These are gained by controlling little strategic points in the map (a podium in which you 
 my order a squad of marines to stick a flag in, thus making it yours) . These boost requisition. 
 Power is gained by building power plants. There are many brutal attack animations in the game, 
 all of which are detailed down to the last frame of animation. Units aren't built singly, they 
 are built in squads, which can be upgraded with different weapon upgrades, and also in numbers
 
  
  Gameplay = 9/10
  
  
  
  Graphics :
  
  Did I mention the graphics are stunning in this game, even after 1 1/2 years of aging? They still 
 look incredible... trust me. All you have to do is look at the screen shot, and imagine those amazing 
 graphics with one of *todays* Geforce 7900 cards. One mark taken off because there are super minor 
 lighting issues.
  
  Graphics = 9/10
  
  
  Sound :
  
  All sounds are amazingly realistic, however I have to take a mark off due to lack 
 of good gameplay music.
  
  Sound = 9/10
  
  
  
  Lifetime :
  
  Since Winter assault is out 
 , with great multiplayer and another expansion planned for this year or 2007, youll be playing 
 this game for a LONG time.
  
  10/10
  
  
  
  My Tilt :
  
  I've always been a huge Warhammer fan, so I have to give full marks here, 
 no doubt 'bout that.
  
  
  
  Overall, this is an amazing game. I only don't recommend it to people who are squeamish, and dont 
 like violence in excess. I also dont recommend it to religious people - the Chaos exhibit some 
 truly gruesome Daemonic scenes.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grand-Imperator
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  After a long drought of decent strategy games, here is one I can recommend wholeheartily. Too many 
 games these days rely heavily on the Command&Conquer or Age of Empires formula which in my opinion 
 is neither original or strategically challenging.
  
  Recently I purchased 3 recommended titles (Dawn of War, Battle for Middle Earth and Empire at War) . 
 By coincidence all three are based on famous licenses with a wealth of source material. This in 
 theory should leave the developers with more time to spend on gameplay whilst trying to stay faithfull 
 to it's respective license. 
  
  Before you contradict this point please hear me out. I always look first at what games claim to 
 be and in the case of these three that is namely excellent revolutionary epic strategy games. I 
 can honestly say that only Dawn of War (DOW) succeeds in this. Battle for Middle Earth fails completely 
 as a strategy game but makes up for it with it's presentation, Empire at War is simply a remake 
 of the much older title Star Wars: Rebellion/Supremacy and tries to take too much on board but 
 not succeed in any department. DOW excels in most departments tactically and on accurracy with 
 the Games Workshop license.
  
  The Gameplay
  
  Perhaps this is the stongest element of DOW. The almost religious fanaticism of the Space Marines, 
 the Technologically reliant Imperial Guard, the twisted but subtle influence of the mark of Chaos, 
 the mysterious Eldar and even the warmongering hordes of Orks with their goofy speech!! All well 
 portrayed in a doomed Imperial Planet. Add to this an enthralling allbeit short campaign with an 
 intuitive near flawless interface that will appeal to both novices and experts alike and most importantly 
 a system that relies more on tactical combat, does away with monotonous resource gathering and 
 the usual "defend your base until a horde is amassed to then overrun the limited AI opposition" 
 routine. So in fact you can cap
  Ok the AI is not necessarily top of the line but all factions and units use the varied tactics. 
 I saw a group of Eldar skirmishers probe my lines for weakness and then perform a hit and run tactic 
 that led my troops into an ambush of Dark Reaper snipers - Excellent! Just make sure to set the 
 difficulty to hard. 
  A great feature is the customisation of Marine squads, that allow you to equip a certain number 
 of troopers with flamethrowers, rocket launchers, plasma guns and miniguns. Additions of heroes 
 and/or squad leaders adds bonuses for morale and abilities. Likewise vehicles can be upgraded or 
 modified to suit your needs.
  The main downside to this game is the rather short single player campaign - 11 missions of moderate 
 length.
  
  The Graphics
  
  A completely original graphics engine that allows for an excellent level of detail. One can zoom 
 in at very close range without any degradation of detail or framerate. You can also customise your 
 Faction squads logos for Skirmishes and Multiplayer.
  The attention to detail is truly captivating as the developers saw fit to endorse the violent agressive 
 nature of the world of 40k. You will see Marine Dreadnaughts grab an enemy, rip and saw their body 
 apart in a spray of blood and then toss the mangled corpse across the screen!!! Tanks like the 
 Leman Russ will recoil in smoke due to the force of the cannonade of it's main turret and blast 
 troopers into the air with dirt and debris flying all over.
  The firefights between troopers is truly outstanding, bullets and ricochets going everywhere. Morale 
 plays a part as well 
  The game is entirely driven by in-game cutscene footage between missions and does a fine job to 
 move the story along.
  The only negative perhaps is the scenery which although detailed, lacked too much variety - then 
 again the world of Warhammer 40k is normally set in ruined structural terrain.
  
  The Sound
  
  Excellent!! - Voice acting for the main characters is top notch. Weaponsfire is 
 accurately simulated to help add an element of realism. A great soundtrack plays in the background 
 during gameplay, what more do you need.
  
  Bottom line - The pros - Novel Graphics engine, Excellent Sound, Tactical combat, True to 40k license, 
 decent missions, decent enemy AI, no resource gathering, Intuitive interface.
  The cons - Short single player campaign, Perhaps more variety of scenery in campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muaath
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Man this game really rucks!
  
  there are 4 playable races
  
  Orks
  Eldar
  Space Marines
  Chaoes - my favourite
  
  although u can only play with the space marines in 
 the campaign, but the rest is available in skirmish. You can design how ur army soldiers look, from 
 weapon to armor.
  
  The weakest race i found was the Eldar, because their beginning units are really weak, but if you 
 can hold on until later in the scenario, u'll have accesss to really powerful units which can wipe 
 anything out.
  
  the campaign preludes the space marines, with their captain, trying to protect a city from the 
 orks, and slowly slowly the story unfolds.
  
  This and warcarft 3 are the best games i've EVER played, if you're mature enough, make sure u get 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  So far, this game rocks like commanding your own armada and things can happen even when the moments 
 are not except. When I say "Starcraft + Command & Conquer + (M) Rated Materials = Warhammer: Dawn 
 of War" is true. Combine the rapid fire and building ability of Starcraft with the brutalis tacticts 
 of Command & Conquer of tricking your foe to the defeat.
  
  The game is about four race: Space Marines, Chaos Space Marines, Orks and Eldar. Four races with 
 ups and down about them but man, this guys rock like hell was about to rise. Good graphics, good 
 gameplay and you can create your own army but cannot be use in the Campaing only on the Skirmish 
 and Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_x107
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  well this is a great game to play. there are lots of races and this game is huge. the campaign 
 is great and you have lots of different levels for each race.
  it is hard to beat but it still is great fun it is a strategy game that has loads of units and 
 heaps of upgrades.
  you have squads of space marines, orks, eldar, and the ultimate chaos marines.
  the intro movie 
 is great with lots of blood and great graphics.
  the game has some humor with the orks like the one with a flame thrower and 6 cigars in its mouth 
 and then it lost 2 of them with bullets chuckked at him.
  it has great replay value and there are a couple of stealth missions with sniper rifles.
  great 
 graphics good sound apart from the bit in the intro movie.
  and this is a great game. this is only rated M15+ when it should be MA15+.
  this has lots of 
 blood espeicaly when walker vehicles squeese enemies with all the arteries popping.
  its nice i would give it 10 out of 10 with a little bit bad sound but still is an awesome game.
 
  there are lots of strenghnesses and weaknesses with different races.
  like the orks having gunners on the top of their buildings and having awesome huge units.
  the 
 eldar have teleporters called the webway gate and the chaos they are awesome with sick walker vehicles 
 and having heaps of heroes.
  the worst of them is unfortunately the eldar as they have weak units and suck against the space 
 marines.
  the best of them is joint with the orks and the chaos (but i like the chaos better) .
  this is 
 greatly violent and have great mission overveiws. it has a great story with the orks attacking 
 the marines and then this guy called a libarian gets killed buy the weakest guy in the game.
  well so this is an awesomely violent game and it is long so if youre mature enough you should get 
 this awesome and amazing game!
  
  written by doom_x107 
::::::

::::::
UserName: White_Spartan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40000: Dawn of War is an RTS game like no other. It may not have as many races as Warcraft 
 but the four races it has are very well balanced. The game interface can be daunting at first but 
 the small amount of micro managment makes it suprisingly simple to control. No longer do you have 
 to make squads with different units all taking up you population cap, now you can get a squad of 
 many for small population cost and it operates as one unit so you only need to select one and you 
 will select everyone in the squad, including attached characters. 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Dawn of War's gameplay is addictive and fun, the maps are not usually large and the game utilizes 
 a different type of resource gathering. Unlike other games which utilize peons to collect resources 
 or build, this game has a builder unit, but no peons. Why? Because instead of gathering resources, 
 all you have to do is capture strategic points on the map to automatically gain a constant flow 
 of requisition. Requisition represents the battlefield commanders granting you more and more power 
 to call in better troops as your section of the battle becomes more important. The game is cruel 
 to "turtle" players who prefer to hoard resources and build a huge base. In fact, if you control 
 no strategic points, then you get no requisition AND your enemy has only to control all of them 
 for six minutes to win. New things like cover and morale have been added to make the game as lifelike 
 as possible. The fast gameplay means combat early on and appeals to those who don't like to have 
 to wait to wage war. Also, different squads can be equipped differently, just like the table top 
 game. All in all the fast gameplay and instant action means that a 1 vs 1 match can be played in 
 a half hour or less.
  
  Graphics: 9
  The graphics of dawn of war are amazing, featuring fully detailed 3D units and scaled 3D terrain. 
 This allows players to rotate the camera, and even zoom in until they're eye to eye with a Space 
 Marine. The gra [hics retain they're detail at this magnifictaion, which means that Dawn of War 
 has to the units so nothing will ever look misplaced. Your units won't be taller than their buildings, 
 they're to scale. Also, no more of 2 guys swinging weapons but never coming into contact. Relic 
 included "sync kills". Basically, when a unit is killed by range he can die in several ways, but 
 when a unit is killed in close-combat, then the unti which killed him performs one of the "sync 
 kills" for whichever unit it killed. Foe example if a Chaos Bloodthirster kills a Space Marine 
 Scout, he will impale his axe into the poor scout and the shake him off, all while blood is flying 
 throught he air. Sync kills are often entertaining to watch from close up.
  
  Sound: 9
  The sounds in Dawn of War feature a excellent musical soundtrack, unit specific battle cries, several 
 different unit sayings when ordered to do something, and commentaries from your troops as to how 
 the battle is going. They can include things like "They are too many" or "Victory is ours" depending 
 on what unit type says it and what race they are and what is occuring at the time they say it. 
 Some of the sounds are well put and make you feel like your they're, even though these sounds are 
 for things which don't exist!.
  
  Value: 10
  The game ships out with everything you need to play, and some versions include map editors and 
 mod tools so that the Dawn of War mod community is supported by Relic. I got the game for 20 dollars 
 and it included everything here.
  
  Over all Dawn of War is a great RTS, whether your a seasoned general of the table top game or an 
 RTS fan looking for a new game, It's one game which offers alot of new things which revolutionize 
 the RTS genre. A must have for any RTS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoon1000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  Fantastic!!! Amazing detail coming to life on the PC from the table top game. Dawn of war has it 
 all. Gameplay, multiplayer, immersive storyline, graphics and the backing of the fans of the table 
 top game. Even down to the finest detail of troop types, all fans will enjoy this game, and even 
 the non converted soon will be an addict.
  Its ability to zoom in or out, and still keep the sharp crisp detail of the units is always good. 
 The sound is not just flat, but immersive, giving you all you need from not only each race but 
 the story aswell.
  It also has room for expansion into other races and features. Im left speechless. The 40K universe 
 is a boundless entity, which this game surely has the potential to evolve, expand and further gameplay 
 and playability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  Like most this game has great graphics! It's widely known that this game doesn't need top of the 
 line equipment to play which for some of us is great! The zoom in feature, and 360 camera movement 
 is a great plus. The ability to personalize your army with names, banners, insignias, and colors 
 is wonderful! The lighting, and realism is outstanding. I can't wait to see a sequel to this soon! 
 Very addictive I might say! Better than SC!! I always pick on SC!! You have only 4 races to choose 
 from. In my opinion that's always not enough, but I just ask for to much sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19643133887398225095702609028815-EricSmith
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  that all I have to say it's one of the best RTS games i've played and the melee weapons are very 
 cool since every engagement almost always has you in close combat. the chainsaw effects are very 
 cool. the fact that you can re-enforce your troops in combat is a unique aspect. the voice overs 
 are some of the best i've heard most time they get irritating or are over done. The Opening cut 
 scenes is one of the best and brutal I've ever seen in a game. the past of Warhammer is very fast 
 and fun. Over all a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostyakuzmin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  sorry for my English :/
  
  So... Great strategy game with really nice graphics :P.... I complete it, but I am still playing Warhammer 
 40.000 sometimes... Minus of this game-SHORT just 11 missions-that's all!!! I think that it is interesting 
 to play skirmish mode that campaign.. Ahh... one more minus-story.... It is a little bit stupid... But 
 still Warhammer 40.000: Dawn of War is the best in series of Warhammer.... And I like it more than 
 Winter Assault!!!! So my opinion is-you can buy it, but there is a lot of other games much better 
 than Warhammer 40.000: Dawn of War!!!
  The Lord of the Ring: The battle for battle for Middle-Earth 2 or Star Wars: Empire at war, for example 
 =D
  
  sorry for my English again :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincrazydj
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent in my opion it boasts excellent graphics and a good storyline. It is good 
 because you don't have to concentrate on economy. I think the squad feature is a good idea as it 
 let's you improve, add units and can be accesed quickly. The weapons and buildings are bright ideas. 
 The sequel Winter Assault is also excellent. This game is easy at first but gets harder and soon 
 becomes more fun and challenging. The lessened economy is due to a two-resource, no mining rule. 
 This lets you concentrate on more important things like annhilating the enemy. This is an excellent 
 game. Buy it. Complete it. Then buy the fantastic sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FormulaTroll
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War, as you can no doubt tell by the scores, is a pretty darn good realtime 
 strategy game. The gameplay is solid, as is the environment created by the graphics and sound. 
 The story ain't half bad and the multiplayer aspect is quite good. 
  
  As is often the case though, it's not perfect. And that's why I don't usually have a real hard 
 time writing these annoyances reviews. Let's get this one started:
  
  It's almost too easy to pick on this in a RTS, but you'd think it wouldn't be an issue any more. 
 AI. AI. AI. If the computer controlled opposition sends a smallish group of orcs into my base, 
 only to be treated to an intimate encounter with a bunch of turrets that turns the smallish group 
 of orcs into a smallish pile of goo, maybe it should take that as a queue not to try sending a 
 smallish group of orcs into my base via that route again. And again. And again.
  
  Let's see. What else. Oh, how about AI? Like most RTS games, Warhammer relies on resource mining 
 in various forms as a sort of cap on your ability to build things. Some of the resources used in 
 this game really have no limit, so the longer you harvest, the more resources you have and the 
 more you can build. At least, that's the way it worked on my side of the fence. On the other side 
 though, there seems to be some limit to what the computer can build. Many episodes of the single 
 player campaign were ended by a 10-15 minute rampage through the enemy's sites, destroying building 
 after undefended building. The computer should have countless tons of resources at its disposal, 
 but it seems to have decided enough is enough and is just waiting for me to kick its butt.
  
  Okay, I'll stop picking on the enemy AI. So, let's see. Let's pick on the friendly AI! I hate 
 it, hate it, hate it, when a unit won't do what I ordered because he can't figure out how to go 
 around or through other friendly units. If it's really that hard to get other units to recognize 
 the fact that the commanded unit needs to get by and move aside for them, then break the laws of 
 physics and let the guy walk right through them. If I told a space marine his butt better be on 
 top of this hill in 20 seconds, he sure as hell isn't going to sit and twiddle his thumbs just 
 because a couple tanks or other marines are in his way. He'd go over them, around them, or shoot 
 his way through them, because he knows damn well I'm going to be pissed if he doesn't do as ordered. 
 
  
  Also, this game isn't quite hard enough. The above-mentioned enemy AI problems see to that. One 
 way to make a game harder is to make units that must live through the battle at all cost. Let's 
 see, maybe the commander unit that's central to the story, maybe he'd be a good choice. I actually 
 assumed that would be the case, and played pretty safe in order to ensure my commander was never 
 killed. But then, well, he was killed. No worries it turns out, because he was reincarnated back 
 at the base within a few seconds. Well, no wonder he's so gung-ho and anxious for battle! He's 
 freaking invincible. 
  
  Finally, I won't spoil the ending. But I will say I saw it coming a mile away. That's a real pet 
 peeve of mine. A little foreshadowing makes for a good story, but there's really no need to assume 
 we're all such idiots that you need to practically spell out the twist before it even happens. 
 It ruins the surprise and, since this is a game and all, infuriates the people that see it coming 
 but can't do anything but go through the motions and watch it happen.
  
  Thanks for listening! Feels good to get that off my chest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  This is a great game in its seiries! The game has amzing graphics and the best thing is it does 
 not require a good video card like a bunch of other good games. The gameplay is very fun there 
 are four races you can play for. The camping mode is not that fun but playing skirmish is pretty 
 dang good. The muliplayer in this game rocks UP to 8 people! The game has a big variety of strategies 
 in beating your oponents. also it has a bunch of units and upgrades. But the best part as I said 
 already are the graphics! you can zoom in into your units and its like you almost play a third 
 person shooter. I recomend this game to everyone!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  At first I was very dissapointed that it wasnt turned based and only included 4 armys.. but I said 
 what the heck.. I'll give the game some time... then the story drew me in very well. I wasnt too 
 fussy about the paint your army part, just asthetics really. The gameplay in this game is new and 
 enve rbefore seen, I enjoyued not having to "MINE" resource points, yet there was a set ammount 
 for a map, The expaning and upgradability of units was extremlly cool :) Sadned to see soo many 
 soldiers/vehicles removed from the game. If you were looking for a warhammer tabletop computer 
 simulator.. this isnt it, this is an rts with a warhammer theme which is still cool, the game did 
 somthing new and pulled it off.. however I'm still left a little dissapointed : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a highly addictive RTS game. The first great thing about this game is the gameplay it is 
 absolutley amazing when you have up close me clashing swords and long rangers shooting the hell 
 out of guys it is beautiful. One of the great things about warhammer is its soldiers and vehicles 
 how they blend together to make a huge army. The campain to this game is somewhat boring basically 
 all you have to do is get a huge army and raid the enemy. The multiplayer on the other hand it 
 fantastic in which you can have up to 6 different armies battling eachother. Some of the flaws 
 in this game are it gets really glitchy and the men dont always listen to you especially when you 
 have a large group. All and all this is a great SCI-FI RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spamchild1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I am a huge fan of Warhammer, in particular 40K. I don't like playhing 
 the minature game but I love the artwork and the concept of the whole 40K world. This game isn't 
 a very accurate representation of some of the wepons (such as the lascannon, my personal favorite) 
 but it does offer plenty of fun and a decent amount of variety. There hasn't been a better strategy 
 game put out on the market since starcraft. If you have a low graphics card i would suggest not 
 playing this game simply because the sound loops in a VERY annoying fashion. However if your CPU 
 is good and your graphics card matches this game will blow you away. You can zoom all the way into 
 the battlefield on eye level making for some awesome base layouts and fight scenes. The game gets 
 repetative at times but overall it can kill plenty of time and you will quickly find your favorite 
 team. Customizable colors rock and the voice schemes are awesome. I would suggest playing this 
 game if you are a fan of strategy or 40K. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Let's see where do i start the bad graphics the horrible voice overs... nah, just joking for all 
 you warhammer fans this game is great and all my other reviews were FPS but because most PTS's 
 are in the past like medevil ages i don't bother but this game is play, pure fun!
  
  The graphics in this game are outstanding, the model details looks very good, and the fact that 
 the units and veichiles are from the Warhammer 40k minature game this game isn't a big shock to 
 them. The game has a great balance on which unit over powers another and stuff like that. The enemy 
 AI or Ally is very smart will help or crush you depending on what level difficulty is on, and if 
 you don't like to play games that last ages then you can put it on quick start so that you start 
 of with 10000 requestion and 10000 power. 
  
  One down side of the graphics is that when a battle gets to big then it starts to slow down, so 
 either you have to get a good machine to play or just deal with the pain. I love the sound/music/voice 
 overs in this game they really sound like the creature they are not just some blob of crap sitting 
 their and saying his line in a boring voice. 
  
  One problem though is that their aren't enough units so i got outta the game pretty quick. 
  
 
  RTS fans should pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2G2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I wasn't expecting alot out of it because I was never into warhammer, and 
 all of that. To my surprize, this game has lots of creativity in the design, and especially in 
 the storyline, which took me by surprize along with the voice actors who do a great job. 
  
  Gameplay is really fun and exciting, because strategy plays an important role in being really 
 successful, or just making it. Rather than being able to build up a huge army and just win, you 
 are given very limited resources, and you have to make the best of it with lots of different add 
 ons and other tricks to make your 10 man army defeat 100+, so strategy is fun, and not overwhelming. 
 
  
  The storyline is creative, and the game offers real voice acting, so I was impressed for the both. 
 
  
  I have been addicted to this game since I started playing it, and I haven't done that in awile, 
 so I rate it the best real time strategy game I have ever played to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  anyone who knows what starcraft is all about will definitly learn to appreciate and love this game. 
 it so engrossing that you can spend a whole day playing it and not notice the time. oneline is 
 fun, you can pit your speed build skills to the test and see if you stack up as one of the space 
 marines. the story is solid and it captures the warhammer world perfectly. blood brutal and all 
 that fun stuff. i can honestly say that anyone should go pick this game up. also get the expansion 
 that rocks also! I DONT HAVE ANYTHING ELSE TO SAY AND NO I DONT WANT TO TYPE 100 WORDS YOU JERK 
 FACES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxex
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k: Dawn of war is a real-time strategy game based on the warhammer series by games 
 workshop. This means there's storylines and characters that occur in both.
  
  In this game you get tocontrol four faction, orks, eldar, chaos and space marines. Each have different 
 strategic attributes, strengths and weaknesses of each can be exploited.
  
  There is plenty of strategy available here so each game can be very different, with an acceptable 
 Ai system, the enemy will fight back and use tactics to counter you. The AI can be enhanced with 
 mods anyway, so any flaws in that system can be taken out.
  
  There are many maps and scenarios to choose from and loads of different ways to play each one, 
 that added together with the four factions, teams difficulties and more make it rather strategical.
 
  
  Strategy aside, what can make or break a real-time strategy game is gameplay. This game has magnificent 
 fighting with machine guns, grenades, special moves, flamethrowers, hand-to-hand fighting and loads 
 more. You can have ranged battles with grenades and machine guns and close up battles with chain-swords 
 and axes. THe action is fast-pased wile still keeping the essence of strategy.
  
  The game has two resources needed to make armies. They are acquired by taking control of areas 
 and building power supplies. You build buildings with the builder unit of whatever faction you 
 are and there are about ten buldings you can make for each faction. With these you buy upgrades, 
 units and even vehicles.
  
  The graphics in the game are great, and aren't too strict you can play this game with as little 
 as a 32mb video card, but need a higher one to play at full graphics and full speed gameplay. Taking 
 all into account they're very lean with this and you can experience great gameplay with low components.
 
  
  The camera is great and allows you to zoom into a single unit's weapon or survey over a hundred 
 units. You can rotate the camera in three dimensions and it should suit whatever way you like to 
 play.
  
  The game is amazing, if you like rts' then you simply cannot miss this one, it's nowhere near outdated 
 and competes with the newest of rts games. You can enhance the game with an ever-growing supply 
 of mods and purchase the expansion pack for this so the fun will go on for hours upon hours.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtkinsac2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer is an RTS that mixes with squad shooter AI. Even though the game is kind of easy, it 
 is also fun and easy to pick up. The AI is kind of dumb, but also really fun. The AI probably wont 
 beat you at checkers, but has enough strategy to beat you at chess. Also, the gameplay is fantastic 
 and makes it feel like a war is going on between the 2-8 players. Also, the graphics on full look 
 really good even now and have full 3d textures. Even though you could just build a humongous army 
 and mow everyone down, the game still lends some strategy to the unit creation with the introduction 
 of squad units where you can build up different types of the same squad. You can have 10 space 
 marine squads and not repeat the same upgrade group which adds to the customization of the armies 
 and makes it easy to just use one type of squad and make a versatile army good against units in 
 the frontline, vehicles in the middle, buildings in the back-line, and finishing off in the last 
 assault line. Or you can have dispensable basic armed squads to lay onslaught on your enemy. All 
 in all this is a magnificent and long game worth days upon months of devotion from even the most 
 obnoxious of gamers. I give it a 9.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireball2888
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Beofre i saw this game, i never knew anything about the Warhammer 40,000 universe. nothing. I saw 
 the first video previews showing space marines fighting eldar, and i knew, this gamed looked AWESOME! 
 i checked back on it every day, and checked off the days until it came out. i became less excited 
 when i heard about Rome: Total War, and put this aside. i lost interest in it. this came out first, 
 and got the great score of 8.8. i only had enough cash to buy 1 game, and i decided to go with 
 Rome: Total War. after only a week, Rome TW got boring, and i was angry. i decided to save up again, 
 and buy WH40K. when i started it up, i was knocked off my feet by the cinematic entry movie, and 
 pumped with adrenaline, dying to get playing. this game... it was INCREDIBLE. the campaign, even 
 on easy, was extremely exciting and enjoyable. The skirmish mode was better than any other games 
 skirmish, with tons of maps and strategies to try out. this game kept me addicted for well over 
 a month. i loved the online play, with many players constantly on. With many mods out now too, 
 it's even better! this game is overall OUTSTANDING! I only had 1 problem so far with installation, 
 but that's just my PC doing it. It only takes you less that 30 seconds to jump into a good fight 
 too! So, crank up the speakers, close the door, and send your army into the fight, and become dazzled 
 by a stunning array of sounds and music as your dreadnought fires a missle, your tank launches 
 a shot at a building, your space marine fires several shots out of a boltgun, and the awe-inspiring 
 call, "FOR THE EMPEROR!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neothelid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I have grown increasingly bored with the real-time strategy genre. Having played every significant 
 title since Dune 2, I found it very difficult to find any truly innovative elements on every new 
 game I tried -- any really new substance behind the stunning graphics and flashy effects.
  
  Then a friend of mine gifted me with a copy of Dawn of War.
  
  I can't begin to describe 
 the battlelust that filled me when I saw the intro, which shows a platoon of Space Marines and 
 a horde of Orks bent on tearing each other to pieces. The visceral "take no prisoners" feeling 
 conveyed by that intro perfectly exemplifies the grim and deadly world of the 41st millennium, 
 as imagined by the guys at Games Workshop. 
  
  Graphics-wise, the game is awesome. Dawn of War uses a 3D engine that allows for amazing detail 
 levels: weapons, badges, armors, helmets, shields even -- all are superbly done. Not to mention 
 vehicles! Space Marine Dreadnoughts, Chaos Defilers, Ork Wartraks, and the dreaded Eldar Wraithlords 
 are simply breathtaking. Some of the most enjoyable moments of the game involve charging the enemy 
 and fully zooming in -especially when incredibly huge units like the Bloodthirster and the Eldar 
 Avatar enter the fray- and voil, you have front-row seats to enjoy the ensuing gorefest!
  
  Perhaps the most memorable aspect of Dawn of War is the voice acting. I find myself quoting 
 some phrases every now and then, especially most of the Librarian's grim philosophical lines and 
 the Chaos warcries ("MAIM, KILL, BURN! MAIM, KILL, BURN!") . The units of every faction all share 
 a common feel -- Space Marines are fanatically loyal to the Emperor, Chaos Marines are all insane 
 in some way, the Eldar are mysterious and cryptical, and the Orks are just plain bloodthirsty 250% 
 of the time! It's almost a sure bet you'll grow to love them and to quote some of their phrases 
 too. 
  
  When it comes to gameplay issues, I found Dawn of War very enjoyable, and most importantly, INNOVATIVE! 
 While you are required to build a base, as in almost every other RTS out there, Dawn of War does 
 away with the "spice gathering" economic model use in Dune 2 and copycatted by almost every other 
 RTS game since the genre was born. Here, you don't build vehicles nor train troops, you requisition 
 them, and requisition points are earned by capturing strategic locations on every map. The challenge 
 posed by this system is pretty straightforward: GO OUT THERE AND FIGHT THE ENEMY! Players who try 
 to "turtle," a common strategy on other games, are likely to be overrun, or even worse, bombarded 
 to oblivion. This guarantees that you will clash with the enemy very soon, whomever it is. And 
 the enemy is ruthless: on its easiest setting, the AI still poses a challenge -albeit a minor one-, 
 while on the hardest level even the most battlehardened generals will eventually find themselves 
 fighting desperately to hold seemingly endless tides of enemies. 
  
  The only gameplay problems I stumbled upon were some pathfinding issues, usually caused by cramped 
 spaces, many troops trying to get to the same place, and very large units. I speculate that this 
 is not a problem but a purposely designed restriction, since most battles take place on ruined 
 cities, jungles or mountains. Otherwise, the game is flawless -- the balance of power is almost 
 perfect, and while each side has its own strengths and weaknesses eventually each faction has ways 
 to counter an opponent's onslaught. Namely, the Eldar Dark Reapers are the bane of any infantry 
 wearing heavy armor that walks within range of their guns, but are mega-wimps hand-to-hand combatants 
 - and while Orks are less than respectable foes in ranged warfare, if they manage to get within 
 sword range of nearly everything else they will tear them to pieces.
  
  The 10-odd-mission campaign is nothing special, asides from the incredibly violent clashes you 
 will have with Orks, Eldar and Chaos Marines as you lead the forces of Captain Gabriel Angelus 
 of the Blood Ravens through a world torn by war. After you are done with it and wish to test your 
 skills against other players, be prepared for a bloodbath! The best part of Dawn of War shines 
 on its multiplayer capabilities. With Dawn of War featuring player matching via the GameSpy network, 
 the chance to directly host a match using your IP address or just playing on LAN, if you gather 
 a bunch of players avid for bloodshed then it's quite likely someone will have to tear your hands 
 out of your keyboard and mouse. 
  
  In the end, I am proud to say that Dawn of War surprised me. An innovative -and solid- economic 
 model, ruthless AI, and lots and lots of gunfire and melee and bloodshed are some of the reasons 
 for which this excellent game is more than capable of inspiring frantic levels of addiction and 
 loyalty. An already released expansion and another one in the works guarantee that Dawn of War 
 is not going to get old anytime soon -- at the moment of this review I received news that it is 
 to be included in the next world gaming championships. What are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrZeb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  I'm not so much into RTS games but from time to time I play one!
  I'm glad I gave this one a shot because this game is awesome, and I have never played a RTS so 
 many times after beating it.
  
  Let's begin where the game begins! The INTRO! It's a really cool Video-Intro that really get's 
 you into what the game is all about! WAR IN 40K!!!
  It's beutiful and it makes you want to play right away! (I watch it nearly every time before I 
 play because it just.... COOL!)
  
  Gameplay: 
  The singleplayer campaign puts you in the role of commander of the Blood Ravens. A Marine chapter 
 of the Imperium. There are 11 mission of which only some of the later ones are hard to beat. Races 
 you'll fight include The Warlike Orcs, The Traitorus Chaos chapters and the mysterious Eldar.
 
  
  The gameplay in DoW's is very neatly done! As usual in RTS games you need to build a base and maybe 
 add some defenses but the great thing is that you only need to keep track of 2 resources, which 
 leaves you much more time to concentrate on troop movement and battle! 
  
  The game forces you to play aggressive and I think that's one of the things that makes it shine! 
 How? Well, the only way to gain one of the resources is to grab and hold strategic points or victory 
 locations on the map! No more can players sit back, build defenses and amass a killer-army by not 
 getting into the fray! GREAT!
  
  Unfortunatly I've never had the chance to play online since I dont have friends who have it. I 
 play skirmish modes against the computer and there are a good amount of maps to choose from.
  
  The campaign is very short and that's what detracts the most from Gameplay score.
  
  Graphics 
 n Sound:
  Awesome detailed maps and units! It is completely 3D and you have the option of zooming in and 
 rotating the battlefields. War in the 40th millenia never looked so good! The sound is super. When 
 your commander shouts "I shall fear no EVIL! For I AM FEAR INCARNATE!" it send a chill down you 
 spine as he smashes the chaos forces. Or when you hear "The Airbornes finest, reporting" you know 
 the day is saved 'cause your Terminators have just arrived! Plasma weapons and bolters sound just 
 as you have imagined they would.
  
  Value:
  If you play alot of multiplayer online or just enjoy fighting good AI this game has great value 
 and will last you a LOOONG time. If you think you would only be interested in the campaign game... 
 be prepared for a short game. This is the coolest RTS game I've ever played. 
  This game is a masterpiece because they have really captured the feel and atmosphere of Warhammer40K!!!
 
  
  On a purely personal note: I'm no fan of the RTS genre! But this game, I got maybe more than a 
 year ago and I still play a skirmish every once in awhile. Trying diffrent races and maps. Always 
 intense and fun! Still can't beat better than Hard AI though... that's as intense as it get for 
 my part. 
  
  If you're a fan of RTS or even just intrigued by the Warhammer Universe... What are you waiting 
 for?? GET DAWN OF WAR!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Okay, as soon as you start up the game, you are hit by the coolest movie ever of a battle between 
 the Space Marines and the Orks. Its bloody amazing!, everytime i start up the game, i watch it. 
 And the actual games is just as amazing as the movie.
  The graphics are pretty sweet, especially the blood. All the buildings are brilliantly designed, 
 especially the Chaos buildings. And the characters are really cool too. I love firepower, and that 
 is something this game has a lot of. From just using the absolutely massive tanks, to sending in 
 a squad of terminators, i am blown away. Its just so.... omg. Anyway, as i said, the graphics are 
 sweet, and the gameplay is just as sweet.
  The interface is very simple and easy to use. This makes controlling your army very easy. And constucting 
 new stuff is also easy. Over all, the gameplay mechanics are very clean-cut, making it very fun 
 to play. There is no confusion in this game. When you army is battling another army, its is the 
 spectacular. Just watching the bullets and rockets fly from one side to the other is amazing, and 
 the blood and bodies flying everywhere... omg. You have to play the game to experience the brutality.
 
  The sound in the game is also very good. The guns sound as devastation as ever, as do the characters 
 voices. The music is pretty atmospheric.
  The game has loads of re-playablility. With the option to play Skirmish after playing through the 
 pretty lengthy campaign. There are loads of maps to play on, with four armies, and the choice to 
 play online over the internet.
  Its excellent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umaster
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  I love this game i think its very fun and original plus i think the best graphics part is about 
 how the dreadnought would pick up a unit and smash them and the same with all big units seriously 
 i recommend this game to anyone who thinks about playing it and if you don't get i have one thing 
 to say:
  
  OPEN YOUR POCKETS AND SPREAD THE EXCITEMENT OR YOU ARE A CHUMP
  
  But seriously get it its a good game and it'll never bore you may eventually get bored but then 
 get the craven you can't resist and besides you don't wan't to be a chump do you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigelf72
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I've played the tabletop game in the past. They did an awesome job porting it to the pc. They have 
 made it fast, and very appealing to play over an over again. The only thing this game missed the 
 mark on ..... not having enough races... where are the DARK ELDARS? But seriously, this game is 
 a blast to play, a superior rts game that easily replaces games like warcraft: III at your lan 
 parties. Its very fun to challenge the npc on the insane difficulty, its insane, but its very very 
 rewarding to beat them. If you dont have this game in your collection, what kind of gamer are you? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soniczero1993
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! Good gameplay, four good playable races, Eldar, Chaos, Space Marines, and 
 Orks! Plus if you get the mod you get the Guardsmen, the fifth race! This game has decent graphics 
 and cool multiplayer maps! I give it two thumbs up! You got to have this game. The texture as well 
 is just as cool, shadows, 3D camera, model texture ect. This is a very good game to play, plus, 
 it's long, a very good challenge! Just a word of advice, bigginers start at very easy, even easy 
 you might get wacked so, watch it. For those of you who want to play on hard mode, good luck, your 
 gonna need it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heedoy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  warhammer 40,000 is an interesting rts that is also higher on a graphical scale as opposed to other 
 rts games such as starcraft or even command and conquer. You get to play as many as 4 armies 5 
 if you download a mod for it, you can play as space marines, dark elders, chaos space marines, 
 and orks. the fifth army you can play as the imperial guard yet it is a mod and does not come with 
 the game, each army has different abilities and special characteristics for example orks compared 
 to space marines are more of a massive number of men and squads compared to the space marines elite 
 and simply higher value per unit. Other comparisons can be made the space marines are very versatile, 
 squads of space marines can easily take out enemy tanks and buildings and infantry as well, while 
 the dark elder are more individualized only certain units are made for certain tasks. The maps 
 are plentiful and well detailed i am sure anyone who is a fan of rts can find this game unsatisfying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogue6777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  if ur gonna get a rts game this would be the one to get. and the table top game is just as good, 
 although it is expensive: P this game has to be the best rts i have ever played. another thing is 
 the expansion, i havent been able to play that yet but ive heard that it is godly. the game value 
 is really good since u can zoom right up next to the people and watch the gorefest begin. im savin 
 up rihght now for the expansion but i have to buy a couple of pieces for the real game first. the 
 tabletop is my altime favorite game. it puts the sweet in sweetness lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willdyer10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  
  This is really a spectacular game: plenty of great graphics, sound, cinematics et al but outside 
 of the command and conquer style gameplay there is the fact that this is based on the classic Games 
 Workshop stragegy game. Painted miniature figures, hours at the table top and a well known a loved 
 strategy game make this a great possiblilty as a PC game and as far as i am concerned this was 
 delivered. Multi Player or Single Player you get your monies worth from this set of discs. You 
 are even able to virtually paint your own forces in the game.
  
  All in all this is a great, time consuming and addictive game which is cool on my part, my only 
 concern here is that the gameplay reminds me way to much of the C&C game set and although this 
 is a tried and trusted system of play i would have hoped for a little more from the developers 
 on this one, the flip side to this is that i did not have to mess around for too long learning 
 the game before getting my mouse down and dirty on the battle zone.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone, colorful, accurate, fun and above all no holds barred on 
 the blood and gore theme.
  
  Time to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  I have never really been a Warhammer fan, the figures are too expensive the time to paint them, 
 the missus moaning about paints and figures everywhere and all that, who needs it.
  
  Then they give us this... and it's good... damn them. (In a nice way) . Family duties ruined..
  
 
  The game is fun, doesn't take long to get into it, the graphics are sound and the intro when you 
 first boot this baby is sweet.. and gets you right in the mood.
  
  The options of painting your troops is a nice touch and the different options to upgrade your troops 
 is sound.
  
  The campaigns are okay, and a good way to learn whats what... but the real deal comes when you log 
 on the internet. With many games to join, you will have to learn to build quick and whats effective 
 otherwise your toast.
  The single player game doesn't really prepare you fully for the tactics employed online, but once 
 you've got it, you can hold your own nicely and earn the ultimate respect of all... What more do 
 you need.
  
  Almost forgot that an expansion is out there with more troops to get your teeth into.. Splendid.
 
  
  On of my favorite things to do whilst in a battle is to scroll right in behind your troops whilst 
 the enemy is charging at you... watch your boys kill or be killed... awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best 'Command and Conquer' style RTS games that I have played in a long time. 
 It looks superb and plays even better. The developers have captured the Warhammer 40k universe 
 in all it's gory detail and produced something quite spectacular here.
  
  Everything is here, great animation, lots of detail and excellent dialogue and voice acting which 
 brings the world alive.
  
  The actual gameplay is fairly standard though, you build resources as the game progresses and produce 
 buildings and units to send of on the missions against the enemy. This is the only problem I have 
 with the game, essentially all you have to do is spend a bit of time buiiding up a nice big army 
 and then rush the enemy, nothing too complicated though I am afraid.
  
  There are plenty of units here to go for and everything is well designed and balanced making for 
 a game that is not only fun but quite fast paced.
  
  As this game has recently gone 'budget' it is well worth picking up and having a go, you won't 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangdude7465
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a long time coming for all of us who spent hours on end painting miniatures and taking 
 an entire weekend to play the epic game. This game is great in all aspects except for including 
 all of the races. I understand that it is a monumental task of just having four and this leaves 
 room for some great expansions. I look forward to seeing the Space Wolves chapter come to life 
 and possibly take it outside the box and do combat on the space hulks with genstealers in addition 
 to planetary battles. Relic always puts out awesome games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmazza56
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 2:39 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted a game which you could play over and over again, and never get bored of it. 
 Well if this is you then this is a must have! 
  
  The campaign only has 11 missions, but some have a great difficulty of completing. You play as 
 the space marine chapter called the Blood Ravens, on their epic battle to save the planet of Tartarus. 
 There are easy missions at the start, like killing orcs etc. 
  But later on you verse the largely numbered eldar and the hordes of chaos. 
  
  This game is 
 basically a futuristic version of Age of Empires. You have to build up your base, with economic 
 buildings, such as power generators etc. and military buildings like chapel barracks and heavy 
 bolter turrets. 
  
  The gameplay is fun and addictive, the graphics are awesome, (since you can zoom in) the sound 
 is clear and crisp and the value is great since you can play multiplayer, online or LAN, or just 
 play skirmishes against cpu, either in teams or pure deathmatch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freewriter55
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Perfect the best game in it's class and the expansion pack proably makes it better. The game is 
 the best in game play, graphics, though not so much in the sound department it's still and over 
 all good game. This is perfect for multi player and skirmish and the single player mode actually 
 has a story leaving you eager for the sequel. The handling is easy with simple tutorials for each 
 race. You can learn this game fast and get to playing in mere minutes. The few hours I spend playing 
 this game in a week I enjoy every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_defiler69
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  if this game were a person i would marry it. lol. i thought the gameplay was awesome and the grapics 
 were good to. Chaos is my alltime favourite race. i wasnt really interested when my friend showed 
 it to me but his computer doesnt let him play it so he gave it to me and regret being scepticle. 
 Wut i really enjoyed was the online gaming it was really fun. im not that interested in the figurines 
 of warhammer but the game is fun. im runnig out of things to say cuz this has to be 100 words so 
 ill try to talk more   
 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aetrii
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  In a RTS game, there are several important factors that make it great. I will review each of these 
 for Warhammer 40k: Dawn of War.
  
  * Base Building (1 of 5 stars) :
  ZZzzzZZZzzz..... Oh, sorry. Pardon me, I was dozing off. ^_^;; Much like what I found myself doing 
 in the base building part of the game. For one, structures aren't that intriguing looking. And 
 the base building follows like every other RTS game out there. Build the "x" center to create units, 
 and build the "y" center to do your upgrades.... pretty bland. Overall, there's only about seven 
 or eight structures you can build; two associated with resource gathering, two associated with 
 defense, two with one for infantry and the other vehicles, and then the remainder structures for 
 "upgrades." So there's nothing really new brought in this area.
  
  * Resource Gathering (4 of 5 stars) :
  This was probably the *only* innovative mechanic in the 
 game that made it from being "totally un-original" to "meh." In the game, you only collect two 
 resources. One of them being from "strategic" points which can be found throughout the map. What 
 I liked about this was that there was motivation to explore places on the map you wouldn't otherwise 
 do so. And once you caught a strategic point, it was exciting guarding it and making sure your 
 enemy didn't steal it from you. Even more exciting, though, was getting to as much strategic points 
 you could early on in the game to prevent you enemy from getting to the same places, thus hindering 
 their resource gathering.
  The only thing I didn't like, though, was your dependancy on these strategic points when building 
 up your base and army. In my opinion, the strategic points didn't generate resources fast enough, 
 unless of course you had several. But early on in the game, it's much more viable to only obtain 
 a few than it is to go around dominating the entire map with each strategic point you found, needed 
 to build up more quickly.
  
  * Units (2 of 5 starts) :
  The units were somewhat interesting, but theyre wasn't that much. And all units baically had an 
 equivalent for each of the other races, with only a mere skin change, which was really dissapointing. 
 
  
  * Combat (3 of 5 stars) :
  Again, combat was just like what'd you expect, nothing new. 
  
  * Graphics and Artificial Intelligence 
 (2 of 5 stars) :
  Graphics were okay, but AI... not so much.
  
  If anyone wants any more in depth details or has something to argue about, feel free to drop me 
 a PM
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMan120
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  I play the Warhammer 40k tabletop game, and this game is like turning it alive. It doesnt use all 
 the armies but it uses 4 of the most popular. The 4 armies consist of the Eldar, Space marines, Chaos 
 Space Marines, and the Orkz. The gameplay is very solid and fun. But to make it better off the animations 
 and graphics are simply amazing for a RTS. It provides a full 360 degree camera with cuttinmg-edge 
 graphic. The detail on a single soldier is amazing. While fighting the animations are immense. After 
 a unit is defeated the victorius unit will perform an impressive animation to finish the victim 
 off. Also instead of building single units, you build "squads". Squads have morale, and with a leader 
 it boosts. For instance if a small squad is faced to a gigantic army, their morale goes down and 
 they retreat without warning. After building a sqaud of units you can reinforce them with more units. Then 
 equipping them with more powerful weapons and a leader. I reccomend buying this game if your looking 
 for a solid RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The Warhammer universe hasn't performed well through its many incarnations in video gaming over 
 the years, which is disappointing considering its successful and rich tabletop roots. Dawn of War 
 manages to not only break the barrier, but surpass all expectations and create a genuinely excellent 
 game that, while not innovative, is one of the best rts games in years.
  
  The story is riddled with clichs, but presents itself as an intense and desperate future in which 
 different races (orks, humans, evil humans, and eldar) fight for supremacy of the galaxy. Where 
 it shines is in the verisimilitude offered by the different units, characters, and missions that 
 take place against the backdrop of intergalactic war. If there's anything that can be complimented 
 for being original, the humans aren't going to be cannon fodder in the game, like in other multi-race 
 wars.
  
  The gameplay is some of the most nail-bitingly intense, strategic, and addictive combinations I've 
 played in some time. Basically everyone has a prototypical unit tree, build this you get this unit, 
 add this to make this go boom, etc..., with some interesting additions to the formula. The first 
 of which is that instead of dealing with individual units, like marines in Starcraft, you get squads 
 of units. By selecting the squad you can 1) build more 2) add weapons 3) add commanding officers, 
 and more. On top of that, you can attach a commanding officer to these units to upgrade their abilities, 
 which is pretty nifty, and adds a decision element to the formula, rather than "hmmmmmm, 50 protoss 
 carriers and I'm good". 
  Furthermore, resource management is handled perfectly, by making you capture points for additional 
 money. The more points you have, the faster it comes in. You can also build a tower on these sites 
 to collect more, and fortify your position. Aside from energy, which is collected prototypically 
 by building power plants, this is an excellent way to speed up the pace of the game, with units 
 struggling to control points against opposing forces.
  All sides in the game are, for the most part, balanced enough not to tip favor to one player or 
 another.
  
  One of the aspects of this game that needs to be complimented is the way units look, and interact 
 with each other. When a walking tank happens into a group of grunts, its amazing to watch it pick 
 up units and hurl them into their squads, bowling them over. The amount of animation on screen 
 during the battles borders on epic, making the painful process of throwing troops into the grinder 
 that much easier to bear.
  
  The audio sounds good, with the voice acting and bleeps and bloops sounding acceptable.
  
  
 I've always wished for a translation of Warhammer 40k that did justice to the source material, 
 and if your a fan of Warhammer or rts games, then this should definitely be your next buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  empire at war may have some people looking excited but DOW has been there and done that ages ago 
 (well apart from space) never the less Dow serves an amazing 3d rts which in the past rts going 
 3d has killed the series in my eyes even if you dont like warhammer youll love this game the 
 only problem i had was the lack of other species in the franchise i would have like to have seen 
 the tau and the Tryanids would have been interesting but i cant complain over this game it serves 
 up hours of fun however this rts isnt just about build up a huge force and move in the game had 
 so much more depth tactics are best served here the ai is extremely good they adapt and changed 
 to suit there environments and abilities and you may have to think before you move in to attack 
 this strategy game really is strategy at its best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecilhg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Really good game. Relic should be proud of this one. Kind of like Starcraft with a Warcraft 
 III format. The characters were great and the story line is like a very good science fiction book. 
 Liked the grouping of companies but would like to have more individually controlled characters. 
 The armor was great, really liked the predator tank, but the whirlwind tank had trouble with its 
 aim. The depth of the characterizations was amazing for this format. I could see this game spawning 
 a fes science fiction books. Will probably play this one a few more times before retireing it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterKevosavi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I've played some of the other Warhammer PC games, and this is by far the best. It's better if you 
 play the table top verison of Warhammer, so that you can truely understand all the characters and 
 the plot, but newbies should be fine.
  
  Graphics are great, and the Ork's speech lines are very funny and true to the table top presentation 
 of them. 
  
  The game has much value to it. I spent an entire LAN party playing this game once!
  
  There 
 are tons of mods out on the internet, and they really add a lot to the life of the game. You can 
 then even go and play with these mods online! Multiplayer is great, only nock is I wished that 
 they didn't use Gamespy as the online service, but instead did something like Blizzard did with 
 Battle. net
  
  If you like RTSs, then pick this game (and the expansion) up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerofshadows
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of warhammer and RTS games i egerly inticipated this game. And well... it never 
 let me down. The campaign story is great, but a little annoying as you only get control of the 
 blood raven chapter. 
  There are four controllable races in the single player and multi player skirmishes, space marines, 
 chaos, orcs and eldar. 
  The controlsare like any other RTS game, but thats where the similarities end. Instead of the usual 
 resource collection, you have to take and hold strategic points around the battle field. This not 
 only grants you the neccessary resources to build units, but also allows you to expand your base. 
 So these are essential.
  There are two hero units for each side, which is always nice, as well as an uber unit like the 
 avatar and the squiggoth.
  With the exception of warcraft this is the best RTS game i hav played, with the only minor flaws 
 being in the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  first of im a WarHammer Fan im pretty impressed with this game its not just about Base Building 
 and collecting Stuff to build units this games is all about War and Brutal Fire fights with Space 
 marines and orcs even the opening movie for the game it feel like your watching a Battle from a 
 camera's point of view. the game it self lets you play has 4 of the WarHammer's 40,000 Races the 
 Space Maines who are these Big Heavy armoured Race of Men from Terra (Earth) The Orks who are these 
 Creatures who are Bent on killing and having Wars with any thing. the Eldar who are these highly 
 Advance of beings. and the Chaos Space marines who are the Really Evil Version of the Space marines 
 who use really evil Spells and Freaky Stuuf like that. each of the 4 Races Plays Kinda the Same 
 like the Chaos and Space marines have very much the same buildings But look nothing like each other 
 but have different Technology and untis. But dont let that turn you away from this game Each race 
 if still fun to play none than the less. the Games Graphics are Sweet as MoonShine na just kidding 
 The games Graphics are Nice you might notice when you zoomreally up close the Textures might get 
 a bit blurry and Fuzzy But apart from that minor little detail the Games graphics are fine. You 
 Might have a Bit of slow down when you have a lot of Stuff on screen But thats standard for most 
 games. The units you will all reconise from the Table top game even if your new to Warhammer you 
 will lurn the Units fast Like me self from the Table top. 
  
  The Sound is also i Big Yes Yes in this game its just fun to hear then Call out your orders or 
 say something really cool like" The Alien The Mutant the Heretic" sounds cool when you here it. 
 theres no really any sound Glitch's in this game witch is good. and all the units have there own 
 voice so its like 2 units will have the same voice But different speach. But one or 2 untis do. 
 
  
  Gameplay ifs as fun as it can be Shame that you can only build so many infantrySpace marines has 
 a Infantry Cap of 20 But a standard Group of Space marines infantry will cost a around 2 of that 
 then you can upgrade the graoup to about 8 But that does not effect the Cap when you upgrade you 
 just pay for the 2 Cap points Tanks are the same They have the Tank Cap each Tanks cost differently 
 so the Predator Tank costs 3 while the Dread Nought cost 2 so once again it changes per unit and 
 how strong it is. i played the Story and its not all that good ive got to mission 3 and i have 
 already lost intress in it. Since the main fun is when your Just on skirmish doing what WarHammer 
 is best for witch is Just duking it out in Brutal Combat. Dawn of War as an online witch i havent 
 played yet since it wouldn't keeps saying these god dam message's And i think you have to have 
 a gamespy Account so you have to go through all of that just to play online. 
  
  All in round Dawn of War is a great Real Time Stratagy game with a WarHammer Twist and it does 
 Beat playing Command ande conquer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippodude18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  the story line, concept graphics its all great. i just wish more people would join but now thats 
 hard since the EXPANSIONS OUT =) i am going to get that soon. The best part about the game is the 
 custom color schemes u can make with ur armys =) its really fun what u can make up... and the multiplayer 
 is amazing it has its fair shares of lagg but now i look back and i realize that the lagg didnt 
 bother me, the game is what you dont expect if u play strategy games.
  
  now im just typeing nuthing that talks about the game because i need 100 words for this review 
 to go threw lol thanks for reading
  
  MY NAME ON DoW is DisturbedFan and Chaos_Worship 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanhalenn4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of war, even the name sounds great! this game makes other pc games look weak. The orcs are 
 tough to fight in campaign but in the end the game manages to make a good plot-storyline and come 
 out on top. the best part is how you can add weapons to your character, and how you can customize 
 and tweak your character. The online multiplayer is wicked!! ive played three people and they think 
 its awesome!!! The last thing i have to say is that it came out last year and its graphics look 
 close to the 360's, and thats a complement!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelosand
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutly awesome! Being a Blood ravens collector in real life and a long term fan 
 of the model war game i had to pick up a copy of this along my way. The games puts you as a "god" 
 like being in the game commmanding the 3rd company of Blood ravens led by the courageous Captain 
 Brother gabriel angelos. You fight the mysterious eldar, the traiturous Chaos space marines and 
 the war hungry Orks. Altough the graphics arnt really Next-gen they still shine with details such 
 as the joins in the armour and the wires on the dreadnoughts it surely is a game to pick up if 
 you like Rts games or even the model game of Warhammer 40,000. This will probably turn you into 
 a fan of the Gamesworkshop game and of the fearless space marines.
  Pick it up! FOR THE EMPEROR!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarinho
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:07 am PT
Review:  Ill only talk about singleplayer here:
  
  I am very surprised about this game. Ive been playing videogames for some 15 years now, and i 
 have a major flaw: i like fresh gameplay. Needless to say that RTS, once my favorite, are fast 
 vanishing from my hard drive. But sometimes a gem hapears. This time is Dawn oF War. you have already 
 read the Gamespot review, so i wont go into detail, just mark this; this isnt youre average fun 
 RTS it has enough tweaks in its gameplay to stand out, and the gameplay is fast, furious, tactical. 
 Everything we like about RTS. Of course since im saying this is a singleplayer review ill point 
 out to this game biggest flaw; its short campaign 11 missions. Really short. Worsened by the fact 
 its really good: the story the characters the missions, so when you reach the end you just want 
 to see more. And the expansion for this game doest help to ease much the pain since the story is 
 not continued. Lets wait for the sequel wich wont probably be made by Relic. Talking about Relic 
 have you noticed that these guys are really good? Damn, theyre probably the 2nd RTS team out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeR04U
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is based on the popular table game cherished by many fans of the 
 series alike. As many of you have seen in various gaming stores (such as Wizards of the Coast) 
 you can buy Warhammer figures, and play a game similarly to how you'd play chess. Recently, Relic 
 decided to expand from the previous Warhammer games, and offer a new experience full of Warhammer 
 goodness. While the table game itself is enjoyable, Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War, will leave you 
 telling your friends, "Download it, rent it, borrow it; Just don't buy it."
  
  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War as one would expect, is a real time strategy game. For those of you 
 new to the genre, you basically control builder units, that erect establishments to build your 
 army and research different abilities that may affect them or your team globally. This is all done 
 to hopefully smite another person (or computer) doing the same thing. The RTS genre is an old one, 
 and many popular games such as Age of Empires, Command and Conquer, and Starcraft have made big 
 marks. However; Dawn of War falls way short of making a respectable relation to any of these widely 
 respected games.
  
  In Dawn of War you build units that must move through a map and capture strategic points. Capturing 
 these strategic points gives you your resources, which are used to build additional units. While 
 there are two resources in the game (including requisition and power) you only need to capture 
 requisition. You simply build power plants and let them work their magic. In any event, moving 
 through the map and capturing all strategic points before you opponent does generally results in 
 a win. Of course you can also choose different game modes such as Destroy HQ. But, since the game 
 uses these strategic points as key resource generators, whoever has them will be able to out-create 
 their opponent (generally) . 
  
  In Dawn of War, the units you build generally come in squads. In each squad you can add more units, 
 a commander, and equip individual members of that squad with different weapons (such as flamethrowers, 
 rocket launchers, etc.) . Different HQ upgrades yield more powerful units, some of which can attach 
 to a specific squad. An interesting gameplay feature of Dawn of War is morale. Each squad and/or 
 unit has morale which is signified by a blue bar. If that squad feels they are outnumbered or going 
 against impossible opposition, the bar will decrease, and your squad will run. In addition, I believe 
 they can deal less and receive more damage. This certainly adds strategic aspects to the game because 
 certain weapons and units can decrease morale. 
  
  There are four races to the game, and each are different than their counterpart. You have: Space 
 Marines, Eldar, Orcs, and Chaos Marines. Each of these races specialize in different respective 
 categories such as: Overall effectiveness, technology, brute force, and evil/fear/chaos. By using 
 these attributes effectively, players can identify which force best suits their playing style. 
 What makes the game even more personable is the fact that you can create different paint styles 
 for your forces. The table top game is very popular because the individual pieces can be painted 
 to customize the army. Dawn of War is no different even though it's virtual. 
  
  While the game has lots to offer, the problems of Dawn of War center right down to the most important 
 attribute in an RTS: Gameplay. The game itself does not add anything new to the formula of creating 
 units from buildings that you established, but it takes away all of the strategy that surrounds 
 it. For example, in such games as Age of Empires II: The Age of Kings, you can build a plethora 
 of different fighters, such as swordsman, archers, and cavalry. Each is effective against another, 
 but what makes the game exciting is what you do with them. Ambushing, varying unit types, and traps 
 are not available in Dawn of War. While units can have various strengths against the enemy, generally 
 it comes down to who has the most units. Once you kill your enemies units, you pretty much move 
 through the base and take over what you please. 
  
  It seems that every game has the 'big battle' where all units are thrown together in one large 
 epic battle and after 2 minutes of chaos and a sense of 'I hope I win because I have no idea what 
 to control' the battle ends. In addition, because every squad can add additional units, or weapons, 
 or features, or use skills (at any point) there is SO much micromanagement during a battle that 
 you really don't have an idea what to do. You just end up selecting the whole army and smashing 
 whatever 'looks good' button there is. In the end you win, and you say, "Don't know how it happened, 
 but whatever!" Maps are generally small and players can't rebuild quickly enough to threaten your 
 original winning force, you pretty much just wipe the floor after the 'big battle'. Maps do offere 
 up to 8 total players which obviously offers different outcomes since allies can aid you. 
  
  The AI itself in the game is lackluster, with AWFUL targeting and pathfinding. Many times you'll 
 try to target a specific unit and your entire army instead starts shooting all over the place. 
 There is no regard for friendly fire, and even though you target a specific enemy and want your 
 units to use guns, they instead move in while your artillary blows everyone away. So you often 
 just click all your units to a point where the enemy is and let the computer just play out the 
 scenario. 
  
  There is a campaign mode, but it's rediculously easy as you just bombard through the computer controlled 
 units. After the campaign you can explore skirmish and online play. Skirmish mode is quite rediculous, 
 as there are 4-5 different difficulties ranging from easy to insane. In the standard difficulty 
 you'll beat the computer pretty easily. All you have to do is build some big vehicles and a few 
 squads and eventually you'll win. In the next difficulty up, the game becomes pretty unfair. Even 
 though you're just playing hard mode (and not harder or insane) the computer generates more resources 
 and bigger armies in faster times. For example, While I had my half of the strategic points, and 
 both relics and mission point (more than 1/2 and relics generate more requisition) the computer 
 still got more resources than I did. Somehow he generated more units as well, even though I was 
 constantly creating. However; if you do not capture those points, you will not even have enough 
 resources to fend off the first attack. It becomes pointless after a while. 
  
  Multiplayer is exciting, as obviously human players generally do not cheat, but the game requirements 
 are so extensive that simply put, not many people can afford to play it. You have to have a decent 
 amount of RAM, a good processor, and a great video card, not to mention internet connection, to 
 hope at playing the game enjoyably. As a result, there's not a huge amount of players online. This 
 was a problem with Command and Conquer Generals as well. 
  
  Make no mistake, the graphics, cinema, explosions, and character animations are beautiful in this 
 game. By far the best of any RTS out there. However; with the lack of gameplay, real strategy, 
 and overall bore, the game falls far short of having anything worthy of substance to a gamer looking 
 to expand their mind in different ways. 
  
  ZeR0's final verdict: Leave this one in the store. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanchmbrs
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:17 am PT
Review:  Dawn of war is a great game not just if you're a hardcore Warhammer 40k fan its also fun if your 
 just the casual gamer. The gameplay is fantastic, with each race, the space marines, the chaos 
 space marines, the eldar, and the orks all play differently. The campaign is great, but personally 
 I really enjoy the skirmish and the online play. Unfortunately the game does have some pretty irritating 
 quirks here and there. The units in the game say something every time you do an action and that 
 is incredibly irritating and only having four races kind of restricts you. Fortunately the game 
 has some really cool features too. One example is being able to customize your squads and vehicles 
 with weapons. I recommend this game to anyone, its truly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzraeLskI
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 4:38 am PT
Review:  I mean WOW. Absolutly the best there is. Great story, great graphics and I love the idea of squads 
 instead of individual units. Also it realy brings the medieval spirit of epic battles if the future 
 warfare. Just right, not too futuristic (like lasers and that stuff) and I love the idea of inquisition 
 and the blind belief in the so called "emperor". And they really succseded in the task of bringing 
 the elves (eldar) and the orcs to the future. A must have for all RTS maniacks. But dont love it 
 too much or you may find yourself collecting figures. Oh, and the music and sound are phenomenal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anagh88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  this is by far one of the best games for the pc this year. i'm a warhammer player myself so i might 
 understand a little bit more about it than a regular player. they made the 4 races in this game 
 awesome. i love space marines and i was glad 2 see all the customizable features in the game for 
 the army. u can completely change the color scheme with any of the races. the gameplay is awesome. 
 it doesn't take 2 long 2 get enough troops 2 battle with and all the buildings u can make r really 
 cool. once u get in2 battle it looks and sounds amazing. for ex. u have space marines shooting 
 at orks and the orks are rushing in at u and ur cutting them off 1 by 1 and u hear the shooting 
 of guns, weapons clashing, the orks screaming "WAAAAGH!!!!!", and the space marines yelling, "for 
 the emperor!!!!"one of the coolest things in this game is when ur playing as chaos and u sacrifice 
 1 of ur guys 2 summon the bloodthirster. the guy flys in the air and blows up and a pool of blood 
 forms and the bloodthirster comes out. it looks so cool. after he gets summoned u just dominate 
 whoever ur fighting. the campaign mode is pretty cool but u can only play as the blood raven space 
 marines. the story is really good. i've also read the book and the story is really hooking. when 
 u want 2 play a custom game u can have 2-8 different armies on the field. my favorite game mode 
 2 play is annihilation. it's a free for all battle and the person who crushes every single unit 
 of the opposing army or armies wins. my only complaint about this game is that they don't have 
 all the armies. oh well, u can't complain that much. this is an awesome game and it's definetely 
 worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seifer99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  It's a very good RTS (Real Time Strategy) . It's good for people whether you like the table top 
 game or not. A nice surprise that you will find is that in multiplayer it has other objectives 
 than the simple kill your enemy. That is only on of the option. In this game the host of the game 
 can either decide to make a game with objectives like capture and hold this point for a certain 
 amount of time or something like that. Another thing that you might like is that you have squads 
 instead of individual units. It certainly makes the matches a whole lot bigger but you can only 
 make a maximum of 20 squads which really disappointed me. And not to mention that you don't have 
 to build harvester units anymore. You just have to gain control of Strategic points throughout 
 the map. I would suggest this game to anyone with a) a good computer to run it on and b) likes 
 RTS games. And for $30 CAD you can't go wrong! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nazi100
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty sweet. I love the graphics. I only played the DEMO and it was really good. 
 I just hope it has more features in the real thing. This game is cool. Especially that when you 
 build a soldier it builds a whole squad. Also when you lose men in a squad you can restore your 
 squad no matter what. Plus you can have upgraded machine guns or plasma guns or rocket launchers 
 or flamethrowers in your squad. You also have dreadnoughts like those big machines in matrix revolutions. 
 You can also have an army commander which boosts morale and a librarian who is similar plus you 
 can have special features for each. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superdog619
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:29 am PT
Review:  This game is very good, I'd say this is the best strategic game i have every played even better 
 then age of empires or any other strategy game. so basically i give this game a 10 out of 10 the 
 only thing they forgot to do to this game is that they should of let you be able to create your 
 own map. Other then that missing piece this is like the god of strategy games. There is nothing 
 else i can say about this game is that it is the bomb, and it is a game well worth getting and 
 for those people out there at say this game sucks. May the GMs of Dawn Of War have mercy on you! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DumassBarb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Great gameplay and an innovative RTS! I would have to say that this is a must buy for RTS fans. 
 The sigle player might be a bit short but it makes up for it with the multiplayer. 
  
  
  
  Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! 
 Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great 
 for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for 
 LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN 
 parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! 
 Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great for LAN parties! Great 
 for LAN parties! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustLoginMeIn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  Warhammer is just great. The graphics and especially the units are amazing! The heroe's moves are 
 just the best ever seen in a strategy game (worth playing just to see the Warboss slaying an infantry) . 
 
  
  It's important location economy system is a great idea, and really keeps the fun ratio high. Instead 
 of gathering resources (boring) you capture special locations that provide a resource. The second 
 resource is gained by your buildings. Orcs have a third resourse, again from buildings. The nice 
 thing about this is that you have to expand your control-area to get resourses. You need to capture 
 the locations and defend them. You can only build around your controled importan-locations, so 
 the more you have the more turrets and buildings you can build and ofcourse the more resources 
 you get.
  
  The units as presaid are amazing. They even upgrade their weapons adding a stategy depth to the 
 game. The heroes are just perfect and there are also big-bad avatars to recruit.
  
  So the gameplay is fun and simple. That is both a good and a bad thing. It is indeed a great RTS 
 game, but it doesn't provide anything new. It is nice to play and see, but If you are looking for 
 something new and more strategic this isn't the best choise. Again you take missions trying to 
 complete the campaign, a rather short campaign. After that you have only the choice of multiplayer 
 or skirmish maps. Okay, skirmish may be fun, but you will get bored to play eventually. There should 
 be something like conquer-the-world type, the kind of type that the Battle of ME will have. This 
 is a MUST to make a RTS replayable. Or a very very good campaign and story. Warhammer hasn't got 
 anything of these stuff.
  
  So as a game it is great. But it doesn't introduce anything new, it hasn't got a real strategic 
 depth and it has a short campaign. 
  
  And finally a complain: people are supposed to buy and play games. But will you give 50-60$ for 
 a game that will not lost long? Why not create a mode that will offer players to play over and 
 over the game. I mean you create the whole game, both the game code and the graphics and sound, 
 and you create a short campaign? The campaign should be big, very big. Or create a mode that can 
 be played besides the campaign. The campaign is even only for 1 faction (space marines) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzman13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game has short campaign, but the single player is relly fun. you have 4 races the eldar=magic 
 orcs=big green guys, chaos=EVIL, and space Marines=humans. This game is pretty much your average 
 rts build buildings, make units, attack enemy, repeat. ok now im just filling up space
  
  This game has short campaign, but the single player is relly fun. you have 4 races the eldar=magic 
 orcs=big green guys, chaos=EVIL, and space Marines=humans. This game is pretty much your average 
 rts build buildings, make units, attack enemy, repeat. ok now im just filling up space
  
  This game has short campaign, but the single player is relly fun. you have 4 races the eldar=magic 
 orcs=big green guys, chaos=EVIL, and space Marines=humans. This game is pretty much your average 
 rts build buildings, make units, attack enemy, repeat. ok now im just filling up space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legions05
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Its about time that someone made a decent WH40k game. After playing this, I can honestly say that 
 it has the same feel as one who has played the real game. I'm not saying that its better than the 
 actual game, but I still think its worth buying. It is kind of a bummer that they didn't include 
 ALL of the major races. For example, the game is missing the Tau as well as other major races. 
 At least they included the Imperial Guard in the expansion.
  
  Anyways, the graphics are excellent, the gamplay is amazing, and the AI on insane can really own 
 you. This game is perfect if you want to get together with your buddies and have a slaughter. There 
 is also an option that lets you make your own color scheme. It's like planning out a color scheme 
 for real miniatures without the hard work of actually painting them! I even know how to paint my 
 own Space Marines when I get some.
  
  The gameplay is quite different than what I'm used to; i. e., Age of Empires and Empire Earth 2. 
 As far as gathering resources and building up your forces, it's not too complicated. In fact, one 
 can get into combat almost immediatly without screwing around with all the uselss garbage of building 
 up and stuff. What I like most about the gameplay is, and unlike other RTS games that feature modern 
 combat, is that it focuses on the troops, not just a build up of tanks and stuff. Because in the 
 game, there is a seperate pop cap on the vehicles than the troops. So a player can 'almost' never 
 outnumber his enemy troops with tanks.
  
  Anyways, for a person who values the Warhammer 40k game, they will mostly appreciate the greatness 
 of this game. 
  
  I would sum up this game as: The RTS that delivers like never before, without all the screwing 
 around with crap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcstrawberry9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that I must admit is that I do NOT own this game but my best friend does and I 
 play it on his CPU sometimes. To start with I think that Dawn of War has some very cool new graphics 
 and lots of characters and intricacies that make the game as good as it is. However, there are 
 still many things this game leaves to be desired. First, the single player mission sequence really 
 is not all that long or tough in my opinion. An secondly there is little other new content or anything 
 in the game that is revolutionary. I find this game similar to a age of empires game just more 
 advanced with different types of people. Also the ability to create a few super units that are 
 virtually indestructible. To me I don't get much more out of it than other RTS games because it 
 is very similar with just a different paint job.
  There are several things that I love despite the games weaknesses. First off, the Graphics are 
 amazing, the detail is about the best I have seen in this video game genre. Second, I like the 
 ability to customize the color patterns of the units which is just another little thing that gives 
 this game an edge over competing games. The final thing that is great is that the games different 
 races have so many things that are different about them. The different looking buildings units 
 and alike. I know it is much less fun when you learn how to master one race then it is like you 
 have mastered them all. 
  All in all I would still recommend this game to anyone although I would point out there are plenty 
 of other games that are similar and cheaper that will probably have weaker graphics if not more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GarethJacob
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  When I bought Dawn of War, I had hoped it would be great and I wanted it to do well as I play the 
 tabletop version of Warhammer 40000. I quickly regretted buying it. The gameplay is endlessly repetative: 
 Every mission in the hoplessly short campaign is exactly the same, just on a different map. The 
 only strategy that is effective is to pile in to the enemy with as many troops and vehicles as 
 possible, which I found strange, a real time 'strategy' game only requiring one strategy. You grow 
 to resent moving your units as they spout embarrassing and annoying phrases relentlessly, especially 
 the orks, and the AI that decides what path they take is ridiculously stupid for a modern game. 
 The music soon gets boring and oppressive, and adds nothing to the atmosphere of the game. The 
 guns also seem ridiculously underpowered, units just stand about four feet away from the enemy 
 and keep on firing until something dies, which I thought was dull and shows lazy animation as they 
 could have made it so models dive for cover etc. Enemy AI isn't stupid, it's just annoying, for 
 example, they will attack construction units when they should be attacking the powerful unit next 
 to it that is wiping it out. Annoying things happen in the main campaign. On one level, loads of 
 enemy units suddenly appear to the side of your base when the computer knows all of your powerful 
 units are on the other side of the map, so you have to load your game unreasonably.
  The graphics are ok, I wouldn't goes as far as saying 'cutting edge' as the box does, but they 
 do the job. If you zoom in to the 'action' they are lacking in detail, however. The gun sounds 
 are alright too, but the music is awful. The game's multiplayer is hopelessly boring.
  Don't buy this game and waste your money and 10 hours of your life, buy Rome: Total War instead, 
 which is excting all the way through and will take you ages to complete because it's a huge game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20860399346417257776889966510425-bull_people
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:50 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Warhammer 40,000 there is little chance that you have been pleased with Warhammer 
 40,000 games in the past and you like me thought what will be different about this game well I 
 can tell you that you are dead wrong. This game is most likely the best Warhammer 40,000 game to 
 date and not just that its also one of the best RTS games of the year (2004) . This is a great 
 game in almost every way and it captures the feel and look of the Warhammer 40,000 universe table 
 top war game, created by Games Workshop very well but the great thing is, you dont have to know 
 a thing about the Warhammer 40,000 universe to begin with. 
  
  To those people who know nothing about the background of the Warhammer 40,000 universe I can tell 
 you its based on a table top war game created by the British-based company Games Workshop. Right 
 after you have installed the games you will see a brief cinematic that shows you just a little 
 bit of what the game has in store for you.
  
  In the games Multiplayer and Skirmishes you can play as four factions, The Space Marines who are 
 very strong, have a good morale because of their faith in the great Emperor of mankind and can 
 hold against anything the enemy can thought at them. Then you have the Forces of Chaos which serve 
 the dark Gods, the forces consist of Demons which are very powerful but lack numbers and then there 
 are the Chaos Space Marines whom turned against the Emperor but because they fight for themselves 
 they have a low morale. You also have the Orcs who live for one thing, and that ids fighting, they 
 will outnumber every enemy on the battlefield and have a very hard morale but their long-range 
 fighters are weak so its best to get into close combat as soon as possible. The last race is the 
 Eldar who are your misunderstood race but they are very technoly advanced, can do very quick strikes 
 on enemy bases and have a strong morale.
  
  In the game campaign you only play as the Space Marines which are lead by Commander Gabriel who 
 are sent to the planet Tartarus to save the people from an Orc invasion but along the way you will 
 fight the Forces of Chaos and the Eldar. The campaign can get repetitive and boring but overall 
 its fun but just should have been longer. 
  
  Once youve finished with the short campaign you can look forward to the skirmishes where you get 
 a number of maps to choose and you will get your first taste of the other races but overall they 
 controls for them are the same. The Race may play the same way here and there but the feel of them 
 is very different, for example the way the buildings are made like for the Space Marines, the buildings 
 shot down from the sky or the way Chaos summons their buildings.
  
  The multiplayer is where you will have the most fun with because its very easy to use and finding 
 a server or match is easy and fast. There will be people playing multiplayer for a very long time 
 plus if you are bad at this game dont worry, they have a match maker built in so you can play 
 other people of your skill.
  
  Now this game pacts in some of the greatest graphics ever in a RTS game, the environment and character 
 models look beautiful and the cool effects as buildings explode and blood flying everywhere it 
 makes a game that is great even if it ha bad graphics even better. 
  
  The killing moves in this game are one of the best parts and you can tell that Relic put a lot 
 of effort into making these effects and I can tell you it payed off. You get a very good feeling 
 inside when a Dreadnought (I think thats how you spell it) picks up and enemy infantry unit and 
 crushes it to death then it thoughts it away like its junk.
  
  The sound in the game is amazing and one of the strongest points. When you have the armies of all 
 four different races, with a good balance of tanks and infantry going at it, it sounds amazing 
 with lasers, gun, rockets, grenades, tank fire and a whole lot more weaponry firing everywhere 
 it brings the game alive and it will satisfy you. 
  
  Overall this is a great game and most people who like the RTS genre or are a fan of the Warhammer 
 40,000 universe. Then you will have a lot to love here. The great skirmishes and multiplayer make 
 up for the short campaign and you will find yourself playing again and again for years t come. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HercDriver
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I am not a big fan of games that require high end equipment or fail to allow options to play with 
 lower end stuff! Its funny when you have fan sites and forums dedicated to the "spooge error" then 
 you think it would tell the developers that it might be time to get together and fix said problem, 
 it stinks when I go out and spend money on a game that I was really excited about playing and now 
 I can't!! I think this game has caused me to begin looking further and further into weither or 
 not games have standard trouble playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nubie453
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Dawn Of War is a good game it alot better than Warcraft 3 it revolves around strategy and you will 
 get your butt kicked if your not kicked on multiplayer but its very hard to find a game online 
 which is not a good thing the campaighn and story-line is a decent one with twists and turns i 
 like the campaighn to its got sweet graphics along with the characters and upgrades in the game 
 its fun to play all though i got bored of it after a month or 2 its worth the playing if your good 
 if your a bad gamer than this game isnt a good selection for you... The object of the game is to 
 make massive army and defeat the opponenent its great the hastle of online play could get better 
 and they should put in more things to do accept making guys and fighting. other than that its a 
 solid play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xerxes5678
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Whe I first saw DOW, I thought "a futuristic version of Warcraft would be too much like Starcraft". 
 I was wrong of course. This game is simply excellent. The resource system, the units, it was all 
 good and completely different from Starcraft (although I have to give Starcraft props) . In DOW, 
 there are four races: 
  Space Marines are the knights. Super tough but expensive.
  Chaos Marines are about the same, but with daemons.
  Eldar are the elves. Quick and agile, but 
 weak physically.
  Orks are... well Orks. Loud, obnoxious, and possessing massive numbers; that's the name of the 
 game for them.
  The campaign is based around the Blood Ravens as they battle the Orks, Eldar, and Chaos forces 
 on the planet. Throughout the campaign you get some Imperial Guard units and tanks, but get the 
 expansion if you want an in-depth experience with the Guard. The campaign is satisfiyng but it's 
 the multiplayer that will be what draws you back. Able to play as all the factions, you can battle 
 it out on a bunch of different and varied maps.
  In my experience, the most often used races are the Space and Chaos Marine factions, since they 
 are generally superior to the xeno factions.
  This game is a definite must-by.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigbic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I love the Warhammer universe and have purchased all the PC games ever made based on it but that 
 doesn't mean I liked them all. Simply said, I liked this one. A lot. There is something really 
 cool about watching detailed orcs with flamethrowers making a marine BBQ. The graphics are really 
 cool, especially considering how many units can be fighting on-screen at once. The gameplay is 
 typical for this type of RTS so if you like those types of games, you'll have plenty to like here. 
 The game does have a frantic pace and the AI is pretty good so you'll have to manage your resources 
 and forces well. The in-game cut scenes are a little hammy and a bit choppy too but the main game 
 is rendered well and the sound effects are good. Woth picking up even if you've never even heard 
 of Warhammer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raysorsedge
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best. The games story mode is easy at first but then it heats up quickly. The game 
 graphics are out standing ,if u have everything up on high. To become a master of the it will take 
 months to be as good as some of the people playing online.8 people can play in one game. A 8 player 
 game online may last for hours. So u better get everthing u have to do done before u start playing. Also 
 in the game u can edit your own army with colors and banners. This is by far one of the best rts 
 games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostDog8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  My real score on this game would be a 8.95, yes just under 9. And my time spent score is based 
 on how long it took to beat the story mode.
  
  If you like Stracraft get it! If you like Warcraft get! If you remember the Warhammer table top 
 games or still play the table top games get this game!
  This game just plain owns. All the little animations the units make and so tight. It has online 
 play so you can take your skills online. It has army painter so you can create your on color scheme 
 and create new banners for your favorite race. Although the story mode was short it still was killer 
 and the you will love the little cliff hanger at the end of the story that leads to teh expansion 
 pack of this game. 
  
  The only thing that hold this game back form being perfect is the following: The heroes in the 
 game dont level up like in WC, doesnt have air units (but you wont notice that until awhile) , doesnt 
 have as much strategy as SC or WC, there are no online tournys, and there are no acount icons like 
 there are in WC3. But if you can look past that then you will find yourself with hours and hours 
 of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendandick
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:12 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k Dawn of War is good
  
  Warhammer: DOW is a pretty standard "empire building/tycoon" game, that is very close to the "Command 
 and Conquer" series or "Starcraft". But don't put it down right away especially if you like or 
 are familiar with the Warhammer game/series.
  
  Warhammer: DOW consists of a few armies that are in the actual board game itself the armies are: 
 Space Marines, Eldar, Imperial Guard and Orks i believe. All with their different weapons and lords 
 and general upgrades that will help you to conquer your opponent.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to every other "tycoon" game you click on your barracks or whatever 
 and you spawn whatever that certain building will make. Ex: Barracks will make a general unit. 
 Then you make up units of about 10 and send them out to battle the enemies, aswell as you can upgrade 
 thier weapons to do more damage.
  
  Overall it's an okay game that you should definetly checkout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilum450
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I remember the very first Whte Dwarf magazine and how Warhammer looked like very different from 
 the AD&D and Runequest that my friends and I were playing. First think that was really facinating 
 was that the wargame had a great deal of historical background more then any other wargame that 
 we had palyed. 
  
  A couple of decades later I came across this game and remembering my original facination with the 
 game, I bought it and loaded it up on my PC. From the get go I loved this game. The details to 
 graphics and gameplay allowed for many replays. I loved the skirmish modes to test out the different 
 tactical weapons of each of the troops. The storyline, though short, is solid with good plot highlights 
 and twists. 
  
  I have not played the online skirmishes but that is something that I have to look forward to. 
 
  
  It is perhaps the best RTS game that I have played. 
  
  I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazykazmikaze
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Probably one the gursomely detail RTS ive evr played and the graphics were beatiful the war torn 
 city scapes were favorite stages. I loved how your units switch in to melee mode when in close-quarters 
 most RTS with ranged untis dont do that, i mean they could be stading in arms lenght of each other 
 still shooting like crzy but the visuals were so great the level of detail was amazing. Now the 
 bad stuff: pop cap to low for something set in the 40K universe, only four races in this game.... come 
 on now, also not that much unit veriety..... BOTTOM LINE IS: i love this game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepepipipopo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This game has a very funny story with me becasue i always knew the existance of warhammer and 40k 
 but i never played it becaus of the pries snd the paisience of painting and glueing the piezes 
 al together one by one perfectly and i always looked from the distant alone watching and sufering 
 (i know sad story buh buh buh) but know i have a solution warhammer 40k dow (dawn of war) i felt 
 so strange when i knew about this game. then i started researching i i found out what a good game 
 this was until i bought it at my local ilegal games dealer (screw you corporations!!!) and i started 
 playng this very "cool" game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:19 am PT
Review:  A long time ago when i was just a lad looking at FHM to get my kicks i played a lot of games workshop 
 games. i remember spending hours working out armies for Fantasy battle and 40k and finaly playing 
 the armies. 
  I thought then that i would be really excited if a decent computer game ever came out. 
  
  
 One did come out and i have to admit i didnt buy the game straight away because i have been fairly 
 bored of the recent typical formula that is modern stratgy games. 
  
  I finally bought the game about a month ago and was pleasently surprised. 
  
  The first thing 
 i will mention is the different races. In my opinion they are well excecuted and very different 
 to play from one another. 
  An important thing in todays RTS's 
  The Graphics are realistic (for a game with orks and Eldar) and nice to look at and the sound is 
 certainly more than adequate. 
  
  Playing the single player game is a fun experience but this game comes into its own in multiplayer. 
 
  I have spent many an hour playing against other people (and usually losing) and its a great deal 
 of fun. 
  My only complaint is that it sometimes feels as if it can get a bit repetative as its often rush 
 strategies that win the day. Thats a personal complaint though as many would rate that as an advantage. 
 
  
  To Summerise 
  +Graphics are nice
  +The sound is nice
  + The teams are all very different from each other
  +The game requires a fair amount of skill 
 to be good
  +Its an original strategy game
  - can get repetative 
  - Um .... thats it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:15 am PT
Review:  I'm a WH40K gamer from way back in the day... when the first edition rules came out (blue book) 
 I started playing. A few years down the road when I started getting into computers I remember thinking 
 "wouldn't it be great if GW would do a computer game for 40k?" First, we got "Space Crusade", and 
 then "Space Hulk/Deathwing" - but neither of them did it. Then along came Chaos Gate which was 
 REAL close, but still not there...
  
  And along comes DoW which, in my book, is SPOT ON! Customizable armies, and an excellent realtime 
 development that is much better than turn based gameplay makes this one a winner !! 
  
  Worth playing if you like RTS games, and a MUST OWN for ANY 40K fan worth their salt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtuahost
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2005 10:12 am PT
Review:  Much has been said about Warhammer40k. So I will not go into the same details that has been said 
 so many times. I will give a comparison of Warhammer with AOM and Warcraft.
  Warhammer has neither the novel storyline of Warcraft or unit variation of AOM. But these short 
 comings are a blessing in disguise. As the unit variation is smaller than AOM this reduces the 
 learning curve greatly. Warcraft while following its storyline made the 4 races disbalanced for 
 multiplayer play. Warhammer has an extraordinary amount of balance among the 4races. Each race 
 has its pros and cons avidly balanced so as not to favour any race. Of course one may have favourites 
 among the 4 races and might not be able play with one of the races. But that must bias there view. Though 
 personally I feel the single player could have been far better. It had all the necessary elements, a 
 promising story line & four well balanced units. It seems the makers never concentrated on the 
 single player game but still came up with a game that is worth its value to every single penny. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royzentner
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 10, 2005 6:16 am PT
Review:  I will usually agree with gamespot's official reviews, but this time is an exception. This is, 
 indeed, an amazing game, as gamespot says it is, but, I have to say that the dialog between missions 
 can be most of the time very boring. The actual voice over is pretty good and the general idea 
 of the plot is pretty fine too. The dialog just happens to be pretty long at times and you'd really 
 want to skip it most times. The fact that the between-missions-sequences are shown with the same 
 graphics the game has is a big downside. Not because the graphics are bad, but because it just 
 looks bad (as the official review says) . They shoul've made some sequences like the intro movie 
 which is pretty amazing.
  The second downside of the game is that there's only one campaign in the single player game, and 
 you can only play as one faction (The space marines) . Although you can choose any of the four factions 
 in skirmish mode, I was pretty disappointed to find out you can't do that in the single player 
 mode.
  So, if you're just looking for some fun and action, this game will serve you well. If you enjoy 
 a good plot that makes you feel like you're inside the game-world, playing a specific character, 
 you'll find this game disappointing on that plane. Nevertheless, I would recommend this game to 
 all fans of this game genre (just skip the scenes and you'll be fine) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kill_chavs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2005 10:55 am PT
Review:  well the gae play is a must see after playing for less than ten minutes i was glued to the screen 
 with the complex and rich enviroments with detailed weapons armour and the battles seem almost 
 real. this is added greatly by the way the view is able to change at a 360 degree change so you 
 can see form the battle as though you where fighting and rubbing elbows with the force commander 
 or fellow space marines the vast array of buildings and weapons and units for each of the four 
 races is amazing they come form small to demons that are undefeatable. this is a gmae not to be 
 missed and with the new exspansion pack aswell to add to the allready richly filled world of warhammer.
 
  
  the enviroment has gone down to supreme extremes from simple thing such as the space marine and 
 other units fiddling with the weapons or other possesions when not in combat or use al the way 
 to troops defending each other on the battle field and showing real aggresion to there enemies 
 the new items such as taking cover is an outstanding achievment it gives a more much needed touch 
 of class and the real feel of "hey where gonna die out here"
  
  vehicles have a great importance for all the races some more than others such as the eldar race 
 they hold near all strength in there vehicles and less in the units where as the space marine's 
 hold main power in units this changes the game play a bit to give some races advantages in diffrent 
 situation some are more of a global conquest such as orks and some are not such as eldar
  
  all in all this game is fantstic and well worth all i would say is the bad point as it can sometimes 
 drive on past a point where you seem to lose interest. this happens mainly in the later levels as 
 they take longer to complete.
  
  this game is very simular to the previous game of command and conquer mailny generals which does 
 compare up to them except for the limitation of units
  
  good job on the game i would say in all though
  
  cheers for reading
  
  kill_chavs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DecanSlayer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Well this review is just for helping those guys who say that the game is poor in gameplay, one 
 of them is one of those who likes action games, so how is he supposed to know about RTS?
  And the other one says that space marines are the most powerful faction in the game.
  
  First, 
 the strategies,
  How is it that there is no strategies?
  Have you tried to use Chaos infiltration and enter the enemy base an finish it? you should try, 
 it works.
  Or what about using the Eldar ability to disappear buildings, that saves you from many attacks 
 while you destroy the enemy with some grav tanks.
  Orks, have a great advantage: number, you can overwhelm enemy's forces with a big punishment of 
 lets say 20 squads? and then use the big animal that finishes up any dreadnought.
  Another advantage for Eldar is their Avatar and vehicles, the Avatar can even if well used destroy 
 a whole base alone. And the vehicles give a great support as there are two units that hold a lot 
 of fire, although they dont do much damage, with five or six you already have a defense.
  Chaos Bloodthirstier is Hell by itself. In one of my battles (hard) it finished two enemies. The 
 sorcerer has great abilities to finish infantry, And the chaos lord has demonic strenght ability 
 that is nice against infantry and light vehicles. The obliterators people aren't made for much 
 punishment thats why they have teleporters and deep strike, lets say you make a lot of them and 
 send a normal squad with infiltrators on and then drop the obliteratos? Huh? you see that gives 
 a nice headache to the enemy.
  
  Space marines have a common thing they hold a lot, the best thing of space marines must be the 
 orbital relay, you send and infiltrated squad into enemy territory and then give to it a bombard 
 o dreadnoughts, space marine squads or use the terminators deep strike to overwhelm the enemy's 
 forces in just seconds, but this doesnt make them the best as their uniques arent that good, so 
 the battle can be turned by an Avatar, Demon or the big animal from orks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  Admittedly I knew nothing about Warhammer 40K until someone told me about Dawn of War, and I was 
 hesitant to try the game. I eventually caved after hearing about how great it was and I do not 
 regret my decision. Dawn of War is an excellent game with some interesting ideas; the campaign 
 isnt hot, but skirmish and multiplayer are a blast.
  
  At its core, Dawn of War is a fast paced real time strategy game. Instead of taking time to build 
 up your forces Dawn of War encourages you to send units out as soon as you can to capture Strategic 
 Points where the bulk of your resources come from (the others coming from power cores that you 
 build in your base.) This makes Dawn of War faster paced than most strategy games because within 
 the first five minutes youre already down each others throats fighting over that critical strategic 
 point or relic (a form of super strategic point) . This encourages combat because in order to build 
 your factions best units you need at least one relic under your control and the more strategic 
 points you own the more resources youll have being generated and your enemies will get less resources.
 
  
  Fortunately the infantry units in Dawn of War arent your usual RTS cannon fodder; they can get 
 pummeled by vehicles yes, but if theyre equipped with diverse weaponry which you get with an armory 
 they can be a force to be reckoned with. Vehicles are also quite powerful in Dawn of War, but not 
 so powerful that you can win a match with just one type. Each of the four sides: The Space Marines, 
 Chaos Marines, Eldar and Orks are unique, and unfortunately only the Space Marines are playable 
 in the games short campaign. The campaign has a decent enough storyline, but its extremely short, 
 easy and as I said before you can only play as the Space Marines.
  
  The graphics in Dawn of War are very nice; units are detailed and battles are lit up by gunfire 
 and explosions. The game features an army painter which lets you customize the colors of your Skirmish 
 and Multiplayer troops as well as their badges and banners.
  
  The sound is decent, the voice acting is okay though sometimes it can go a little overboard. The 
 sound effects are clear and the music is unfortunately not too great. Dont get me wrong; the soundtrack 
 isnt bad by any means its just nothing youll find yourself writing home about.
  
  Dawn of War is a great real time strategy that all fans of the genre should try; it may be faster 
 paced than RTS titans like Starcraft and Age of Empires, but that is part of what makes it so fun 
 and unique. It could have stood to have more single player content; the campaign is mediocre, and 
 though the skirmish is decent enough I cant help but feel that this game was developed with multiplayer 
 in mind rather than a nice and healthy balance between the two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fhelvie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War (DoW) was without a doubt the very best Real Time Strategy game for 
 2004, and easily one of the top 3 games of the year as well- following respectfully behind Doom 
 3 and Half-Life 2. An artful blending of the captivating and rich history of the Warhammer 40,000 
 Universe, the RTS format, and a well developed graphical experience, this game was without a doubt 
 worth every penny spent on it.
  
  Dawn of War places you in command of the Imperial Space Marines- genetically and technologically 
 enhanced soldiers bred to fight for their god-like Emperor in his mission to cleanse the Imperium 
 of all xenos (aliens) and Chaos-Tainted beings. You conduct many typical RTS missions- establish 
 a foothold, hold off the enemy for X time, escort the emissary, etc- you know the deal. What sets 
 this apart, however, is the storyline and it's faithful adaptation to the tabletop wargame from 
 which it derives itself. It also brings new features to the table such as the camera angling allowing 
 you the traditional "view from the top" mode to zooming in to view the battle right alongside one 
 of your squads. I also enjoyed being able to attach and detach your heroes from one unit to the 
 next in order to bolster smaller squads for scouting or as the point-man unit for the charge. 
 
  
  Possibly the only drawbacks to DoW would be the lack of selection for the different races and the 
 missing terriain/mission editor program. With such a wide array of humanoid and alien races to 
 choose from, it was a little disappointing to find only the Space Marines, Chaos Marines, Eldar, 
 and Orks as the only player choices. When you consider how well done these races were developed 
 into the PC game format, it truly makes you wonder how they would have done other races such as 
 the Tyranids (think Starship Trooper-esque bugs) , Necrons (Undead Robots of some sort) , etc. Also, 
 the ability to create your own terrain and create customized missions was one feature that I noticed 
 missing immediately. While DoW played a little more quickly than I would have preferred, a terrain 
 and mission editor program would have filled in perfectly. The good news is that either Games Workshop 
 (IP owner) or THQ (Game Developer) have made DoW a very mod-friendly game, and there are numerous 
 mods out there for players to download new races and terrain editor programs. 
  
  I will be scoffed at for this, but I'm not a multi-player so I can't speak on this too much. What 
 I can say, however, is that those I know who do play this online rave about it. 
  
  BOTTOM LINE:
  
  If you do not own this game and profess yourself to be a hardcore RTS / PC 
 Gamer, then you need to reevaluate your true understanding of your game. Now that this is selling 
 for $29.99, you'd be a fool not to invest in this beautifully crafted game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowblade042
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Awesome. Just bloody awesome. Dawn of War is a brilliant game. You don't need any knowledge of 
 the 40K universe to understand it and it is VERY fun to play, whether you play as Space Marines, 
 Eldar, Chaos or Orks. There is enough difference between races to make it a challenge to play with 
 a new race, but also alike enough to get a quick grasp of how to start. Thsi is an AWESOME game, 
 and everyone who reads this should buy it. NOW!
  
  "There is no such thing as innocence in my court. Anyone who pleads innocent is guilty of wasting 
 my time." - Inquisitor Lord Karamarov. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishheads111
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Amazing for a first! With Awesome sound , and great graphics to match this a game for any RTS fan! 
 The finishing moves of characters and the common troopers are just plain fun to watch. And the 
 action is intense, with the extremely well refined squad combat. Although all this is great, there 
 were a few quirks with morale effects. As in... the squads sometimes became totally unresponsive... 
 but it's not a big issue overall.
  
  The AI in this game are great... for beginners all the way up to the warlords of the gaming community 
 at the hardest level of play, and it's not just that the computer players seem to just have more 
 than you do like other RTS games, they are actually overwhelming and crushing you.
  
  Overall an awesome and a must buy game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastapdiddy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  I love how the squad based units work in this game. In most games you have to create units indivualy. 
 In Dawn of War you get to create them a squad at a time and then add individuals to it. The graphics 
 are sensational and the sound matches as well with an excellent soundtrack to give the feel of 
 the game. There is a zoom in feature so when your army battles it out you can get a good view of 
 the action. Even when the units are fighting hand to hand you can see the units throwing punchs 
 and such. This game will keep you busy for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichocolate
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  1st it was fun, but after a while It gets boring... most buildings have the same functions, almost 
 everyone has the same units only looks different and after a little longer, you will realized it's 
 just like warcraft, only with guns. I have to admit that the switching from close - up to melee 
 battle is quite fascinatiing and zooming into the battle scene is quite a pleasure sight but the 
 unique-ness of each race is limited makes the fact that this game is a little dissappointing to 
 play. 
  
  It's still fun to play but if you want to play a really good fantasy RTS game, it's best to stick 
 to Starcraft and Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiN-Koenig
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  A great RTS for any RTS fan, whether you like Warhammer or not. I love how you can zoom in to see 
 the vicious melee battles, or zoom out to view the massive firefights spanning across the battlefield. 
 Combat is intensely visceral, and there's lots of blood and gore. The learning curve is extremely 
 small, allowing players to pick up the game within a few minutes. Units are awesome and fun to 
 use. I especially love the squad aspect, of specializing a squad to perform a certain job. Races 
 are designed perfectly, allowing for different play styles. Strategy is extremely important here 
 because the AI is amazing if you set it to the hardest difficulty. Overall, this is a great RTS 
 and is extremely addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scraggsy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best RTS's out at the moment, one of my favorite features is that 
 when someone dies, they dont just fall, they get ripped apart in a bloody mess. Loads of features 
 make DoW a must have RTS. What is also great is that the races are equally balanced, but almost 
 completely different. It also isnt too challenging on normal, so someone like me who isnt the best 
 at RTS can still really enjoy the game, while more hardcore players can set difficulty really high 
 for a challenge.
  My only criticism is that the online is very hard for someone who isnt the best, there are lots 
 of people who are freakishly good, and they nearly always beat you senseless.
  But, the single player, and CPU multiplayer is, as i said, very flexible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPopo66613
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:48 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the basics gameplay.
  
  The gameplay in Dawn of War is a new and fresh compared to any RTS I; ve played with innovative 
 squads, weaponizing and cover, stances not so much. Each race has its own tech tree most far different 
 from the others with the exception of the Chaos Space marines and Space marines. Although the tech 
 trees are relatively different the overall play of the game is quite the same, build this, build 
 that and then make this, the only signifacnt difference is with the Eldar race, but im not getting 
 into that right now. It seems that every race has its own version of a certain building making 
 it easy to follow but also bores the game down quite quickly. The game is quite well balanced and 
 each of units have a purpose, massing a bunch of Tier 1 units wont get you the win like it does 
 in most RTS' I've played. DoW also has the unique melee combat feature that allows your units to 
 switch to melee weapons when the enemy gets to close, this one: looks AWESOME and two: can be a 
 strategic move maybe to avoid artillery or something. All in all the gameplay of Dawn of War is 
 well balanced, seems fresh from all the other RTS' and is just plain fun.
  
  The graphics aren't spectacular but still pretty great. The game allows you to zoom right into 
 the face of the squad with 360 degree panning. You can watch from above as a maginficent fire fight 
 goes on or zoom in below to watch your Force Commander deliver a fatality to its enemies. The graphics 
 arent as brilliant as most games to its date but heck its an RTS, graphics arent everything.
  
  The sound of DoH, overall its good, nice sounds for weapons characters the only problem I have 
 is when working your workers!!! These things have THE MOST ANNOYING voices of all time with the 
 exception to the Eldar bonesinger which I dont mind as much. But seriously the Chaos builder is 
 just plain annoying and every time you click on it it speaks in the most annoying tone!
  
  Overall I think DoH is a great game, especially for a Warhammer game (only joking) and its worth 
 a try and a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concealedview
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  This game is such a great RTS game, that last RTS I played that I liked this much was Warcraft 
 3 =D.
  
  Gameplay- I have to start off by saying that one of my main annoyances with RTS games is that slow 
 feeling you get in the beginning thats almost boring. You know what I mean... you have about 3 workers 
 and you have to start collecting resource with them to make more workers. 
  Well this game destroys that. I'm no longer lazy to play RTS games. You know that once you start 
 you'll be into the game int he first 2 minutes.
  This game is for those people that don't want to spend time researching and making a town half 
 of the game. This is raw combat to its finest. All you do is make units and make them better. Somehow 
 they kept it simple yet it still has much thought and strategy behind it.
  
  Graphics- There is nothing with the graphics that I could find wrong with in this game. Even with 
 the detail levels all set to low, you'll want to spin your 360 degree camera just to get a closer 
 look at your awesome army. Not only do the units look awesome in general, but you can literally 
 custom paint your armys with 256 colors in about 5 color places (such as primary, secondary, and 
 eyes.)
  When your units fight in this game its so breath-taking. Who would of thought that an RTS would 
 finally feel like war. The graphics engine is so advanced. Each unit will literally shoot in squad 
 form in ranged combat. But melee combat is the real breathtaker here. Units will literally fight 
 for their lives, and if you have time to zoom in, each unit fights indivudually. It's amazing.
 
  
  Sound- The sound is great, the music is nice and catchy too. I think the music could have been 
 a little better but the sound effects were great.
  
  Value- What can I say, this game rules. I will be playing it for years to come I'm sure of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinbobbabobot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game definitely changes my perceptions of RTS games.
  
  If you're a fan of RTSes then you know that Starcraft pretty much perfected the RTS formula- at 
 least, the conventional one. You use peon units to gather resources and build a huge base and then 
 slaughter your enemy. Most every RTS since then has used this formula as their blueprint.
  
  But this game is different. It lets you focus on the combat far more than the economics. You 
 capture strategic points and build power generators in order to manage your base's ability to acquire 
 resoruces, and these things never run out of it. Well, strategic points can degrade in value but 
 if you have enough you'll never go hungry again.
  The battles are intense. Units are managed in a different way- you can upgrade the weapons sets 
 of some to make more diverse combinations of infantry and vehicles, and infantry come in squads 
 whose effectiveness depends on how many there are in a squad, their weapon types, their morale (which, 
 if broken, can make a squad less brutal in their effectiveness) and their upgrades- namely, firepower 
 and accuracy. It's freakin awesome.
  
  Graphics are awesome too, and the camera really brings home the splendor and drama. The music is 
 one of the best tracks I've ever heard before. The single player's campaign is very well executed- 
 characters have rich personality, the story is reasonably complex, though predictable, and you 
 really get a feel for the conflict in its entirety and drama. 
  
  Get this damn game. I have yet to get the patches or play a multiplayer game but I have no reason 
 to assume they are bad. Winter Assault looks great too. This definitely satiates my appetite for 
 a new RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosleader0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on my birthday in February and since then, it has been hard playing anything else 
 since then. I just love it. I like the balance of the game between the 4 races like the fact that 
 the Space Marines have less unit support than the orks but are on the other hand more powerful 
 for individual units.
  
  I also love the music for the game and it adds that little something to make you just want to play 
 it some more. My only complaint is for the chaos units, there voices are winny and very annoying. 
 
  
  The campaign for the game is short and is lacks any real story. To win, all you have to do is amass 
 enough units and rush 'em. The game really shines in multiplayer and skirmish mode. You can keep 
 playing and the computer A. I. is very good on the higher levels.
  
  The Graphic engine for the game is also amazing. It shines even on low end pc's. The details for 
 each unit is amazing and the terrain is very well done. 
  
  And with the great support by the community, you can keep playing for a very long time. For ex: 
 The Daemon Hunters mod add three races of extremely well made units. And the support by relic is 
 pretty good
  
  Overall, its worth every cent
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamezilla57
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is so great in just about every department. From graphics, sound, fun factor, this game 
 excels in everything. I had heard some really good things about this game but I wasn't sure if 
 it was true. First off, the game looks awesome on just about any mode you have it on. Even when 
 tons of action overloads the screen there is barely any lag. The game just looks awesome, it might 
 not support the best graphics ever but for an RTS it looks stunning. The control is great also, 
 I found no problems. The game is also pretty easy to pick up and play after you go through the 
 tutorial but what this game really is great in is sound. The sound is so awesome in this game. 
 You can here just about everything going on in the battlefield, from the battlecries of your teammates 
 to gunshots and just about everything you can imagine it sounds like a real fight going on. All 
 in all this game is just a great RTS in every aspect. It's not completely perfect but it's pretty 
 close and for cheap price it is at right now, what reason is there to turn this game down? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cigarillos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  It great details of life. And, how war is done. It has levels, and I like that it has levels. You 
 can save your game and you won't have to go backwards from level one.
  
  The funest part of the game is I get to make lots, and lots, and lots of men. 
  
  The game 
 teaches good building skills as a child. They let him build an understanding of how you have to 
 save resources and build. 
  
  You must balance offense with defense, helping him understand there are more than one strategy 
 to succeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuliski2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game abiosly rulez i have been played it like... Ok ok i buyed this game when it gamed to 
 the shops so that's how long i have been played this. And i'm still living it there's some great 
 machines and its cool to build own army and capture some stategy points and build your own military 
 so if u been never played this game buy it TODAY!!! THIS VERSION IS BETTER THEN WINTER ASSAULT 
 trust me! graphics are same and graphics are great!!! and... I just like to play this more then 
 winter assault i dont know why. So play this game forever! :D C YA in online!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragenix
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 13, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  the game begins by introducing a new space marine chapter, the Blood Ravens. as the story progress 
 you seem to be the force commander gabriel, who is in charge of the blood ravens, even though u 
 can control any unit of your army on the battlefield. there are many different units to choose 
 from, scouts with sniper rifles that can cloak, to space marines with falmethrowers, heavy bolters, 
 plasma rifles, and missile launchers, to assults marines with jetpacks that can jump into battle 
 from great distances away, to the unstopable terminator squads, that can teleport about the map, 
 and do serious damage with mini-guns. and thats just the infantry, then comes the vehicles, from 
 dreadnoghts with near unstopable force, to the land raiders with five guns on it, an armada by 
 itself.
  this game is absolutely amazing, it is definetly the best RTS to date, and not to have it is hersey 
 in the least, an amazing story with amazing gameplay. 
  a must own.
  
  "through the destruction of our enemies do we earn our salvation" - Librarian Brother Isador 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoblinOnFire
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  What is cooler than a Space Marine Commanderwielding a Daemon Hammer?
  A Space Marine Commanderwielding a Daemon Hammer supported by 30 Space Marines, 6 Terminators, 
 3 Dreadgnoughts, 2 Predators and a Land Raider, kicking the green out of a bunch of Orks. Thats 
 what!
  
  Im a huge WH40K-fan and a table top gamer, so Im really not able to be objectiv about this.
  
 
  If you havent played this game, play it. If you have played this game! Play it again, on higher 
 difficulty. And then go online and play some more. There are several very good servers out there 
 (G-Spy powered as they may be..)
  
  Good game. still not tired of it...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40K Dawn of War is an RTS no one should miss out on. Even if you're not that big of a 
 fan of the genre, the game is simple, and encourages players not to play like you have to in most 
 RTS games, which is building a bunch of defensive structures. Even the way you get resources involves 
 going out of your base and fighting.
  
  The concept of Warhammer 40K is simple. Capture strategic points, (the way you get resources, no 
 gold mines here) which can actually lead to some intense battles as players throw everything they 
 have at the enemy over capturing these strategic locations. Once you've captured those locations, 
 then advance up the tech tree as quickly as possible to build a good army, then go out there and 
 beat the enemy into the ground. Even though this may sound like some quick matches, the battles 
 can last a while, and all the tech trees are very detailed.
  
  The game's races, the Space Marines, who stand for the Emperor of Mankind, the Chaos, former Space 
 Marines who went against the Imperium's religion to worship dark gods, who give them evil powers, 
 the Eldar, a mysterious race who are basically space elves, and the Orks, who don't have any motivation 
 and just like to fight people, all play differently. Orks rely on zerging (which for people who 
 haven't played Starcraft, means swarming with lots of guys) because they aren't very strong standing 
 by themselves. The Eldar have all their units accsessible through upgrades, so they can build even 
 their best units faster than any other race. The Space Marines have smaller numbers, but insanely 
 powerful vehicles and infantry, but they take a very long time to get. And the Chaos are a mix 
 of the Orks and the Space Marines, they're Tier 1 units are pretty weak, but can be put into bigger 
 squads, and their tier 2 and 3 units are more powerful.
  
  The game has interesting ideas, like a cover system, and a morale system, but you never really 
 see the difference in gameplay when they are in affect, one difference you can see though, is the 
 squad system. Start out with a squad of 4 troops, and quickly build it up to 9, or even 17 for 
 fire superiority.
  
  The campaign mode is great, but its only playable as the Space Marines. The story is good, but 
 all the cinematics are in game, so they don't look as good, but seeing as the game itself looks 
 good, these look pretty good as well, but you just wish they took the time and made a few more 
 intense cutscenes, like the one you see as the game intro. The campaign mode is also only 11 levels 
 long, but every bit of it is addictive, and enjoyable.
  
  The multiplayer and skirmish modes are great as well, but the A. I. can be a little annoying. On 
 Easy, the A. I. is a little too easy, and on Normal they are a little too hard, which can be frustrating 
 at times. The online is great though, but there is no kind of ranking system, so you can't tell 
 if you're playing with a complete noob, or a hardcore player.
  
  The graphics in Dawn of War are some of the best graphics I've seen in an RTS. It always runs smooth, 
 and it blends great gritty, war-torn enviornments, with cool looking cartoonish characters, but 
 it blends really well. Some of the models are very detailed, if you zoom in on the Librarian model, 
 you can see a book sticking out of his shoulder pad. The graphics capture the brutal battles, and 
 destroyed land-scapes very well.
  
  The sound in this game is good. Some of the music, though great, doesn't really match with whats 
 going on. The voice-overs can also get pretty annoying. But the sounds in the midst of battle are 
 insanely good. You can pretty much hear everything you are seeing in the battle.
  
  The game's campaign isn't very replayable, but its worth the money. The Skirmish, and Multiplayer 
 modes are where the game really shines in terms of replayabilty, expect to be playing it a lot.
 
  
  All in all Dawn of War is a great game, but there is some balancing issues, and the campaign could 
 be worked on a bit. The graphics are awesome. But, voice-overs could annoy people a bit.
  
  If you are a fan of RTSs, buy this game, if you aren't strongly consider buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 26, 2005 11:02 pm PT
Review:  DOW is a great game the single player is cool but it does need alot of content they added only 
 4 races so far with a 5th out this winter out of a total of about 7 races 
  
  i dont know why they didnt add more races to the first game then add just content patchs later 
 on i guess they just want more money from 30-50 dollar expantion packs i guess which really sucks 
 
  
  as DOW is a wicked game just with the lack of content you get bored really quick
  
  owell hopefull winter assult returns the fun factor to the game again :) 
  
  maybe their next 
 pack will have more then 1 race in it  _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigas_Yuu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  Usually when there's a lot of violence and gore the developer will hang on that to carry the game's 
 presentation. However Warhammer 40ks presentation immerses the human mind in a world so fascinating 
 you actually want to check out this nerd gathering thing called a "tabletop" game.
  
  So what is Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War about? It's about the "Imperium"- think neo communists 
 or in better terms think of Neo-rome. They believe in one and only one: their Emperor and with lines 
 such as "Fear Denies Faith" you can imagine how strict they are upon their own people. Basically 
 the Imperium seem to be an evolved race of humans with enhanced psychic abilities that can find 
 out what happened in a battle ( sort of like a criminal profiler that uses psychic ability to find 
 what happened in a crime scene) so as the Imperium go across Battlefields they discover a plot 
 to bring a super weapon back from the ancient past and crush the Emperor's forces. The immensely 
 cool thing is four races are evolved in this battle. 
  
  The Orks- who really could care less about a super weapon, just want to fight a war. They're the 
 complete opposite of stealthy soldiers and prefer a full on battle. They salvage parts from the 
 Imperial Guard and put them together to form their own monsterously disfigured vehicles. They also 
 have gigantic lizard things that gore enemy soldiers into the air like ragdolls. You can't imagine 
 how fun it is.
  
  Eldar- An advanced race so perplexing that you cannot explain their intent, why they are the way 
 they are and how crazy their technology is. To be Eldar is to be a Master of the Battlefield. (unless 
 you're one of those lame hiding types ) They are complex to direct and take a lot of tampering 
 around with ( as a beginning player) to really know what you're doing
  
  The Chaos- Pure evil. I wont say anything more and let you play the game
  
  Four races fighting 
 for power, and one ultimately trying to bring doom to the world- You can't go wrong with that story. 
 Especially the graphics that accompany it tell youThere was a battle here. My God everything 
 is completely destroyed"
  
  This game showed me that great graphics are possible in Strategy games and thanks to Dawn of War 
 it set a slightly higher standard when coming to presentation. Now you have more and more Strategy 
 games beautying themselves up before release. 
  
  The sound of Dawn of War is fantastic. Including the bassy rumble of the tanks and the fluidity 
 of the lasers. The explosions are downright memorable and sound so good you almost want to plant 
 mines on your own soldiers just to see and hear the gorgeousness of the explosion effects in this 
 game. Warhammer coming soon with an expansion is definately worth your money. It won't disappoint. 
 I can't say anything bad about it, because the game has stolen countless hours from my life. All 
 of which have been satisfying.
  
  For those of you who are proud of yourselves and like different colors- theres a custom army painter 
 in Warhammer 40k . Lets you paint the armor of your troops, and with the graphics in this game? 
 It won't fail you. Gathering resource is easy so don't worry about that when it comes to gameplay. 
 Just go out and buy it. =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roffkaiser
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 4, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game is set in the Warhammer 40k universe, which makes for great stories and game play by 
 itself. But, Dawn of war strikes out as one of the best RTS experiences i have had since Starcraft, 
 even without falling back too hard on the Warhammer name. The gameplay is solid, with a seamless 
 transisition between hand-to-hand combat and long-range combat you just don't see in games much. 
 Plus, the fact that your units are produced in squads instead of single units makes them that much 
 easier to control and keep track of. The 4 races all feel very different and bring their own style 
 to the game.
  
  The pure carnage of seeing your troops mowing down dozens of orks from a shellhole, only to be 
 thrown out of it by an artillery shell adds to the awsome immersive feel you get playing this game. 
 The ability to zoom in and really see your troops fighting, adds to that as well. 
  The graphics are pretty darn good for a RTS and really brings the battles to life. 
  
  In the 
 sound department, you really hear a lot of the things you hear in most Warhammer 40k games when 
 it comes to music. And the technical sounds can get a little repetitive during hours of gameplay, 
 but the sounds themself are very well done and top notch.
  
  The Singleplayer is short, and pretty straight forward. But the game really shines in multi-player 
 where you can play people from all over the world, in game types from take and hold (kinda like 
 king of the hill) where things can get very bloody in the one area, or your standard Free for all 
 deathmatch. The games can hold up to 8 people which really brings the battle to your living room. 
 With a simple stats tracker for every character that keeps tracks of wins, ladder points, and favorite 
 race, it adds a little bit to the multi-player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k's universe is a truly dark and depressing one, the game represents four of the major 
 factions in the setting, the Imperial Space Marines (humans genetically engineered and equipped 
 with some rather fancy weapons and power armour) who are seemingly all fundamentalist's who follow 
 a past saviour known as the emperor to them, who died thousands of years ago and is still pretty 
 much frozen on Earth in a special device known as the golden throne..
  
  Also theres another human faction known as the forces of 'Chaos' these are humans who are twisted 
 versions of the Imperials, as equally fanatic but they are much more bloodthirsty and twisted, 
 devoting their services to the dark 'gods' of Chaos which are powerful deities formed over millenia 
 from mainly human emotions. 
  
  Also there are the Space Orks who live to fight using what appears as crude backward engineered 
 imperial technology and are unsurpassed when it comes to close quarter combat. 
  
  Finally theres the capricious and enigmatic Eldar who are were once a powerful race but have declined 
 greatly and are no longer as strong as the Imperial forces, but they specialise in long ranged 
 weaponary and heavy weapon platforms combined with psychic abilities, just dont expect them to 
 last long in close combat.
  
  The graphics are WH40K DoW are good, not amazing but you'll want a decent graphics card to be able 
 to admire everything, theres alot of detail in the scenery aswell as the individual units. When 
 your playing the game you'll probably find yourself trying to zoom in close to really appreciate 
 the melee fighting with soldiers flying in all directions from powerful attacks or units being 
 scattered by tank fire.
  
  The sound in WH40K DoW is average, voice acting is good although there are a few voices which will 
 get irritating such as Chaos Heretics. Space Marines and Orks sound spot on though. Weapons fire 
 sounds good enough but the music can seem lacking, sometimes it just seems too quiet.
  
  Gameplay genuinely fun, theres a base building compenent and offcourse a tactical part wher you'll 
 fight with your armies, you can customize squads for a specific role, such as equipping them with 
 certain weapons maybe rocket launchers to take down vehicles, flame throwers to destroy enemy infantry's 
 morale but most of the time it come down to a huge throw everything you have at the enemy and hope 
 for the best, it can be fun but most of the time theres no strategy involved and can get very messy. 
 
  
  You can also add hero units such as a Force Commander or Chaos lord or medics to a squad, this 
 will improve their attack strength, accuracy and also heal them.
  Some units also have special abilities such as being able to cloak, throw grenades and use telekentic/psychic 
 attacks, my favourite being an orbital bombardment or turning a chaos soldier into a Bloodthirster 
 (giant demon with a insatiable apetite for fighting) .
  
  Offcourse theres also a base building aspect, you can build structures anywhere but you need to 
 build power reactors and acquire requisition points, this adds another layer of strategy to DoW 
 as these requisition points are fixed locations on a map which can be captured, and when they are 
 they can be foritifeid to verying levels and boost your income, however there are only a handful 
 for each map and theyre the frontlines of fighting usually in quick games.
  
  The singleplayer campaign of DoW is ok the AI can be very difficult on higher difficulty settings 
 (you'll sometimes see in multiplayer people banding together to play against just 1 very hard AI 
 bot) , nothing terribly brilliant but its stil enjoyable none the less, however with that said its 
 incredibly short! expect to complete it in a couple of days of getting it! multiplayer is where 
 the real longevity of this game is at. 
  
  The Problems I have with DoW are that, the singleplayer campaign is short, too short, also there 
 could be a few more music tracks, the multiplayer can become frustrating at times when people usually 
 either have a brilliant alien ware PC, but a 56k connection, or a 2mb broadband pipe but a 266mhz 
 pentium 2, causes extremely long loading times, bad lag and occasionally dropouts which can ruin 
 a game before it begins, i know other games have the same problem but its particullary bad in my 
 experience on DoW. And theres little in the way of strategy.
  
  Four factions that are playable also doesnt seem enough, but theres alot of variety between them 
 and im looking forward to the expansion pack coming out later on which will make the Imperial Guard 
 (soliders somewhat comparable to whats avaliable today but in much greater numbers) actually playable 
 in multiplayer and skirmish mode. 
  
  A good game none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PureDemon-
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 5, 2005 10:17 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War is a great strategy game which takes little time to learn. Although it has a story 
 mode you will find yourself playing online more. 
  
  The story is quite weak and could be improved it has 11 missions and you face each race in the 
 game except the Space Marines. You can only play as Space Marines which is the only race in story 
 mode kinda boring but you learn some things that might be usefull in the future. the textures in 
 story mode are also better then in Skirmish or Multiplayer. 
  
  The greatest part of the game is definetly Multiplayer because you can measure your skills with 
 other people you might also learn some new things that will help you out.
  If you like to see the bloodbath from upclose you can just zoom in and pan the camera to every 
 direction which gives you a nice look at your army slaughtering or getting slaughtered. There are 
 only 4 races to play but the expansion Winter Assault will give you one extra. Also you are able 
 to download mods made by fans of the game for a fun new race you can also try it yourself by downloading 
 a mod kit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k: Dawn of War, or DoW as I shall call it from now on, is a truly brutal, violent, 
 in your face real time strategy game. 
  
  Gameplay: DoW has a great single player campaign, that lasts for a very, very long time, as well 
 as a fully realized skirmish mode, and of course, an excellant online multiplayer mode.
  
  There are four races in DoW, the Space Marines, the Eldar, the Orks, and the Chaos Space marines. 
 The first three are exceedingly diverse, this game is one of the few strategy games that is able 
 to pull off the feeling of playing 3 different races entirely. The Chaos Space Marines, however, 
 are almost exactly like the Space Marines, just with a different skin set. That isn't such a bad 
 thing though, as the former 3 races are very different in unit selection and production.
  
  The Space Marines, for example, do indeed rely heavily on *shock* marines. These will be your primary 
 fighting units throughout the whole game, and amazingly enough, thats not such a bad thing. The 
 marines can be reinforced on the fly, bringing in new units as your old ones get cut down, and 
 the marines feature 4 different weapons they can upgrade to. 
  
  The Orks are different in that they rely on massive, overwhelming numbers. A single ork squad falls 
 under the onslaught of most other units, but with the massive amount of orks you can bring in, 
 you can simply swarm over the enemies in no time.
  
  The Eldar rely more on subtle tactics, although some of their later units are surely strong enough 
 to pack a massive punch. The Eldar are the more technologically advanced race, and their units 
 reflect this (i. e. more plasma than machine gun) .
  
  Again, the Chaos Space Marines are almost exactly like the Space Marines.
  
  The chaos of battle 
 is potrayed so violently in this game it is awe inspiring. Zooming in on the chaos you will see 
 dozens of different animations, and utilize dozens of ways to kill your foe. This game is exceedingly 
 intense. One example I can give of the ferocity of the combat is when you are playing as space 
 marines. You're zoomed in on the field, watching your marines happily walk through a seemingly 
 unprotected zone, when dozens of ork pour on you out of nowhere. You bring in reinforcements to 
 your units as you take casualties and fall back to an area of cover (cover allows you a mild defensive 
 bonus) . Then you bring in some assault marines to give further back up. The assault marines pull 
 out some chainsaws, and as you watch, hack apart the ork, the chainsaw blades sounding in the chaos 
 of battle as blood flies all over. Battle has never been this intense.
  
  Amazingly, the game even makes you care for many of your units, when you lose a squad of marines 
 you had armed to near invincibility, you actually feel sad at the loss, although you can quickly 
 bring up a new one. It is interesting that amidst this chaos of battle, there is still some sense 
 of humanity in it all.
  
  The campaign isnt the best way to see the chaos of battle, instead, online play or massive skirmishes 
 with computers allows this. Hundreds will die quickly in such massive battles.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are truly superb, but zoomed out, the view you use most, they look just 
 average. The way to really appreciate the graphics is to get your base defended, and then zoom 
 in to watch the combat.
  
  Sound: The sound is actually really good, but it has several glitches. Often in the campaign character 
 speech glitched, and once in a while the music would cut in and out randomly. This was actually 
 pretty bothersome after a while, but you eventually get used to it. The actual quality of the music 
 is superb, very suiting, epic, and awesome.
  
  Value: While the campaign is good, it doesnt give you an appreciation of the game as much as a 
 campaign should. Otherwise, this game is the perfect value for your money, especially as its price 
 has recently dropped.
  
  Tilt: A brutal, gritty, unrelenting potrayal of futuristic war. What more could one ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dawgz_Homies
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2005 2:16 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000k Dawn Of War truly is an amazing strategy game (probably because its developed 
 by relic) that ALMOST exceeds everything it set out to do.
  
  Overview Singleplayer: First i'll start with the pros. First things first, this game has 4 unique 
 races which all have their unique abilities. The races are: Space Marines, Chaos, Orks and The 
 Eldar. The Space Marines are kind of like the Terran from starcraft but in my opinion these guys 
 are way cooler! Chaos are basically mutated Space Marines or "heretics" and they have dark powers. 
 The Orks in this game are way different than any others orcs in games. These ones are of course 
 futuristic and have a weird scottish kind of accent (they are kind of the comedic relief in this 
 game too) . The Eldar are (in another starcraft comparison) like the protoss. They are an advanced 
 alien species with psychic powers. The Campaign only takes the view of the Space Marines unfotunately 
 but is still pretty good. It has a decent storyline but i still think after playing through it, 
 that it could've been better. The Enemy A. I is relatively easy. They are not dumb but they are 
 not hard. Its just that this game was probably made in mind for newcomers to strategy games, and 
 if your really hardcore RTS gamer you probably wont find much challenge (even in insane mode) . BUt 
 thats why you go to multiplayer (which i will explain later) .
  
  Overview Features: DOW has a nice bit of tactical play with infantry units which is really cool. 
 You have the ability to manage their morale, the less it is, the more likely they will flee and 
 break up, the more it is, they will stay together and use all their might and power. You can also 
 upgrade them with, reinforcements, designate members with heavy weapons and also call upon a sergeant 
 or attach them with a commander. Every one of these options gives your troops an advantage of some 
 sort which is really immersing. And a feature i find is much better than the usual resource gathering. 
 In DOW you dont have to hassle micromanaging resources. Instead you just have to main requirements. 
 Requisition is mainly to units and most buildings. You get this by controlling Strategic Points. 
 This is a much more satisfying and tactical feature as you have to battle it out with oppenents 
 to claim your strategic points and defend them. You Also need power, which is less important as 
 Requisition. To gain power you need to build plasma generators or a thermo plasma generator which 
 generates more but requires to be built over a slag deposite. These kind of "resources" are much 
 easier to manage and handle without it being too easy. 
  
  Overview Graphics: Simply put AMAZING! Everything in thise game is life life and unbelievable good 
 looking. Also thanks to the zoom in you can really get up close and personal in battles. Explosion 
 effects are great, huge holes are formed in the ground when bombs explode and the weapon effects 
 are realisitc and cool. The graphics are one of the main reasons this game is just so awesome!
 
  
  Overview Multiplayer: Well i wont talk too much about multiplayer because i dont really play it 
 much. But what prevents it from greatness is LAG. No matter what connection you have its someonelse 
 that has a bad connection. When you do get into a lag free game its great, but thats quite rare. 
 This is the major con of mutliplayer.
  
  Overall: Dawn Of War is just plain awesome! But some of the major problems do temper with that. 
 The Campaign is too short, with only one playable race and a decent but not great storyline. The 
 sides are not completely balanced (is it just me or do the eldar just suck?) but that doesnt matter 
 since they are all fun to use. The mutliplayer is ruined thanks to lag and the patches dont seem 
 to help. There is an expansion coming out this year called "Winter Assault" with new features, 
 a new race, more untis, a campaign playable with three sides and a better mutliplayer that might 
 just make Warhammer 40k a classic and an unbeatable franchise. Hopefully the potential in the next 
 game will be fulfilled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jesus_
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 9, 2005 10:20 am PT
Review:  The graphics in Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War are top-notch for the genre, no doubt about that. 
 The polygon count is high, the textures are sharp and the animations are really good. There is 
 no lack of extra features either, you got an army painter in which you can make your own color 
 theme and custom badges for your army, which your multiplayer opponents can also see. Relic will 
 also be releasing a map editor, which was originally intended to be included on the CDs, but sadly 
 did not make it in the final release candidate. When you start up the game and watch the intro, 
 and to the point where you jump in-game, the game feels and looks like the Warhammer universe.
 
  
  The sound in Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War has a good quality, but it has also some problems. A 
 couple of the races has some bad A. I. barks, such as the Eldar, which are rather annoying to hear 
 when you control them. In the single-player campaign, you can clearly see that Relic has been too 
 lazy to make any synchronized voice-animations. Finally, a lot of the characters in the single-player 
 campaign seem to talk with a british accents, which seems out of time and place. All these drawbacks 
 in the sound departement are really minor and do not affect the value of the gameplay or how much 
 fun you might have playing it.
  
  The gameplay in Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War has some issues. First of all, there is only one 
 possible strategy you can use to win, and that is to rush your opponent, and keep on building as 
 many units as possible constantly and pour them at your enemy. This is the only possible thing 
 you can do in order to win a game, there is no other way. If you attack a unit from behind, from 
 the side, or from the front makes no difference in this game, so trying to ambush your opponent 
 does not have an impact on his army. The gameplay mechanisms in this game is built so that all 
 you have to do is to keep on building units and send them out on the battlefield. So much for the 
 strategical possibilities in this game.
  
  You might think that since the game has four races, there will be plenty of variety in terms of 
 gameplay. Sadly, each race has very few units and some of those units look very similar to each 
 other. Most of the units in the four races have also been built to do the same things, for example 
 infantry or vehicles doing either melee combat or ranged combat, or artillery vehicles.
  
  If you plan on playing against the A. I. by skirmishing either alone or against your friends, you 
 might find the difficulty level to be a problem in this game. The "Standard" difficulty level is 
 too easy, and if you are for example playing with two other friends against three computers, you 
 will have no problem with beating the A. I. on this difficulty level. If you move up to the "Hard" 
 difficulty level it becomes impossible to win the game, and it makes you wonder why Relic even 
 bothered implementing a "Harder" and an "Insane" difficulty level. They should rather make a difficulty 
 level between "Standard" and "Hard".
  
  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is using a rather successfull recipe in the RTS genre which goes 
 all the way back to the first real-time strategy game on the computer. If you like seeing fast 
 battles with lots of eyecandy and gameplay with little strategical content, this game is the right 
 kind of game for you. However, more experienced gamers or gamers that crave for more strategy in 
 the genre will feel that there are things missing in this game, such as strategy and a variety 
 of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mt2211
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2005 11:27 pm PT
Review:  OK... After Hundreds of hours playing this glorious game I think I'm eligible to review it.
  
  Gameplay: I think the gameplay in dawn of war is very enjoyable. What makes this game special 
 is that everything is very well balanced: The four races have been designed very well and are all 
 equally strong (Although ELDAR is my favourite) , The length of a skirmish match is about 1-2 hours 
 and it's absolutely ok, The game has a lot of detail and many units and upgrades but not as complex 
 and confusing as Rise of Nations, ...
  Man! This game is seriously addictive! My gameplay's score is 9 only because the campaign is short 
 and solely lets you play as one race.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this new masterpiece is awesome. The high quality of the effects like 
 explosions and bullets and flames in Relic's new engine are very enjoyable. Also you're able to 
 zoom inside even into the teeth of your units which is a very cool feature. Man, I hope many other 
 RTS games will be made using this piece of jewel. The only complain about the graphics is the slightly 
 weak texture quality.
  
  Sound: Some guys here have made complaints about the repetitive unit sounds or bad music! This 
 seems absolutely odd to me because both the variety of sounds and the music quality in this game 
 are great! And also the gretchins and the cultist squads are exactly the funniest units in the 
 game! I'm really satisfied with the sound quality of the game.
  
  Value: I think it's enough to say with at least 5 recently released action games, 7-8 other RTS 
 games and a collection of many others, honestly it's more enjoyable for me to play my 100th Dawn 
 of War skirmish game than to play ANYONE of the others. Just spend some time (A little time I mean) 
 to learn playing as all four races and the game will soon become horribly addictive!
  
  Tilt: Not any other goddamn choice but 10!!
  
  If you haven't bought this game yet then go 
 to the nearest shop and buy it. As a professional gamer I guarantee that you'll not be disappointed. 
 I suggest you don't even waste a minute wearing your pants cause that minute can be used to make 
 a guardian squad! :)
  
  I hope Winter Assault would be a worthy sequel to this masterpiece.
  
  Thanks for your time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 19, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game off the suggestion of a friend and I amazed how quickly I have become addicted 
 to the game.
  
  This game has been compared to Warcraft III many times and rightfully so considering Warcrafts 
 heritage and roots. But one thing Ive never really liked about Warcraft is the magic. Dont 
 get me wrong it has value but it can often tilt the game in favor of another less strategically 
 advantaged team. All of your planning can go to waste if your opponent picks up some good spells 
 along the way it can make the game unbalanced.
  
  In Warhammer you dont have that there is no magic!!! That is a plus to me. The teams are evenly 
 based and the action starts as soon as you get going. Within in a matter of minutes you are in 
 combat and that is where you stay the entire game. Words cannot adaquetely describe the level of 
 game play enjoy this game delivers.
  
  GamePlay (10) : No doubt this game has some of the best action I have experienced in an RTS and 
 it never quits. 
  
  Graphics (10) : The graphics in my opinion are perfect. You are given full control over the camera 
 so you can change the view from a distant view to right down in the middle of the combat.
  
  Sound (10) : Clear and crisp no doubt about it.
  
  Value (9) : Worth every penny spent on 
 it Im hoping for expansions.
  
  Tilt (10) : I personally havent found a game that is more fun to play then this in any genre. It 
 is quick to learn, has a very nice tutorial, and just draws you into the game as you play.
  
  I would definitely recommend this to anyone who is looking to start playing RTS or who likes 
 RTS games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Cynical
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I have always found the Warhammer tabletop game interesting. Interesting, 
 but sad. As appealing as all the story behind the universe is, I don't have the time or patience 
 to shift five plastic figures that I paid 30 for across a tabletop. Dawn Of War removes that obstacle. 
 For your money, you don't get a single squad of Space Marines (paint, heavy weapons and sergeant 
 not included) , you get the whole thing, right up to the big stompy robots that you saw in THAT 
 video. Warhammer now has its mass-market appeal. You see, most conversions of this type (e. g. Airfix 
 Dogfighter or any of the previous Warhammer games) end up being crap. They concentrate too hard 
 on being faithful to the license over good gameplay, and end up being neither. Dawn Of War could 
 not be further from that strange-smelling past.
  
  I am not a particularly patient person. I am not a great fan of the Total War games (although firing 
 flaming pigs in Rome is amusing for about 5 seconds) . My RTS gameplay is based on the likes of 
 the Command and Conquer series, or Civilization. Turtle up, then build up 20 or 30 of a better 
 unit than your opponent has, and go kick ass. So why am I so enthusiastic about a game that makes 
 you explore the map, and hold Strategic Points to make money? Its so fighty. No, that isn't a word, 
 but try to find a better one to describe this game. The action is pretty much constant- you can't 
 just sit and wait for your opponent to pour themselves onto your well-prepared positions- and there 
 is scope for tactics as well. No, I'm not talking 'your archers walk 3.4% faster than theirs but 
 have 2.3% less attack power', I'm talking the accessible sort of tactics that make you feel like 
 you've achieved something. Like waiting until just the right moment to send that Squiggoth barreling 
 into the enemy lines, or hiding anti-tank soldiers, knowing that an enemy Predator is about to 
 appear because you sent scouts out and found it. Despite this being a futuristic game, there are 
 no planes/spaceships to be seen. It's all about the ground-pounding carnage. More than once you 
 will be the one cheering when your lumbering Dreadnoughts appear to save a single squad of Space 
 Marines taking on the orc horde, or something along those lines. Even the most basic Scout unit 
 can take down the super-expensive power infantry. Why? The squad limit. Sure, you can have that 
 super-powerful Terminator squad, but you can only build 4 of them, and the 10 space marine squads 
 I can get for the same squad limit will tear your little mechmen apart. The same applies to vehicles- 
 its not just a question of building as many as you can of the biggest tank around, you have to 
 make best use of the vehicle limit given to you, in a way that best suits your playing style and 
 the infantry you're using.
  
  With all that gameplay, you'd usually expect the other areas to suffer. Not on your life. The graphics 
 are sublime- the particle effects from artillery units are breathtaking (especially when you realise 
 that its bits of the soldiers you just hit) , the flamethrowers avoid looking like orange candy-floss, 
 and the fighting just looks vicious. Like when a Dreadnough spears an enemy soldier on its claw 
 arm, and then spins him round with blood flying everywhere. It's not a SoF-type gratuitous gore 
 though, its just enough graphical tricks to convince you that this is actually a war your guys 
 are fighting. Despite the brilliance, it is not a major system hog. Admittedly, I'm using a 3.2gig 
 Pentium 4 with a 256mb graphics card, but Dawn of War places less demand on my system than Battlefield 
 Vietnam. I'm serious.
  
  The sound effects just add to the atmosphere. In more feeble games you might get a soundback 'yessir' 
 or 'order acknowledged', or even the whine of a tank engine, Dawn of War gives you the whole experience. 
 You'll hear the Sergeants yelling SPACE MARINES ATTACK every so often, and the men themselves shouting 
 as they kill whatever non-Space Marines they happen to be fighting at the time. The battle effects 
 are great too- artillery sounds like artillery, rather than a cat being introduced to a firework, 
 you hear Sergeants rev up their chainsaws as enemies approach. Unfortunately the other races are 
 not as well done as the Space Marines. The Orcs try to be funny but end up being the typical American 
 impression of Londoners, the Chaos builder units sound too feeble to be demonic heretics, and the 
 Eldar are just plain stupid- as if they can't decide between cyber-warriors and Tolkien.
  
  Also disappointing was a lack of campaign for the other factions. As good a character as Captain 
 Jacob Angelus is, I would like to be able to play as Chaos, Orc or Eldar outside of multiplayer 
 or Skirmish mode. Come on guys, even the original Command and Conquer (circa 1995) managed this 
 not-too-difficult feat, and the more complicated game is no excuse since Rome Total War managed 
 it.
  
  Overall, Dawn of War is a fantastic game that redefines what we should expect from the Real Time 
 Strategy genre. Red Alert 3 will have to be damn good to beat this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caiyu13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of war, the first game in my opion that has impressed me since command and conquer and halo. 
 This is only game from games workshop that I have actually admired. Look at other RTS such as C&C 
 and rome total war, I have to say Dow is better than those by a mile. Morale, squad, requstion; 
 its all balance perfectly.
  Now I'm not great fan of complicted game strageory where you need to press a series of button just 
 to tell a unit not to go anywhere, dow makes you (or at least me) comfortable with the controls, 
 its hard to desrcibe but the game gives you power like you can raze the planet to nothing but death 
 or save it for the good of the imperium.
  i understand this game alot better than non-warhammer players so don't be confused about my motives.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2005 3:08 am PT
Review:  To preface, I am a fan of the Warhammer 40,000 table-top wargame, and already had an impression 
 of the strategies and story of this game's universe before I picked up a copy. Warhammer 40,000: 
 Dawn of War is a great real-time strategy game whether or not you care about the famous license 
 and sci-fi universe. The armies (of which there are four to pick from) are uniquely balanced and 
 each very fun to play. Two, the Space Marines (Loyalists) and Chaos Space Marines (read: Demonic 
 Rebels) , are unfortunately too similar, but the Eldar and Ork armies utilize different resources 
 and building, unit, and technology trees. This really improves the gameplay and asks you to use 
 different economic strategies with different armies. Units are grouped into squads (which are commanded 
 as single entities) and this system makes reinforcement and the creation of specialized task forces 
 very convenient -- an excellent feature.
  Graphically Dawn of War isn't bad, but you'll have to get used to bleak, battle-worn landscapes. 
 The 41st millennium is a wretched place. The game's sounds are one of its strongest points, giving 
 powerful effect to the array of weapons well-known to W40K hobbyists. Note: the big clanking bolters 
 and elegant Eldar cannon are usually silent plastic and metal miniatures, but here they come alive.
 
  If you're looking for a new real-time strategy that'll keep you playing even after the main campaign 
 is won, pick up Dawn of War. And if you're a Warhammer table-top gamer, you shouldn't buy another 
 blister pack until you have this on your shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainDingo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2005 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is excellent; Let's just get that out of the way right now. Relic, 
 a little-known developer in the grand scheme of things, has created something special that even 
 those of us who thought the table-top game was boring can get into, as long as you like solid strategy 
 and don't mind some good old-fashioned bloodspray in the process.
  
  In Dawn of War, you're given four very different races, taken directly from the table-top game. 
 The races you'll find in the game are the Space Marines, a group of roughnecks who will stop at 
 nothing to defend the emperor's good name; the Chaos Marines, twisted rebels against the emperor 
 that siphon dark powers and use them to fight against all that is good; the Eldar, a mysterious 
 race of highly intelligent aliens capable of great special abilities; and the Orks, the savage 
 hand-to-hand (and oddly enough, comedy relief) race.
  
  When you fire up the game, one of the things you'll notice from the get-go is that this is not 
 a piece of licensed garbage. The game looks and sounds clean, it plays really great, and aside 
 from a few minor and probably nit-picking flaws, the game as a whole is truly excellent.
  
  Dawn of War features some great eye candy thanks to lots and lots of lighting effects and some 
 great-looking explosions. Everything in the game looks exactly like its table-top equivalent, and 
 units animate well. As just mentioned, lighting effects and great explosions really steal the show. 
 With a firefight between just two squads, every single bullet expelled from their weapons lets 
 out a burst of light, and keeps the battles looking, quite frankly, really cool. And as tanks launch 
 artillery at the ground, you'll notice the huge blast and the dirt flying into the air as anyone 
 foolish enough to be standing in its way is launched into the air in sadistic glory.
  
  Of course, despite the game's great visuals, it does have gameplay to back it up. Dawn of War plays 
 out like most real-time strategy games, in that you need to build up a base, create your army, 
 and launch attacks at your enemy. The only part that strays from the ordinary is the resource system, 
 but luckily it's a good kind of straying, not a "What were they smoking?" kind of straying. There 
 are only two resources in the game (Unless you're playing Orks, but I'll get to that in a moment) , 
 Requisition and Power. Requisition is normally needed for strictly ground troops and mostly organic 
 units. Power is almost always needed in order to get vehicles and some heavier units. Requisition 
 is gained by capturing points on the map called Strategic Points, of which can only be captured 
 by most infantry units. Put simply, you're constantly gaining a trickle of each resource, and the 
 amount you're getting is represented by a "+10" or "+15" or "+150" or however much you're getting 
 at any given time. When ordered to capture a Strategic Point, your units will surround it and plant 
 a flag. After a short time, the Strategic Point will be taken, and your resource flow will increase.
 
  
  Dawn of War does something a little differently though. In most other real-time strategy games, 
 the idea is to defend your base, not your resources. In this game, this idea is completely flipped 
 upside down; after acquiring a Strategic Point, it would be wise to build a Listening Post on it, 
 which is a building that provides defense for the point so that your flag can't be easily unplanted 
 from it. In addition, it increases the flow of resources from the point by a small amount. From 
 there, the Listening Post can be upgraded to be equipped with turrets, and since the Strategic 
 Points are so far away from your base, you'll quickly learn how important it is that you spend 
 resources creating turrets and mine fields around them, not your main base.
  
  This works well for the gameplay for a few reasons. For one, it always gives the players something 
 to be fighting over. In traditional games, you're given little reason to clash except to destroy 
 your opponent's base in one big swoop. In Dawn of War, you'll constantly be fighting over these 
 points, which also keeps the gameplay fast-paced and interesting.
  
  But this is babble; you all don't want to hear this. The resource system is indeed interesting, 
 but you want to know about the battling. It is called WARHammer 40,000: Dawn of WAR, right?
  
  Your population cap in Dawn of War is usually around 20 ground troops and some more vehicles. 
 But before you howl in anger, realize this: a "unit" in Dawn of War is actually a squad (with the 
 exception of vehicles, where one unit is one unit) . Squads can be reinforced with new units, which 
 means that each squad acts as its own miniature barracks. This also means that you can reinforce 
 during the heat of battle. As a result, a single squad can last a long time in battle as long as 
 they're not overwhelmed, and it also adds a strategic element. It gives you something to manage 
 while in battle... which squads are you going to focus on keeping alive? Are you a good enough 
 player to keep all of them alive? These are some questions you may find yourself asking.
  
  Another useful trait of squads is, usually, you can upgrade weapons on individual units in the 
 squad. Flamethrowers, Heavy Bolters, maybe Rocket Launchers? You can equip your squads to make 
 them very customized to countering certain other squads, or countering vehicles. Or perhaps you 
 want to have one of each weapon, and perform equally well (though not particularly potent) against 
 all enemies. Unfortunately at the start, it sometimes feels like all you need to do is overwhelm 
 your enemy with large numbers to win, but this is where vehicles come in. Large numbers of troops 
 simply can't match up to one or two big mechs, plain and simple, and even with squads full of rocket 
 launchers, you need to expect casualties. While this initially feels unbalanced, the fact that 
 each race has their own devastating vehicles means that if one guy is using vehicles and you're 
 not, you'll lose, and it will have been your fault. It's extremely important to use a good range 
 of vehicles and ground troops; ground troops for the lighter skirmishes and flooding the opponent's 
 base, and the mechs and tanks for doling out the big, important damage, and to defend against other 
 mechs and tanks.
  
  The bottom line is, this is a good game. It's a great game. Anyone who has been aching for a futuristic 
 RTS needs to pick this up. When you're strolling through the store, please don't pass Warhammer 
 40,000: Dawn of War without giving it a good long look, because it'll definitely be worth your 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaethro
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2005 4:59 am PT
Review:  "We are united, in HIS service!" Yes, I do admit the soundbits for the characters are a little 
 longwinded, but they are nevertheless one point of substantial pleasure in this novelty of a game.
 
  
  Dawn of War would not have stood out quite as significantly to me as a unique strategy game if 
 it were not for its underlying aspects and nuances in the races. The gameplay concept of Strategic 
 Points and squads is well executed: recycled but refined nonetheless; the graphics are only blocky 
 up close and while scanning a battlefield the animations look superb; the number of units of certain 
 races is sub par, but still adequate... Overall, the gameplay is very good, but not quite outstanding.
 
  
  However, this is where the nuances and the underlying plot kick in. Each of the four races operate 
 on significant parameters unique to each. The Space Marines, for example, have few but very proud 
 and powerful zealots of the Emperium for units that can be upgraded with weapon they need to handle 
 a threat, whereas the Eldar (the Protoss-like race in the game, though they don't play like Protoss 
 at all) have one unit for every task: Guardian eats scouts, Dark Reaper eats heavy Infantry, Howling 
 Banshee eats anything with a long range.
  
  Each race also has an excellent story for their resolve and causes their will to fight to be so 
 substantial. The Space Marines are humans that worship the all-high Emperor and his majesty is 
 to be followed even to the point of the intelligent being watched and scrutinized as they are likely 
 to be the rebellious ones in the group. The Chaos Marines have the sole conviction of wanting to 
 eliminate the Imperium and are quite twisted in their ways, feeling no pain. The Eldar a far enlightened 
 race that more or less seems to adapt precisely to the will of the Eldar, whatever that may be 
 and they don't seem to care whatsoever for themselves. The Orks are the comic relief of the bunch, 
 but still show amazing conviction to their rallying cause. The Orks have bloodlust and as a result 
 are simply rallied from rural areas to any cause involving combat. They even have their own resource.
 
  
  Everything about the race is structured from there. Buildings built in different ways for each 
 race (it never gets old watching your buildings fly in by cargo plane in the form of a huge ball 
 of junk when playing as the Orks) , the soundbits are acted out almost always with extreme precision 
 to the unit's personality, and even the morale system (which I must comment is one the most efficient 
 and balanced I've seen in a while) has its base in each races overall conviction to their cause: 
 the Space Marines have an undying fervor so they have excellent morale whereas the Orks, though 
 bloodthirsty, really don't want to die.
  
  All-in-all, subtleties like these and many others make give this game an extra special kick (though 
 the Chaos Marine cultists will drive you insane with their ranting) that qualifies it to be a contender 
 some of the more epic games in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is a science fiction RTS game set in the Warhammer 40,000 universe. 
 Luckily however, you don't have to know a thing about Warhammer to enjoy this game. Dawn of war 
 takes place in the 41st millennium where mankind's enemies have grown in number and ferocity. Dawn 
 of War features 4 unique races. The first is the space marines, who are geared towards players 
 who just want to play and want troops good at everything. Second, is the Chaos space marines, who 
 were once space marines but turned to evil. They are geared to a more assault oriented player. 
 They have only a few vehicles, but can summon massive and powerful daemons to the battlefield. 
 Third is the Orks (yes, it's spelled with a 'k') . The Orks are a savage green horde. They are powerful 
 at melee combat, but can be picked off easily by ranged units such as the space marines. Finally, 
 there is the Eldar. The Eldar are an extremely technologically advanced species. The Eldar are 
 geared toward a much more advanced RTS player, as most of their units are quite fragile and require 
 lots of strategy and micromanagement. The story in the campaign is played entirely from the perspective 
 of the space marines. They land on the planet Tartarus to protect it from and Ork invasion, but 
 soon discover elements of Chaos and Eldar are lurking around as well. In addition, the game ships 
 with a fully functional skirmish mode and multiplayer client. In skirmish, the AI can be set anywhere 
 from Easy (which is a total cakewalk for even the most inexperienced players) or insane (which 
 is incredibly challenging) . The game itself is quite entertaining. The developers put a lot of 
 effort into their kill animations, of which there are plenty. You'll see things like a 50 foot 
 daemon grabbing an Ork, squeezing him to death and drinking the blood, or a 40 foot flaming god 
 of war stabbing an enemy and watching him slide down his sword, or a huge mech stomping all over 
 enemy squads. Dawn of War is certainly a brutal and visceral game (one of the only RTS games i've 
 ever seen with a M rating) , however some of the violence can be toned down in the game's menu. 
 Overall Dawn of War comes together to form a incredible experience for any RTS player, and is right 
 up their with some of the sci-fi RTS classics such as Starcraft, or Homeworld2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homer2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 12, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  Ok, so the table top doesn't seem so appealing, and you might think; hmmm.... will i even like 
 this? Yes, definitely you will get addicted to it. It is simply an awesome game, although you have 
 to play it to believe it. The graphics are superb if you have the system to handle it, and the 
 details are absolutely amazing. The combat is also very spectacular with many special killing animations, 
 especially when horoes kill the daemons (the large units like the red minotaur devil guy) it is 
 truly awesome. The sounds also meets up to the quality of the rest of the game. Overall this game 
 is really awesome although the only downside is that in campaign you can only play as space marines. 
 Even so, you'll be spending most of your time enjoying some fast action games online or in skirmish... 
 don't worry about the AI being repetitive because the AI varies from easy to standard to hard to 
 harder to insane... so lots of things to choose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  
  The visual appearance is cool, clear, clean, crisp : it's great eye-candy, but some skirmish-map 
 landscapes are rather bland & barren (not many "doodads") . Patched to version 1.20b, the game doesn't 
 seem to be buggy : gameplay is seamless. It's not a revolutionary RTS, but it's good for a few 
 laughs while immersing oneself in the Warhammer 40K universe. 
  
  But during this 2004/05 Holiday season, I prefer to play the Kohan II & Armies of Exigo RTS games 
 : just a question of taste. 
  
  I cannot evaluate the AI's competency : I am far from being an RTS expert. I only play RTS games 
 to relax from my on-line WarCraft expeditions (and monster-bashing chores) .
  
  But playing as the Chaos Marines, I had to turn off the voice slider in the audio options : the 
 unit-acknowledgement speech is just plain silly and childish.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattock5656
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 22, 2004 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I bought Warhammer 40k about 3 months ago, having the intention that it was going to be good; from 
 the review's I saw. 
  
  I thought it was good. When I bought this game, I was new to the Warhammer universise and I was 
 just wondering what it would be like to from a popular board game.
  
  Well, In Dawn of War, there is a campaign mode; which consists of 13 missions or so. The missions 
 are fun in all, but the campaign is entirely too short. Compare to the campaigns like Command and 
 Conquer Generals, where there is a campaign per faction.
  I was kinda dissappointed and I was kinda not. There is a skirmish mode, and there is a mulitplayer 
 online play. They are both very fun and add extra time to your gameplay. I did find the game, after 
 a while, to get boring. This is usually what happens to a RTS.
  
  The graphics are very good. Every unit on the battlefield is highly detailed and every ounce of 
 blood is acceptable to this nature. Yes, there is a alot of blood, and this makes the battle more 
 intense. The game though can get random slow-downs if you do not have a good gaming rig.
  
  The sound was good. I did find some bugs though that made the sound mess up sometimes, but it didnt 
 really become a problem.
  
  If your a RTS fan, and haven't played this game... Give it a try and you will be satisfied.
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asmodai110
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2004 5:24 am PT
Review:  Being not only a fan, but a player of the table top game WarHammer 40,000 it is no surprise that 
 i picked up a copy of WarHammer 40,000: Dawn of War. This game brings the WarHammer 40,000 universe 
 to life with its amazing gameplay, cool graphics and its accuracy. They have finally made a great 
 game that is truly worthy for the name WarHammer. The game has a great campaign that teaches you 
 along the way and once you are done with that you can test your skills against others. One thing 
 that I really liked is that they have four playable races in the game and a army painter to make 
 them your own; this adds a certain fun factor to the game. This has to be the best WarHammer game 
 for the PC yet and i have played them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tluken1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2004 10:56 pm PT
Review:  This game may not excel at single player but overall the enjoyment of this game far surpasses this 
 downfall. Each side is fairly unique in its own way definetely gets my two thumbs up. 
  
  Warhammer 40K: DOW is definitely a beautiful game if you have the computer to run it but its enjoyment 
 level doesn't go down one bit even if you have to play it on the lowest settings. I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who is a fan of RTS. The only reason I can't give this game a perfect is because 
 there are a few things such as differentiating unit types between the space marines and Chaos marines 
 a little more, and maybe a few more multiplayer maps and of course no one can settle for anything 
 less then plethora of units, but I can't find any RTS that fits this....... play on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2004 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I think I can be certain when I say a lot of us have been waiting a long time for a good Warhammer 
 universe video game to come along. We have been tempted by others that were eventually discarded 
 as so much trash by the wayside. However, in the year 2004 a game has finally been unearthed that 
 can rightfully claim the Warhammer 40K logo. This game is Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War. This RTS 
 is set right in the middle of this sci-fi based universe and you get to command an army of Space 
 Marines as they must battle Orks, Eldar and Chaos forces for a mysterious and powerful relic. 
 
  
  The single player campaign, though short, is well done. Like other RTS games you much quickly and 
 efficiently build various technologies to unlock the true might of the space marine forces. The 
 action is fierce and gory and the diversity of maps make each episode in the campaign different 
 than the rest forcing you to switch tactics and utilize various types of forces. The eleven mission 
 campaign starts easy and gradually allows for the use of better and better technologies. This helps 
 to make the learning curve of this game simple and intuitive. The only problem I have with the 
 SP campaign is that its short and you cannot play any of the other races. Hopefully an expansion 
 or two is forthcoming.
  
  Once you are done with the SP, and it wont take long, you can immerse yourself in some great multiplayer 
 action online. The game features many different ways to play the multiplayer and unlike the SP 
 campaign you can play any of the 4 races. This is undoubtedly one of the biggest draws of this 
 game since the SP campaign is so short.
  
  The graphics are fantastic and an army editor is provided so you can customize your own armies 
 banners, logos and color schemes.
  
  Overall this game is awesome with a capital A!! The fierce and intense battles, especially on some 
 of the higher settings really create a fun game to play. If you like multiplayer action this game 
 delivers that in a big way also. I recommend this game highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2004 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40K DoW is an excellent first shot at Warhammer 40K RTS gaming goodness. It's got the 
 units, the races, the weapons -- and ALL of the violence! I'm getting through it ok, so I suppose 
 it would be a little easy for a veteran RTS player, but it still rocks! The Orks are violent (not 
 to mention, uncouth) as hell, but they bring a rain of fire down from the Space Marines that's 
 just a pleasure to behold. The heavy bolter turrets are also quite nice, and who doesn't love a 
 dreadnaught tossing Orks and buildings around like so many rag dolls?
  
  I wish the game were longer, and that more units and races (Genestealers!) were included. I suppose 
 it'd be nice to play as another race, but I really like the Space Marines, so no heartache there. 
 I think an expansion is called for, if not more than one.... and a scenario editor would be nice...
 
  
  I hope and pray an expansion pack is in the works... think Space Hulk!...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhame
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 15, 2004 2:08 am PT
Review:  Warhammer has one of the better single-player campaign storylines. It's only downside is you only 
 play as the Space Marines. Had it evolved from one sect to the next (like Warcraft III) , it would 
 have been nearly as-enjoyable as Warcraft III's campaigning.
  
  There is interesting balancing in this game for an RTS. The battle action is quite 'intense' (as 
 far as RTS games go) and that was a breath of fresh air.
  
  Graphics are decent, though the zoom feature is poorly-implemented. ... greater camera flexibility 
 is needed.
  
  Builders will enjoy how much you can upgrade your infantryman, but for certain sects (Space Marines) 
 there's just so little to 'build' on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2004 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually very good, with or without the Warhammer element the RTS core is sound. Dawn 
 of war has rather innovative tactical gameplay for an RTS, which is based around capturing and 
 holding strategic points which generate resource points based on several factors like outposts 
 built on them and upgrades. This works pretty well, forcing you to expand and play a somewhat aggressive 
 game; you can't just sit back in your base and theres constant action rather than the stale attrition 
 you sometimes get in other RTS games.
  The graphics are very good in full 3D with plenty of very visceral battle animations, its superb 
 to watch a Dreadnought wade into a unit, smash several enemy out of the way, pick someone up and 
 fling them off the screen..
  The sound effects are quite good though there is the obligatory bad voice acting in the campaign 
 though it doens't really detract from the overall quality. The campaign itself is quite good but 
 very short, about 10 missions which I completed in 1 day. However the multiplayer/skirmish elements 
 of the game are very good and make up the bulk of the gameplay hours. The difficulty of the AI 
 in skirmish and multiplayer is very well gradiated ranging from complete push over to very hard 
 and importantly the hard difficulty setting is just right, a good challange without being off putting.
 
  The warhammer element works well, the four races, Eldar, Marine, Chaos, and Ork are authentic 
 with all the main units and vehicles included. Though the rules as far as I can tell have just 
 been thrown out the window in favour of a more fluid system, which is probably a good thing.
  All in all a great RTS and from me thats saying something as i'm not a big RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streifen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 4, 2004 8:11 am PT
Review:  Fans of the Warhammer 40,000 universe will absolutely love this game. The unit models are great, 
 the sound is great, the gaphics are great, and the blood is great. This is a very well done RTS, 
 it might not be as popular as Blizzard's games or and of the C&C games, but it will definitely 
 hold its own. If you loved Warcraft 3 but got sick of the fantasy story, then here's your game. 
 No fantasy, just blood and bullets. You will get so much satisfaction from seeing your many troops 
 of Space Marines lighting up a troop of Ork. The bullet trails are something that you need to witness 
 first hand. Enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangedays
Rating: 6.6
Date: Oct 25, 2004 6:37 am PT
Review:  First, let me say that I enjoyed this game thoroughly. The graphics, the story, the innovative 
 use of "strategic points" and "relics" on the map, all kept me riveted. Unlike some reviewers, 
 I actually enjoyed the cut scenes and didn't mind the repetitive voices in the battlefield one 
 bit. However, as others have mentioned, no one but the noobiest of RTS players will have any difficulty 
 at all blazing through the single player campaign. The overall experience is more like watching 
 a movie of a cool battle than playing a game. There simply isn't any strategy to be had. Other 
 than to defend strategic points, I'd say there was nothing I learned over the course of playing 
 at all. And multiplayer is literally just a speed match to get your units out there. Though many 
 will appreciate that resource management has been simplified - it has been at the expense of strategy. 
 With the advent of the beneficial "strategic points" - the actual two resources you accrue seem 
 redundant. I also discovered to my dismay, that though there were many kinds of units/machines, 
 you could basically stick with 1 version of infantry, and 1 version of support unit and be fine. 
 There were no advantages to choosing certain units, equipping them a certain way - it was simply 
 a numbers game. So, to sum it all up: playing Dawn of War is like eating a big fluffy dessert. 
 It tastes wonderful going down, but after the sugar high you are left hungry for something with 
 substance. In fact, I think I'll go dine on some warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmac03
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 24, 2004 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War is defiantly an action packed RTS despite it only being entry-level. The way in which 
 it captures the Warhammer universe is remarkable; the level of graphic environments sounds effects 
 and overall tone of the game really gets the grim reality of the far future across nicely. The 
 action is fast paced and often times chaotic and brutal if you get into some serious battles. If 
 you have ever played the table top version of the game then you might have wondered what it would 
 have looked like for a dreadnaught to tear through a group of hapless infantry. Dawn of War puts 
 that interpretation into context wonderfully. The gruesome reality of this future truly hits home 
 in Dawn of War. The transfer from table top to desktop has been done nicely. Though the complex 
 nature of the table top game could not all have been translated, so the style of game play is similar 
 with some noticeable differences. Certain units and weapons can not damage armored vehicles at 
 all effectively (like in the table top game) . So the brutal dreadnaught ripping through the infantry 
 stands unopposed if all the infantry are carrying are bolt rifles. It can defiantly incur a state 
 of panic most of the times. Because it is a RTS they have cut down the micromanaging of troops 
 to squad based instead of individual troops. In the Table top game for instance you can chose which 
 units fire where within a squad. The translation of that to an RTS would just be confusing. Though 
 there are some differences, Dawn of War can be considered just another interperation on the original 
 gameplay and should not be judged because it is a simpler version of it. The way in which Dawn 
 of War truly shines is its representation of the Warhammer Universe. And in that way fans of Warhammer 
 will defiantly get a kick out of this game.
  
  The game features 4 playable races, arguably the most well-known, the Space Marines, Chaos, Orks 
 and the elfin like Eldar. The campaign mode of this game however is unfortunately short and only 
 features the Space Marines as the playable race. In the campaign you play as the Blood Ravens sent 
 to the planet Tartaris to investigate Ork occupation. One of the pit falls of this game for those 
 who are just like the single player style in and RTS is that the campaign is very short with only 
 eleven missions. There is the typical skirmish mode where you can set up how many computer opponents 
 or allies you want on which map, however this can only take you so far. The computer AI set on 
 different difficulties just varies in the level of efficiency. For insane difficulty the computer 
 possesses unearthly abilities to manage and maintain its base and be very efficient while doing 
 it. Because there is no other campaigns for the 3 remaining races the game provides you with a 
 tutorial mission of each, which takes you through the same things with the differences only being 
 specific to that particular race. Otherwise you are left to practice using those races in the skirmish 
 mode before you decide to test your hand in the multiplayer portion. Ultimately if skirmish modes 
 in RTS games have always seemed pointless to you (like they do me) then training with your chosen 
 race is all its really good for. The campaigns story itself will take you through battles with 
 the 3 other races, so you will get a nice taste of variation, but is long and surprisingly complex. 
 Followers of the Warhammer 40K universe will enjoy it to some degree due to the nature of its context 
 and how it deals with all of the 3 other races. Consequently for the games story moments it resorts 
 to overly long and very poorly (sometimes even humorous) animated in-game cut scenes typically 
 at the start and at the end of the mission. The voice acting that gets the story across from the 
 games lead characters is decent but doesnt help the situation. This is one of the biggest criticisms 
 of the game, the story and quality of which it is told is half-assed and too short to really get 
 anything out of it. This is a hard knock to the game if you contrast it with the amazing cg opener 
 that starts the it off. If you compare the campaign mode to the likes of Warcraft 3 for instance 
 there is no contest. This is defiantly one of the games weaker points which is disappointing.
 
  
  However one of the great aspects of this game are its in-game graphical environments and modeling. 
 The animations and the modeling of the units and their likeness to their table top counterparts 
 are really great. The environments are bleak and war-torn, and for most of the settings in Dawn 
 of War all you will see is ravaged cityscapes and scrapyards. It gets the desperate struggle 
 part across well. When disaster strikes it can only be compare to that of carnage. When a unit 
 falls, the attacker might draw some finisher blow with cinematic quality. You unit might drop to 
 his knees in defeat while the attacker effortlessly gives him one last push with an out-kicked 
 boot to the shoulder, or a nice shot to the head. A dreadnaught (and I know I keep mentioning this, 
 but they are so damn cool) will pick up one of the enemy units and crush him in the power fist 
 he wields. Blood and screams are all the follows. 
  
  Despite the odd clipping error the graphics are top notch, but thats not to say that you might 
 need a bit of hardware to run it either. The larger battles can get VERY jumpy if you are running 
 it on a lower end machine, especially if you are into detail. You can get nice and close to a unit 
 and see plenty of detail like rust spots and scratches, so there were no real corners cut. 
  
  One of the other noticeable points that add to the games already horrific environment is the 
 in-game voice acting and ambient sounds. Disregarding the cut-scene voice acting the acknowledgment 
 sounds coming out of these units mouths might send some serious shivers down your back. It is very 
 reminiscent of what might be heard in this bleak future. And everything is harrowing. Even the 
 mighty Space Marine Librarian has nothing but ill news to convey. There is no such thing as innocence, 
 only degrees of guilt. That and many these lines are derivatives of captions to the Artwork that 
 has accompanied the Warhammer universe since its conception. The sound effects too are sharp, biting 
 and crisp. A lot of the sound has strength to it you might not see in other games. This just adds 
 yet another layer to the games immersive environment.
  
  Aside from the bias of this being a W40k game, the game play itself is entry level for a RTS. So 
 if you are interested in getting into the genre, this might be the game for you. And for those 
 experiences RTSers, the fast paced nature of this game is almost reminiscent of a run-and-gun 
 RTS. So there is defiantly some excitement to be had. Not to say that this game doesnt have any 
 heavy pitch battles, on the contrary, most of the strategy surrounding this game is brute force. 
 Those with the most troop base usually ends up just beating the opponent back. The variation from 
 race to race is moderate so there is not a lot of adaptability needed when it comes to fighting 
 them. And the differences between the races are not actually whole differences, but just differences 
 of where the similarities are placed (are you still with me?) . For instance where the Eldar might 
 get healing from a Waygate, Spacemarines will get healing from an Apothecary. So the healing option 
 is there, its just in different places, and so on... The unit and vehicle classifications are 
 pretty much the same across the board. The biggest differences though are the special abilities 
 of unit Commanders, who provide offensive support for the army. You can destroy peoples minds 
 or call down a barrage of orbital artillery. You also get a secondary commander unit which also 
 provides similar abilities, but they are not as crucial. To get the higher level troops, like the 
 Terminators for instance, you need to gain access to things called relics. This is where some more 
 strategy comes into play. Without relics you do not have access to your highest level of vehicles, 
 troops and special units (like the Blood God for Chaos) This can be a deal breaker for those intense 
 multiplayer games Dawn of War has to offer. More complex play comes in during the different win 
 criteria you can satisfy during these games. For instance there is control area as one mode (which 
 is also reminiscent of the table top game) where you have to control 66% of the maps strategic 
 points to win. Strategic points are the games version of resources, and can also be used to set 
 up forward bases or defense bunkers. Controlling most of these on a map regardless of the game 
 type can often times guarantee you a victory for you or your allies. Despite this, if the game 
 goes on for long enough everyone ends up having their highest level troops the game becomes more 
 of a meat fest. This can be a downer for those looking to out-smart their opponent rather than 
 just out-gun them. Thats why this is more of an entry-level RTS, its simplistic in its game play 
 while adding some very notably elements to keep it fun and entertaining. 
  
  One of the elements I really enjoy about this game is the ability to create your own custom army 
 using custom colours and preexisting badges or custom ones that you can create. This really adds 
 longevity to the game. With that you can take it into Multiplayer games and show it off to your 
 opponents. This process of downloading others custom badges and banner might add a minute extra 
 to your loading time but is well worth it. This element is a very nice touch and nods off to those 
 who are Warhammer enthusiasts interested in creating their own personal army. Though you get your 
 choice of using for instance Space Marines most notably Chapters (same with all the other races 
 too) the ability to create your own is well worth the recognition. 
  
  Dawn of War is a lot of fun when it comes down to it, and though its (in retrospect) minor flaws 
 may take away from certain parts of the game experience, those looking for an all around good time 
 and who dont take their RTS experience too too seriously wouldnt go wrong with Dawn of War. This 
 game also has the potential to manage a long shelf-life as the expansion pack options are endless. 
 Diversifying the races and adding knew ones would only do good for this game. A map editor wouldnt 
 have hurt either. Otherwise, Dawn of War can be credited for adding a new and immersive medium 
 for the Warhammer Universe to be conveyed. 
  
  
  
      Extras: The Packaging comes in the standard size box with the typical Aqueous coating and open 
 up flap on the front. For some reason the makers of the inside container did not account for the 
 size of the manual which seems to be too big. You may find it curled or bent in places as it seems 
 like it was almost squished in there. The manual itself has a full-colour cover and single black 
 inside. The game comes in 3 CDs contained in the cumbersome double Decker jewel case. The game 
 also comes with game trailers for the likes of Full Spectrum Warrior. Not Map editor as of yet, 
 which is disappointing but hopefully we will see one soon. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinoff
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2004 2:43 am PT
Review:  The Games Workshop produced tabletop wargame Warhammer 40,000 has an extensive history of releases 
 in the land of video games, most of which fail to attract players unfamiliar with the universe. 
 This has all changed in the latest effort by Relic Entertainment (Homeworld, Impossible Creatures) 
 who have a created a high-quality Sci-fi action RTS which gamers have not seen the likes of since 
 the Blizzard-developed masterpiece StarCraft.
  
  Placed firmly in control of one of the four most dominant races in the 40k universe, the Space 
 Marines, Forces of Chaos, Eldar, and Orks are the centerpieces of Dawn of War. While playing the 
 game, each races diverse personality and units come across extremely well with incredible animation, 
 sound bites, and an overall presentation rarely seen in the RTS genre.
  
  Basic gameplay is standard fare. You begin a standard skirmish with a basic HQ structure and few 
 units, and quickly begin the process of assembling an army with which to destroy your enemies. 
 Resource management is the same for each race, with players having to capture and hold strategic 
 points scattered throughout the war-torn environment. Gaining control of these takes a few moments, 
 however once youve captured it the point grants you a steady flow of resource points, which are 
 crucial to acquiring new buildings, units and upgrades. Naturally these points are open to attack 
 from the rival races, however youre able to build listening posts which in turn can be upgraded 
 to automated defence turrets, ideal for a sudden surprise against a pack of curious Orks. This 
 dynamic certainly lends the game a novel twist to the proceeding action, and ensures that the tempo 
 of the battle is always kept to a maximum. Turtling, camping, or other related strategies usually 
 don't work in the Dawn of War universe, and many players should find that a welcome respite from 
 other games in the genre.
  
  With a simple resource management system, the developers obviously sought to emphasize the combat 
 in Dawn of War, and it truely is where the game shines. Visually there are few faults to be found, 
 and the in-game models will likely impress the most die-hard Games Workshop fanatics. The game 
 is packed with detail and theres action on-screen nearly at all times, perfectly capturing the 
 chaotic feel of how youd imagine those tabletop battles to manifest themselves. Special note must 
 be paid to the animation of every individual unit, with a staggering number of varied animations 
 for each individual model, such as the ruthless Dreadnoughts and Wraithlords squashing opponents 
 and throwing away their lifeless corpses like litter in the trash, or the Orks constant barbarity.
 
  
  One of the most unique features in Dawn of War is how it features a rather different way of handling 
 upgrades for units. In Dawn of War, players select specific squads to which they want to upgrade 
 or specialize. For instance, a space marine squads members can upgrade to weapons which are effective 
 against vehicles and buildings, or other weapons which are effective against certain types of infantry. 
 You are given the freedom to apply this to all infantry units or just a few specific ones. This 
 helps to ensure that infantry units are important in the outcome of the battle and the tactics 
 you decide, instead of just researching the most advanced units out there and leaving your initial 
 units useless. In addition you can assign leaders and powerful characters to the squads, each of 
 which will improve the overall power and efficiency of that particular one.
  
  The other innovation which shines in Dawn of War is the morale system. Its extremely important 
 to keep an eye on the morale level of your units, which is depicted as a blue meter above the green 
 meter that represents health. Morale along with health is decreased when a unit comes under attack, 
 whilst certain units and attacks will affect morale more so then health, like flamers and artillery 
 fire. When a units morale has become completely depleted it will not run away blindly, but instead 
 its overall strength becomes substantially crippled  so naturally its a good idea to get those 
 shivering at the knees out of there. Different races each have varying morale characteristics, 
 so youll find it harder to scare Space Marines compared to the Orks.
  
  Initially the micro-management of units may seem to be a little too much, and there does appear 
 to be some glaring omissions when it comes down to organization with only a brief selection of 
 default settings, however its unlikely to cause too many problems if youve played RTS titles 
 in the past.
  
  With all of the positives, there are certainly a few negatives to be had as well. Dawn of War was 
 made to be experienced in multi-player, with massive armies clashing on the war-torn battlefields, 
 and as a result the short single-player campaign takes a definite backseat to the action. In a 
 little over 10 missions, the campaign follows the story of the Blood Ravens space marine chapter 
 and their efforts to liberate the planet Tartarus from an Ork invasion. Eventually the Eldar and 
 Chaos show up to wreck havoc, but throughout the single-player mode only the space marines are 
 playable. Still, the campaign is good while it lasts, but not at the level of quality that can 
 be had in skirmish, or online.
  
  Overall, Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War strikes a near-perfect balance in the RTS genre and is certain 
 to appeal to fans of both the genre and fans of the Warhammer universe. The innovations and stunning 
 presentation make up for any faults in the game, and is a definite winner in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoBane
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2004 11:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Warhammer anything I have ever played or seen. I love RTS games and the demo 
 got me interested in this game, needless to say I am shocked at how good this game turned out to 
 be.
  
  The graphics are flat out amazing; the amount of detail on the units makes the game just plain 
 fun to watch. Another big thing is you see the units fight each other, not just simply run around 
 and swing/shoot until the enemy is dead. Dreadnoughts pick up, crush, and throw enemy infantry. 
 One of the super units is a big sword wielding demon; he impales enemies on his huge sword and 
 throws them off. If a Force Commander (think hero) gets the final blow on one of the super units 
 you will see a unique death animation that will make you stop everything and just gaze in awe at 
 the screen. 
  
  It is all a beauty to behold. It feels like I am a real live Space Marine, and as a huge fan of 
 Starship Troopers (the book) and sci-fi it is my favorite RTS setting yet, even better than fighting 
 Communists in Red Alert.
  
  On top of the graphics the game play is rock solid. Gone are the days of building units to harvest 
 resources, now you must go out and take strategic points scattered all over the map. These become 
 the points of contention and you must defend them from your opponent. It causes games to be very 
 fast paced and full of action. I like the use of cover as well, it is not the first game to use 
 it but it is by far the best use of it. There are craters on most maps that raise the defense of 
 units inside them. Good use of them can turn the tide of a battle.
  
  The game is balanced very well too. There is no one best race and rushing is easy to counter after 
 you get the basics of the game down.
  
  It is worth noting however that I only play multi-player. The single player game is only 11 missions 
 long and you can only play as one race. If you are looking for something like Warcraft III's single 
 player campaign look else where.
  
  In the end, this is one of my favorite games of all time and I had never heard of it till a week 
 before its release. I hope there is an expansion on the way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippy777
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 16, 2004 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I have only played the game for a total of 3 or 4 hours but from what I've seen so far it has a 
 lot to offer. I haven't had the opportunity to play MP yet and I can't wait. Looks like its going 
 to be a fast paced akin to the old star craft style of playing. The graphics are very rich and 
 beautiful and do a good job of portraying the details and violence of the units. The sound effects 
 are on par as well. One thing that has annoyed me so far are the voice overs. The worker units 
 for some of the factions are abismal and drive me nutts. Especially the Chaos faction. The worker 
 units for Chaos sound JUST like Stempy from Ren & Stempy which is funny at first but then annoying 
 as you play. Its a good fast RTS and I think it delivers what War Craft 3 failed to. Anyone who 
 is interested in playing an RTS with great graphics, solid game play, and fast paced multiplayer 
 should pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoNeoNeo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 10, 2004 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has really captured the Warhammer universe and brought it to life. The graphics and sound 
 are just great. The environment comes alive and each side has its own distinct personality. That 
 distinct personality means that you will have to adapt your gameplay for each of the playable races 
 or you will lose the match. For fans fo RTS games or of Warhammer 40k itself this is a first rate 
 choice.
  
  I really liked this game and that is saying a lot since I am not generally a fan of RTS. Personally, 
 I find RTS games a bit overwhelming and difficult to manage but at least in Warhammer your units 
 will stay alive long enough that you can manage two or three groups of troups simultaneously. It 
 is also refreshing that there are a number fo different victory conditions that can be chosen which 
 eliminate (although you can still do it) the necessity of eliminating the opponents base. I especially 
 liked being able to win by killing the enemy's commander. Unfortunately the usual rushing strategy 
 seems to work best most of the time and that is not something that I enjoy overly. 
  
  The single player campaign was realtively easy to win and a bit short. It was however, extreemly 
 compelling. I loved the over the top story and attitudes of the the games characters and the corny 
 unit acknoledgements. "Idleness leads to heresy". The single player campaign only allows you to 
 play as the space marines which means that it is difficult to then try and play the other races, 
 initially, in the multiplayer or skirmish modes. There is a definite learning curve for each of 
 the playable factions. 
  
  Overall, this game is well worth recomending but be advised that there is not enough in the single 
 player campaign to recomend it for that purpose alone.
  
  p. s. Please excuse the poor spelling and grammer as I have just re-installed windows but cant find 
 my office cd.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GollumOnline
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 9, 2004 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This is really a spectacular game: plenty of great graphics, sound, cinematics et al but outside 
 of the command and conquer style gameplay there is the fact that this is based on the classic Games 
 Workshop stragegy game. Painted miniature figures, hours at the table top and a well known a loved 
 strategy game make this a great possiblilty as a PC game and as far as i am concerned this was 
 delivered. Multi Player or Single Player you get your monies worth from this set of discs. You 
 are even able to virtually paint your own forces in the game.
  
  All in all this is a great, time consuming and addictive game which is cool on my part, my only 
 concern here is that the gameplay reminds me way to much of the C&C game set and although this 
 is a tried and trusted system of play i would have hoped for a little more from the developers 
 on this one, the flip side to this is that i did not have to mess around for too long learning 
 the game before getting my mouse down and dirty on the battle zone.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone, colorful, accurate, fun and above all no holds barred on 
 the blood and gore theme.
  
  Time to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montross
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 8, 2004 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and SOOO addicting and fun! Its an RTS, so of course its somewhat like Warcraft 
 and Command and Conquer, but it takes it in a new direction. Squads of men are what fight for you 
 in this superb RTS. Each squad is unique in a way and can be upgraded with more men or better weapons, 
 or you may even add a Sgt. or Hero to the group to make it a stronger unit. Just coming up with 
 squad grouping strategies has been fun! 
  
  The graphics and the way the battles play out are what set this game way ahead of others. The squads 
 will charge each other and as they battle some of the most vicious animations have been added to 
 show the brutality of the game. You might have a squad of 8 marines get torn through by a giant 
 orc in what appears to be a Mech Warrior outfit in some of the most beautifully bloody sequences 
 you could wish for. The orc will pick your marines up, grind them in his hand, burn them with his 
 flamethrower and then throw the marines bloody corpse bouncing across the landscape until it hits 
 a tree or building and dies. Its the best fighting animations bar none! 
  
  The 4 races are all great to play as and hold various strategies based on their strengths and weaknesses, 
 but they all balance out well. The only draw back that Ive found is the lack of scenarios for 
 the other 3 races after you beat the game as marines. Im sure they will be in the expansions! 
 
  
  You will not be disappointed in this game! Its the best RTS out there! Move over Warcraft III!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: branzi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 6, 2004 11:20 am PT
Review:  Ebbene si, una recensione in italiano, ma siamo in molti che dall'Italia frequentiamo GameSpot 
 e quindi forse  giusto che inizi ad esserci anche un nostro spazio.
  
  Il gioco  molto coinvolgente; una serie di missioni single player ci introducono nel nuovo concetto 
 di gioco di strategia in realTime sviluppato dal Relic.
  Al solito si devono accumulare due materie per costruire le proprie truppe o edifici, ed una di 
 queste (l'energia) pu essere prodotta direttamente. Il secondo elemento sono i Punti Strategici 
 che forniscono Risorse.
  Qui viene il bello, perch i Punti Stretgici vanno conquistati combattendo e difesi a denti stretti. 
 Questo porta a studiare strategie per la difesa delle proprie risorse, inoltre permette di avere 
 svariati punti critici dove combattere contemporaneamente.
  
  Personalmente avrei inserito qualche altra unit, tipo dei trasporti aerei, comunque ce n' per 
 tutti i gusti.
  
  Le missioni single player sono ben strutturate, e nonostante all'inizio sembrino troppo semplici 
 e ripetitive, ben presto rivelano la loro complessit e longevit.
  
  Peccato che la campagna single player sia concentrata solo sugli Space Marine.
  
  Assolutamente 
 da comprare!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiamatDraconis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 5, 2004 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Put away Warcraft 3. Put away Age of Mythology. Put away Black and White. It's time for Warhammer 
 40k; Dawn of War.
  
  There are some definite limits on the ammount of units, but this only serves to support the gameplay 
 and framerate. If two players of equal skill go at it, a game can be extremely satisfying as players 
 battle for control of the various resource creating strategetic points.
  Your resource comes from simply expanding; thus being a defensive camper will kill you. Because 
 of constant expansion, players are always killing each other with some excellent animations and 
 explosions. Huge units such as a gigantic demon can be aquired when players own special points 
 called Relics. These units are nearly unstoppable to an underdeveloped enemy, so speed and protection 
 of relics adds another element of strategy.
  
  Very highly recommended. Potential multiplayer RTS of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjslayer99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 3, 2004 6:34 am PT
Review:  Yes, the Starcraft slayer has come. Dawn of War is one of the most anticipated games of the year. 
 It is one of those games where you require a lot of thinking to move your troups and controlling 
 them. 
  
  One of the game's, unique, interesting gameplay factors is the capturing of strategic points. You 
 need to capture strategic points to earn resources to build structures and units. Another factor 
 of making resources are the power generators. These give you power to make powerful vehicles, such 
 as, the fire prism and land raider. 
  
  The Single Player campaign is linear and does not offer a challenging experience. However you can 
 play skirmishes against the bot AI which can be set to Easy difficulty to Insane where its gonna 
 kick your ass. Apparently the bots dont cheat so you can save replays and see what the computer 
 does. 
  
  This games multiplayer is the main attraction. Theres ladder rankings and an army painter. Theres 
 a nice handy matching system where you can get your match quickly started. Some players will be 
 pros and others will be n00bs. 
  
  To finish it off, Dawn of War is truly a masterpeice that stands out with many details. The sound 
 deserves recognition too as the unit replies are comedic and some are just really cool and satisfying. 
 This game will probably keep you addicted for at least 5 or 6 months depending if you like sci-fi 
 strategy games that require tonnes of thinking or not. 
  
  Just to note, you should have at least a 1.5ghz, 512MB RAM, and a 128MB graphics card to enjoy 
 no lag and amazing details. 64MB VRAM video card would do but your going to have to put it on medium 
 - low settings. 
  This game also requires a 56.6kbps modem, but cable internet or DSL is recommended as there a heaps 
 of lag for laggers. 512MB RAM is required for 8 player matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruckout
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 3, 2004 12:22 am PT
Review:  I couldnt stop playing the warhammer demo, i had i go out to any buy it.... it is a fast paced 
 rts game with lots of strategy and extremely good balancing between the races... the mp is extremely 
 fun, and matching is a breeze... the graphics are really good and the sound totally gets u into 
 the game... the one liners that the characters in the game have are really "cool" ie "even in death 
 i serve" .... Warhammer is a totally worfthwhile purchase for rts veterens and other wanting to 
 try an rts.... the only thing i have against the game is that i wish there were more units availiable 
 in the game, however i m sure that will be address in an expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphasnail7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 1, 2004 1:03 pm PT
Review:  As a longtime fan of the Warhammer 40,000 setting, Ive been sorely disappointed by all of the 
 previous attempts to translate 40k into a compelling video game. Not only have the games been categorically 
 dreadful, they rarely manage to capture any inkling of the feel of the genre. Generally, the closest 
 they get to the feeling of the game is by somehow harnessing the mystical hypnotic power Games 
 Workshop holds over Warhammer fans. Even though all previous Warhammer games have been bad, similar 
 to how Ive bought every edition of the game, I keep coming back for more. My impolite term for 
 it is the 
  
  One moment here to preach slightly off topic: The setting is, in my opinion, not just the best 
 reason, but the only reason to play the tabletop game. The detailed history, and the compelling 
 imagery and figurines are exceptional. The gameplay itself, on the other hand, is only perfect 
 for selling miniatures, thats about it. 
  
  So, as usual my hopes were high my expectations were pretty low. Boy was I surprised. Relic has 
 built a genuinely good game that happens to harness the feel of the Warhammer setting very well. 
 Its by no means a revolutionary RTS game, but it is the first sci-fi RTS game Ive found compelling 
 since Starcraft. I cant, however, divorce my enjoyment of the game from my enjoyment of the setting, 
 so I may be overstating its value as a pure RTS game.
  
  Although Ive yet to complete the last few missions, the single player campaign is generally pretty 
 fun. I wouldnt necessarily recommend the game for a non-Warhammer fan who is only interested playing 
 a single-player campaign, but it serves as a nice intro to the game. As with most FPS, the single 
 player is an entirely different experience from the multiplayer. If you do what I did and play 
 multiplayer first, youll find the single-player far too easy on the standard difficulty level.
 
  
  The single-player cut-scenes are fairly awful. Using the gameplay rendering wouldnt have been 
 a huge problem if the dialog were better written and delivered with a bit less camp. Although it 
 has gotten less dark over the years, the world of Warhammer 40,000 is simply not campy.
  
  Aside: normally I feel that game developers waste too much time and energy on the intro movies 
  something that has very little benefit to the game purchaser. Dawn of Wars intro movie, however, 
 is so fantastic that it completely makes up for the poor single player cut-scenes, and then some. 
 It is simply the most spectacular intro movies Ive ever seen. As a long-time player of the game, 
 I feel it is the single best example of what makes the setting so compelling. Perhaps Im biased, 
 as Im such a fan of the genre, but I feel it is one of those moments where everything came together 
 perfectly. Even if you dont buy the game, download the demo just to watch the movie. If you are 
 a 40k fan, it is absolutely imperative you do so; you will not be disappointed.
  
  The multiplayer aspect (and vs CPU Skirmish) of the game is what I have found to be most fun. The 
 races are different enough to require different strategies, but not so different as to be unbalanced 
 in any way that is obvious to me. Relic did do a couple of pretty clever things: squad based infantry, 
 and strategic objectives as a measure of resource income. Both give the game a different feel that 
 other RTS games, but arent so revolutionary as to be disconcerting for beginners. From a Warhammer 
 setting standpoint, the four races chosen were perfect, but I hope a later expansion will add some 
 of the missing troop types that might have been strategically redundant to add. (Marine Chaplains, 
 Eldar Shining Spears, Ork Battlewagons, and other Daemons anyone?)
  
  Edit: I forgot to mention that the game manual is inadequate. It has some basic information but 
 glosses over other important information (how exactly does multiplayer shared resources work?)
 
  
  Advice: DO NOT buy the strategy guide for this game. It is the penultimate example of an awful 
 strategy guide. It includes no numbers whatsoever for comparing the troop types, and fails to cover 
 even the basic material that the game booklet missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varik
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2004 4:28 pm PT
Review:  After months of anticipation, Dawn of War lived up to, and surpassed, mot expectations. This game 
 has incredible graphics, and great sound. Each unit hasa unique little detailed motions that really 
 add to the gamin experience. Such as an Imperial Assault marine using his foot to kick a fallen 
 enemy off of his chain sword. An artillery shell send units flying through the air, then pick themselves 
 back up, never gets old to watch. 
  
  Thankfully, this game was not intended for the player to sit back, hoard rescources, then send 
 a massive army. Should one use that tactic, they will get crushed evrerytime. One need to be aggressive 
 to take over stategy points, and in later stages of the game, you can pretty much build whatever 
 you want when you need it. It is so refreshing to play an RTS game that does not focus on wasting 
 your unit cap on workers to micromanage mining all sorts of rescources. This game is simply about 
 blowing things up, and playing with the different units.
  
  My only real compliants: Like in the GS review, the Chaos voice work could have been better. The 
 scorcerer is great, but the rest are too... campy. Especially the heretics and cultists. Annoying 
 actually. But the other races have excellent voice work. The Orks are plain hilarious. "Which button 
 makes this thing go?"
  
  The campaign is very short. However appears to be left open for an expansion. Relic would be insane 
 not to make an expension to this game. Necrons wouldprobably be the best addition in a potential 
 expansion, even though most people want to see Tyranids.
  
  One thing to add about tyranids... For those new comers to the GW world, the Tyranids were not 
 ripped off from Starcraft. Tyranids have been around since the 80's, and Strafcraft is totally 
 "inspired" by Warhammer 40k. I have already had conversation with people in public thinking Blzizard 
 and Starcraft was there first. So, there's one thing to get over should the Nids be added to this 
 game.
  
  As a fan of GW since 1985, I have to say Relic did an excellent job captuing the feel of the W40k 
 universe, and units. The mariens are overly dramatic, as they should be, the eldar are extreamly 
 calm, as they should be... And the weapons do pretty much the same as in the game. People say there 
 is not strategy to this game other than consatant attack. Very inncorrect. As in the table top 
 game, when fighting the Orks and Eldar, you do not want to upgrade all your units to missle launchers 
 and las-cannons. When fighting those armies, you want auto cannons and heavy bolters. Bigger is 
 not always better in this game. You do not want to neccessarily upgrade every unit.
  
  I am eagerly awaiting an expansion, as I am sure it would do nothing more than add to an already 
 excellent game. Highly advise buying this game, especially if you are a W40k fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptUnderpants
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 29, 2004 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Well until I got the demo, I had never heard of Warhammer! But luckily for me I did as this game 
 is very good.
  
  The graphics are great and the animations when your guys are in battle look awesome. Yeah the cutscenes 
 are poor, but who buys a game for cutscenes?
  
  There are 4 different factions to play, but the single player game only allows you to use the Space 
 Marines. While this is slightly disappointing there is a good skirmish mode and you have multiplayer 
 too.
  
  The game should be played on insane level for those players experienced in this genre, as the normal 
 and hard setiings aren't difficult. 
  
  The army painter is a good idea as well, so when you crush your oppenents they fell suitably humilated 
 as your soldiers where wearing pink!
  
  Overall this game pretty much rocks. :o)
  
  The pants
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpowers8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2004 2:47 am PT
Review:  I worked with this since the first beta, and am quite pleased at the amount of polish between then 
 and now. The units are crisp, and given that so many can be on the screen at once, they are a joy 
 to watch as animations are very well done.
  
  The four races are pretty distinct, in both appearance and also their tactical use. Eldar are very 
 specialized, and when micromanaged, very devastating. Orks are brutes who shine in hand to hand 
 combat, but lack when it comes to ranged attacks. They are also very cheap so swarming an enemy 
 is necessary. Marines are a jack of all trades, versatile in all ways but not as good in melee 
 as orks or at range as eldar. Lastly, the Chaos Space Marines are much the same as their regular 
 counterparts, but with a little weakness in individual units shored up by some nice special attacks 
 and abilities.
  
  Online is where this game shines. Either against humans or playing co-op with a friend against 
 the strong AI, this one will eat more time than you are willing to admit to.
  
  The sounds are great, the music above average, and visually the game is pretty faithful to the 
 tabletop miniatures it strives to recreate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 28, 2004 1:52 am PT
Review:  Well Games Workshop finally managed to get a good computer game of WH40K released! Dawn of War 
 is an excellent RTS game reagardless of whether you know anything about the Warhamemr 40,000 miniatures 
 game. It has great graphics, great sound, solid gameplay, a good campaign story and excellent skirmish 
 mode options.
  
  If you are a 40K fan you will be even happier. While Dawn of War does not reproduce the mini game 
 exactly it does give a close feel and the character and vehicle animations are great. The intro 
 movie alone is probably worth the cost of the game for the 40K fan (although you can see that for 
 free with the demo) .
  
  The only real complaint I have is I wish the Imperial Guard were included as a full army (you do 
 get to play them a bit in the campaign game but not in skirmish mode) . But I suppose they had to 
 leave something for an expansion.
  
  A previous reviewer noted you can't select groups of units with the keyboard. This is untrue. You 
 can create quick select groups by selecting a unit (s) and hitting ctrl plus 1-0. Then just hitting 
 that number selects that group. You can also select the game speed by going to the options menu. 
 You can do this before or during play. As for play difficulty there are five difficulty levels. 
 The harder levels really make the game tough to beat. Overall the AI does a pretty darn good job 
 (perhaps the best yet in a RTS game) of attacking with groups and hitting you where you have light 
 defenses.
  
  The graphics in the game are excellent. All units are fully 3D and have a nice variety of animations 
 for fighting. The options allow full control of graphic settings to accomodate different computer 
 speeds. There is also a painter that allows you to give your units a unique color scheme and badge.
 
  
  Dawn of War is a great realtime strategy game. It does not expand the genre into any new areas 
 but it is a solid, entertaining, and replayable design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sndman71
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2004 9:40 pm PT
Review:  With the disappointing release of Warcraft 3. I have soon finally found something that leans towards 
 the action more then turning RTS's into RPG's. I'm looking for strategic points in a game that 
 make it unique. Such as Starcraft did, with the diversity in its races which being probly one of 
 the #1 reasons that game is still one of the most popular RTS's ever made. To get straight to the 
 point I'd much rather play Warhammer 40,000 over Warcraft any day. Why you ask?
  
  Action... Action... Action...
  
  Entertainment... Entertainment... Entertainment...
  
  
 Strategy... Strategy... Strategy...
  
  Anyone can pull a stupid Warcraft 3 game out of there butts, but can they truly master a table 
 top game? Yes, they've made the game unique and very cunning in its appearance. Its time to step 
 up to the next level and play Warhammer 40,000.
  
  My key points to maybe giving this game such a high rating is it has great sound which really adds 
 to the game play. Such as cocky orcs which tell you to shove it! The graphics are stunning for 
 an RTS, but yet not cartoon like. Its Game play is very flexible and has many options for dealing 
 with the same threat. You don't always need to attack the same thing the same way every time you 
 lose. In other words, a good example in Stacraft was when the only way to break thru some defenses 
 if you weren't a hardcore player was to spam the other side with masses of forces. This is not 
 entirely true in Warhammer you could very easily avoid some defense structures and give your opponent 
 a much needed headache. It is about who has the most resources and who has the bigger army. But 
 those things are acheived fast within the game. So it comes down to micro management and strategy.
 
  
  In other words the game is about fun, action and strategy. If you dont like those factors mixed 
 together, then you shouldnt even be playing a RTS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the1wingedangel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 26, 2004 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Well, what to say that you won't have already heard? There' not a lot I can say that will be new, 
 but I can confirm that this game is wonderful.
  
  The game is set in the universe of the Games Workshop's Warhammer 40,000 game and uses 4 of the 
 races from it. Each have a distinct play style (Although the Space Marines and Chaos Space Marines 
 unsurprisingly play quite similarly) . The Edlar are a mysterious bunch of aliens with awesomely 
 advanced technology, their style is very specialised; each squad has its purpose and is fantastic 
 at doing it but put them in the wrong scenario and they will die very fast. This maeks them hard 
 to use well, but when they are they're almost unstoppable.
  
  The Orks haev a unique style of play, they unlock more abilities and bigger units in an unusual 
 way; they have "WAAAGH" banners, these not only increase their population cap but as you build 
 more they unlock more units. As the Orks are a hoarde, as well as the WAAGH system they have a 
 numbers system; the more you have the more you unlock and the better your units become.
  
  The marines are very straight forward to play as. The research almost everything, and both have 
 very tough and versatile main squads. Chaos do have a bit more variety in their squads but fewer 
 vehicles, though their ability to summon a massaive demon, the Bloodthirster onto the battlefield 
 helps redress the balance,
  
  All in all, the races are all good fun to use, although I least like the orks.
  
  The pace 
 in the game is very fast, one minute you can be advancing into their base and the next you'll be 
 fighting to keep yours in tact. It's this fast changing gameplay that makes it so much fun. Also 
 the battles are just awesome to watch with units bgeing thrown about by dreadnaughts and demons, 
 and some pretty visceral finishing moves too.
  
  The campaign is short but still entertaining, the story is intriguing enough to make you want to 
 keep playing, and while it's not that tough it does get you accustomed to the marines and is quite 
 a lot of fun. Unfortunately there is only a marine campaign, but I'm hoping they'll rectify this 
 with patches/ expansions.
  
  The main part of the game is the multiplayer. It's fantastic. You can play as any of the races, 
 on bout 20 maps, with several different win conditions, teams, free for all. The amount of combinations 
 is vast. This is where I have spent most of my time with the game so far, and I still love it.
 
  
  If you like RTS, buy this. If you like Warhammer 40k, buy this. If you like both you're a fool 
 for not already having this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 26, 2004 10:22 am PT
Review:  The graphics in Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War are top-notch for the genre, no doubt about that. 
 The polygon count is high, the textures are sharp and the animations are really good. There is 
 no lack of extra features either, you got an army painter in which you can make your own color 
 theme and custom badges for your army, which your multiplayer opponents can also see. Relic will 
 also be releasing a map editor, which was originally intended to be included on the CDs, but sadly 
 did not make it in the final release candidate. When you start up the game and watch the intro, 
 and to the point where you jump in-game, the game feels and looks like the Warhammer universe.
 
  
  The sound in Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War has a good quality, but it has also some problems. A 
 couple of the races has some bad A. I. barks, such as the Eldar, which are rather annoying to hear 
 when you control them. In the single-player campaign, you can clearly see that Relic has been too 
 lazy to make any synchronized voice-animations. Finally, a lot of the characters in the single-player 
 campaign seem to talk with a british accents, which seems out of time and place. All these drawbacks 
 in the sound departement are really minor and do not affect the value of the gameplay or how much 
 fun you might have playing it.
  
  The gameplay in Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War has some issues. First of all, there is only one 
 possible strategy you can use to win, and that is to rush your opponent, and keep on building as 
 many units as possible constantly and pour them at your enemy. This is the only possible thing 
 you can do in order to win a game, there is no other way. If you attack a unit from behind, from 
 the side, or from the front makes no difference in this game, so trying to ambush your opponent 
 does not have an impact on his army. The gameplay mechanisms in this game is built so that all 
 you have to do is to keep on building units and send them out on the battlefield. So much for the 
 strategical possibilities in this game.
  
  You might think that since the game has four races, there will be plenty of variety in terms of 
 gameplay. Sadly, each race has very few units and some of those units look very similar to each 
 other. Most of the units in the four races have also been built to do the same things, for example 
 infantry or vehicles doing either melee combat or ranged combat, or artillery vehicles.
  
  If you plan on playing against the A. I. by skirmishing either alone or against your friends, you 
 might find the difficulty level to be a problem in this game. The "Standard" difficulty level is 
 too easy, and if you are for example playing with two other friends against three computers, you 
 will have no problem with beating the A. I. on this difficulty level. If you move up to the "Hard" 
 difficulty level it becomes impossible to win the game, and it makes you wonder why Relic even 
 bothered implementing a "Harder" and an "Insane" difficulty level. They should rather make a difficulty 
 level between "Standard" and "Hard".
  
  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is using a rather successfull recipe in the RTS genre which goes 
 all the way back to the first real-time strategy game on the computer. If you like seeing fast 
 battles with lots of eyecandy and gameplay with little strategical content, this game is the right 
 kind of game for you. However, more experienced gamers or gamers that crave for more strategy in 
 the genre will feel that there are things missing in this game, such as strategy and a variety 
 of content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryrock
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2004 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000 is popularly known as a table top game manufactured by a company called "Games 
 Workshop." If you collect anything, you've probably heard of it. It's a very expensive game to 
 play, with a pack of soldiers costing the price of a used video game. However, the new real-time 
 strategy game is just as great as the table top game itself. Though the rest of Warhammer's games 
 weren't the best in the world, it's good to see that Dawn of War is truly a contender.
  
  Dawn of War puts you in mankind's dark future 40,000 years from now. War stains the land, and many 
 alien races have been discovered. All are hostile. This is exactly why Warhammer is so fun... the 
 war never stops. It's literally never been so fun to wage war in the future. (Yes, this game is 
 quite possibly up there with Starcraft.) The game has a very basic resource system. Instead of 
 using peons to gather your resources for you, you get your soldiers to go around and capture strategic 
 points all around the map. The more strategic points you control, the faster your reqisition rate 
 will increase. There is also a second resource in the game, too: energy. You need to build your 
 own Power Generators instead of capturing them. Once again, the more you have the faster your energy 
 piles up. Some strategic points can be controlled by the opposition, and can even be taken over 
 by the enemy. You can use troops or build a resource generator attached with an auto-cannon on 
 top of the strategic point to guard it. You can also control relics, which allow you to access 
 better units and research. Critical locations are also in the game, but are only useful in certain 
 game types. Critical locations work the same as relics and strategic points, but you cannot build 
 a resource generator on them as they do not provide resources. They will only work when you capture 
 a set amount of them, which triggers an instant win countdown.
  
  The atmosphere of the game does take place in the battleground world of the future, so dust and 
 torn down buildings add to it. You can also take cover inside craters, old buildings and shrubry, 
 and recieve a negative cover weakness when in negative cover such as a murky, knee-deep swamp.
 
  
  The races and units are greatly detailed. You can even zoom in on the action and rotate the camera 
 to your liking using the mouse and the alt key. This is a great treat, but since the game is very 
 fast-paced you don't get the chance to do this much. It is very fast-paced... you almost never find 
 yourself doing nothing! You're always reinforcing your squads with extra team-mates, buying your 
 units special weapons like flamers, rocket launchers, sniper rifles and heavy bolter machine guns, 
 capturing, expanding your base or building new things to access Tier 3 units. The game also lets 
 the player access super units with specific abilities. For example, the Chaos legion summons the 
 daemon called "Bloodthirster" to level bases in seconds. Of course, you can only use one at a time, 
 and they are very expensive. The Bloodthirster in peticular takes damage when not in combat, so 
 summoning it in battle is a must! There are also many other powerful creatures, specifically the 
 Orks' special units, but I won't spoil them for you just yet. The Space Marines lack one of these 
 super creatures, however. They prefer a direct power-in-numbers approach, using the powerful Terminator 
 squads in vast numbers to drive your opponent insane.
  
  Single player, as fun as it is, is not as good as multiplayer. There you can compete with everybody 
 who has the game around the world. Single player puts you on the role of the Space Marines called 
 the "Blood Ravens." Though it is not solid, and only has 13 missions that seem to fly right by, 
 it is still some fun. If you've played RTS game for quite a while, I recommend the "hard" difficulty 
 challenge. If you're new, go with "normal." Easy... well, I'll put it this way: easy is way, way, 
 way too easy. Even a beginner could whoop a computer opponent on easy mode.
  
  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War is an amazing game, graphically, gameplay wise and everything else. 
 I expect to see it as a contender for RTS of the year. It is always fun and never gets old. Even 
 the "Army Painter" option allows you to paint your units specific colors, and making you a whole 
 new army for one of the races. Though the game does not come with a map editor, the game's developers 
 plan to release one later in the year. I hope that this game will one day be up there with Starcraft 
 an Warcraft, because heck, it deserves it like none other. That's why it deserved the 10/10 I gave 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_real_pikachu
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 23, 2004 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Having played Warhammer Dawn of War for some time now, it is apparent that many of the reviews 
 are overstated. While this is a good game it looks like THQ rushed this out the door in the final 
 days of devlopment. 
  
  Presentation:
  The opening movie is very well done and rivals Final Fantasy the Spirts Within for visual quailty. 
 The main menu looks decent enough with a character of your favorite race (most used in skirmish 
 & multiplayer) standing there. Most of the menus were easy enough to navigate and the theme of 
 the game is presented well. 
  
  Graphics:
  The engine used in this game is clearly the same one used in Impossible Creatures (another Relic 
 title) , so the graphics are looking pretty good. Although make sure that you have a powerful computer, 
 because otherwise you will end up setting your graphics to low.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in the game is good enough, with good sound effects and voices in most cases. In campaign 
 mode some of the voices are good enough, but some voices are really bad, Inquisitor Toth sounds 
 nothing like the badass he is supposed to be. Although the winner for the worst voice is definitely 
 the guy in the tutorial. He sounds like they pulled a guy off the street and said "hey read this". 
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  Let me start off by saying that this game is very unbalaced, everyone who said it was well balanced 
 is a liar. Example: Chaos Obliterators, they just suck, but they should be badass. The best army 
 is clearly the Space Marines, they are just better overall than the other 3. Campaign mode is very 
 easy (11 missions) , I am sure it can be beaten in under 4 hours. Oh, and guess what you unlock 
 after beating campaign mode... making of video? extra army paint schemes? NOTHING, zero, jack. 
 
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  The bottom line here is multiplayer, is there really another reason to play any RTS? If you don't 
 mind the balance issues, stupid voices, graphcal corruptions, gameplay bugs, & crashes then this 
 game will keep you entertained for a few months, perhaps more if they ever release the MOD tools 
 and a patch to fix the 10000 SCAR errors I recieved playing. 
  
  Closing Comments:
  Like everyone else I had high hopes for this game, anytime a Warhammer 40K game comes out we all 
 stop and take notice. And this is without question the best Warhammer 40K videogame yet. But that 
 is not saying much, just look at Firewarrior & Space Hulk. This game is proof yet again that THQ 
 is only there to make money and just wanted to rush this game out the door and really does not 
 care about the quality of their products. It's good enough, but not anywhere near great like it 
 could have been.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijorat
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2004 2:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Awesome.... Relic does a excellent job of reworking the traditional RTS system... the 
 idea of capturing strategic points to increase resource potential really keeps the action moving 
 on. The game presents you with the ability to play four of the different 40K armies Space Marines, 
 Chaos, Eldar, and Orks. Being a Chaos player on the actual tabletop game, Im especially pleased 
 with their inclusion here. There has of course been some alteration to the rules in conversion 
 from tabletop to the computer game, which is necessary for balance and playability, but on the 
 whole they were faithful to the intent of the original rules.
  
  Graphics - The unit detail during actual game play is very good... it's like seeing the tabletop 
 game come to life on the computer, and online play lets you design your own color schemes, somewhat 
 limited but definitely a plus. Unfortunately the cut scenes are poorly rendered with medium to 
 low detail... They really could have put a bit more creative style into these... so dont expect 
 movies like you saw in Starcraft or Diablo II. 
  
  Sound - Very nicely orchestrated soundtrack that plays in the background and the sound effects 
 definitely add to the atmosphere.
  
  Value - Not so good... very limited as theres only one campaign (Expansion Potential?) even though 
 there are four different races. However 40K has always been about playing against other players... so 
 maybe that was their intent... and online play definitely will make this a lasting game.
  
  Tilt - I give it a nine here cause the game comes together so well, and the mechanics are so well 
 thought out. Yes, the single campaign and poorly put together cut scenes act as detractors, but 
 when you get down to it, those are extra things and the meat of the game seems to be the head to 
 head competition play, I just couldn't give it less than a nine.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
