-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warhammer40kdawnofwar2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun, exciting online play will keep you under its spell.
 Fantastic production values.
 The loot collecting is fun and addictive.
 Co-op play lets a buddy join your campaign in progress.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign doesn't feature much strategy.
 Few multiplayer maps.
 Only 1 vs 1 and 3 vs 3 matches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,999 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Relic
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 18, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Extraordinary online play makes it easy to overlook this strategy sequel's less-impressive single-player 
 campaign. 

  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War II is a fun and fascinating game with a bit of an identity crisis. 
 In one corner you have an explosively intense multiplayer real-time strategy experience, brimming 
 with savagely satisfying competition. In the other, you have an odd and somewhat enjoyable single-player 
 campaign that plays more like an action role-playing game than an RTS. The relationship between 
 these two disparate entities is superficial; the structure and gameplay of the campaign has little 
 in common with that of your skirmishes against other players or the computer. It's a bizarre dichotomy 
 that doesn't always work, but online play is so deeply rewarding that the scattered campaign missteps 
 are easily forgiven.  

           Slugga boyz are no match for the gigantic carnifex.      

  The first question that 
 you might ask yourself as you play Dawn of War II's lengthy campaign may very well be: Where does 
 the strategy come in? It's certainly not your typical RTS experience, putting you in control of 
 up to four squads of Space Marines (and only Space Marines) and sending you off to exterminate 
 your Ork, Eldar, and Tyranid foes. You won't be building a base or churning out units, but rather 
 maneuvering your few commander-led squads around the map (likely as a single group) and beating 
 up the beasties that stand between you and your mission objectives. Your goals may entail capturing 
 a particular structure, recovering a stolen object, or even defeating an end-level boss (!) . How's 
 that for defying genre conventions?  

  This relatively simple gameplay is not what you'd expect from a strategy game, and strategy fans, 
 including those who adored Dawn of War II's illustrious predecessor, will be disappointed that 
 the "S" is missing from "RTS" in this instance. That's because the campaign is more akin to an 
 action RPG, and if you look at it from this perspective, you're more likely to enjoy the journey. 
 The game isn't going to dissuade you from that approach; the elements of a role-playing game are 
 all accounted for. You will level up your squads and earn new abilities and bonuses, collect items 
 and loot on the battlefield, and spend time between battles equipping your commanders with the 
 various armor sets and weapons that you earn. With these RPG mechanics come the usual addictive 
 loot-hoarding and unit personalization, what with various skill paths from which to choose and 
 usable items that your commanders can equip.  

  Thus, Dawn of War II's single-player campaign isn't really strategic at all, but you will make 
 tactical decisions that move beyond simple mouse clicking. In a mechanic pulled from the developer's 
 own Company of Heroes, some squads can lay down suppressive fire, which slows your targets and 
 hinders them from a quick escape. Units can be garrisoned or take cover behind certain objects, 
 a mechanic easy to implement thanks to a slick interface and simple but effective visual feedback. 
 However, the most important facet of a successful battle is your familiarity with each commander's 
 unique abilities. Whether it is one's rally cry or another's jump-pack-powered stomp, effective 
 use of skills (along with items such as grenades and satchel charges) is not only your key to victory, 
 but also a visual and sonic delight. Seeing a dreadnought squash a ripper swarm, or a lictor alpha 
 yank a powerless assault marine with its lethal flesh hooks, is enjoyably violent and makes battles 
 fun to watch.  

           The campaign may be limited to one race, but it sends you to three different planets, 
 including Typhon Primaris.      

  It takes a while for the campaign to rev up, but even once it is in full swing, some tedium will 
 eventually set in. You'll visit the same maps many times and fight the same enemies, and though 
 the prospect of loot and new abilities will keep you pushing forward and trying out new options, 
 you'll long for some more traditional RTS gameplay to mix things up. You'll also wish for a stronger 
 tale to glue it all together, but in a surprising move by a developer known for great storytelling, 
 the yarn unravels one or two interesting threads (including the surprising origins of your dreadnought 
 commander) but is little more than a reason to throw a bunch of Warhammer 40K units together and 
 watch them tear each other to bits.  

  For a different approach, you can invite a friend to play campaign missions cooperatively, and 
 though this option is welcome, its implementation could have used some tweaking. Dawn of War II 
 provides no co-op matchmaking option, so you'll need to know the Windows Live ID of your prospective 
 companion to explore that possibility. Also bear in mind that though the game's host will reap 
 the persistent experience and loot rewards, the guest will leave everything behind when returning 
 to his or her own campaign. It's fun to play with a friend, though. You split command duties with 
 your partner, so the moment-to-moment gameplay requires less micromanagement but gives you more 
 leeway to play around with tactical options.     

   

  Dawn of War II's multiplayer component couldn't be more different from its single-player campaign. 
 For those interested in the joys of online competition, youll find an exciting, brutal, and highly 
 competitive strategy experience awaiting you online. It's more traditionally structured than the 
 campaign, in the sense that you will manage some resources and churn out some units of your own 
 choosing from a base structure. It's also more strategic, as is obvious from the moment you enter 
 the multiplayer menus. You have four races to choose from: Space Marines, Orks, Eldar, and Tyranid. 
 Once you've selected a race, you choose from one of three commanders, each with a particular role 
 to play in battle. A Tyranid ravener alpha can dig tunnels, granting your units quick travel when 
 you most need it; an Eldar warlock will embolden the front lines with its powerful spells. Not 
 only does each race come with its own strengths and weaknesses, but your choice of commander (and 
 the accompanying abilities) will further determine the appropriate play style. There are a lot 
 of different ways to play, and many of the different strategies make themselves obvious in just 
 a few hours of play.  

           The hive tyrant's halitosis is even more pungent when you equip seismic roar.      

 
  Those strategies are incredibly important, because Dawn of War II strips away the base building 
 of traditional RTSs and puts the burden of success directly on how well you manage your units and 
 how efficiently you exert control over the moment-to-moment proceedings of the match. You'll still 
 queue up your units at a home structure, but resource gathering is inextricably tied to the action, 
 given that you must capture control nodes scattered around the map to generate power and requisition. 
 Actually, you might say that there are three resources: to activate certain global powers, you 
 must fill a gauge by slaying enemy units.  

  This structure forces you immediately into the thick of action, and you might even encounter your 
 foe in the first minute of play, should you both rush for the same node. Knowing the strengths 
 of your squads is the only way to survive. A shielded hive tyrant and ripper swarm can soak up 
 a lot of damage, so it might be best to capture the node first before assaulting units jockeying 
 for the same position. On the other hand, Eldar enthusiasts may want to off the enemy with a few 
 fire prisms before attempting capture. Throw in equippable skills and items for your commander 
 and squads, and you've got a recipe for intense action spread across the entire map. Indeed, Dawn 
 of War II's multiplayer matches are insanely fun even when you're on the losing side because you're 
 constantly engaged with every facet of gameplay at any given moment.  

  This is especially true in the game's awesome six-player team battles because triumph comes by 
 way of Dawn of War II's victory nodes, which must be captured in addition to those that contain 
 resources. Like in the Battlefield series of first-person shooters, capturing one of these positions 
 causes the opposing team's point total to diminish. The more victory points you hold, the faster 
 your foe's points bleed away, and you win the match by stripping them down to zero. A closely fought 
 match retains its powerful vigor for the duration, and the longer you fight, the more likely you'll 
 see some of the game's most impressive units and abilities. A lumbering carnifex sporting a venom 
 cannon is a sight to behold in the fury of battle, and the looming sight of a looted tank covered 
 in makeshift spikes is both imposing and amusing. The well-designed maps are the perfect size for 
 these skirmishes, though the small number of maps -- seven in all -- is disappointing. Likewise, there 
 aren't any large-scale free-for-alls: At release, Dawn of War II's multiplayer maps support only 
 one-versus-one and three-versus-three matches. Fortunately, the unpredictable nature of the gameplay 
 keeps the maps feeling fresh, as does the keen artificial intelligence, should you limit your fight 
 to computer-controlled commanders.  

           You can paint your online army. Remember: The Tyranids prefer color coordination.     

  Dawn of War II's impressive production values enhance the intensity of your encounters. The game 
 looks great across the board, from its outstanding destructible environments, to shimmering ambient 
 lighting, to remarkable unit animations that make every battle look as though the entire war hinges 
 on it. Although zooming in close to units isn't very helpful from a gameplay perspective, doing 
 so reveals a wealth of terrific details, such as the rusted plating on dreadnoughts or a hormagaunt's 
 chillingly sharp talons. Explosions, warp blasts, and other special effects not only look great, 
 but also sound absolutely phenomenal. A barrage of intense battle sounds will burst from your speakers, 
 but individual touches such as the way Orks call out "dakka dakka dakka" as they fire their weapons 
 emerge with clarity. Assisted by a cinematic orchestral soundtrack that swells with drama without 
 overreaching, the sound design provides a constant stream of audio feedback that puts you in the 
 thick of the action without crossing the lines of good taste.  

  How you approach Dawn of War II depends on what you're looking for in a real-time strategy game. 
 If you're looking for an incredibly fun and intense multiplayer and single-player skirmish experience, 
 few RTSs provide combat this exciting and dynamic. If you were hoping for a similarly dynamic campaign 
 mode, you'll find that the strategy has been mostly stripped away in favor of role-playing elements. 
 This divide may help the game appeal to a wider audience, but it also leads to an identity crisis 
 that Dawn of War II never comes to grips with. Regardless, this is a game that real-time strategy 
 lovers should play, if not for the loot-happy leveling of the campaign, then certainly for the 
 constantly enjoyable online component that will keep you glued to the screen for hours at a time. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (165 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Murissokah
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:03 am PT
Review:  Down of War II changes a lot from the original. I only played the first one a few times, so that 
 was not too much of a let down for me. On the other hand, it gives you a great, innovating game. 
 The old school RTS elements like resource gathering, horde controlling, tactical management are 
 neglected in favor of better developed units. Your units are few, proud and tough. You get to develop 
 your units throughout the campaign, as in a RPG game, and it is of major importance to the game. 
 Playing the game above the standard difficulty settings is challenging, but somewhat unbalanced. 
 Its all going well until one of the bosses tramples over your team with one attack and leaves everybody 
 dead.
  The missions consist of you selecting your team, sending them to the battlefield, killing anything 
 that moves (and some of what does not) , then killing the boss. Its nice and makes you explore the 
 combat mechanics, like cover, special abilities and everything available to you. But it does get 
 repetitive, and eventually you will wish you could just skip to the boss and get it over with. 
 Also, there is the fact that the side missions expire quickly if left unattended. If you are a 
 perfectionist like I am, you will get overwhelmed trying to clear the side missions and unable 
 to progress on the campaign. That only adds to the repetitive nature of things.
  The item and leveling systems are a major plus. They give you some of the Diablo hack'n'slash recipe, 
 hunting for better equipment while fine tuning your teams abilities. It all pays on the battlefield, 
 though the game progresses the enemies too, for balance's sake.
  Up until now, the game was good, but not great. And that is not welcome from a winning franchise. 
 What really turns the tables is the multiplayer. There is the cooperative campaign, there you team 
 up with a friend and each controls 2 groups during the missions (still waiting for a friend to 
 pick up the game so we can try that) . Seem fantastic though. And there are the multiplayer skirmishes. 
 Those are quite different from the campaign, and here you will be able to control a more RTS-like 
 army (though no the usual huge army) . Most of your units (if not all) , can develop in some way, 
 mostly through upgrades. Your commander is a campaign-like hero that can upgrade a lot, and is 
 very useful in combat. The game consist of taking resources and keeping them from your foes, and 
 then capturing and keeping victory points until your team wins, or annihilating the opposition 
 (depends on the game mode) . The multiplayer is really compelling, but could use more maps. I hope 
 that will be taken care of.
  Overall, DoW 2 is a great game and adds to any collection, definitely reccomended. looking forward 
 to seeing an expansion, especially with campaigns for the other races and new multiplayer maps. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nding
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:49 pm PT
Review:  DOW2 started out rather good! It is a totally different game play from its predecessors, and has 
 some elements in COH.
  
  It has totally eliminated the building element in the game, which I find it is good, not needing 
 to split your focus on resource management. And to be able to hide in buildings and gain extra 
 defense, makes the game more challenging. Instead of just rushing in to get yourself killed.
  
  The game picks on at a rather good pace, and the elements of RPG makes you wanting to get better 
 or different weapons to try out.
  
  The bad thing about this game is when it is reaching the end of the story.
  
  I remembered 
 being at almost at the last stage, and the number of invaded areas just keep coming with time limits. 
 And it is tiring and repetitive, as you are just fighting similar enemies.
  
  And the terminator amour is quite a let-down. It downplays my characters when they are equipped 
 with it, removing some of the cool skills that the squads have, e. g. jetpack to teleport.
  
  And sometimes, the ranged units feel that they are so strong, that instead of firing, they 
 try engaging enemies in melee. And they can't really fit in any cover, after equipping that armor... 
 Most of the terrain just get smashed.
  
  At the end of the game, it becomes a rushing game, the strategy element became weaker. And you 
 are just busy wasting the enemies.
  
  Just my two cents worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorraid
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:24 am PT
Review:  I was/am a big fan of the orignal Dawn of war... infact when Dark crusade came out i was one of 
 the 1st guys in my town to buy it... and called in sick for the next 2 days cuz i was too busy playing 
 it... I was really looking forward to Dawn of war II... esp after Soulstorm proved to be a crappy 
 game....
  DOW II is by no means a bad game.. but it fell somewhat a victem to the orignal DOW.... alot of 
 content could have been added to this game... which is missing... Single player campaign is alrite 
 i mean i like the rpg element but thats about it... after 1st few hours it felt repeative... and 
 i just rushed my squads to the main objectives to end the missions quick.... and the 40k Lore has 
 been messed up by this game too.... cuz unlike in Lore Space marines come in squads of 4 now :S.... 
 alot of the stuff which made the oringal Game great is missing here....
  in the end id just say that... i played the game for the 1st week... and than didnt felt like going 
 back to it.... while i am still playing Dark crusade.... DOW II in my opinion is a uncomplete product. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luketheduke324
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 9:02 pm PT
Review:  this game IS truly a breath of fresh air and it gose with my recomendation. if your a hard core 
 R T S fan or if your an R P G kinda guy this game will have you nailed to your chair. its true 
 that if you mix a few new ingredients into the bowl it comes out tasting fantastic!!! 
  PROS: 
  awsome sound 
  great animation cutscenes 
  the greatest graphics ive ever seen in 
 an rts 
  a great mixture of an rts game with an rpg 
  gameplay is unbelivibly simple and really compelling 
  multiplayer is fantastic 
  great co-op 
 play for friends to help you on the campain 
  CONS: 
  only seven maps for multiplayer and skermish 
  if a friend helps you with the story you get all 
 the spoils and he gets nothing 
  the looting can get repetative 
  OVERALL: 
  gameplay: 9 desigh:9.5 multiplayer:8.5 campain:8.6 
  its a solid 9.2!!!!! 
  take this reveiw 
 from a guy who has over 38 games (really im seriose) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerebris
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 10:56 pm PT
Review:  This game, while having an excellent (if completely plot hole-filled) story, and campaign, is not 
 worth the money at this time.
  
  Too many imbalances in multiplayer exist, and the campaign is incredibly repetitive with bosses 
 that your squad essentially has to constantly sacrifice units against, until you've eventually 
 worn it down.
  
  It is all about the squads, but they die way too soon.
  
  Multiplayer, specifically the Eldar are incredibly imbalanced, being underpowered and constantly 
 with each patch having one unit made better while another 10 are nerfed.
  
  Spam is the main prevalent thing in this game... I say again that UNLESS YOU LIKE SPAM, don't buy 
 this or download this game UNTIL it's been updated and given more than a few 10 fix balances.
 
  
  Requisition is still way too fast and thus a lot of units will be seen on the map despite this 
 games motto being "small squads".
  
  Better luck in a year... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_chadwick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  First off, I never had a chance to play the first version of this game so I won't be able to give 
 you a comparison, but now I'll definitely have to give the first one a try.
  
  The game starts off with your commander and through the first couple of "story/plot building" levels 
 you amass your other squads of which you get to choose 4 to control in each mission. (there are 
 a few exceptions which are not handled all that well, but I digress) With the fate of the sector 
 (eventually 3 planets but at the start only 1) you have to pick your battles carefully to balance 
 deployments with securing and defending assets but also performing special missions that progress 
 the storyline. This macro level of freedom to choose your level and strategize is coupled well 
 with the battle-scale freedom to choose your path through a level and kill (or not kill) as many 
 enemies as you like. As you progress in the game and complete missions you'll get new gear to equip 
 your squad which will also level to gain new abilities. Be warned, you can reach level 20 (which 
 you aren't told anywhere) so plan your last few carefully.
  
  The actual storyline missions are very short if you soley focused on them so make sure to take 
 your time and secure as many assets and gear as you can all the while developing better strategies 
 with the squads in your deployment. The major downside to the game is it's repetition (I had to 
 play the same level up to 6 times) and while there are different level themes for each planet, 
 within a planet they are the maps are simply shuffled versions. Another thing that gets old is 
 the boss at the end of every level. While the strategies required to beat each one can vary, it 
 leaves little surprise combined with the repetition.
  
  All in all it's a great game if you enjoy a quick paced RTS where you're always on the offensive, 
 smashing fists into people, hacking them up, blowing things up, raining missiles down - what more 
 could you want? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cruciamentum
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:22 am PT
Review:  All in all the game itself was highly entertaining. The graphics, as usual, rocked. The game play 
 was good and the fact that you had to rely on a limited number of troops was a good challenge.
 
  
  The fact that they added the whole destructible environment and the option of getting cover behind 
 said objects for your troops (instead of just getting a higher defense rating but a slower movement 
 rate in craters) , which was taken from Company of Heroes added more flavor.
  
  Problems with this game are as follows: After playing DoW: Soulstorm, I miss a lot of the races. 
 One of the important ones being the Chaos Marines, although I'm sure they'll come in the following 
 releases (as the other races did before)
  
  One other thing is that the skirmish lacks the magic of the old game's skirmish options. Not enough 
 armies, only two sides and the maps are VERY small...
  
  Ah, yes, two other flaws: You need to have a steam & windows live account for this (as most of 
 you already know) which brings us to the problem of if you ever lose your 'net connection, you 
 can't play. Sucks. (but that's nothing to do with the gameplay itself)
  
  But, as I said before, all in all, the game rocks and is definitely worth the money you'll spend 
 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:29 am PT
Review:  this game is great, and it has amazing game play
  only disappointing thing is the maps and the campaign. wish it was more involving and that there 
 were more places to do battle. If the campaign was more strategic I think this might be the best 
 game i had ever played. But the amazing multilayer makes up for it all the way, just as the video 
 review says. I think i will be spending a lot more time in the future playing this game, it is 
 very addictive. 
  
  
  by the way, can't wait for a expansion which will hopefully make up for these faults. Maybe some 
 more maps, i already know the ins and outs of all of them. Also maybe some more factions, the factions 
 that there are are amazing, but maybe one or two more to spice it up, like the empire or dark Eldar 
 maybe, would be fun. I think the control system is great, just keeping it classic, but i would 
 like to see some more of these types of games on platforms, what we need is a revolutionary game 
 that plays great on platforms, not the confusing control systems that don't make sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 2:49 am PT
Review:  The Original Dawn of war series was given a few expansion that didn't really change the game but 
 added more factions and content. So when DOW2 was announced i wasn't really unsure as to what to 
 expect. But being true to its roots DOW2 is a game that will provide you a unique experience that 
 will stick with you for a long long time.
  
  The game differs from its predecessors in the fact that there is no resource collecting or building. 
 Rather the game focuses purely on the player handling a few elite squads. This i have to admit 
 was a bit of a disappointment for me. But the game makes up for it by providing a rich, story driven 
 and unique gameplay experience.
  
  The graphics and sounds are excellent and the game can be easily scaled downed to run smoothly 
 on low end systems. The game also gives you a lot of choices as to how play each mission. Each 
 squad can gain experience and can also be upgraded by collecting war gear. You can also select 
 which squads to deploy for the mission allowing you to explore different strategies. There are 
 also a fair amount of secondary missions that if you complete will make things a little easier 
 for you. However most of these missions are similar and gives you a sense of repetition.
  
  The game also consists of a multi player and skirmish section that is completely different from 
 the Single player Campaign. Here the game gets back to its RTS roots. Theres such a difference 
 from the single player campaign that can make you wonder if its actually 2 games in 1.
  
  Love or Hate Strategy games, DOW2 is a game that you should play. Its worth every penny.
  
 
  
  http://gamezopinion. blogspot. com/2009/04/dawn-of-war-2-review. html 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zymon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 9:11 am PT
Review:  You will get only a little sized army to play this game, with a short variety of units and no base 
 constructions. Too simple, what gets you sattisfied with the game too early. The focus on combat 
 turned the game to be less requiring from the player to set a good strategy, now we see more punishment 
 and fights. If I wanted only that i would play a hack and slash game. Ho! And steam installation 
 and its game launch configuration really sucks!!! I really regreted buying this game.
  The multiplayer skirmishs brings you only 07 maps, and you have no Live support for Latin America.
 
  The audio and introduction video are very good, no complains about that.
  A short content for a game that had such a good review. I think that Gamespot missed badly when 
 they recomended this game. Again, STEAM is a awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  Relic surprised all by turning their near perfect RTS game that redefined the genre in 2004 into 
 an action RPG without even a warning!
  
  Of course, the above is not entirely true and Dawn of War 2 still retains its RTS features when 
 played online. It is the same frantic action-oriented, infantry-focused strategy game which is 
 based on the same mechanics that made the first installment popular. There are only a few small 
 changes that alter a little the way this game is played. First, now there is no base construction 
 at all. Even energy is collected from control points now. Everyone starts with an HQ guarded by 
 sentry guns which shred to pieces all rush attempts. All units come from the HQ. Second, maps seem 
 even smaller and the focus is even more on infantry which leads to enemy engagements in 7 to 10 
 seconds from the start of each match.
  
  Single player, on the other hand, is a completely new game. Some still call it an RTS because battles 
 take place on skirmish maps. The focus is on tactics because there is still no base construction 
 in SP. However, there are only six unique squads, including your hero, that you will ever have 
 and there is no battle (with few exceptions) where you can take more than four of them. All squads 
 gain experience and can advance in four different specializations - strength, will, stamina and 
 ranged combat. Every time they gain a level, they receive two points to distribute in the four 
 specializations. When enough points are invested in certain specializations, new abilities and 
 upgrades are unlocked. The RPG system is simple, but it is very efficient and engrossing. Besides, 
 you will never have enough points to advance in everything, so a little thought is required when 
 distributing points.
  
  Other RPG elements include numerous slots to equip different items - armour, guns, accessories, 
 depleteable items like grenades and med packs... They all have level requirements and come in three 
 types - "white" are regular items with no special bonuses; "green" are "magic" items with some 
 extras and "blue" are unique items which sink battleships.
  
  As for the single player campaign, you and your subordinates are tasked with saving sub-sector 
 Aurelia from a Tyranid invasion. Your troops are super-humans and thus the individual battles are 
 easy. However, your numbers are too few and you cannot shine everywhere on the strategic map. The 
 action is divided in turns when not on a specific mission and each turn is one day. There are three 
 planets with several provinces each and every day something happens on some of them so you will 
 have to decide which missions you would undertake and which provinces you will abandon to their 
 doom.
  
  Voice acting in the game is marvelous. All squads have leaders who have their own history and unique 
 individuality. All this and the level advancement really helps to get attached to your units. Overall, 
 the story is dull, but well presented. Besides, fans of Warhammer 40000 finally have Tyranids in 
 a computer game.
  
  Offtopic: Speaking of Tyranids, I got acquainted with them for the first time in Dawn of War 2 
 and I am astounded how much they are alike the Zerg. Only that the Zerg were created by Blizzard 
 much later than the Tyranids... This company is truly incapable of creating something original! 
 Blizzard sucks!
  
  There! I said it! Now I can continue with the few downsides of Dawn of War 2. Actually, I can think 
 of only one thing that ruins the experience - since new events occur every day over the same provinces, 
 you will be revisiting the same maps many times, doing pretty much the same thing every time. While 
 character advancement is fun and a strong motivation to do one more defensive mission, you will 
 eventually get bored of visiting the same square maps where you start at the bottom and there is 
 a boss at the top, waiting to be killed.
  
  Furthermore, enemies gain levels together with your squads so basically, you will dispose of a 
 Nobz squad just as fast in the end of the game as you did in the beginning. There is also an experience 
 cap for your characters at level 20 so there is no incentive in exploiting the game system and 
 get lost in random missions.
  
  Anyway, Dawn of War 2 is lots of fun and it certainly is a fresh approach for an established franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leozt
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Made with the property union of two genres very popular among PC players, give DOW2 AN INNOVATIVE 
 TOUCH THAT LEADS TO A PLAYER concerned about their squads, to improve and evolve to see fighting 
 was carried out in the game. The sound is fantastic and surround the animations are fluent and 
 correct, but is required for enjoy with a hightech videocard in all its splendor. See your Space 
 marines fight and forward and this is very fun. This game is properly prepared, very worked in 
 almost all aspects that comprise it in its entirety. 
  
  EVERY PLAYER CHOICE THE FORM AS COMPLETE THE CAMPAIGN FOR HIGH SCORE. SAVIOR OR WARRIOR.
  
 
  THE GOOD: 
  THE ROLE OF MIXING AND RTS, very addictive, WANT TO SEE MORE AND MORE TO YOUR MOST POWERFUL squad. 
 Very easy to understand. The sound is very powerful. Is nonlinear and gives you large number of 
 missions, around 50 or more. The charm of the Blood Ravens characters. The final mission. The reward 
 system. The brief appearance of Gabriel Angelos in the finale...
  
  THE BAD: 
  Few MULTIPLAYER MAPS, some missions are repetitive and offers little strategy. SOME UNITS ONLY 
 EMERGING IN MULTIPLAYER, not have them in the campaign. No take command with the Imperial Guard.
 
  
  IN CONCLUSION: 
  MORE GREAT BUT IT IS NOT PERFECT ... Very funny and addictive. DAWN OF WAR 2 a mixture of RTS and 
 Role surcharged with AMMUNITION. 
  THE BIG QUESTION ... WHEN WILL THE FIRST EXPANSION? 
  DAWN OF WAR 2 lets you become a MORE ...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazboticus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War 2 can hardly be considered an RTS. The game, based entirely on squad based tactical 
 combat, as opposed to the chaos marine spamming of its successors. This may seem like a small difference 
 or not even one at all to some, but this also results in an a supposedly RTS game, with no buildable 
 structures aside from the occasional stationary turret. 
  
  The campaign is almost too long, introducing you to the new way of playing and setting up some 
 epic city fights, however it mostly involves running through a map in less than 10 minutes and 
 tagging shrines or forges, then running headlong into a boss fight, yes boss fight. These campaign 
 missions are quick, fun, and quite satisfying thanks to the games loot and experience based upgrade 
 system that allows for you to upgrade and customize your squads to an extent, (c'mon get over the 
 blood ravens their really not that cool) and obtain unique equipment. This system helps to keep 
 the campaign somewhat interesting throughout but does nothing to soften the blow of having to run 
 back and forth through the same 3 maps that are present on every planet.
  
  Much of the new innovation, experience/loot based squad progression, the move away from conventional 
 RTS buildings and defence tactics as well as the increased micromanagement never before utilized 
 in DOW 1 all create a much more interesting experience but falls short of being groundbreaking. 
 What would have really set this title out from other games in its mixed up genre, is the addition 
 of longer maps, think Wc3 RPG map size, increased loot variation and vendoring, army building in 
 the campaign, seriously people who like these games, like war hammer and like being able to craft 
 their own marines with traits, points and paint schemes. And last but not least this game would 
 have benefitted from anyone, somebody in the company writing a plot, but then again it doesn't 
 detract from the joy of mopping up a hive fleet of Tyranids.
  
  
  Overall quite an ambitious title that will keep you playing if not just for loot, then to learn 
 each of the races and of course, play as Tyranids. Look forward to the expansion which should enhance 
 the entire experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:29 am PT
Review:  like the title says, its just different.
  
  Good: Graphics is jaw-dropping. if you have seent he screenshots, you know what i am talking about. 
 its the crysis of RTS's. Multiplayer is great. No building!!!! i am not a RTS kind of guy but i 
 loved this game. i didnt really like World in Conflict but Warhammer was great. The single player 
 is not amazing, there is no real stratgy involved but if you cna get past that problem you will 
 love this game. The 4 races all play very differnetly, not as different as some games like starcraft 
 or warcraft, but they have their differences. collecting loot in single player is quiet rewarding. 
 
  
  Bad: there is no stratgy involed for the most part. there is no building. only 3v3 or 1v1 for now. 
 very few multiplayer matchs. campign story isnt much to brag about. last mission glitch where you 
 cannot continue after you finish the campign. (just a rumor though) the modes of rsingle player 
 is either attack a lot of people then kill a giant as boss, defend a structre (sometimes 3) or go 
 from here to there.
  
  The game is jsut different compaired to the last DOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanoxtheone
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  
  Ahhh, Dawn of War 2, if there is one game I really was waiting for then it has to be this game 
 (well, except maybe for Oblivion that is) . I expected it to be something like the original DoW, 
 with a better graphical engine, the physics of Company of Heroes and even more cool Warhammer 40K-creatures. 
 How disappointed I was as I was first playing the game It had a major fail on the first objective 
 ie the only thing it has in common with the original DoW is the universe. Although disappointed 
 and mentally broken, I carried on and discovered not all was lost. I hereby bring you the tales 
 of a disillusioned DoW junkie.
  
  Day 1: It all started the 17th of February: the local games store sold the game one day earlier 
 than the official release date, so I bought it. At home I installed it but when I wanted to play 
 it asked for Steam to be installed. Yes, that is STEAM you read, your eyeballs are allowed to vomit 
 As a short deviation I hereby brings thou the tales of STEAM. After installing steam I tried to 
 start the game but it seemed Steam only follows the official release dates, so I had to wait until 
 midnight to play it At midnight, you can guess, the server was "too busy". Arghhh!
  
  Day 2: Finally I get to launch the game. First thing that pops up: Windows live account This is 
 getting quite annoying I created a live account and finally got to play the game. Instinctively 
 I searched for the "skirmish" button, but alas, it is gone. Desperate for some blood and gore I 
 start the campaign, and after the loading screen I get to see my first battlefield. It has to be 
 said, the graphics are breathtakingly gorgeous. It's filled with little details like rocks, grass, 
 fuel tanks, the general terrain is made up of bigger chunks of rock, (ruined) buildings, broken 
 tanks, small lakes and rivers, tank traps, barbed wire, impact craters, And everything still looks 
 neat, not overdone and it's not drawing away your attention or making the game more difficult. 
 Kudos to Relic, for making such a beautiful game with standard system requirements.
  
  But I'm getting carried away. In the first mission you get to learn the basic fluff: moving, shooting, 
 taking cover, capturing strategic points (more about them later on) and using skills. You start 
 with your captain and with a squad of tactical marines. As you play more mission devastators, scouts 
 and assault marines will become available. You get all of these in the first few missions. Later 
 on some special unit (s) will join you, but I'll leave that to the reader.
  
  All of these units have their own function: the tactical marines are nice all-rounders, the devastators 
 are the heavy-weapons-dudes, the scouts are... eehscouts and the assault marines are close-combat 
 warriors. Nothing forces you to stick to these predefined functions though: units have a level, 
 and they gain experience from killing enemies (everyone gets his share with every kill) and at 
 the end of a level your units gain experience according to how well you did. Along the road you 
 will also find items. After each level you get to spend your unit's skill points on statistics 
 ("stamina", "shooting", "strength", and something "energy"-like) . As you put points in each statistic 
 you unlock certain skills (like the option for your assault marines to equip power weapons) .
  
  In this screen you also get to equip your units with the items you found along the way, this 
 goes from weapons to armor and from healing packs to turrets and an invulnerability-item. If you 
 have items left you can't use, you can trade them for some extra experience.
  
  But back to the mission: During the mission there are certain objectives to complete. Each of these 
 objectives is marked on your minimap and you can choose in which order to complete them. Also marked 
 on the map are the strategic points. These points can be captured by your units and you can use 
 them to reinforce your squads. After completing all of the objectives the mission automatically 
 stops. You get to see your statistics and then you are back on your ship where you can spend skillpoints 
 and equip items.
  
  Most of the missions have the same objective: kill an enemy leader, although some are quite different 
 (but once again, that's up to you to discover) . You get to fight three different enemies: Orks, 
 which are only usefull once they get into close combat; Eldar, which are all elite units (although 
 some are slightly too elite to be good imo) and Tyranids aka "you WILL get swamped, chewed, stomped, 
 digested and shred to pieces".
  
  The only downside of the campaign is that you can only play it with the blood ravens. Ahh, how 
 I would have enjoyed it to take over entire worlds as a hive tyrant But alas, relic keeps up its 
 name of "campaigns with only one race".
  
  I didn't get to try the "co-op" mode, so I won't consider it in the review.
  
  Day 3: I have 
 no internet connection as I am not at home. Steam says:" F*** YOU; no internet, no gamesAnd 
 I payed 50bucks for that
  
  Day 4: Being pissed at Steam I play some Civ4.
  
  Day 5: up to the multiplayer-testing. First things first: create a multiplayer Windows-live account.
 
  After creating the account I restart my search for the "skirmish" button, but as expected it still 
 isn't there. After some testing I found that multiplayer -  local leads to a single-player battle. 
 Here you have the option to pick any of the four races. Also you can pick one of three leaders 
 (for spacemarines these are the apothecary, force commander and techmarine) . Each of the leaders 
 has different special skills (The warp spider exarch (Eldar) can summon units of warp spiders, 
 the techmarine a unit of terminators) which need a special resource that is obtained by killing 
 enemy units. Once you get enough of this resource you can activate the skill. You can also capture 
 a special strategic point which is used in a "conquest" like victory condition (you both start 
 with 500 points, and by holding more strategic points than you enemy you lower his points) . The 
 other victory-condition is elimination.
  
  But how to train units? In the multiplayer battles you actually have an HQ that you can use to 
 train all of your units. The HQ can be upgraded so you can train more powerful units. To train 
 units you need requisite and power. Both are obtained by capturing strategic points (one for power 
 and one for requisite, and you can expand the power-point by buying more generators) . These points 
 cannot be fortified (although you can build something on top of the power-points) so they are easily 
 recaptured by the enemy. 
  
  By limiting you with 100 population relic has made it that you can never have enough units to guard 
 every point with a decent force, so if the enemy launches an assault you have to decide to get 
 more units from different points or to try and defend the point with the units present. Just as 
 in the campaign your units gain levels, but besides getting more health nothing else happens. Your 
 commander can be equipped with an array of items, making it more fit for a certain battlefield-role.
 
  
  In total I feel somewhat disappointed by the multiplayer mode: no basebuilding, no customizable 
 space-marine units,  Still I can imagine some people will love this kind of intense multiplayer 
 fighting.
  
  Day 6: The final verdict:
  The good things:
  - A lovely RPG-like campaign with a high replay value
  - intense multiplayer battles
  - awesome 
 graphics
  - the tyranids are implemented very well
  The bad things:
  - no basebuilding
  - Steam 
  - Steam
  - only one race to play the campaign
  - Steam
  - slightly unbalanced 
 elder (in the campaign that is)
  - limited amount of multiplayer maps
  
  As you might have noticed, most of the "bad" things aren't really "bad", but as I said I expected 
 Dawn of War, the sequel; but instead DOW2 turns out to be a completely different game. So if you 
 bought the original DoW and expect to find the same here, you probably won't. Still, it's an awesome 
 game with a nice refreshing look on RTS campaigns and intense multiplayer. If you have internet 
 and nerves of steel (otherwise they might snap while using Steam) go ahead and buy this game, you 
 won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wawadungoga
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:00 am PT
Review:  Well, one of the reasons why i like this game is because i resembles Company of Heroes, wich also 
 was misunderstood by many. These games were never about building a big army, and lay out a large 
 strategy to crush your enemy. These games were more in the direction of tactical, trying to keep 
 your units alive, and get a lot of experience so they could get better and be more efficient. Its 
 about doing something significant with each unit, each unit is an oportunity for ambush, recon, 
 trap, etc, etc. Same thing happened more or less in Dawn of war 2, its about keeping them alive, 
 making them more efficient. Of course, the campain is something that doesnt have anything to do 
 with RTS at all, it is, well, yes, an Action RPG seen from above. It has all the elements of an 
 RPG, level up, abilities to augment, gear to equip. The campaign doesnt have anything strategic, 
 maybe tactical, but its no longer an RTS. But the multiplayer, on the other hand, is, well, Company 
 of Heroes, in the Dawn of War universe, its very entertaining, with lots and lots of tactics to 
 play with, especialy since each race have 3 commanders, specialized in different areas. The Campaign, 
 well, the story is okay, although it could be better; its prety long, and optional missions prolong 
 the durability. The game has beautiful graphics, if your pc can keep up, although, and im thankfull 
 for it, i actually think that DoW 2 doesnt krave as much as CoH, at least i feels that way. I think 
 its a great game overall, plenty of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: internetrush
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  Overall, i'm going to give this an 8. Why you say? Mostly because the game is "Great" but just 
 barely so. 
  
  Unlike the last game the second installment differs in that it is far more emphasis placed on tactical 
 implantations rather than strategic. 
  
  As you progress you, as commander, make squad decisions and upgrades to the squad rather than to 
 an army (as you did in the game prior) . This is a solid divergent path from its original field, 
 which is very good; however, the fact that DoW I already had tactical elements in place (such as 
 discussed later) along with the strategic element makes it feel disappointing. 
  
  In DoW I the commander (you) could stick a sniper squad in with basic army and use them to pick 
 off specific enemies that could cause you great damage, you may still do here; however, there is 
 almost no feel of "strategy" in this as they often get mixed up with the regular troops as you 
 are far more limited into the number of squads you can incorperate at any one given time.
  
  
  All in all, its a great game, with a very divergent and creative path from the first. The 
 player does lose a key element in the feeling of strategic importance in the game which was placed 
 very well in the last one and is sorely missed. The game was implemented very well though with 
 the additional tactical improvements making it an engaging and fun campaign. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: imkain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:01 am PT
Review:  I played the first Dawn of War and absolutely loved the style of gameplay, as I am used to a rush 
 mentality when it comes to the RTS genre from playing with online buddies. I played Relics WWII 
 RTS, Company of Heroes and loved how they had set the gameplay up in that series. Now here we go 
 into a wonderful change in the RTS genre, a sort of RPG meets RTS marriage that goes really well 
 together. The single player campaign is where you see this marriage occur only... As you play the 
 campaign your units gain experience from kills on the battlefield, as well as picking up ammo, 
 armor, and guns. This equipment goes as far as to have the colors we have come to expect from MMOs 
 white, green, and blues (I haven't seen purples yet... but I haven't made it completely to the end) . 
 The ability to invite a friend into your campaign is also a nice addition since it can take your 
 mind off of moving everyone into positions, and concentrate on just two groups and coordinating 
 with your friend and watching the plan unfold right before your eyes. The multiplayer aspect of 
 things also comes with a change... no base building required. Gone is the tedious base building 
 that bogs down most RTSs. You have your main building to build units from, and from there you decide 
 when it is time to go to Tier 2 or Tier 3 with your main building. Capturing strategic points help 
 with gaining more requistion points and energy. All in all this is a great gama and I look forward 
 to seeing some expansion packs in the near not-so-distant future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltstone
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:22 am PT
Review:  Grate game if u kan get it working I have been truing to get it working for a week now AND IT IS 
 FREKING ANNOYING 
  
  i have bought the game a week a go and have been updating since i haven't even gon into it once 
 it looks grate on the rewies and vids but geting it to work is a BIG hassle i have ADSL and its 
 chewing up my cap just get ing the thing to work and how DA HELL am i sposed to get it to work 
 via my home line, is slower than 56K modem (not my adsl WORK LINE) and Steam i have ad probs with 
 steam ever sins HL2 
  
  TIME SPENT playing = 0
  TIME SPENT updating = 5 Days
  
  freeak it just keeps on updating and never stops
  
  Well apart from that its a Grate Game
 
  
  is thaer mybe a crack so that i can play my original game
  
  the thing is nowadays the Game development PPL treat the Gamers Like Criminals piracy is not good 
 for the industry, but treating your clients like criminals is not mut ch better 
  
  ("if thay can mybe get a system thats checks the game to the game key and then user name (like 
 Steam But ONly WITh less hassle) and the config and when u upgrade u have to state the change on 
 your profile and update the key withe no COST to the gamer and after updating the old key is deacivated 
 so its onliune key activation not game as sutch but thats me") 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Szkeptik
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  Pro: Addictive gameplay, great visuals, responsive environment, decisions really matter
  
  Con: Weak storyline, occasional AI mishaps
  
  The first game and it's expansion (Dark Crusade) 
 left me with some high expectations, so I was really looking forward to this release. Then a few 
 days before it got to stores I read that the single player campaign will not have resource gathering 
 or base building. I was a bit frightened by the news, since innovation is usually a good way to 
 kill a great franchise. When I finally got my hands on it I was relieved. The campaign played great 
 with the new mechanics. It wasn't really a strategy game though. You control four squads of soldiers, 
 never more than 11 people. Every squad has its own role like the fast assault marines that can 
 jump into the middle of the fight, or the heavy devastators who lay down suppressive fire from 
 afar. Every single unit can count when you're against an overwhelming enemy force. The lack of 
 resource management and unit building takes this game out of the scope of RTS and into a more RPG 
 like setting with a deep tactical aspect. Instead of building large forces and sending them onto 
 the field, you often have to decide carefully where to place a squad or the other to get the maximum 
 out of their abilities and sometimes I even found myself laying traps and luring the enemy in. 
 Light and heavy cover are used the same way as in Company of Heroes, giving a considerable edge 
 for the person who can use it best.
  
  The AI isn't always shining. Some enemies will run after you for a while but then just turn back 
 and leave your units if they get far enough away from their starting location. I even managed to 
 kill a boss this way once standing just outside its range.
  
  The missions themselves are so linear and alike that it's amazing how the developers managed to 
 keep them interesting. Every single one is about killing off a lot of lesser enemies then a boss 
 character at the end. A few special plot missions are the only ones exempt from this and they are 
 few and far between. The war itself wages on three planets with you deciding which one you want 
 to do your next mission on. Each has 4-5 regions that eighter have an assignment available or not. 
 It looks a lot like the turn based section of Dark Crusade, and it's integrated into the game seamlessly. 
 Instead of turns you pass the time by doing missions and if you do it fast or brutally enough you 
 can get extra missions for the same day. This is what makes it really interesting as you are always 
 racing against time in the game. Some missions have a time limit of three days and if you don't 
 do them in that time they expire and give a penalty. This is also a very engaging part since you 
 will often have to choose between doing it or letting it expire in favor of another and every single 
 one you let slip will come back at you in the form of heightened enemy activity or lost combat 
 gear.
  
  Speaking about combat gear, in between missions you are constantly equipping your squads with the 
 new stuff you found in the battle -drops like in Diablo- or what you got as a prize for completing 
 a mission. It looks a lot like an RPG screen where you have an inventory, left and right hand slot, 
 armor and extra equipment slots for stuff like grenades, stimulant packs or other bonus giving 
 accessories. Some real thinking will take place here as it's important which combat gear you take 
 for which mission since some stuff might be absolutely vital to finish one assignment while completely 
 useless for another depending mostly on what sort of enemy you are about to face. Your squads gain 
 levels and have four attributes to spend skill points on; Stamina, Ranged, Strength and Will. The 
 game states you can develop any squad in any way you like, but that seems unlikely, as different 
 squads have different maximum levels for every skill, for example the devastators that start as 
 a heavy ranged infantry have a much lower cap for their strength (melee) attribute that their ranged 
 attribute, so they can never be as good in hand-to-hand as the assault marines. The level cap is 
 at 20 with two skill points per level so you won't get nearly enough skill points to max out everything, 
 making your choices with character development matter. 
  
  The story is nothing special. The bad guys come and you kill them off against incredible odds. 
 You know, the kind of thing that three meter tall religious fanatics in power armor do the best. 
 I'm a really story oriented person so the fact that I like it even with such a weak plot goes to 
 show that it makes up for it in gameplay. Even with the missions being clones of each other it 
 still manages to tie you to the screen for a few days at least.
  
  Visuals are really on the money. When maxed out the game delivers a truckload of eye candy and 
 deposits it right in your face. The almost fully destructive environment adds to the feeling as 
 whole walls and towers crumble to the ground while the battle rages. It can also be annoying though 
 as there are some elements that can't be destroyed, but are impossible to tell from the ones that 
 can be. This will sometimes result in your heroes' house razing, concrete wall breaking, steel 
 tower twisting charge being stopped by an indestructible park bench. 
  
  If you liked the first installment or are just generally into strategy games that try something 
 new I recommend DoW II, but if you are looking for an epic story to go with it you won't find it 
 here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply great, and great enough that I want to start out by pondering - why do people 
 give it such a bum rap? The answer - because there's no base building?
  
  Many reviews seem to dismiss DOW2 as a non-RTS and waste of time because there are no structures 
 involved. I never thought you needed structures to have an RTS to begin with and like the fact 
 that repetitive base building has been eliminated! There's still plenty of strategy in guiding 
 several small units through missions, but you have to take advantage of it. I would wager that 
 many players played this game on easy and never really needed to use cover at all. I mean, on easy 
 you can take out any enemy armor with a few bolters and a grenade, what's the point? It's way more 
 fun using Tarkus as bait in heavy cover while gaining an advantage behind enemies with Avitus and 
 his plasma cannon because 1) that's how the game is meant to be played and 2) it adds a ton of 
 excitement to the game when you play it the way it was meant to be played!
  
  One of the downfalls of Soul Storm was the loss of all bases even during defensive missions. I 
 really appreciated the persistent bases of Dark Crusade while playing Soul Storm. In DOW2, however, 
 it's basically a non-issue. Any defense missions you go on involve resources you previously captured, 
 and as long as you defend it well enough it stays yours! Simple is better!
  
  Each unit appeals in their own way either through hardcore melee attacks, long ranged devastation, 
 grenade support, or stealth, and you can choose who will best suit your gameplay method and bring 
 them on mission after mission. A big surprise for me in the single player game was the addition 
 of a dreadnought. I had no idea! I was a little disappointed, however, when I found out he could 
 not be upgraded to hellfire. Love those things...
  
  Each unit can add your own special touch to their specialization. You can make you commander a 
 melee or ranged specialist, you can nerf the hell out of your other units if you spend their skill 
 points wisely, or you can make them uber by giving them specific strengths and sticking with them. 
 It's all up to you!
  
  There are plenty of items and armor to pick from with a variety of different benefits with each. 
 I'm glad to say that terminator armor is not always the best solution too. I mean, yeah its sweet, 
 but terminator armor can not take cover and typically just bashes things apart by walking near 
 it, but they can carry the highest damage weaponry available so there is a trade off. A fast kill 
 or endurance in cover? Your choice. 
  
  I realize there is a lot of grumbling about the plot of DOW2, but you know what? I think it's the 
 strongest it has ever been. Squad leaders will argue with one another between side missions, talk 
 about their pasts even when you are off the main plot, and the voice acting is very well done throughout. 
 The main story is, without a doubt, very brief if you play it straight through, and you get a lot 
 more out of the game if you spend the time to defend captured resources and take on optional targets. 
 Not only will the characters develop more, but you will also be offered more gear to make the final 
 mission much more manageable. 
  
  As always, I will mention, this DOW game like all others makes its difficult settings... DIFFICULT! 
 Don't expect to hold on to much or keep your units on their feet often on any of the higher settings. 
 It may be a good idea to play it through on a intermediate setting of your liking, NOT EASY, but 
 intermediate just to get a hang of it THEN tackle the tough stuff. 
  
  The graphics and sound are great and the environment crumbles and deforms with every blast and 
 explosion. I like to play with the sound cranked up and listen to the maelstrom of battle. 
  
  Online you're on your own. As always, I get crushed online, but I keep trying. It is a very 
 different game online and if you are sued to the abilities of the squads you make in the SP game, 
 you're going to be in for a shock. Very few of the squads respond in a similar manner and have 
 far lower resilience in PvP. But it's very addictive to gain levels, lose a lot, and keep coming 
 back for me. I hope, sooner or later, more maps will be released for a more various game. 
  
  Two things I would have liked to have seen in this game. 1) an SP plot that revolved around 
 a chapter I made instead of the Blood Ravens, though I love the Blood Ravens and stick by them 
 having the spotlight here, and 2) the ability to play the SP game as any of the four races... maybe 
 not the Nids. Might not be a lot of plot to build on with a bunch of subtitled growling and hissing. 
 I still contend that a Eldar point of view and an Ork point of view would have been very cool. 
 I think a lot of people would get a kick out of playing as Orks and putting down rebellious nobs 
 as often as fighting the other enemies. Would be funny too! Here's hoping for the next game, though 
 I think the expansion will probably have a Chaos single player game. If I were to hope for something 
 form the expansion to come it will be the addition of the Sisters of Battle, Grey Knights, and 
 Tau. My favs...
  
  If you are a fan of the DOW series, I don't think it would be possible for you to be disappointed 
 here. In my book it goes down as the best of the series so far and I look forward to the expansions 
 that will inevitably follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:26 am PT
Review:  All dough i love Warhammer series, first thing that got my attention was that this is NOT an RTS, 
 but a pure RPG. Sry, but there is NO BASE BUILDING, capturing special strategic locations was in 
 previous series also there, but it just added to the RTS. Now with no base building and really 
 LOW NUMBER OF UNITS, i really don't have a feel like i'm playing RTS, but pure RPG title, and i'm 
 not that much into RPG. Mostly you play with 4 squadrons from which most of them are made of 3 
 units - so it makes about 12 units in total - gee, what a great RTS battle - NOT! You than collect 
 special items and equipment that you put on those units. So sry, but where the heck is that RTS 
 part of the game?! I've been waiting for this title, since i love RTS and WH series, but this part 
 is a disappointment for me because it is not what it is classified as. Dough i guess they will 
 make things better with lot of expansions, graphics are great, and so are the animations, i'm not 
 thrilled by the fact that they sell RPG title under RTS tag. Sorry, but RTS on PC is well know 
 thing, and every gamer knows what s/he should expect under RTS on PC, and that is definitely not 
 RPG. That's is the only, but also a big minus for this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  For many years the sequels to RTS games were just the original game but "1.5". Relic is one of 
 the few studios that makes truly innovative games. Anyone who has played their RTS games knows 
 what I am talking about.
  
  Dawn of War 2 is almost nothing like the original game and this might turn some people off. I know 
 because I was one of those people but when I played the game first in the beta and now the retail 
 version I can honestly say that I love this game.
   
 
  Most single player campaigns in RTS are basically skirmishes. Build up a base, produce units and 
 destroy the enemy base and from time to time there are escort missions or defend missions. Relic 
 knows that and I throw it out of the window in Dawn of War 2. Now the game is not so strategic 
 but it is tactical and micro intensive. What they did in DoW2 is a lite action roleplaying single 
 player experience. If you are a hard core RTS gamer, you probably won't like it. But if you are 
 sick of the traditional RTS campaign like I am, you will find the SP refreshing. I also love Action 
 RPGs which made me like the SP even more. 
  
  You are assigned as the Force Commander of 5 squads to investigate an ork invasion. You can bring 
 3 squads with you ( 4 including you) and complete different objectives like defend a shrine, assassinate 
 a boss or reach a certain location on the map. Yeah, there aren't many different things to do and 
 the maps aren't that many but the action is so exciting and engaging, the maps are ridiculously 
 detailed and so well designed that I did not find the campaign repetitive at all. You collect loot 
 and your squads can level up to level 20. After each level you assign skill points in 4 different 
 categories (Health, Range Damage, Melee Damage and Mana (Energy) . As you level up the squads will 
 have many skills for you to use in the battles. With the awesome DoW 2 graphics ( version 2 of 
 the Essence Engine originally used in Company of Heroes) the battles are a lot of fun. Well after 
 25 hours the only missions left were defend the shrine (generators) and I felt that it was getting 
 very repetitive (which to me means it's boring now after so many hours) .
  
  The story was ok and Relic should have added more types of missions but overall I liked the campaign 
 and I will play it again (on Primarch this time) in a few weeks.
  
 
  The MP is very different from the SP and this is where the game shines the most. It is action 
 packed like the SP but you can have more than 4 squads and you can play with any of the four races: 
 Eldar, Space Marines, Tyranids or Orks. Anyone familiar with the original game or Company of Heroes 
 in particular will get the hang of it fast. However there is no traditional base building. You 
 have a HQ which produces your units. You have to capture strategic points on the map. Requisition 
 points are knows from DoW1 but in DoW2 you also have to capture energy nodes on the map, unlike 
 in the original where you build generator in your base. After you capture an energy node you can 
 upgrade it and then build up to 3 generator near the node to increase your energy income. All upgrades 
 are on the units themselves. You can add exarchs, grenades and many other stuff. Most units level 
 up to level 4 but your commander unit levels up to level 10 and can have 4+ skills to use.
  You can win the game by capturing two of the three Victory Points on the map and thus drain your 
 opponent's points to zero (500-0) , similar to CoH victory point system. There is another mode call 
 Annihilation but it is not as fun as the Victory Control mode.
  Playing 3v3 or 1v1 is very exciting and fun to play. If I have to use one word it will be AWESOME.
 
  
 
  1. Stances are missing.
  2. No map editor but Relic will be patching it in. 
  3. There aren't many maps and some people might be disappointed but imho the maps are so awesome 
 that I have no problem playing on them again and again, and again.
  4. In-depth units statistics.
  5. Games for Windows Live is a little meh and Steam can be pain 
 in the *ss sometimes.
  6. Minor bugs in SP and MP.
  
 
  1. Outstanding Graphics. The terrain deformation is just awesome and it doesn't "heal" itself after 
 few seconds. IT REMAINS!
  2. Awesome Gameplay (MP in particular) .
  3. Well designed and detailed maps (which imo is the reason why there are only 7 maps) .
  4. Great 
 tracks, sound effects and overall sound quality.
  5. Outstanding Presentation.
  6. Army Painter.
   
 
  The game is awesome and it will be getting even better with the inevitable two expansions. I have 
 no doubt that all of the problems I mentioned above will be solved. In a year or so will will have 
 at least 4 more races and in two years will be playing an awesome, truly evolved the RTS genre 
 game will all 10 races.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saKhan_McInn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:06 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k Dawn of War 2 resembles very little of the first installment, Dawn of War. Besides 
 from the theme and the fact that it is an RTS, basically everything else has been altered.
  
  The gameplay has somewhat adopted more of a Company of Heroes approach, one of Relic's most 
 successful games but that is not to say that they are the same game. Anyone familiar with the Warhammer 
 40k tabletop game will feel right at home as the similarities between DOW 2 and the tabletop are 
 uncanny (besides from the better effects) .
  
  The base building has been all but removed allowing the player to focus entirely on squad construction, 
 strategy and combat. If this sounds disappointing to some fans of the first game be aware the gore 
 and warlike nature that can be noted from the first DOW remains in the second. Squad recruitment 
 still exists as well as tier research but this is the extent of base deployment DOW 2 offers.
 
  
  With Relic taking a different approach, DOW 2 tries to focus more on the management of your forces 
 rather than resources. Resources still play a vital role as you are limited to only a modest amount 
 of requisition and resources. It is up to the player to decide on what to allocate such funding 
 to as it can be exhausted quickly. As the player only has to worry about their troops one could 
 make the assumption that the game can be underwhelming. However within 30 seconds of a skirmish's 
 commencement it is likely combat has already ensued, which engages the player until one side emerges 
 as the victor.
  
  Furthermore resources don't even exist in singleplayer as you choose your team before you deploy 
 for a mission. Most missions only last between 10 - 15 minutes and the player cannot save during 
 a mission. This method makes battles far more intense. Your squads in the campaign also gradually 
 gain levels and can be equipped with upgrades such as armour, weapons and accessories. In this 
 sense the single player has an RPG component to it. The enjoyable yet iterating campaign lasts 
 for over 10 hours but can last much longer as new missions always appear at the end of each day. 
 If the player is willing to continue to play the optional missions there can be some worthwhile 
 rewards such as finding long lost Blood Raven relics, powerful items that have a significant influence 
 in combat and is a worthwhile aid.
  
  The real excitement however lies in the multiplayer. The true RTS aspect of the game emerges with 
 fantastic gameplay and replayability. There are four races including the zealous Space Marines, 
 the warlike Orks, the mysterious Eldar and the life sucking Tyranids. 
  
  Each race has the choice of three force commanders which differ from the assault equipped Force 
 Commander to the teleporting Warp Spider Exarch to even the stealthy and lethal Lictor Alpha. Commanders 
 add another layer of complexity and sophistication to the multiplayer ensuring that rarely two 
 matches are ever the same and encourages the player to adapt to a multitude of situations. All 
 the races are rather well balanced however some commanders can be far too dominating in contrast 
 to some of the other commanders (e. g Force Commander) . However any combination and strategy can 
 be toppled as battles are constantly changing.
  
  Multiplayer has two game modes, Victory Point and Annihilation. Victory Point is the more popular 
 of the two as it plays to the game strengths demanding players who are both aggressive and defensive 
 in order to gain victory. Matches only increase in intensity until the expensive but rewarding 
 elite units emerge late-game. In conjunction with special abilities, the warzone turns apocalyptic 
 as avatars march through enemy lines and orbital bombardments disintegrate the once intimidating 
 opposing army. It's during these moments one forgets that they are only really controlling a handful 
 of units at any one time and proves it's more than enough to captivate the player.
  
  Dawn of War 2 does not obsolesce The original Dawn of War. Rather it embarks in a new direction, 
 transforming the core gameplay during the process. DOW 2 demands more logistical strategy than 
 resource management than other RTS and most of the time works towards the game's favour. Despite 
 how risky Relic's ploy was, DOW 2 definitely deserves having a look into and will provide hours 
 of enjoyment in both single player and the competitive multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vno
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  Although lacking in variety and different situations, the single-player concept or RPG-like RTS 
 is what made Warcraft 3 hugely successful with its RPG-like campaigns snuck in there but with much 
 more variety, situations, objectives, story, twists, and maps. But unlike warcraft 3, it has close 
 to zero story, maps, situations (its either kill the boss / kill enemy base or defend the asset 
 ) .
  
  DoW2 noticed and brought this concept back that is why I bought the game in the first-place after 
 reading other people saying about it's rpg-ness because building buildings and collecting resources 
 is just plain boring and stupid for any human being to do for hours.
  
  a traditional Real Time Strategy game requires you to be the fastest to get the resources on the 
 map etc, and teching and then fighting in the end. In DoW2, all those **** at the front is removed 
 and you dive quicker into battle. However, it IS still a REAL TIME STRATEGY game. you still need 
 to make choices and strategize but more on combat and less on **** building and timing kinda thing 
 in traditional rts. You'll need to plan and use the environment and position to your advantage 
 and it will turn the tide of battle, you'll need toupgrade gears and skills and counter your enemies, 
 you'll need to decide on what units to train and where you want to place them.
  
  DoW2 is saving society by throwing away useless resource collecting which wastes food space for 
 "peasants" and hours of time by having quicker games and overall you get to play more games.
  
  The single-player is short but decent. You might only find it repetitive if you decide to do 
 some or all the optional missions to get all the gears. But the developer even said you need to 
 choose which missions you're going to choose and skip some. but they even add in the endless optional 
 missions for those who just wanna colelct every item there is.
  
  I haven't played the multiplayer yet.
  
  -Aeom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaceman5000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  The game mainly consists of three parts. The First one is real time strategy in which you fight 
 against orks, Eldar etc.. You don't have to build bases, so you just have your small troop of Space 
 Marines to do missions. But yo can conquer some special points on the map, in which you may refill 
 your troops. This makes the game really fast and you can go straight to the action.
  
  The second part is a kind of inventory management and character development. Like in Diablo or 
 WOW you will find loads of weapons, armor and other things which you may equip on your marines. 
 Also you do get XP for killing your enemies so that your troops level up after some time. You can 
 choose between different skills like damage dealing, health regeneration or a weapon specialisation. 
 This parts is highly addictive. You will always think "Just one more mission, so I can level up 
 and use the lvl13 chainsaw"
  
  The third part is a map of the star system. You can choose what mission you want to do next. While 
 fighting your way through the campaign you will conquer some special buildings which provide you 
 a bonus in battle. So often you have to choose between rescuing some priests for example which 
 may give you a better weapon or defending one of your buildings which you wil loose otherwise. 
 
  
  The multi player part is very fast and funny since you also have no base building. You have to 
 conquer some certain buildings which give you resources to summon new creatures. You may also play 
 other races like the orks for example. Nice but nothing compared to the astonishing single player. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gpnkruger
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  Good graphics and fun game play, nice RPG feature to the game also. I dont like the binding of 
 the squads much I would like to have 1 group for all the squads and then 1 for each individual 
 squad eg. one squad belongs to group 1 but also to group 5 which belongs to all the squads. Just 
 easier to move all of them without dragging a box. 
  
  Also the fact that you play the same maps so often sucks to. This also makes the LAN games or skirmish 
 games rather boring since there are so few maps. The multiplayer should also have a free for all 
 option and also a game type that is more like the older DOW. One that is more a strategy game instead 
 of RPG. 
  
  I think that they should add more units and buildings as well in a more traditional style RTS. 
 
  
  Seems they tried to give the game a RPG feel and also make it like Company of Heroes. It turns 
 out good but could have been a bit better. Still worth the buy and gr8 game with lots of potencial 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VAAAK23
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game looks great and the campaign is addictive, if not somewhat short lived. But this game 
 doesn't really feel like an RTS to me. It is more of a real-time squad-based RPG for the campaign, 
 which can only be played as the Marines, than a true RTS. There is no base building. You have no 
 strong points to group around or deploy from. And with the lack of bases or any other fortifications, 
 you're left with a pure run-and-gun, only with a pathetically small number of units. At least in 
 the old DOW you could deploy more than 6 units as well as 5+ pcs of armor or support vehicles, 
 but not here. The squad cap is for both armor and infantry together, so don't plan on ever fielding 
 more than 5-7 units for your "War" at any one time. There's no Chaos Marines, no Tau, no Imperial 
 Guard, and only about 12 multiplayer maps. This game feels like it's incomplete and if this was 
 the best Relic could dish out for us then they need to go play Command and Conquer or Supreme Commander 
 and learn what an RTS is all about. It's about building and defending bases; it's about building 
 up your army while repelling the attackers; and it's about sweeping your army across the battlefield 
 and crushing the enemy resistance. Go back to the drawing board Relic, this is a disappointing 
 step backwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tommoz0r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:45 am PT
Review:  Ok, to begin with, I must say that this isn't your standard everyday RTS, this is different... 
 Very different. In a good way you so eagerly wonder? Hell yes.
  
  I've been playing RTS' for years, since the early Warcraft/C&C days. Since then, base building 
 has played one hell of a major part in strategy games, and Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War II cuts 
 out the base building system to give you a totally fresh, unique, and down right fun experience. 
 I was very distant from the idea at first, and hesitant to purchase the game worried about what 
 i was getting myself in to, but then i thought... "Hell, i'm a gamer, a serious one. And theres 
 no way in hell i'm going to turn down a chance to try something new!".
  
  Writing this review, i'm going to lay it out in a different style from my other previous reviews, 
 so here i go!
  
  Story -
  
  The story, from what I had seen, and taken part in was pretty darn good. I enjoyed the story alot, 
 apart from the voice-acting, which 'could' have been a little better, it did have me pretty immersed. 
 It once again focuses on the Blood Raven's, in which they are currently undergoing a massive Ork 
 invasion. They have no idea how or why the Orks are hitting very important hot spots, but eventually 
 find out that once again the Eldar have a part to play. 
  
  As the story unfolds, eventually identifying the Tyranids as the true threat. The Eldar had been 
 trying to provoke the Orks, to stop the current Tyranid invasion where it stood, destroying the 
 3 worlds in which the Blood Ravens occupied to save thier own Craftworld. The story is a little 
 deeper, but i'm only outlining the basics.
  
  Graphics - 
  
  I must say, the visuals on this game are amazing. It sets a higher standard in the RTS genre and 
 totally blows away any out there at the moment. Playing the game on Ultra settings is a total treat, 
 zooming into the battlefield, I could see every little detail, ranging from the scratches on thier 
 power armor to the splatters of blood on thier chain swords, even the level of detail on thier 
 faces will have your jaw drop. You'll get the full experience playing it in Ultra I can assure 
 you.
  
  Another thing I was impressed with was the level of detail on the environment, relic really put 
 alot of work into this, and I hail 'em for it! The explosions are especially fantastic to watch, 
 wether it be a plasma grenade or a frag, at a building or into a group of enemies, the effects 
 of limbs flying and buildings falling to the ground, it's something you wouldn't get bored of so 
 easily!
  
  Sound - 
  
  The sound, with bass up to max (I had to try it!) was great! The roaring of the Hive Tyrant, and 
 hordes of enemies unloading rounds at your squad was great, and also the explosions - as well as 
 visually - were fantastic. Once again like i said the voice acting wasn't the best out there, which 
 i was a little disappointed about but was something that i could easily learn to live with.
  
  Gameplay - 
  
  Now here's where it gets interesting. This was the thing I was mainly worried 
 about, but after playing the game for a good hour or so, I fell in love with it. The single-player 
 campaign, as I said - was great. There is no base building whatsoever, which allows you to get 
 right into the action. The only base building you'll be doing (or closest thing to it) will be 
 capturing a major point on the map, such as a Shrine, or an Array Point. Once these points are 
 captured, you'll be able to reinforce lost units/squads.
  
  In the SP campaign, you'll only control a maximum of 4 squads on the battlefield, which can't be 
 reinforced without a control point. This makes you more attached to your squad like never before. 
 All the squad leaders level up with enough experience. The maximum level is 20, and they have various 
 'talent trees' as you could call them, in which you can upgrade them with every 2 points you gain 
 per level. The 4 you have are Strength - melee attacks, Ranged - ranged weapons, Endurance - stamina/health, 
 and Energy - similar to something like mana, which grant other special abilites, all further borrowing 
 from the RPG genre.
  
  Every few points you will gain a new ability, such as having sergeant Tarkus upgrade his squad 
 to a veteran squad, which changes thier appearance totally. Or have your Force Commander specialise 
 in heavy weapons instead of a 1 handed Bolt Pistol and Power Sword. 
  
  Another major thing, which also gave the game a kind of RPG feel to it, was the loot system. Yes, 
 I said loot system. On the battlefield, after killing a boss unit you can pick up either an uncommon 
 peice of loot (green) , such as armor, or weapons, or an epic (blue) which have better stats and 
 appearance. Between every mission, you can upgrade your squads, such as giving them different armor 
 you've found or been rewarded with for completing the mission, and give them better weapons. The 
 best thing about it is that with every peice of armor or new weapons you give them, thier appearance 
 will accurately change, which makes the game all the more fun, interesting, and fresh all the way 
 through.
  
  Moving on to multiplayer, is a totally different experience and layout. It's a little like Company 
 of Heroes, you have to capture requisition and power points on the battlefield to supply your base 
 with enough resources to deploy more squads. I must say there is a unit cap too, but don't be too 
 worried about it, this also then gives you the feeling that your squads are very important! MP 
 is very competetive, and very fast, depending on who you play of course, so you'll have to learn 
 some good tactics if you want to make your way up. The online multiplayer also has a great ranking 
 system, in which your commanders physical appearances change drastically the higher rank you get.
 
  
  In MP, you will have a base, only one building to reinforce/ build new units with, and you will 
 get special abilities with each squad as you did in SP. Not as much in-depth, but none the less 
 very helpful on the battlefield. You also get the chance to play all 4 races instead of 1, and 
 each race has 3 commanders you can choose/specialise in, such as the Force Commander, Tech Marine, 
 and Apothecary for the Space Marines - each having thier own unique abilites. The Tech Marine for 
 instance can call down a venerable dreadnaught, a unique unit that wreakes havoc on the field. 
 
  
  These abilities are bought with a 3rd type resource, being not requisition or power, but named 
 something different, depending on each race, and is acquired by killing enemy units, or having 
 your own being destroyed. As well as online multiplayer, the co-op is great fun, especially with 
 a friend. Both of you have control of 2 squads each, which can be swapped if desired. Also the 
 second player who joins the campaign has a unique color scheme, which i must say looks pretty darn 
 good!
  
  Overall - 
  
  The MP is well balanced, and very devastating in higher competition, but none the less great fun, 
 and also fun to play with friends too. And as for the Single-player, it's an experience that shouldn't 
 be missed. Don't hesitate to try something new, it's what I learned and it's what i'll never forget. 
 Dawn of War II is a massive achievement for relic, I had great fun, the game didn't get old too 
 quick, and still hasn't got old after 40+ hours of gameplay. The RPG elements make the game a treat, 
 and gives the game a lot of replay-value with the different ability paths you can take, to then 
 change your squads layout entirely to fit your play-style, and maximize your efficiency on the 
 battelfield.
  
  A Highly addictive game, one that shouldn't be missed for any PC fan out there. Apart from a few 
 system errors, which tend to point towards Vista more than any other OS, i'd say playing this game 
 on XP would be a wiser choice. (from personal experience)
  
  A hands down 9.5/10. 
  
  Well done relic, you took a chance, and it paid off. A very brave thing to do in the games industry, 
 but then again, isn't that what it's all about?
  
  TPJ McGinnes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: torbenstorm
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:59 am PT
Review:  FIrst of all the game looks great. It runs on an 2 year old Pc. So you dont need the biggest, baddest 
 monster to run it. The Campaign mode in Coop - great idea, i liked it in Gears of war and they 
 managed to get the same feeling into the game. Working together with a friend is just more fun. 
 And the difficulty is matched almost to perfection. Which I would have suspected to be a spot you 
 might skip over with ease. They havent and it works.
  
  The multiplayer part is Dawn of War standard, great graphics, smooth gameplay and then we got the 
 "capture the flag" clone mode. I like the idea that you dont need to get your base all up and running 
 before you can start scoring/capturing strategic locations. It good for fast and fun games - the 
 longest 1on1 was 20min. Great.
  
  Dont expect the big innovation, except the Tyranids :) But you've seen the Marines before. Great 
 Story, nice grapichs and sound. VoIP works. And most of all, I can keep coming back to it.
  The only reason it doesn't get a 10 is that it's a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owned3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The first mission of the campaign was a great begining I ran wiped out the masses of orks with 
 a few well placed grenades and pushed foward and destroyed them. It seems highly effective and 
 fun to use AOE tactics and supression tactics to wipe out the numerous orks. Fighting the eldar 
 seemed annoying to fight. I like the full blown combat relics daring descision to remove base building 
 as we knew and put in a few heroes and an rpg/rts like campaign was a daring move but it was very 
 fun anyway.
  
  I've always liked the idea of a small army of very heavily armed and heavily trained soldiers destroying 
 masses of charging troops moving from cover to cover supressing, bombing and eradicating the enemy. 
 I always liked the idea of "Grab that better weapon". The Boss fight always are challenging but 
 great to fight I always release everything i've got on the bosses. The Tyranid invasions with so 
 many charging was really awesome.
  
  It was also terrifying watching captain thule get stabbed several times. I'm only on the 8th mission 
 but i can't wait to continue the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Owl33
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:26 am PT
Review:  I'm not a huge RTS fan - let's get that out of the way.
  
  Oh, I like the premise of an RTS - get an army, fight the other army. But the mechanics always 
 left me cold. Resource gathering was a pain, too many buildings, too many options, etc etc. Many 
 people like this kind of gameplay, but I really didn't. I don't like speed building buildings, 
 etc etc.
  
  One game I really liked, however, was Myth, The Fallen Lords (and Myth 2) . It was exactly what 
 I wanted - a game that gave you units, and let you fight with them. No buildings, no queue's, no 
 resources. Just fighting. Fighting where tactics mattered.
  
  Dawn of War 2's single player campaign is a lot like Myth. Ok, there are a few differences, but 
 the basics remain the same. You are given small squads, and you fight with them. No buildings, 
 no cranking out units, etc. Things like flanking and cover matter. For me, this was PERFECT. 
 
  
  Now, add in a little "RPG-style" loot dropping and leveling, and you have almost the perfect game 
 for someone like me. Tactical fighting, leveling that matters, addictive "let's get that better 
 weapon" loot - excellent.
  
  I realize many fans of traditional RTS games don't like this. That's fine - this review is more 
 for someone like me, who loved Myth, loves the "figting" of RTS's, but can do without base building 
 and resource gathering. 
  
  Multiplayer is more traditional in that you build bases (etc) , but even that isn't anywhere near 
 as unweildy as some other RTS games. But the multi here really isn't my focus - I bought if for 
 the single player game, and I'm definitely having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the first Dawn of War (DoW) . I consider it one of the two best video games ever 
 made (the other one is Morrowind) . Since I visit the DoW forums often and played the multiplayer 
 beta, I somewhat knew what I would be getting in the retail version. While I have had some fun 
 with the game, it leaves much to be desired. I really hope that Relic is quick to improve the game 
 with patches and (free) downloadable content.
  
  Gameplay: This is not a game of massive armies, base-building, and traditional resource collection. 
 Think of your units as a tactical strike force designed to use terrain and quick-attack measures 
 in order to get the advantage. Both the single-player campaign and multiplayer work this way. On 
 the plus side, the campaign is very well done, and the rather small squads work well here. The 
 story is interesting, and there are a slew of missions. You only get to play as one of the four 
 races, but the action is still quite engaging. The campaign does allow for some choices, such as 
 which wargear to use, which specialist squads to deploy, and which missions to accept. By the end, 
 some of the missions and maps do become repetitive. However, the rewards system and the storyline 
 did keep me playing until the finale. The campaign is worth at least a second run, but probably 
 not more than that.
  
  Online multiplayer is better than skirmishing against the AI, but it didn't have to be that way. 
 The skirmish AI is just lousy. It spams just a few units per races, never uses special powers, 
 and never builds certain units, including the really essential ones. For example, AI allies and 
 opponents never, ever build Eldar fire prisms and avatar, Space Marine terminators and predators, 
 or Ork tankbustas and nob squads. Thus, the AI is handicapped in every game. Relic has virtually 
 admitted that the AI was an afterthought and has stated that this is being worked on. However, 
 one wonders why the AI was allowed to be so incompetent in the first place. 
  
  Overall, there is some good fun to had in this game. However, the missing elements are too glaring 
 to be easily forgiven. The game comes with only 7 multiplayer maps, and each of the armies really 
 could use 1-2 additional units. Coupled with only two win conditions, two gameplay modes (1v1 or 
 3v3) , and the lame AI, the game just seems lacking in important ways.
  
  Graphics: Gorgeous game. Period. Easily the best-looking RTS game I've ever played. Like the first 
 game, the units are lovingly crafted, and the animations are entertainingly over the top. The maps, 
 while somewhat small and scarce in number, are also beautifully done. Relic has outdone themselves 
 in this department. The only misstep (and it's a big one) is that the army painter is more limited 
 than in the first game. Also, the game does not support custom banners or badges. I am not sure 
 why.
  
  Sounds: Everything is in order in the audio department. The music is fittingly epic, and the voice 
 acting is generally convincing. However, the game lacks the variety of voices and quotes included 
 in the first game, and thus lacks some of its personality. Sound effects are fine.
  
  Documentation/Technical issues: The boxed version of the game comes with a manual that explains 
 most of the basics. I have had no technical issues with the game crashing or freezing. My main 
 problem with the game is the use of Steam as the DRM system. I just don't like the fact that the 
 game requires you to forever link it to a Steam account, which makes it impossible to sell or give 
 the game away to someone who does not have access to your Steam account. This is, of course, a 
 deliberate attempt to kill the secondary market in used video games, which is despicable in my 
 view and perhaps even illegal. I don't mind DRM as long as it does not limit how and when I can 
 play a game that I've purchased and to whom I can give or sell the game to when I'm done with it. 
 Steam limits access and ownership of the game in ways that I find unacceptable.
  
  Replayability/Value: For me, replayability will depend completely on how well Relic supports the 
 game with patches and additional content. If the skirmish AI is not fixed, no additional maps released, 
 no modding tools released, and remaining bugs are not addressed, this game will not hold my attention 
 long at all. Right now, I would not advise anyone to pay more than $25 for the game before these 
 issues are fully addressed. Relic's approach to the game -- as stated in several interviews with 
 developers -- was to release the game and then to patch in missing content later. It's a shoddy way 
 to do business and should not be rewarded by consumers. If the skirmish AI is GREATLY improved 
 and more maps and gameplay features are released, add another star to my overall rating of the 
 game. Until that time, it saddens me to report that this is only a slightly above-average game 
 and quite inferior to its formidable predecessor.
  
  Pros:
  +Great single-player campaign
  +Stellar graphics
  +Solid sound and voice work
  +Can be quite 
 entertaining when fights get furious
  
  Cons:
  -Just 7 maps
  -A distinct lack of gameplay options
  -Squads seem a bit too small
  -Inexcusably bad skirmish 
 AI
  -Steam DRM (I can live with Games for Windows Live) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrussianRussian
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Campaign entices you at first. Draws you in by (if you have a good graphics card) great visual 
 and sound effects, diversity in combat situations, and a great control scheme. Campaign gets to 
 play more like an RPG. Great diversity in weapons you can get for your characters and the looting 
 aspect makes you crave more missions, but it gets old, fast when you have to start replaying missions. 
 Also, it gets quite trite from only having a single race to play in the campaign. Storyline is 
 none existent, no depth, nothing to fallow. The strong aspect of the campaign lies in the character 
 development. 
  
  Multi player on the other hand balances the negative facets of the campaign. Although some have 
 to occasionally deal with having a bad connection or having to deal with people kicking you out. 
 Fast paced interaction with the focus aimed on fighting instead of base building keeps you right 
 in the center of the bout, and in the vim. Small assortment of maps is compensated with well balanced 
 and dynamic combat. It could get boring to only play as the three race given, but with collaborating 
 teammates, the possibilities could be endless. Still makes you wish for an expansion or two for 
 other races. Overall if you are a fan of the DOW series, you will be pleased, but not to any degree 
 amazed with this well put together sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffkretz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  As a background, I should say I'm a big fan of the first Dawn of War, but not many other RTS games 
 in general. I am, however, a big fan of RPGs.
  
  I found going through the SP campaign to be a blast -- frankly I didn't want it to end. I like 
 the tactical decisions that forced you to chose which squads, which abilities to level up, which 
 equipment to use.
  
  There wasn't just one way to do everything -- and depending on the type of mission and against 
 which enemy, I would use different load-outs, etc.
  
  The character building was somewhat addicting. After about 15-20 hours, I reached the end of the 
 game and had the final mission unlocked. However, I kept going on optional missions to level my 
 characters and get better loot.
  
  When I finished the campaign, I started right up again on the next higher difficulty to try it 
 again.
  
  I can't really speak for the MP component, as that's not my cup of tea, but for the SP campaign, 
 it was just a lot of fun and I really can't stop playing it.
  
  The only downside is, near the end of the game, the optional missions are mostly the same kind 
 of thing (defense) which was a bit repetitive. But throughout most of it there was a variety of 
 missions, all of which I enjoyed.
  
  I heartily recommend it.
  
  JK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:43 am PT
Review:  I used to play warhammer dark omen back in the days along with Warhammer 40k chaos gate... I have 
 to admit I didnt know what was warhammer or Wh40k back then but as I grew older I read a bit about 
 the warhammer universe and liked the concept...
  
  As a Pen and Paper D&D game addict, I also liked the tabletop warhammer games and in time I tried 
 variety of warhammer games on pc.
  
  I played dawn of war, the dark crusade, also winter assault, so I am not a stranger to the franchise, 
 frankly I am no fond of RTS games, but the compact concept of limited squads and vehicles was a 
 refreshing experience for me.
  
  But the downside was, after the first warhammer 40k DoW, the games got... boring, no story to drive 
 you on, just a chain of maps you need to play through in order to proceed. especially dawn of war 
 was a disappointment for me cause I was expecting a bit of story to follow.
  
  Dawn of War II is different though, the RTS element is stripped of the game now, it has evolved 
 into an RPG, with limited squads, you need to accomplish various missions. 
  
  You are in command of 4 different squads and sent to planets to accomplish missions, but the downside 
 continue. Actually it is really a bad point for a game which has become an RPG, there is indeed 
 no story to follow... Just bunch of maps, tied together and you go down there kill something, anyting 
 that opposes you really... In fact there is a story, it has not been unfolded yet (I hope) since 
 after a couple of missions I got bored, since it is all the same, go grab a map, cleanse, purge, 
 kill :) then move on to the next map...
  
  Well what part of this game is good? First of all the visuals are great... When you zoom in, there 
 are plenty of good looking details on the map, the fighting is good, looks rock solid, the terrain 
 is destructable, not everything but you can blow up walls and buildings, the melee fight looks 
 really nice, the way the marines take cover and fire and bla bla bla...
  
  It looks good, it looks great, it is fun up to a point, but I got bored when I realized that the 
 story is weak and the inferface is lacking, just select a map and play... So a weak story and a 
 weak presentation really hinders this game for me, I didnt play multi so I cant say anything about 
 it, but I am pretty sure I will give it another go soon since it is a good game, easy to play and 
 a visual feast...
  
  So if you like light RPG games with good looks, give it a try, I am sure the fans and fanatics 
 already went through the game many times. If you are not a fan of warhammer, this might not appeal 
 to you, if you like RTS, this game is NOT for you, but if you want to experience something different, 
 something fun, sure go give it a try, though you might rent it first... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuamishael
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics. is excellent, no problem with that. 
  but the gameplay is not what I expected.
  
  First of all when I heard that DOW 2 is going to 
 use COH engine. I was so excited about it, as I am a both fan of DOW1 and COH.
  
  First I started the Campaign. I said wow, nice... but after I played several missions. it become 
 very tiring as there is no base Building! only using 4 same squad all the time. I was wondering 
 when will I get my vehicles or dreadnaught. oh... there it is, I was given one! after several missions. 
 
  
  The mission is very tiring. you need to defend the sector left and right. and plays more like an 
 action rpg rather than a strategy game.
  
  In Multiplyer. you cannot build base which actually turns down the gameplay BIG time. Company of 
 Heroes definitly has more deeper gameplay. I mean you can't even build a banker in Dawn of war 
 2
  
  And as for the Space marine fans.. it will be disappointing that most of the vehicles are remove. 
 not sure if they will comeback on expansion set.
  
  multiplayer maps too few, thats my one complain. as I get bored easily with the same maps.
  no 
 air units. you only see Huge spaceships on Video Clips and cut scenes.
  only 4 races as of now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLastSamurai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Anyone familiar with the Warhammer 40,000 universe will instantly recognize the games four factions, 
 Orcs, Space Marines, Tyranids, and Eldar. The story takes place throughout three recruiting worlds 
 for the Space Marines (the only playable faction in single player) . While the story won't win any 
 awards it does set the stage and give reason for the many battles you will face throughout the 
 campaign. 
  What sets the campaign apart from other games in the genre is the fact that you will at any point 
 in time be controlling 4 small squads. No mass armies, no overpowering, only strategy. Like Relic's 
 other enjoyable RTS Company of Heroes, you can garrison your units and use cover to effectively 
 boost health and increase damage output. Unlike the other games of the genre, your squads level 
 up with different abilities and focus of attack (melee and range) . They can also be equipped with 
 different pieces of equipment and weapons, all of which have different benefits and advantages. 
 All in all, the campaign is fun but is troubled by repetitive mission structures and being limited 
 to one faction.
  Multiplayer is where the game shines, two modes are included: deathmatch and victory points. Company 
 of Heroes players will be familiar with both of them. Here players are given a starting base and 
 must capture resource and tech supply points to fuel their war machines. In victory point each 
 team begins with 500 points and the objective is to capture one of three victory points which, 
 while controlled, subtract from the opposing sides points. While multiplayer is a blast, the game 
 suffers from few maps and only 1v1 and 3v3 gametypes.
  Regardless of a few shortcomings, Dawn of War II pushes the RTS genre in a new and interesting 
 direction with its role playing meets strategy gameplay. While it may fall a little short in execution, 
 the core mechanics are extremely polished and fun. Any fan of RTSs should experience this game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aboal3z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story is amazing 
 however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, teams 
 and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best because 
 it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful 
 game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story 
 is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, 
 teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best 
 because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful 
 game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story 
 is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, 
 teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best 
 because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful 
 game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story 
 is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, 
 teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best 
 because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful 
 game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story 
 is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, 
 teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best 
 because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful 
 game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story 
 is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, 
 teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best 
 because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful 
 game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, teams and weapons and the story 
 is amazing however it is a beautiful game) This game is the best because it have a lot of officers, 
 teams and weapons and the story is amazing however it is a beautiful game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryanmark77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k has been renovated, probably taking more from the boardgame and introducing a less 
 is more approach: Less army to manage, but far greater detail for the units. The graphics are superb, 
 and really show an evolution over the previous version set. The campaign focus is on heroes this 
 time and using small squads to strike, rather than amassing an army. Gone are the familiar bases, 
 requisition and power buildup that made the first set very enjoyable but started to get a little 
 long in the tooth. So far the campaign feels rather linear, but is fairly enjoyable. The experience 
 system and upgrades are far more rich and abundant that the research upgrades of the previous games. 
 All in all, it is a pretty good game. A disappointment I have for the campaign is the old formula 
 end boss of some of the missions. This is a throwback to an older genre of game, and takes away 
 from the strategy feeling of the game. The campaign flips between planets too much, and shows the 
 same ships entering into the warp over and over again. I wish it was non-linear. I have to say, 
 however, I'm addicted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This game to me shows the way forward for RTS games. Too long now have we played the same games 
 with different graphics, and DOW2 takes a nice new path
  
  The fact that you now no longer churn out endless units but instead have to work to keep the 4 
 units you have alive is refreshing, and that alone brings the Strategy out in RTS. Equiping your 
 Marines with the right weapons for the right jobs between missions can make a huge difference (some 
 bosses have certain weaknesses, like fire, plasma or bolter rounds) Gaining intelligence on enemy 
 units through special captured buildings such as Communications Arrays alalows you to find this 
 out. Other capturable buildings allow you to gain Artillery and even temporary invincibility through 
 tempes (Praise the Emperor!)
  
  Tactics do play a part in the game. Your troops can hide behind cover. How effective this cover 
 is can depend on how much damage they take, but the enemy also have the same advantage. Having 
 your Dreadnaught stomp or blast its way through those fortifications and scythe through the enemy 
 is very satisfying when otherwise you could get bogged down!
  
  Between fights you level up your troops, giving them points to put into different areas such as 
 close combat, ranged combat, health and energy (energy allows your units to activate their special 
 abilities)
  
  Weapons, armour and equipment drop randomly now and then during battles, and there is a special 
 reward for each completed mission, which offer new or improved things for you to use. All equipment 
 is switchable (as long as they have the right training to use it, which is partly where your levelling 
 up comes in)
  
  Multiple mission options begin to open up as you play, giving you the choice of where to attack 
 next, and the story is very well produced and keeps you playing to find out what's going to happen 
 next
  
  Graphically the game is lovely, and sound is also well produced
  
  The only downsides are that Vista has had a few issues running the game, but most issues have now 
 been sorted. Internet is required for activation but this is something that's becomming the norm 
 these days unfortunately. A few more maps would be welcomed but this could be implemented with 
 downloadable content easily enough (I think this may be the intention)
  
  To sum up, I love DOW and it's add-ons, but I can now happily say that I love DOW2 and it's difference 
 too. Don't let the fact that it's now DOW 1.5 ruin the chance to have LOTS of fun
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  It's not often you come across a game that mixes in two majorly different types of gameplay elements 
 and at the same time turns out to be remarkably well. At the top of my head I can only think of 
 Puzzle Quest that manages to fit that bill with its mix of puzzle and RPG gameplay. Relic Entertainment, 
 the Canadian development house that bought you the original Dawn of War as well as other highly 
 praised Real Time Strategy games, Company of Heroes and the Homeworld series, is making a big change 
 to the Dawn of War Franchise.
  
  In a way this game could have become its own franchise in the Warhammer 40,000 universe. That is 
 how different the gameplay is compared to the first. To put it in simple words, Dawn of War 2 is 
 a real time strategy role playing game. That's right, this game is part RPG, think Company of Heroes 
 meets Blizzard's Diablo and you have a gist of what this game is.
  
  Set in the 41st millennium, Dawn of War 2's campaign follows the story of a group of space marines 
 from the Blood Ravens chapter as they struggle to fight off against the Orks and Elder while at 
 the same time trying to come up with a way to get rid of the swarm invasion race known as the Tyranids, 
 these are the four races that feature in Dawn of War 2.
  
  As soon as you begin the single player campaign you'll notice some of the changes that Relic has 
 made to the Dawn of War series. One of the first is how the story plays out. It no longer feels 
 like you are playing a god that is taking control over an army of rock hard drugged up hardcore 
 space marines that are out for blood. Instead the game has you entering your name because you've 
 just become one of the youngest Force Commanders that the Blood Ravens have ever had in their history. 
 Taking control of the silent Force Commander, it's your job to lead you and your squad leaders 
 to victory in battle. There's no other race you can play as in the campaign, it's solely focus 
 on the space marines.
  
  You'll get to know lots about your squad leaders as before and after every mission you visit, scenes 
 on the planetary map with your squad leaders talking to each other are present to move on the story 
 and explain key aspects of why you are doing this. You'll be seeing plenty of their faces speaking 
 to you through the face portraits that appear when the story unfolds.
  
  Campaign mode in Dawn of War 2 features a day cycle system, where every time you take on a mission, 
 the day will move on by one. The star map is the place where all your missions come in through 
 distress calls. These appear on the map as areas on the planet and each one is a playable level. 
 It's kind of the remodelling on the campaign that you already saw in the later add-ons for the 
 original Dawn of War. As you complete missions, more will open up on the planets you have access 
 to and will follow on with the story. Also it's not game over if you die, you'll just lose a day 
 and sometimes that optional mission will vanish, but you won't see that taunting game over screen.
 
  
  Now that Dawn of War has a stronger importance on characters, the game no longer contains any sort 
 of base building in the campaign mode. The game allows you to take your Force Commander and three 
 other squad leaders and their squad members into battle with you, yep that's it. So depending on 
 who you take, some squad leaders will have 2 or 3 extra marines along with the leader, you'll never 
 control more than 4 leaders, which means in one single mission, you won't be controlling any more 
 than around 10-12 marines in total. That's minuscule when you come to think about what you could 
 have in the first game. The small squad makes it feel as if you are playing a high octane action 
 RPG, something along the lines or Diablo or say Dungeon Siege with its multiply character control.
 
  
  The gameplay has changed to focus more on using cover as defence, which is borrowed from Relic's 
 other RTS series Company of Heroes, which put an emphasis on cover as a variable in battle. In 
 Dawn of War 2 it's one of the big gameplay focuses that will change the tide of war, especially 
 on the harder settings. There's no need to panic if a squad leader or his squad buddies die because 
 if you capture strategic points on the battlefield, squad members will be returned to reinforce 
 any members that died.
  
  All these changes mean the campaign missions take between 10-30 minutes to finish. The game's maps 
 are quite small and mixed in with the changes to the gameplay make for quick fights. The fights 
 are so quick in fact that Relic decided that a save function wasn't needed when you're in a battle. 
 So if you've got something planned within the space of 10 minutes, it might not be worth the risk 
 of starting a mission unless you're a good strategist. Objectives need to be completed throughout 
 the level, finishing these along with killing enemies will give your squad leaders experience points 
 and new war gear that can be equipped to increase stats.
  
  Just to push that bit more so you know I aren't kidding when I'm telling you Dawn of War 2 is part 
 RPG. Just like Diablo, World of Warcraft or pretty much any other action RPG on the market, the 
 title of the war gear is colour coded. So you'll be seeing some green armour or a blue flamethrower. 
 This means you are always getting items that can improve your character as you traverse the campaign.
 
  
  Finishing off a level will take you back to the planetary display, so apart from the cut scenes 
 that appear here, this is your main area where you can swap your squad around and equip them with 
 the new war gear you've found during a level. All of them are weapons you would find in the Warhammer 
 40,000 Universe; don't be expecting to find something that looks like it was ripped out of Warcraft. 
 A space marine with a brush would be highly amusing, but it isn't going to be happening here. This 
 area also allows excess to your squad after your squad leaders have levelled up. You can deal out 
 their stat increases with the skill points you gain.
  
  You can't get any higher than level 20 for any of the squad leaders, so you have to think deeply 
 about which of the four stats you want to increase. These are health, melee, range and energy. 
 Getting so far up the ladder in each one will unlock additional skills that can be used in battle. 
 All this equipment, experience earning, levelling up and skills merge together really well in a 
 genre you wouldn't think would accept it so well, yet Relic have done it, but they simply haven't 
 just done it mediocre, they have created a really good game to house all of this.
  
  It's a game that allows the campaign to be replied time and time again without feeling stale. Second 
 time you might want to go all out with close combat rather than the last play, which you went with 
 guns and heavy weapons. These varieties show how deep the combat is. There's so many ways to go 
 about taking on the enemy, be it flanking, throwing grenades to flush them out, hiding in buildings 
 for extra cover or simply blowing stuff up, as a lot of the terrain is destructible in Dawn of 
 War 2. All the tactical abilities that you know of are most likely useable in this game. It's that 
 diverse, but it won't show it unless you play it on the hardest settings. The A. I on normal is 
 quite easy to beat by simply rushing them or getting simple cover.
  
  The campaign isn't the longest but the optional quests add to the longevity, so you don't have 
 to rush into the final mission if you feel that your squad isn't capable of taking it on, just 
 do some more side missions and get the gear you feel you need. It would have been nice to play 
 as other races that are featured in the skirmish mode, but if the first game is any indication 
 to go by, there's going to be plenty of content coming for this game.
  
  Co-operative play is featured for the campaign. This is for 2 players only as each player takes 
 control of 2 of the 4 squad leaders on the battlefield. Also the game uses Games for Windows LIVE, 
 which means anyone with a Live account, be it PC only or their 360 one, will be able to gain achievements 
 from this game. The achievements are a mix bag of multiplayer and single play; most of them aren't 
 incredible difficulty to get.
  
  Taking some of the elements of the campaign, the skirmish mode is where you'll be the rest of the 
 time once you've beaten the story. Skirmish mode allows you to control one of the four races of 
 the game, be it Elder, Space Marines, Tyranids of Oaks. Each of the races has three heroes that 
 you can select. The heroes have a tactic that they specialise in, it could be something along the 
 lines of focusing on stealth, defence, healing or even spells. Each one will level up opening up 
 different abilities.
  
  Skirmish mode will start you off with one base. You still can't build any more buildings, but that 
 base will allow you to build units, you aren't limited to just 4 squads this time, you are limited 
 by the population limiter instead. Two key stats are important to multiplayer. This is the gathering 
 of Requisition and Power. You'll need this to be able to purchase units and upgrade your army. 
 Taking over power nodes and capture points allow you to increase your intake of these. It feels 
 a little more on the traditional side of an RTS when you are playing the skirmish mode. The characters 
 still level up, but you no longer are giving them stat boosts manual. It's all done automatic. 
 Weapons for your team are now bought using your requisition and power rather than just found randomly 
 on the battlefield.
  
  Multiplayer probably shows of the game's cover mechanics better than playing through the campaign 
 on normal setting. Playing against a human opponent is always going to be less predictable than 
 the computer. It's this that lets Dawn of War 2 down a little. The A. I just doesn't adapt as well 
 as it should. It basically boils down to the A. I either attacking you or running away from you. 
 It won't normally use the cover to full effect.
  
  Battles can be fought either one-on-one or three-on-three in skirmish. One other slight problem 
 is the selection of maps. There's nothing wrong with the maps themselves, it's just there isn't 
 enough of them. The game comes with a measly nine skirmish maps, so if you're a gamer who plays 
 a lot, then you'll get to the point where you're a bit fed up with the few maps you have been given.
 
  
  Dawn of War 2 feels like it was pumped with high production values. The game looks fantastic; especially 
 when you zoom in the camera right up to the fights, allowing you to see all the blood gushing out 
 of some unlucky oak as your force commander rams that chain-sword right into his stomach. It's 
 a brutal game and it's not afraid to throw a few gibs out now and then. Animations of the models 
 are fluid and special effects are vigorous with all sorts going on all over the place, be it from 
 bullets flying from guns or buildings collapsing in a big cloud of smoke and explosions. Dawn of 
 War 2 is a very gorgeous looking game and is up there with all the pretty boys of the RTS genre.
 
  
  Sound also gets the same treatment. The voice acting during the cut scenes is fine, but it's the 
 voices from the battlefield encounters that make it the day for players. The oaks talk like simpletons 
 while the Tyranids come screaming at you with their alien like howl. It gives each race their identity 
 and no doubt works the best for the Oaks because of their, shall I say, unique way of talking. 
 Battle effects sound like they should, bullets have that impact about them, and you can tell by 
 the sound of gunfire exactly what weapon is firing on screen.
  
  Looking at Dawn of War 2 makes you see it as an alternative take on the franchise. It's no longer 
 a standard base building game. It's moved to the opposite end of the scale. This may put off some 
 of the hardcore purists who were huge fans of the game's ancestor. Also guys who enjoy building 
 a massive base and creating a huge army may not enjoy the new vision of Relic's franchise. Really 
 none of you should be panicking as no matter what had happened to the franchise, be it an improved 
 graphical version of the last game in the series, or a fresh take on like Dawn of War 2, people 
 would have complained either way. It took balls for Relic to take the series down the root it has 
 done and as a first stepping stone, it's provided them with a great building block for the next 
 one to appear.
  
  As it stands Dawn of War 2 is a grand achievement. It gives the player a new look on how conventional 
 RTS games play. The new gameplay does create a few inconveniences with the enemy A. I, but future 
 attempts will be able to fine tune this problem. Overall though it provides the player with adrenaline 
 rushing action with RTS and RPG elements that right now can't be found in any other RTS. If you 
 feel you want to smash some Ork's head in with a hammer then Dawn of War 2 may be worth your cruel 
 intention time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidewinder_na
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:29 am PT
Review:  i'll make this short:
  it's set in the warhammer 40k universe, which isn't 
  exactly flush with hype. and people overrated this shortcoming.
  other then that, it's a relic 
 game with everything relic
  became known for: immersion, top notch production 
  and attention to detail, and pretty much DOW fans 
  appreciate and embrace from the original 
 and exp. packs.
  and then some.
  the campaign works like the miniatures game from it originated,
  short raids (5 to 30 minutes 
 in the game) and l lot of tweaking
  and tuning in between. your units gain XP during combat to gain 
  levels and add new traits and 
 powers to their roster.
  wargear (read: loot) will keep you and your units poised for war.
  it is persistent, so you don't spend time upgrading during missions.
  the old fashion strategy 
 is in skirmish and multiplayer,
  with one HQ per player to purchase new units,
  and several game types to brutalize your competition in.
  this game is repeatedly criticized 
 for it's affiliation with warhammer.
  it's uninspiring typical rhetoric, but take my word for it-
  play it. you'll be glad you did. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 2:08 am PT
Review:  I really think a lot of people are being unfair to this game because they want it to be like dow1 
 but let me tell after playing it might be hard at times to go back considering how much fun is 
 constantly going on in this game with no building. If you set it on captain or above the campaign 
 is very fun. Im amazed at the talents of each unit and what they can do when they work together. 
 If you play at higher difficulty its a ton of strategy and a number of ways you can take down the 
 enemy. Im especially impressed with the assault marines considering I didnt really like them to 
 much in the first dow. I won't spoil it but lets just say youll will be pleasantly surprised when 
 you first get them in the campaign. Actually I have a new found respect for each unit type because 
 I feel you get to know better in this game than any other each type having its on really in the 
 story leader.
  
  Gameplay 9.5: Its really amazing what the factions can do. I feel this is the most realistic presentation 
 of the different talents and differences each faction has. People say it easy but I believe people 
 who have some rts experience should definetly start on captain its very fun and challenging and 
 you will die several times before completing the game. The single player is just amazing. At first 
 I was doubt it because of haters who still stuck on dow1 but the single player is deep, very addictive, 
 and fun. It has great rpg style leveling system to make your squads stronger by raising stats, 
 getting new traits, armor, skills, and weapons. I was skeptical on how well they did it but rest 
 assured its among the best. Everytime you get new gear or a new skill you really see the difference 
 in the game. I havent felt this good about getting gear and skills since lets say mass effect (though 
 rest assured this is an rts) even more so on here though cause you always really want more and 
 see the results immediately . The co-op is really fun and cant remember an rts that let you do 
 that in the campaign which add even more fun and strategy So good you will probably be playing 
 long after your initial completion just to keeping building your squad and getting new equipment. 
 The story is also pretty good and push the gameplay along nicely (in realistic since for an outer 
 space war game) . 
  Also if you play the astounding multiplayer. I know you will get owned until you get comfortable 
 with a faction and learn some different strategies its so much strategy the can be applied for 
 some really awesome battles without the building structures so you're in some kind of fight from 
 start to finish (for those who havent change difficulty and said its easy) . You can flank, set 
 traps, sneak up on enemies, jetpack to them then have another unit ready to ambush, have a sniper 
 hidden, so many things you can do it would take me forever explain. If you see high ranked matches 
 you be amazed at what strategies people use. This mulitplayer is completely fresh with quick accessibility 
 of a fps match but with all the amazing tactics of other rts plus more except for building structures. 
 You still constantly upgrading units, equipping them with various powers and weapons try to get 
 the upper hand over the enemy, everything is not fully accessible from the beginning you have to 
 capture strategic points and keep them to get your resources going faster. Everyone out to get 
 them right from the beginning so youll quickly be in a fight. Best believe it the fight for each 
 point is hectic and fun.. If your open minded want an action strategy game you'll love it. And 
 want an amazing action packed multiplayer like no other strategy can do. This is for you. Just 
 be willing learn a new experience that's all about action and less building you will get pure enjoyment 
 out of this game. Furthermore, I actually really like that it became a windows live game its nice 
 having achievements in the game which add more fun goals you want to achieve and goes to your gamerscore 
 on windows live and xbox live. You could easily clock over 100 hours in this game to do everything 
 but really probably put in a lot more if you get deep into co-op. 
  
  Presentation/Graphics:9.5: The graphics are really nice and everything run smoothly despite whats 
 going on the screen. Nice amount of detail and very beautiful color panel. You will definettly 
 be satisfied. The cutscenes are well made and add a very nice touch to the game. The brutality 
 in the game is well shown.
  
  Sounds 10: Amazing sound quality on everything like always. Everything just sounds right from voice 
 acting, to explosions, to chainsawing an enemy in half. 
  
  Value: Its really worth $50 bucks its like two games in one and both of them or very diverse and 
 fun. Its tons hours of fun to be had in this game. Some about dow thats makes you feel you can 
 play it forever this one even more so because its straight to the action. 
  
  Final Thoughts- I love dow1 and I love dow2. I very glad they are both different. Dow1 will never 
 get to old to play for that classic feel and I think everyone should have both in there collection 
 and getting some very fun experiences. Dow2 I feel like I am even more in a new age of rts and 
 I cant wait to see what relic is going to do next with expansions and different directions . Cant 
 even imagine how much fun and different it will be to a different faction with this style of single 
 player gameplay. Could be the most unique rts yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lutherb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Let me try to keep this short. This game is mildly entertaining and but does not possess much depth. 
 My positive comments are few. It does possess some nice graphics and sound. This game is also easy 
 to learn and does not require much brain power to play. So if you are half asleep and bored, this 
 may be a game to consider.
  
  There are a bunch of negatives, but I will stick to the highlights. There is no strategy and no 
 significant tactical challenge playing the campaign mode. The lack of unit variety and basebuilding 
 are other significant deficits. Basically you are given a few squads of Space Marines to kill a 
 bunch of aliens. As long as to keep you squads moving close together with overlapping fields of 
 fire, you will have no trouble with any campaign scenario. That's pretty much it. It's probably 
 one of the easiest RTS games I have ever played. The multiplayer skirmishes are a bit more challenging, 
 but the key to victory here is simply to build up units and take over control nodes as quickly 
 as possible. And with only a total of six multiplayer maps to choose from, things get quite repetitive 
 and dull pretty fast. Honestly, I got bored with the game after playing it for only a couple of 
 days. Another big gripe is that it requires you to log onto Steam to play. Quite annoying. The 
 first Dawn of War was much better. My advice is to wait until this game shows up in the $9.99 discount 
 bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasal361
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  Alright First and foremost the differences between single and multi-player are not massive but 
 very misleading at the very least.. (sort of like that guy outside a the local high school in a 
 big van with "candy" written on the side in magic marker) but in my opinion both are worthwhile. 
 Single Player is dynamic with persistent leveling with your squads and the focus entirely on developing 
 those squads over time... you don't "build" any new units of any kind ever. Multi-player is more 
 conventional (relatively) with a base, resource management (albeit very Simple resource management) . 
 
  
  Single player follows a 2-D story line about saving the universe from some horrible unbeatable 
 threat (yeah because that doesn't happen every other week) which of course you beat... fairly easily 
 I might add. The combat is highly tactical with emphasis on cover, flanking grenades and the like. 
 Your control over the field is limited to 6 squads with individual leaders in total One is a morbid 
 loner with the personality depth of a flea, one is a stereo typical soldier who's only interest 
 seems to be following orders. One is You, or rather some douche with whatever name you happen to 
 choose. One is some combination of a person combined with a machine (dreadnought) and doesn't tend 
 to say much. And the last two are respectively a former gang leader who likes getting up close 
 and personal while gutting his opponents, and one who is just very poorly adjusted individual who 
 needs some anger management... On the up side he has a few amusing choice words for the eldar, 
 and at one point accuses them of trying to make a garden out of a com-array.
  All in all single player is fun and a good intro to the tactics needed to play multi-player... 
 but that is about it, nothing special.
  
  The real juice is here, 4 playable races.. each one is unique and the differences in tactics needed 
 is often quite large. The resource structure is Very simple, and based around front line combat. 
 There are three resources, One is Requisition which you need for all units and some special abilities, 
 and you get it by holding strategic points of the battle field. Power is accumulated by capturing 
 and holding power nodes, and often building power generators at those nodes. And finally there 
 is a special ability resource that you get by killing enemies.... yeah that's right mass murder 
 is rewarding ... so what's new?. It gives such things as orbital bombardments, drop pods, psychic 
 storms, stealthing individual units etc. Your available special abilities are defined by two things, 
 race and hero... your hero is very powerful support unit for your army but is far from invincible, 
 the hero supports the army NOT the other way around... each race has 3 heroes, and their powers 
 and skills vary from the massive assault based hive tyrant of the tyrannids to the healer apothecary 
 of the space marines. Each grants their own strengths and weaknesses which allows for a substantial 
 variability in tactics and strategy. 
  
  Overall the differences between single and multi-player are Vast (no resources in single... persistent 
 leveling of units like some sort of rpg take off, and many other things I have not listed)
  However as an intro to the concepts of multi-player.. it is a very useful teacher. By the time 
 you get through it you'll definitely know basic tactics, and probably more... but you'll need to 
 get the hang of the resource structure as there are few like it I've seen before.
  However all things in time.
  
  Overall a very worthwhile game, If you haven't seen the graphics 
 take a good look at some screen shots as they are awesome and fluid... but graphics are lower on 
 my list of what makes a game good then most. 
  
  I know I've left out a lot here, but this is the core of it for me, if you don't like it I suggest 
 you bugger off.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 4:34 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War 2 is spectacular in every way... except the storyline. First of all, there was no tutorial 
 but I had experience with Company of heroes so it was easier to get into it. Do not expect the 
 story line to WOW you in any way but it works for the game and it fits the game. Enemy combatants 
 are varied and you also have interesting paraphernalia to go into battle with. The battle is futuristic 
 and expect futuristic sounds. The gameplay is non linear and there is a small twist in the campaign. 
 This is my first Warhammer 40,000 game but I am impressed and the fact that its a Relic game swayed 
 me even further. 
  
  The campaign is just right and you do not have a base to deploy troops but the troops are dropped 
 by space pods, then you fight your way through to your goal and also has ROLE PLAYING leveling 
 up approach. You level up by gaining experience points when you kill enemies and do other things 
 and you get better gear to get into the next battle and it works. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER is the best part of the game because it has a deployment base and also you level up 
 while fighting. The only problem I am having is that i keep getting paired up with higher level 
 people when I just need my fellow levels.
  
  Campaign storyline: 8.5
  Role Playing Part: 8.9
  Multiplayer: 9.5
  Visuals: 9.1
  Sound :9.0
  Battles: 9.2
  
 
  My specs are 
  AMD Phenom X4 9950, 
  WIndows 7 64-bit B1
  ATI HD 4850
  4 Gigs RAM
  SB Xtreme Gamer
  
  
  Visually this game is spectacular for a DX9 and the sound is very good. 
 I recommend this game to anyone but i have to warn you that there is no tutorial if you are new. 
 Spectacular Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enoslives7
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost nothing like the previous DOW games. There is no base building or strategy 
 involved. Its basically an arcade shooter that is full of bugs and needs hours worth of patches 
 . It is apparent that THQ spends 90% of their development on making cool intros and CGI.... the 
 game itself is laughably easy and short
  
  The real kicker is that you have to be logged onto Windows live and STEAM (spyware) to even play 
 the single player game. Make no mistake, you are not buying this game, you are merely renting it 
 from STEAM any time you want to play it. To make matters worse, this game is designed to work primarily 
 on Vista. If you use XP, dont even bother trying to play this. What a complete waste of money!!! 
 I cant believe THQ totally sold out us 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenmorpheus
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Relic really stuffed up with this one.
  
  Not only have they made the squads smaller, but on day 0 after the game has had a patch applied, 
 as a result of the problems found in the 1 month long public beta, there are only 7 maps to choose 
 from, 6 if you didn't get the "artificer armour" dlc pack by ordering the game direct from THQ.
 
  
  The AI is useless, and the campaign is short, not to mention repetetive.
  
  I have played the game for under 10 hours purely becaus it didn't take me that long to finish the 
 campaign and the MP is of no interest to me, whether it's against the AI or online. DoW 1 has far 
 more maps and a much better variety of "win conditions" than this does.
  
  Relic really do need to go back to the drawing board, listen to the DoW 1 fans and those in the 
 modding community who have expanded on DoW 1 immensly and then release DoW 3, forget about DoW 
 2 and move on, it's a disaster.
  
  This game just smacks of Relic/THQ milking the 40k licence for all it's worth and pandering to 
 their shareholders when they should be making a full on war RTS, not some lame 4 man squad skirmish 
 RTS.
  
  All that is good here is the improved graphics and the tyranids race, but I wouldn't call either 
 a good reason to buy this, the tyranids can be added quite competently (yes Relic take notes) to 
 DoW 1 and the graphics aren't all that fantastic.
  
  
  I have played the tabletop game for 20 or so years and it saddens me to see the 40k licence treated 
 in this way.
  
  I just hope that the forthcoming CoH expansion is better than this lame attempt at a Warhammer 
 40k game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baselerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:09 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War 2 is probably one of the best PC games I have played in a long while. It isn't completely 
 innovative like many claim it to be, but it is a very refined version of the tried and true formula 
 that Company of Heroes gathered so much acclaim for. That is not to say that there aren't any new 
 game play features. This review will not, however, discuss the content of the game, but rather 
 the quality of it.
  
  First of all, the basic game play is a blast. I was skeptical at first to have heard that this 
 game was dealing with smaller amounts of units and no base building, but it definitely works. Due 
 to ingenious map design, even though battles typically only involve no more than ten squads, they 
 still give a feeling of intensity most larger scale strategy titles cannot even achieve. With base 
 building mechanics left out, much more of the strategy has been replaced with individual unit tactics, 
 positioning, and adaptability. Needless to say, I very much enjoy this change, and it is even a 
 step beyond Company of Heroes.
  
  The single player portion of the game is very solid, if not slightly repetitive at the end. It 
 is long enough, I completed it at around 20 hours, but did not spend time leveling up all my characters 
 and completing side missions to gain loot. The story is very run-of-the mill, and the most enjoyment 
 from the campaign will be from building your characters over time, not the story. The RPG mechanics 
 present in the campaign are very well conceived, and there is definitely large replay value to 
 be had.
  
  The multiplayer portion, however, is where the game truly shines. It is quick, visceral, and very 
 intense. I have not had to concentrate this much on a strategy game while playing in a long time. 
 You constantly have to be aware of the battlefield at all times, and you must play aggressively 
 to win. The only downfall of the multiplayer is the small repertoire of maps shipped with the game, 
 which will hopefully be expanded in later patches. However, this is very unacceptable in my opinion.
 
  
  Graphics and sound are top notch. The sounds really pack a punch here and make the game seem way 
 more intense than it could have had it more mundane sound effects. The graphics on both individual 
 units and the environment are great. The levels are very densely populated with completely destroyable 
 details, and during battles smoke, fire, and blood particles will be flying every which way. Performance 
 is very good too.
  
  Overall, if you enjoy strategy games or action RPG's, do not hesitate to buy this game. A lot of 
 value to be had here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyShadow1980
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  I love Company of Heroes thats why I love DOW2 , you dont need to make building and dont need to 
 control grounds , its just plain simple , kill or be killed ... get to the top and kill the boss 
 . You get xp's , you have items and coolspellsfor the RPG users ...
  
  Its an action-rpg-rts mixt ... it rocks you need to buy it , play it and enjoy it.
  
  A lot 
 of you will take the crack version ... well buy cuz the Multiplayer IS FREAKING ASSWOME AND ADDICTIVE 
 ... so go buy the freaking game and meet you online ...
  
  
  The cinematics rull , the storyline is very very very good althouh i didnt play the other WarHammer 
 games you can understand everything ... just kill alines , orksorcsand EldarsNight Elfs 
 etc ... "
  
  
  REMBER !
  
 FURY FROM THE SKY
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:09 am PT
Review:  1. Graphics - 9/10
  2. Sound - 10/10
  3. Bugs, Glitches & Exploits - 10/10
  4. Story - 9/10
  5. Gameplay - 9/10
  6. Multiplayer - 8/10
  
  
  1. Very good graphics 
 for a strategy game. Almost everything can be broken or used as a cover. I haven't found a way 
 to rotate the camera though which i consider a minus.
  
  2. Nice music and ambient sounds. Each squadron have a unique leader with unique voice which increases 
 the feeling that you are actually there talking with your squad leaders and creating the atmosphere 
 like you are on a real battlefield.
  
  3. None. No bugs. Not a single crash. Automatic pausing when you tab and one of the most smartest 
 anti-save/load system which are usually used in the strategies.
  
  4. Good story for a strategy game. It mixes up many of the events happened in the original DoW. 
 At some point though the campaign may get a little repetitive. Land on a planet. Chose a province. 
 Move through it. Kill the boss. Get the reward. And again and again and again. Even the special 
 assignments aren't much different. 
  
  5. Addicting. Very addicting. At the campaign you have 5 (later 6) squads you can command. You 
 chose 4 of them equip them with a different wargear (at some point you may think you are actually 
 playing RPG not a strategy) land on a planet and start kicking Xenos around. You may build many 
 strategies with your squad as the game offers a big variety of weapons and some bosses are more 
 vulnerable to certain attacks. Usually you will stick with one selection though with minor alterations. 
 Later you may chose your squads based on the wargear you have collected for the terminator armors. 
 
  
  6. I haven't tested the actual multiplayer. Only 2 times against some AI (which is terrible) . I 
 can't say i like it much. Capturing and holding resources have never been much to my taste. I must 
 say though that it is very dynamic. Based on the other reviews here it is very good and addicting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thornburgh
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing multiplayer online since the beta, and it's really cool. It has all the best 
 features of Dawn of War plus Company of Heroes. The focus is managing your units in combat and 
 controlling territory, so there is little or no building (depending on your faction) . This gives 
 you time to make use of all sorts of abilities, which will decide the outcome of fights. Lassoing 
 units and throwing them at the enemy won't work here! Matchmaking with Windows Live is also slick, 
 and using Steam means you don't have to insert the DVD.
  
  Once the real game came out, I also discovered that the campaign was so fun it mostly displaced 
 my online play until I finished it. You lead a small number of units throughout, leveling them 
 up and gathering loot like Diablo (but still fighting in tactical RTS style) . The battles and scenarios 
 are interesting, and if you are into Warhammer 40k the atmosphere and writing is great (making 
 this game more immersive than Dawn of War in my view) . The campaign is also a good solid length.
 
  
  Great job Relic! I'm hoping for downloadable scenarios as soon as you can make them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eragon55
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I waited a week and a half to comment on this game. I like the game. The updated graphics, sound 
 and game play are nice. However, "limiting" is the key word that I keep coming back to. You are 
 limited to the space marines in the campaign. You are limited to bring only 4 squads to battle. 
 You are limited to what weapons they can bring. You can not purchase and choose what your team 
 carry. You do not build bases. There are only 3 two player multi-player maps and 3 six player multi-player 
 maps. You can choose to capture victory points, but the game will only let you select a 500 point 
 count down. In COH you could choose 500 or 1000 points. You only have four armies to choose from. 
 I miss the imperial guard. The game has a good foundation. I think when they take the training 
 wheels off this game and add in more choices it will be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy098
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to start with what I like about the game, then move to what I don't like.
  
  What I like: The game has a much faster pace to it then the other warhammer games. This comes from 
 not having to build a base to mass an army then romp across the map wiping out everything you come 
 into contact with. Also, I love RPG's, and the RPG aspect of the game is what got me addicted. 
 I felt it was a nice touch, even if it did reduce the strategy aspect of the game, and put the 
 game itself in limbo between an RPG and an RTS. The game looked great, and sounded great. The voice 
 acting was also very well done. The battles themselves were always a blast to watch, with massive 
 firefights keeping me interested. I honestly thought the story of the campaign wasn't that bad, 
 I was expecting it to be awful from what I read in the gamespot review. The game itself was very 
 easy to play, and I think anybody would enjoy it, if they've played warhammer before or not.
  
  What I didn't like: I rarely play games online, and I thought that the inclusion of just one 
 race's playable campaign for offline play was horrible. Also, I found that after a while, the battle 
 became repetitive (go here, kill this, defend that) . I also didn't like the level limit. Once my 
 characters hit level 20, they stopped gaining xp, which ruined some of the appeal the game had 
 for me. I didn't think there was enough variation between enemies. They consist of 3 other races, 
 and most of the time you're only fighting 1 or 2 of them.
  
  Overall, I think it's a solid game that did more right then it did wrong. If they had included 
 more races for offline play, and had more variation to the missions, I would have rated it higher. 
 I'd recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrvincent
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Many reviews have been written for this game so I am going to cut to the chase and tell you that 
 if your computer is connected to the internet and you love troop-based strategy/combat, then you 
 will love this game.
  
  I have read many reviews complaining about the setup process and while true there is a little bit 
 of effort, you only need to do it once AND there is NO cost to play this game online. That's right, 
 you pay nothing to play till the end of time. 
  
  Oh, and you WILL play this game over and over because this game is setup in such a way that it 
 takes a short time to learn, but it will take a lifetime to master.
  
  I am not going to bother talking about the campaign in this game because I never play the campaign 
 when I purchase strategy games. 
  
  Online gameplay:
  The online multiplay allows you to pick one of four races and also to select a hero for your race. 
 There is no base building or resource gathering per say - thank goodness. You spend most of your 
 time positioning your troops around critical resource points on the map. You DO have a base in 
 this game and it is used to create more troops/vehicles and upgrade tech levels etc. The main game 
 mode in Multiplay is where - like Battlefield - you control certain points and draw down your opposing 
 teams point counter. This is a brilliant idea and forces the action.
  
  Speaking of the action, some of the ways you or your enemy die is a beautiful thing to watch. Never 
 has losing been so much fun. Afterall, what's the shame in losing when you learn so much in doing 
 so and had such a great time. You see, there are many smaller battles that take place and you will 
 get your satisfaction from those that you win despite the overall outcome.
  
  Imagine your enemy has some alien-looking creature that struts into your area and one of your troops 
 picks him up in one hand and buzz-cuts him in half with the other. That's just one of the cool 
 things that happen here.
  
  Most games are played in a 3 vs 3 format and you can go against the comp or real people or any 
 combination thereof. For those, who hate playing against real people, you can host a game and play 
 vs different comp difficulties. Great for training.
  
  Like my title says this game has some Warcraft elements and Battlefield elements too it, but mostly 
 Warcraft. Look, my little nephew has played Warcraft for two years and would not play anything 
 else, and every time he comes to my house he plays Warcraft. Well, he came over last weekend and 
 I showed him this game and he spent the rest of the day playing it. I could not believe it. Now 
 I never wanted to play Warcraft myself, but I love playing this game so this is good for young 
 people and older. I am 50 BTW. You didn't think 50 yr olds would play this game did ya?
  
  Just a note about something I touched on earlier and that is the idea of resource gathering. Most 
 Strategy games have you mine minerals or what-have-you to get your money/energy needs. Well, the 
 beauty of this game is that you will actually be fighting the enemy over certain points on the 
 map in order to increase you resource count. This makes it much more exciting as opposed to have 
 some machine mine minerals for example. I wonder what some of the games like Starcraft 2 are going 
 to do in this area. I mean some games have been in development for so long, they might be very 
 outdated by the time they are released.
  
  So, in closing I hope this review helped you make a decision and I am pretty critical when it comes 
 to video games. Heck, I own all the console systems and have many games. There was a time I thought 
 PC games could not hold a candle to the consoles, but boy I was wrong. You see, I finally got a 
 new computer that can run these games and now my consoles get a dusting every week, but very little 
 play. 
  
  I would like to keep talking but I have to get back to playing this great game. Laterzz! Wow, I 
 am acting like a kid again. LOL
  
  PS: I originally wrote this review at Amazon, and am reposting it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jleboeuf
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  I very much enjoyed this game and was surprised at how enticed it became from the very beginning. 
 This game is definitely worth the investment.
  
  The missions are fairly short and it is not necessary to play an hour on one particular mission... 
 although there are pretty of goodies to pickup and lots of enemies to kill ;)
  
  The multi player functionality is awesome giving you the option to play co-op with your friends.
 
  
  The campaign gives you a lot of different missions to play. The storyline is so-so if you are an 
 average gamer but very entertaining if you are a normal part of the Warhammer 40k universe.
  
  I found the game highly addictive due to the number of short missions that keep you saying 
 "only one more."
  
  I would have liked to see more of the warhammer universe included other than the 3 races included. 
 Although I am betting they are saving the others for another expansion similar to soulstorm. Either 
 way it gives you something to pine for later this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHawk912
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:04 am PT
Review:  Mainly there are two different gaming modes, Campaign and Vs. Campaign had become to be made of 
 squads and war gear and was a big surprise to everyone, and yet everyone loved it. But the Vs gaming 
 that is on-line was a bit boring, there was no building anything and no other place to make your 
 units. But it still is being played. Most people are interested in the Coop feature for the campaign 
 and the victory point mode for vs. Overall its still a good game, not too good on-line gaming but 
 coop was definitely worth the wait along with the boring on-line gaming and a bit too easy to play. 
 The on-line gaming was boring and shallow because you only have two game modes today, victory points 
 and annihilation, victory points you take over victory points and fight your enemy to the death 
 trying to take them, in annihilation your trying to take your enemies out before they take you 
 out. The more important problem is there are only four different races other than the few more 
 in the original games, the "Space Marines", "Orks", "Eldar", and the "Tyranid" races. They each 
 have their unique three heroes as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creative
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 6:42 am PT
Review:  I've been playing RTS since DUNE 2. I loved StarCraft and eventually switched to WarCraft III when 
 it came out. I've been looking for an RTS to replace WC for years now, but sadly all of them fail 
 on multiplayer level.
  
  DoW II might seem as fun RTS if you read the reviews and watch gameplay videos, but that's very 
 deceiving. Right now the multiplayer reminds closed beta, not even open beta. The "matchmaking" 
 system is worthless and as a result new players will always get matched with experienced squad 
 which will annihilate you within minutes. (Top ladder squad has 111 victories and 0 losses, does 
 it sound right?) And it's not one-time occurrence, you will keep getting wiped out game after game. 
 Matchmaking simply does not work. 
  
  Then there's lag issue with each game. I've played several games online and each game was plague 
 with lag, in some cases it was bearable, but in most cases it lead to game being prematurely over, 
 because one or two players get "dropped". This issue reminds me good old days of StarCraft, only 
 problem is that SC is 11 years old and modern RTS games should not have these problems. 
  
  The gameplay itself is rather fast paced and uneven. Maybe it's a result of poor matchmaking, but 
 my team never had a chance, being wiped each time by higher level units. The way DoW is set up, 
 if you get to higher level (Tier 2-3) , it renders T1 units useless, unless you upgrade them as 
 well. At Tier 2 you get tanks/robots which are impervious to infantry fire (literary) , they just 
 stomp them. 
  
  The new CoH engine makes all units look small/jagged and undistinguishable. You end up seeing pixilated 
 mess on your screen in the heat of the battle. (No, I don't run game at low detail; it's maxed 
 out on my system) . The heroes are very small and hard to distinguish from the regular troops. 
 
  
  I can't vouch for single player as I tried only few mission, but it seems like RTS/RPG mix which 
 has nothing to do with MP portion of game.
  
  If you're planning to get this game to play online, be warned. It's in terrible state: lag, imbalances, 
 terrible matchmaking all spoil the experience and definitely not worth the $50.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Well this is a good game but it is not what i expected for a dawn of war sequel, after it being 
 a great game.
  What I really liked about this game is that you can get to cover, also the destructible terrain 
 and of course the awesome graphics.
  I like the campaign, for me it is a good story the only thing i would have liked are some videos 
 at the beginning of missions or at some missions at least, don't know why but I like them.
  What disappointed me is the quantity of maps for skirmish or multiplayer, there are only like 8 
 maps and most of them are for two players, no maps for 8 players, just 6, 4 and 2. Also, you can't 
 play a 6 player map with each one on their own side, teams are obliged.
  Now the battles are of only a few units, so there are not those battles of huge armies, although 
 now it is more tactical, i don't feel the emotion i felt in the other game battles. 
  What I expected from this game were three things:
  -better graphics (those are awesome) 
  -a 
 good story (I liked it very much)
  -I want chaos!!!!! (something really disappointing for me, hope they come in a expansion)
  -places 
 for cover (great too)
  -Intense skirmish or multiplayer fights (that was the thing that disappointed me the most)
  Anyway, 
 it is a really good game, im not saying it is not, but the first series was much better, DoW SS 
 with this graphics, the tyranids and Demon Hunters mods and places to cover would be the best game 
 ever, but anyway it is a really nice game i say you buy or at least give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldhead666
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  If you go into this game expecting the first, and will except no substitutes prepare to be let 
 down.
  I personally loved the first and its following many expansions, and at first felt a little let 
 down that the sequel wasn't exactly the same, but after playing I'm actually enjoying the campaign 
 alot more than the first.
  Much like the first game you take control of the blood ravens chapter ducking it out with the usual 
 array of warhammer40k bad ass aliens. You've got your space elves the Eldar, rampaging Orks, and 
 new to the mix the insanely cool and sketchy, Tyranids. There's no chaos, which is kind of neat 
 as I think the whole "chaos wants to destroy everything" story that almost every 40k game has is 
 pretty played, so it's nice to have a new overarching enemy.
  The story overall is pretty much a forgettable affair, but I don't think I was ever blown away 
 any previous 40k games story line. You can see the "plot twists" coming a mile off, the voice acting 
 is pretty good and the actors deliver the lines believably, but space marines are cool, you can't 
 deny that.
  
  The single player/ co-op campaign is pretty much what war craft 3 was going for before it turned 
 into another rts. It is almost solely an RPG, and I'm actually liking it quite alot. Rather than 
 building a base getting your boys together and wreaking havoc, the squads you have at the beginning 
 of the mission are the ones you're going to end with.
  There are points throughout each map, but these serve as rally points for your soldiers, they can 
 retreat back and regain lost members.
  Resource gathering has been taken out almost completely, there are points, such as monasteries 
 and factories you can capture, but these seem to make abilities able to be used more often, as 
 well as exp bonus.
  You can equip each squad leader with weapons and armour that drop from enemies (that's right phat 
 lewt!!) , ranging from greens, to epics. Also all your squads gain levels obviously from the battlefield, 
 you get some skill points to specialise squads. I do always feel bad that I'm neglecting some of 
 squads, mainly my scout squad who have just been sitting around falling behind the rest of my army, 
 I'm sorry Cyrus but I just love assault marines for smashing through some puny eldar defences.
 
  
  The multiplayer for me wasn't as epic as I had hoped sadly. This was the thing I loved most about 
 the first, multiplayer or just kicking the computers ass.
  It retains the notion of no base building as with the single player, rather you have one building 
 from which all your units are produced from.
  You go around capturing points on the map which give you requisition and power, and get into fights 
 with the enemy.
  It's cool getting to play with the other races, but the battles aren't epic enough for me. In the 
 single player its 4 squads versus a **** load of enemies, in multiplayer it's about 4 squads vs. 
 4 squads, just not cool enough for me.
  I also had a few issues with lag and alot of players playing it with way to high graphics messing 
 up the game (way not cool playing with a bunch of bots)
  
  This game does look amazing, even on low settings, easily one of the prettiest rts. The units are 
 all well detailed and the sound is awesome, the units all say pretty good things although they 
 will end up annoying you.
  
  All in all, I really enjoy the campaign, and don't like the multiplayer that much. 40k fans should 
 enjoy it, strategy lovers may be turned off by the single player, but it does seem there's some 
 strategy to be had in multiplayer.
  Oh hell just buy it, it's well worth 30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conan1985
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:22 am PT
Review:  First off im a warhammer 40k fan i collected when i was younger so i know what sort of material 
 they had to work from secondly im a pretty hardcore gamer.. what i expected from this game was an 
 improvement on Dawn of War which its not really its completely different (Not that its a bad thing 
 really) .
  
  The game is pretty nice graphically and such i have no complaints at all really however the campaign 
 itself has alot to be desired. To sum it up its just basically kill all the aliens. The characters 
 left me cold there was really nothing to them apart from the fact they were space marines. I take 
 issue with this because it makes the game boring to play. I remember when i did Warcraft 3 i was 
 driven to see what the next part would be... but in Dawn of war 2 you wont have that problem the 
 plot is very predictable.
  
  In the campaign you only play marines which was also abit disappointing because theres 4 races 
 in the game you can muliplayer with which makes you wonder why they didnt give them some sort of 
 single player inclusion so people could learn to play these races in the single player.
  
  Once you get your basic tactics alot of it will be rinse and repeat sort of stuff and most the 
 the missions wont take you long anyway. I player on normal first and thats just basically a zerg 
 kill all and laugh... i suggest for those who want the more tactical side of the game to show play 
 on hard. I found hard mode alot better because you actually have to use the advantages your squads 
 have to gain success.
  
  Really theres little depth in it beyond kill em all and get items and experince. The multiplayer 
 hasnt had alot of time spent on it at all there is only like 8 map or so and only ever 2 teams.
 
  
  Its not a bad game but i wouldnt say it was good either... expected alot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ascadia1
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  I and my friends play Dawn of War competitively, when we discovered the FoK mod DoW became a vast, 
 involved and complicated game of chess where all of us had to learn to improve our play.
  
  I out of everyone, was anxiously waiting for DoW2, it looked beautiful and the prospect of a DoW 
 game on the Company of Heroes engine was seductive to say the least, but when the beta rolled around 
 and we all fired up multiplayer... what a disappointment awaited us.
  
  At first the game seemed good, striped away the building aspect and replaced it with more strategic 
 combat. We could all see an amazing number of strategies that could be used on the field, but after 
 the initial glow had faded it was obvious just how shallow the strategy behind this game truly 
 is.
  
  The maps are tiny (and there are only 3 additional maps from the multiplayer demo) , the unit numbers 
 are tiny, the strategy is rock paper scissors at best and exploitable at its worst.
  
  After the MP demo I had decided that I was not going to buy this game, and save my RTS fix for 
 Empire: Total War, however my best friend gifted me a copy of DoW2 on steam so that we could play 
 the campaign together and I am glad he did.
  
  The Co-Op Campaign is amazingly fun, very well done and blends RTS with Action RPG elements, some 
 great maps and boss fights!
  
  You can tell where Relic put their focus, but unfortunately the Campaign will only keep ones focus 
 for so long, the beauty behind Dawn of War was its amazing Multiplayer and Modability, Dawn of 
 War 2 does a 180 and brings about a great Campaign, crappy Multiplayer and very limited modability, 
 heck, even the army painter has been nerfed in order to package up special colors and army banners 
 so that relic can nickle and dime its customers to death.
  
  At the end of the day, in Dawn of War 2, I am stuck with a limited palette, exploitable multiplayer 
 and no Fires over Kronus. 
  
  In Dawn of War 1, I can kill my friends with my Hello Kitty Marines.
  
  It's not a hard choice 
 to make.
  
  Viva la Empire: Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majere613
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, having ploughed through the single-player campaign and experimented with the skirmishes, 
 I feel just about ready to make a mini-review, so here we go. 
  
  Firstly, the single-player campaign. I'm not quite sure where the GS review gets it's 'weak story' 
 idea from. The plot of the SP campaign sees a small band of Blood Ravens desperately defending 
 their recruiting homeworld and a couple of other planets from Orks, Eldar and Tyranids. Yes, there 
 are weak spots in the plot- I still feel that Relic haven't quite got a handle on how the Eldar 
 think and their plan in DOWII is one that anyone with any knowledge of Tyranids will tell you is 
 bound to fail- but there are some great touches and moments in there. Series veterans will like 
 to see all the previous campaigns discussed, and appearances from Gabriel Angelos (DOW) and Davian 
 Thule (Dark Crusade) are welcome, as is the absence of the much mocked Boreale from Soulstorm, 
 who is pleasingly dead. There are some odd moments in single-player, especially the 'boss fights' 
 where you might sometimes find a single Warlock or Warboss is more than a match for your entire 
 force, but overall the campaign is fun and offers a lot of options, though it really does feel 
 more like an strategy/action RPG than an RTS.
  
  The multiplayer mode is a very different beast. DOWII's engine feels much more like Company of 
 Heroes than DOW, and this has very mixed results. For example, cover and buildings are very well 
 implemented, though in practice so many horrible things can happen to a unit in a building that 
 it's often not worth the risk. On the other had, 40k veterans may well baulk at restricted fire 
 arcs for heavy weapons, grenades that land and start a countdown timer before they go off, and 
 many units that have abilities seriously out of step with their tabletop counterparts. DOWII is 
 also a bit reluctant to tell you exactly what some units can do- the Eldar Falcon, for example, 
 comes with some unknown weapon fit that probably doesn't feature any anti-vehicle weapons, but 
 we're not told. The worst offender in this regard though are the Tyranids. It's never easy at the 
 best of times to remember what the various Tyranid weapons do, but in DOWII almost all of them 
 fire green goo. Sometimes it's anti-infantry green goo, sometimes anti-vehicle, but figuring out 
 which in a hurry can be frustratingly tricky.
  
  There are other wrinkles which range from the annoying to the simply odd. The Army Painter from 
 DOW has returned greatly improved, and now features several different patterns for Marines, as 
 well as colors named after Citadel paints. So it's annoying when you find there's no (apparent) 
 way to add a Chapter symbol and the name of your Chapter is kept brutally short- I was allowed 
 Sons of Medusa, but the Howling Gryphons were a letter too long. Squad sizes feel amazingly small- 
 typically 3 to 5 models per squad- and the roster of available units is much smaller than in DOW. 
 Combine that with a very tight population cap and the small maps soon feel pretty big in comparison 
 with the number of troops you can put on them. This leads to battles where running madly from objective 
 to objective is often the name of the game, rather than actual combat- in my test skirmishes I 
 had multiple 'battles' where the winner's kill-count was less than 15. This is reinforced by the 
 way that units can easily run away from melee opponents, and can make a 'flee' move that runs them 
 straight back to base whilst avoiding almost all enemy fire.
  
  There's no question that Relic have delivered a small-scale RTS that will please fans of Company 
 of Heroes or Starcraft. The problem is that in almost every important way, that RTS does not feel 
 like WH40k. If you loved the way DOW played and were hoping for something that improved upon the 
 original, you are unlikely to find it here- for good or bad, DOWII is very much a different animal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limafoxtrot
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I think it is a blast. So far I have only done SP though. It is an RTS/RPG game. The closest I 
 can think of is Warcraft III but this is heavier on the RPG side.
  
  You don't build or gather at all (at least not in SP) . You have your squads (5 - 4 of which you 
 can assign to a mission) which you command in RTS like fashion. Each has unique skills and abilities 
 that help in certain situations. You get a Commander, Marine unit, Assault Marine unit, Heavy Bolters 
 (think 50 cal squad) and a scout squad.
  
  As you play you do your typical RTS like maneuvering, taking points, clearing sectors, defending 
 a spot etc., however it all gives you xp which you use to level your troops. You also get mission 
 rewards to better equip your teams. Enemies even drop gear sometimes to add to your stash.
  
  The story is compelling, and the mission structure seems well thought out. Enemies so far include 
 orks, eldar and tyrnaids (sp?) . I find the difficult just right on normal which is a nice change 
 from struggling on easy in many RTS games. The pacing is good and in general I am loving the game. 
 I really like the non-cranking out units aspect of the game play. It's all about squad level combat, 
 tactics and using your teams abilities to their fullest.
  
  I can imagine if you really like traditional RTS game paly this might not be to your liking as 
 it removes the building aspect entirely and focuses just on engagements. On the plus side this 
 also applies to the AI - there are not many cases (except a few specific tyrnaid missions where 
 your goal is to destroy a base) where the AI has buildings making troops either - so you can fend 
 things off and as you progress there is less in your way with out the AI cranking out wave after 
 wave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbo888
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War II is a great game. The campaign is a lot of fun and the online multiplayer 
 is like nothing I've seen before (even though it's most likely been done like this before) . The 
 only problem with the game is the NUMEROUS bugs. Very often on the campaign does the game crash 
 in between missions while you are getting briefed. When you're online the game lags a lot, even 
 if you have a technically proficient graphics card/internet connection. I was actually just playing 
 online and my game crashed for no reason... Also twice before I got a sync error and the game freezes 
 and you have to close the game. 
  
  Despite the bugs... the game is great. It's a lot of fun and the amount of strategies a person 
 can have is great. After a few patches the game should be good... It'll hold me off until Starcraft 
 2 :  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  First of all i actually have no problem with Steam or a game that uses it. I want you all to know 
 that this is my opinion of the game only (though i will mention Windows Live) 
  
  I expect most of you reading this enjoyed DOW1. I know i did. I felt it was a fun strategy which 
 forced you to keep moving. 
  
  When Relic announced that they were doing away with base building i was curious. I personally like 
 base building in my game but im pretty sure a very decent strategy/tactical game can be made without 
 it. 
  Of course they then announced Tyranids and this game became i must buy for me. 
  
  Alas i was very dissapointed. I will start off with a comparison. If any of you played Empire Earth 
 and enjoyed it only to be highly dissapointed by EE2 then you will know where i am coming from. 
 
  
  This game is hidiously dumbed down in my opinion. They have taken away the base building, lessened 
 the amount of units you can choose, made the tech advancement simpler and given a very sparse amount 
 of maps. 
  A lot of these things made the game a good one. 
  
  But they were going for something different so what did they add. They added custom war gear in 
 single player or upgradable gear in multiplayer. They also gave the remaining units special abilities 
 like grenades or Charge. These things arent even badley implemented they just dont manage to make 
 up for what has been taken away. 
  
  Now im sure if studied enough you can work out the perfect timing and unit building structure to 
 be better than others with this game. If that is your thing then you may well enjoy it. if you 
 are looking for entertainment then i really dont think this game is for you. The appeal of the 
 wargear may last you a couple of hours. 
  
  The strategy options seem lack luster, the choices limited and the tactical options, although perhaps 
 better than DOW1 are still hardly enough to carry the game. 
  
  So what about the tyrandis, well they are ok but act and handle similarly to the other races. because 
 of the lack of choice in races itsh ard to make them game changingly different. They of course 
 look different and the units do different things but with only 4 - 6 units running around, you 
 will soon stop caring which race you are playing. 
  
  Now to cap my review off i will mention that for the single player game you must be logged into 
 Windows Live to play (unless i have missed anything) This i find tedious and frstrating especially 
 when it isnt working which is not rare. 
  
  To cap it all this game, in my eyes is awful. A dumbed down, rushed joke of a game which is for 
 people who are looking to learn the best timing and configuration rather than wanting to just enjoy 
 a game. 
  
  Im afraid i have few positive comments because the game offers little in the way of positive features. 
 Many will disagree, infact i hope they do as i used to like Relic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skr3w
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 4:25 am PT
Review:  Unlike other game sequels, where the gamer receives a mere clone of the original game with some 
 added content and improved graphics, Dawn of War II gives you a completely new experience in the 
 Warhammer 40,000 universe! Both games present an entirely different style of game play that will 
 allow players to keep playing DoW without getting bored because DoW II is better!
  
  The game itself is a masterpiece of RTS with a side dish of RPG to keep things personal when battling 
 your sworn foes! Space Marines are presented as they should be, warriors of an almost god like 
 status who face off against greatly overwhelming enemies! The Eldar can be used as stealthily and 
 swiftly as the lore depicts, giving you a real insight to how these xenos' tactics work! The green 
 horde is just as fun to play as ever with their mobs of men and scavenged vehicles! And finally, 
 the Tyranids, the newest race introduced to the Dawn of War title is portrayed in a way that does 
 justice to the lore in almost every way!
  
  Truly a game to have on your rack! You don't want to miss out on this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infamy245
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 4:22 am PT
Review:  I can understand all the controversy surrounding this game as it's has almost nothing in common 
 in terms of game play with it's predecessor. But I believe once the initial hate dies down, people 
 will see this game for the gem it is.
  
  As an early beta player I skeptical of all the changes they made to the core mechanics of the franchise, 
 but after 20 odd multi-player ranked matches I was hooked. This was even despite the constant balance 
 issues, bugs, crashes and lack of map variety. There is something about the MP that keeps it fresh. 
 You have to be constantly on your toes adapting to the situation as it presents itself otherwise 
 you will fail. 
  
  Of course some people will not like this style of game play and I say, to each his own. MP is the 
 main draw of the game for me. I'm looking forward to the day it's perfectly balanced and bug free. 
 At the moment there are a few issues.
  
  The single player is very different from the multiplayer, but good in it's own way. It's more like 
 a RTS-RPG where you collect loot and level up. There are tactics involved, and if you play on the 
 captain difficulty from the start, it will definitely keep you on your toes and prep you for the 
 multiplayer because you will definitely need to use abilities extensively to survive. 
  
  My only gripe with the SP is the insanely ridiculous boss fights which almost break the pace of 
 the game. It gets a little stupid toward the end, where you have standard bosses with 100k-300k 
 hp that spam squad-wiping powers. This is only an issue on the captain difficulty. players playing 
 the normal campaign will most likely not experience such difficulties. 
  
  Yes, the campaign has a lot of filler optional missions toward the end, but you're not meant to 
 complete all of them (they never end) these are meant to help you cap your level and grind some 
 war gear for the final level. I'd say the campaign will last 15-20 hrs if you take it slow.
  
  The graphics and sound are top notch, and you can clearly tell this game had amazing production 
 values. Lot's of destructible environments, unique kill animations, and weather effects. the maps 
 are very dynamic and change in appearance throughout the game, but keep the same layout. 
  
  Overall I have to give this a 9.5 out of 10. I rated a 10, just to help tip the ratings from 
 the trolls and angry people who do not even own the game and keep spamming 1's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nireland
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:30 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice is the gorgeous graphics and sound, simply beautiful. Then you load 
 up the campaign and are swiftly sucked into an epic battle with the orks. The focus now is on unit 
 micro, making the units work together in tandem to produce results 300% better than they could 
 individually.
  
  For example, your scouts can infiltrate move forward and let you see where the enemy units are, 
 then you get to cover, move your devastator squad into range and as they get spotted, unleash the 
 "suppressive fire" ability of the scouts on the units that spotted your Devastator squad. This 
 makes them go to ground, now your heavy bolters are in range.... fap fap fap! Dead orks! Awesome!
 
  
  There are various combinations depending on what wargear you give your units and which units you 
 specialise in, which role you pour your experience points into etc etc... so you can play through 
 the campaign numerous times and try different combinations of tactics.
  
  The campaign is fun and engaging and the hot-keys allow for fast micro of your units.
  
  Multiplayer 
 focuses even more on the action, without base building to slow down the action it is all about 
 your frontline troops. Capturing territory and maintaining control, flanking, infiltrating... it 
 is SO much more fun compared to the boring "build order based" first game. 
  
  I am a massive fan of Dawn of War and loved the first, but DOW 2 is more fun, more action packed 
 and tests your ability to react and micro a lot more than DOW 1 or any other franchise whilst also 
 having (in campaign) addictive RPG elements, levelling up, customising skills and finding new loot!
 
  
  The greatest thing is the level of support from Relic, they have already patched the game to fix 
 various issues, Steam installation means no more DVD in my drive (yay) and updates are automatic 
 and fast. There will be regular downloadable content and the expansion will just add more and more 
 depth as more and more units and races are made available! Relic are capturing massive amounts 
 of feedback via steam and GFWL to enable them to create balance changes and new content much more 
 quickly and with balance. I am very happy and look forward to playing this game for years!
  
  
  9/10
  
  
  Anyway, back to WAR! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winters2
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 2:18 am PT
Review:  I was a major fan of DoW 1 having played through all the campaigns of all the expansions at least 
 twice. It was a truly addicting experience, even with all the bugs that came with the last expansion 
 (Soulstorm) . I really enjoyed the game as it offered varying strategies to win the game, either 
 by slowly and carefully taking over the map, choking off the enemy resources or just rushing them. 
 
  
  I don't really play the campaigns of the RTS and generally prefer playing skirmish/multiplayer. 
 I did however try the campaign for DoW II and I can say it's COMPLETELY different from what is 
 offered during the skirmish. The campaign was enjoyable, albeit a bit short and not really a RTS.
 
  
  The game offers a skirmish that's completely different to that of the first game. Gone are all 
 the base building. You start off with a HQ and 2 turrents. The turrents are quite powerful and 
 your HQ has heaps of HP so you're not going to die from early rushes. 
  All you can really do is just go out and capture points and spam units, eventually (hopefully) 
 gaining enough upper hand to end the game.
  
  You can't build listening post and your power generators has no defensive abilities causing some 
 (most for me) games to become reduced to running back and forth between resources points. This 
 gets really tedious, but as I mentioned before, the game really doesn't offer much more than this. 
 
  
  The unit cap is also quite low, the battles never felt as epic as the ones in DoW 1 though it allows 
 greater player control during battles, not that there is much to control. This together with the 
 lack of extremely difficult to acquire superunits like those that were available in DoW 1, the 
 game can drag on when both players get their best units (only requires upgrading your HQ twice, 
 which isn't hard) .
  
  There are hardly any technology besides some minor customization of your company/troops/heroes 
 (relative to the first game) . You can upgrade most units granting them a few abilities (like the 
 upgrades in DoW 1) . The units also level up, but in the skirmish/multiplayer you need quite a few 
 levels to make any difference. The level up system was a nice feature that I didn't find particularly 
 interesting, most units and squads just don't survive long enough to take full advantage of it.
 
  
  Another thing worth mentioning is the new hero system. It's a nice addition but I think it was 
 better to let you choose during the game (and lock out the other hero choices) than to pick it 
 before the game begins (to adapt to the strategies used by the enemy) . But this is just a minor 
 complaint.
  
  The AI in this game is hardly spectacular. AI on hard and normal during skirmishes sometimes have 
 units move to a certain point and just sit there while their base gets decimated. They also never 
 get tired of recapturing the same point over and over again (while the average human player will 
 quickly get tired of it) . They hardly do anything even if they have major resources advantage (I 
 mean controlling over 80% of the map) .
  The could have done better.
  
  The game only shipped with 5 multiplayer maps (though there are probably going to be more available 
 through patches/expansions) and considering the lack of contents everywhere else too, this is quite 
 disappointing.
  
  The graphics in this game is really nice, the effects are much better than those offered in the 
 first game. Everything looks neat and polished. This is probably the only thing I liked about the 
 game.
  
  In conclusion if you really enjoyed the first game and got too used to its gameplay (like me) you 
 probably WON'T enjoy this game. For newcomers to the series, despite my complaints you might enjoy 
 the game. It much more 'streamlined' and dumbed down compared to the first. The game doesn't offer 
 much contents overall and even the newcomers should try to wait until the first expansion comes 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkking2015
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  A game when the job that makes it addicting is done. But the campaign, which sometimes is the heart 
 of rts games, was not so daziling.
  Unlike the game, i agree to the video review that it is not a rts kinda like a rpg.
  The graphics 
 are very well done and quality is good. The most disapointing part is that there are not many features 
 in single player skirmish, or online gameplay. Unlike soulstorm or other previous warhammer games, 
 it only has three races and orks eldar and space marines. The campaign is baisically making you 
 want to finish it but at the end you find out it might not have been worth your time becuase of 
 its quality of just some maps keep on capturing points and objectives and listining to the same 
 soundtracks your units say when you move them around or attack.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  The campaign is not so bad looking at it after a long time becuase of its long and alterative story. 
 the trick is the story is made to be not as good as it could for the player to keep playing mission 
 after mission to see if it gets better. The story is good a little becuase of its charectars and 
 rpg like campaign. Single player and online gameplay need more maps and races. Graphics Are high 
 but for people who have slow computer should stick with lower detail. On my computer i put my graphics 
 to max and it was pretty smooth for me so i hope it will for you. It is addicting and fun in many 
 ways i could rate it a ten if it had all previous races on online gameplay. i reccomend this for 
 people who like relic. People who like games like soulstorm will be dissapointed about the none 
 rpg like campaign and lack of races. the ramy painter is well done able to have a good selection 
 of realistick painting. After all the negative comments i previously made i still play this game 
 even though it might not have all the features from dawn of war 2.
  
  STATS:
  
  Maps:7
  Graphics: Very Good
  Units per race:  Races:3
  Leaders:9 (3 on each race)
  Sound: Very 
 Good
  Campaign gameplay: Fair
  Campaign stroy: okay
  
  For more detailed info download the beta for free on steam.
  Buy it now for $49.99 on steam. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper5030
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Very misleading and down-right WRONG take of single player campaign by Gamespot. Just cuz you don't 
 build a base and units doesn't mean the game isn't strategic. Maybe it doesn't follow conventional 
 rules of the RTS genre, but it uses just as much strategy as its other game modes. Sure, you only 
 have 4 units at a time, but they each have user-chosen abilites and traits. Very, very dumb review 
 of single player camplaign : (
  
  Multiplayer is just as the review described it. There are a ton of bugs and glitches that still 
 need to be straightened out, but I have hope that the developers will get those taken care of soon. 
 Right now, it's current state, the game isn't for hard-core competitive gamers, because almost 
 everything has a chance to bug out and go wrong. But give it some time to fix itself and the game 
 will turn out to be a great model for RTSs to come, I'm sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Seems I made a hasty review due to the startling differences in gameplay of DAWN OF WAR to DAWN 
 OF WAR 2. If they had added something like tactics to the end of the title I may have been better 
 prepared and enjoyed the game before returning it so quickly only to play it at a friends house 
 and find out with his helpful input just how great DOW 2 is. Guess I'll be going back to the local 
 GameStop to pick up another copy.
  
  Gameplay- Space Marines still dont feel as great and take a while to build up but playing with 
 Eldar I really started seeing some of that old DAWN OF WAR magic coming back with strategy as I 
 learned to use the right troops with the right weapons at different ranges for best effect while 
 enjoying many great power ups. Balance needs more tweaking though.
  
  Sound-
  Voice acting is well done though a bit more on the violent side and not as mystical sounding and 
 inspiring in a wise race way as the Eldar in DOW 1.
  Music is good with a retro feel to it kind of like WARHAMMER 40k RITES OF WAR.
  
  Graphics-
 
  One really has turn up the graphic setting to see the intricately design masterpiece work of the 
 units in DOW 2. They move fluidly and seem very alive. The huge robotic titans used by the Eldar 
 are especially gorgeous looking like minitures straight out of GAMES WORKSHOP. Some units still 
 need a bit of polish
  
  Sum total-
  A very good game with alot of potential that grows on one. Heres hoping patching and GAMES FOR 
 WINDOWS LIVE will make it everything it can be.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegamanAlpha
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2009 1:09 am PT
Review:  When I saw the campaign and played a few missions I really liked it and told my friend that this 
 is going to be one of the best RTS games ever.
  
  You play with a hero and soldiers that gains experience and after a certain amount of experience 
 you gain levels and with the levels you get status points which you will spend on any status of 
 your choice to unlock new abilities and there also armor, weapons and accessory equipment slots 
 which you will use them to upgrade your gear with the new gears you get from each mission. And 
 the end of each mission there is a boss fight; I was like playing a RPG game in a RTS style and 
 those are my 2 favorite types of games.
  
  After 6 mission I started to imagine how will the skirmish be I imagined that (you choose a race 
 then you chose the hero and you play the skirmish exactly like the campaign except for the boss 
 fight at the end and your hero also gain experience, levels and status points and if you won the 
 battle you get additional experience and credit to buy new gear for your hero and army and your 
 hero's level is an indicator of your level like you won't be able to play a skirmish with a level 
 1 player and you are level 10 or you can play but you won't gain any levels or credit)
  
  Then I played the skirmish: It was awful they removed all the fun stuff in the campaign, yes your 
 hero gain experience/levels but that's it no status point and the unlocked abilities came from 
 the items you buy which is very limited 
  
  I was very disappointed 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad213Boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  So, what we have here is an extremely addictive strategy/action game that, honestly, could've blossomed 
 if extra work was poured into the single-player component. For several reasons, Warhammer 40,000 
 Dawn of War 2 provides a better gaming experience as multiplayer game and a bit less as a solo 
 challenge. One of the main reasons, of course, is because charging across the battlefields and 
 claiming your territory against live opponents feels far more gripping than doing so in single-player. 
 This doesn't mean the AI won't put up a fight in the main campaign. The fairly decent storyline 
 will keep you on your toes as well. The only real bummer is that the missions repeat themselves 
 more often that they should, thus making a great portion of the campaign redundant.
  
  The biggest problem in the solo mode is the generally repetitive mission structure. There's only 
 a handful of missions with unique goals, such as rescuing Captain Thule or defending one of the 
 Space Marine bases. What you'll find is that the tasks boil down to eliminating all foes on the 
 map, fighting a skilled enemy boss-unit and finally collecting the well-deserved loot. Now, that 
 last part is, basically, what this game's all about. Collecting armor, weapons, different accessories, 
 as well as various items for your Commander unit, contribute to the game's RPG-like qualities.
 
  
  Another obvious effort made by the developers was stringing to missions together with a coherent 
 and interesting plot via well-written dialogue, which takes place between the main characters. 
 The generally appealing story presentation is intertwined with short, but superbly done, cinematics. 
 The setting itself is very compelling, as is the atmosphere during each battle fought by your valiant 
 Space Marines. The soundtrack and top-quality sound effects make this game a joy to watch and listen. 
 Each tune turns the ongoing mission into a marvelously directed battle scene, accompanied by imaginatively 
 designed and highly detailed environments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaciris
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  1. Ambitious style of gameplay
  2. Quick fighting
  3. Great Graphics
  4. Very Tactical in a sense imo
  
  Cons:
  
  1. U gots to login to steam
  2. U dont share 
 coop data with a friend (campaign)
  3. Few maps (although probably be filled up later on)
  
  
  Fewer unit selections maybe be a con or a pro but hey what's more units like 3 more or 
 so.
  
  I am in favor of the quick battles this RTS brings cuz i dont favor turtle tactics. The lack of 
 base building is a great plus for those players who lack macro skills which allows them to concentrate 
 more on fighting.
  
  But i still hate the fact that u hav to run steam to play. It bugs me a lot and probably others 
 who have slower systems atm.
  
  All in all, it's a nice game and i think the only reason some people hate it it's because they've 
 gotten used to RTS with base building.
  
  Cmon people, it's Real Time Strategy, it doesnt specify that there has to be base building involved 
 there isn't it?
  
  and those who bash the hero system and say it was already used by Warcraft, it's not really a patented 
 thing anyone can use it, besides u only get to choose one hero or force commander so it's different 
 also.
  
  I like the game, it's a great game, but i do want more units though cuz that way there would be 
 more carnage and gore.
  
  
  Oh yeah, single player is repetitive but still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinwaOkami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:47 am PT
Review:  Another review brought to you by the wonderful mind of Shinny.
  Today we are going to look over Dawn of War 2.
  
  Now personally, I am a huge Warhammer fan. 
 I play table-top and sport the Imperial Eagle tattooed upon my shoulder. Now, you might think this 
 makes me a little biased, but if anything, it makes me judge this game all the harder. I've gone 
 into this with high expectations and i've not been disappointed.
  
  Graphics: The visuals are simply stunning in this title. The shine off of the Marine's armour. 
 Bolter rounds and tracer fire lacing back and forth. It's definately something to see. Even melee 
 has definately been improved with different finishing sequences that look fantastic.
  
  CGI sequences between levels are well done and definately help expand the story and give you a 
 detailed look into the Warhammer universe.
  
  Sound: Sound effects are something I always hope for. Especially spoken script or anything to push 
 more information on the Warhammer universe. Weaponry sounds fantastic, as well as the voices of 
 each race. 
  
  Control: Controls in this game are fairly standard as to what you will find in say, Company of 
 Heroes. The only difference is the different skill and accessory loadouts. I found it sometimes 
 a little difficult to select squads and sent orders out to the incorrect units.
  Hopefully this was just my machine and not an actual in-game issue.
  
  Storyline: This is always 
 a big thing for me in any game. If you can give me a good story, then you will probably have me 
 hooked.
  Throwing in the Tyranids for Dawn of War 2 was a pretty good idea. I mean, none of us have seen 
 the 'nids outside of table-top and the fans were ready to pick up torches and pitchforks if it 
 didn't happen soon.
  
  You start off defending a series of planets from an Ork attack, which is fairly standard opening 
 it seems for most Dawn of War titles. It progresses you onto the Eldar then reveals the dooming 
 mass that is the Tyranid hive fleet.
  
  Now, this game left me with a few more questions than answers.
  Especially with Gabriel Angelos 
 (The Force Commander from the first DoW title) making an appearance. They speak an awful lot about 
 a terrible secret that surrounded his homeworld, Cyrene. Which we should all know was extinguished 
 via Exterminatus. 
  
  The story-line is decent, moving toward differen defensive missions and levels of infestation. 
 The campaign, while short, detailed nicely how a small splinter fleet can present a major threat 
 to the Imperium. That's right folks, this is a small splinter fleet from when the Ultramarines 
 battled the Hive Fleet on their own chapter world. If it had been a true outreaching of the Hive 
 Mind, there would of been no chance what so ever of survival for those worlds and the people upon 
 it.
  
  Multiplayer: This is really where the game seems to excel. I was playing the Beta since the moment 
 i've gotten my hands on it and it's only gotten better. I've hated playing RTS's online now for 
 years due to it's terrible skill-less spam of units. This finally introduces strategy and tactics 
 back into gaming. Bravo Relic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbagumpo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  First the bad news. The setup and need for a constant internet connection are not a disaster, but 
 are a slight annoyance to an others perfect single player experience.
  
  That aside, I am a casual fan of Warhammer 40,000, having read a few of the books and I am slightly 
 aware of the mythology, or at least that there is mythology even though I can't say I really know 
 what it is. My feeling is that the single player campaign really captures the spirit of the books 
 and the universe, there is only war and its leaders are powerful and bigger than life. Very hard 
 edge and cool.
  
  I am an RPG'er, not a RTS'er, so when I started to read criticism from RTS'ers I got interested 
 in this game, and I have to say that it is a unique blend of squad tactics with RTS flavor, and 
 with just enough RPG elements to keep me interested. The blend, however, is very very cool. It 
 has the real time components not found in many RPGs, and the battles are very cool, exciting, require 
 forethought, you develop your own style, and it is rewarding to move the characters forward. I've 
 tried different combat styles and the differences in tactics is something I have not run into in 
 any RPG before, not tactics like what spell will I use, but tactics like how to use the environment, 
 where to take cover, when to lay down suppressing fire and flank the enemy verse when to charge 
 right in, that kind of stuff.
  
  The graphics and production values are top shelf, however there is currently a bug that prevents 
 me from using the Ultra graphics settings, as the movies crash. The game looks good but I have 
 a muscle system and want to use its power, so it is a little frustrating that this bug keeps me 
 from doing that. The developers seem dedicated, and this is a good company, so I'm hoping sales 
 are enough to keep them focused to get this stuff fixed.
  
  I am not an online multiplayer type, so I have no idea if that is good or not. Fix the bugs and 
 the weird security system and this is a 10 for sure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda024
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  First let me talk about the campain. Maybe already know that this is not an upgreade to DOW but 
 this is a good thing, I really liked the campain missions and that not just your force commander 
 lvl's up but so do your squads. Every squad has a leader.. mini commander if you will. If they were 
 going for the get real attached to your units kind of thing it WORKS because they all have there 
 own ability's, voices, and most of all personality. Really got sucked into the campain.
  
  Second the graphics. They are wonderfull, good detail in the maps and there should be with only 
 so few of them but evrything was so well placed that even though you played through the same maps 
 50 times it still feels so fresh due to great visiuals and good detail.
  
  Third the sound. Hands down the best sound in any rts. I really like the bass when my heavy bolters 
 are goin off and my chain sword rips through flesh.
  
  Last is multiplayer and overall game. Maltiplayer is a wonderfull exp and is worth the $50 all 
 on its own. From the start you have your HQ and thats it. You start pumpin out a few basic units 
 but its not a swarm zerg rush type of game. You will upgreade your hero's weapons armor accesorys 
 ect, same for your squad. Fighting over power generator's. The best mode is control point victory, 
 the game never gets to were your base is destroyed and there is a constint battle over the 3 points, 
 have had some epic battles so far and havent seen the same tactic very often.
  
  Go buy the game now, trust me its worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: highndry18
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 1:13 am PT
Review:  The first Dawn of War and the series of games under that name that followed are undoubtedly one 
 of the best RTS experiences I have come across so far. By the end of the final Dawn of War game, 
 Soulstorm, we were so spoiled for choices in terms of playable factions, and I have never seen 
 so many playable factions in an RTS game before. The battles that took place in the game were brutal, 
 chaotic and bloody and deeply satisfying.
  
  And with the first series being so successful, it wasn't suprising that a sequel was in the works. 
 So after all that waiting, has it managed to live up to expectations?
  
  Well, I do have mixed feelings about the game. Firstly, structure-buildng that was crucial in the 
 first game is absent here. This can be a good thing, allowing the player to focus on the battlefield 
 action. However, unlike the first game, there seems to be a focus on a small skirmish setting. 
 The maximum size of the player's troops seem to be much lesser than that in the first Dawn of War, 
 where you seem to command a small army. Here in the second game, it's like commanding a light company. 
 The advantage of having a smaller troop population though is that there is less confusion and it 
 is easier to manage. But this might be a disappointment for anyone expecting to handle a larger 
 force. Also, having a bigger force meant more epic and chaotic battles that could be achieved in 
 the first series. Some might find that to be lacking in this game.
  
  The choices of units also remains small as opposed to the first game, so if you want to be creative 
 in mixing up your troops to yield interesting tactics, you really won't find much to work with 
 in this game. Because of this, you will commonly find yourself sticking to an effective common 
 strategy of the combination of units you want to use.
  
  Battlefield maps also seem to be smaller compared to those in the first game, so there is less 
 of a problem having your troops too spread out while capturing and defending victory points or 
 nodes. If one area comes under heavy fire, it takes little time to bring reinforcements to that 
 area from another. 
  
  I have never played Company of Heroes and I'm aware that the cover system from that game is being 
 adopted in this one. So far it's an interestingly fun feature, and having your heavy vehicle just 
 run through walls is always an enjoyable thing to watch. The addition of graphic physics adds to 
 the eye-candy, and the game looks incredibly good on ultra-high settings. If there's one thing 
 that this game shines in, its the graphics that make that of the first game pale in comparison.
 
  
  Overall, this is a good game and a worthy buy. However expect to be disappointed if you are unwilling 
 to adjust to style of gameplay in this game if you are too used to that in the first.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aragas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Huge 40k fan, and God knows I love the first DoW. First of all I actually do like the new set up. 
 I've always loved leading my elite troops to victory without having to churn out hunreds of units 
 and watching most of them die as cannon fodder; that is not Astartes. I enjoy how each leader has 
 their specialty and its up to you to use them at the right times and in the right ways. AI is good 
 and cover system works just as well as it did in CoH. The graphics have also received a massive 
 upgrade and the units look amazing. Explosions, effects, detail - all perfect. 
  
  That being said, I HATE the fact that I have to load STEAM and wait for their servers to be up 
 and running. WTF! I bought DoW II to plan DoW II, and I don't care to plan online all the damn 
 time! Maybe I just wanna get on to play a quick skirmish and be off. And why the hell can't I save?! 
 Also, I dig the few and the proud bit, but sometimes I want to up the pop cap and build a REAL 
 army. I want to see a true battle worthy of the 40K name. 
  
  All in all, I do like the game, but for fu**s sake let me play the game without having to access 
 that god-awful STEAM, up the pop cap, let me save my games, and give us more maps for muliplayer/skirmish. 
 Such little annoyances cause such a big headache.
  
  Again, all in all, I love you relic, no one knows 40K like you and I look forward to the patches, 
 mod tools, etc. to make this game truly perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: varkdm
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000 : Dawn of War II  PC
  
  This is a game I've been looking forward to ever since I first played Dawn of War. The developers, 
 Relic Entertainment, have a habit of producing exceptional RTS games, with new and interesting 
 twists on what has become a crowded and increasingly stale genre. Aside from Dawn of War, you only 
 have to look at Company of Heroes for evidence of their talent. Even their expansion packs raise 
 the bar, often playing more like completely new games and easily supplying many hours of game play. 
 I'm pleased to say they haven't disappointed with DoW2. 
  
  The Dawn of War series takes place in the brutal and violent universe of Warhammer 40,000. Man 
 has colonised the galaxy, but following a series of increasingly disastrous setbacks, they now 
 find themselves beset on all sides by a myriad of opponents. The galaxy is home to many races, 
 all out to totally annihilate or enslave each other. The billions of humans that occupy the galaxy, 
 are protected by The Emperor. He was an enormously powerful psychic, now preserved on Earth for 
 many thousands of years. From there, he guides human ships through the warp (the chaotic sub universe 
 that allows travel across great distances, but also contains a host of nasties) and provides inspiration 
 to his people. His greatest gift to humanity, was to supplement the forces of the Imperial Guard, 
 with armies of genetically engineered super humans, equipped with powerful mechanised armour and 
 weapons; they became known as Space Marines and only they are capable of taking on the greatest 
 foes of humanity. This series has been following the exploits of the Blood Ravens Space Marine 
 Chapter and Dawn of War 2 continues in that vein. 
  
  You take on the role of a newly promoted Force Commander, rushed in to deal with the threat of 
 an Orc Invasion of the Blood Ravens home worlds. This is taking place whilst the majority of their 
 forces are far away, on another campaign. 
  
  It quickly becomes apparent, that the generally mindless Orcs are being manipulated by the sophisticated 
 Eldar; an ancient technologically advanced race. Soon enough, these two races are joined in their 
 campaign of destruction by a Tyranid Hive Fleet. The Tyranids are a race of beasts, who travel 
 from one world to the next, stripping it of everything useful, adding its resources to their "Biomass", 
 in order to grow. Tyranids are generally thought to be the greatest threat facing the Imperium. 
 They originate outside the galaxy, where they have devoured thousands of planets. Their presence 
 is generally thought of, to be a very, very bad thing. With their arrival, the race is on, your 
 small group of Blood Ravens must find out what is going on, work out a plan to prevent the annihilation 
 of their worlds by three powerful enemies and forever defeat this particular Tyranid Hive Fleet, 
 before it can spread further through the Empire.
  
  The game itself is split into two areas  the campaign map and the missions. The campaign takes 
 place across three planets, each with five or six zones. These zones will offer either randomly 
 generated or storyline missions. These are presented a bit like quests in an RPG, with your mission 
 goals and a reward for completion in display. Each mission takes one day, and some missions have 
 time limits on when they can be completed  failure to do so can increase the Tyranid infestation 
 level of the planet, success can reduce it. If you do particularly well, you can be rewarded with 
 the opportunity to take on another one or two missions on the same campaign day, preventing time 
 from rolling on and allowing you to clear out a backlog of missions.
  
  It is also from the campaign map where you can manage your units. You are given five squads plus 
 your commander, although you can only take three of the five with you on any chosen mission. The 
 squad leaders are awarded xp for gaining kills, completing missions and for trading in unwanted 
 loot items.
  
  As you progress you will accumulate new levels, and therefore new skills. You can choose to boost 
 your squads in different ways  health and stamina, ranged warfare, melee warfare and special abilities. 
 Each skill tree has a number of special abilities associated with it, such as the ability to use 
 certain pieces of equipment, special attacks or traits; as well as passively boosting their stats. 
 You will also be given items of "wargear" for completing missions (they also occasionally drop 
 from defeated opponents) . These appear to be mostly randomly generated, apart from a few rare named 
 items. Wargear follows pretty much the same looting system seen in World of Warcraft  white standard 
 items, green special items and blue rare items. These items vary from different types of armour, 
 to various different types of weapon and unit upgrades (such as grenades, demolition charges and 
 health packs) . This is a nice system and adds replayability to the single player campaign.
  
  The different squads under your command all have different roles to play  your scouts can 
 move unseen, snipe single targets or blast them out of cover and lay demo charges and traps  but 
 are lightly armoured and won't last long in a stand up fight. 
  
  The tactical squad are good all rounders, equipped with ranged weapons and basic melee gear, they 
 are most useful because of their versatility and their extra equipment slot. 
  
  The Assault squad are equipped with jump packs and close combat gear, they can jump great distances, 
 scatter opponents where they land and get stuck in with a meaty array of hand to hand combat weapons.
 
  
  The Devastator squad are equipped with deployable heavy weapons  heavy bolters, missile launchers 
 or plasma cannons. These weapons take time to deploy, have limited firing arcs, but do either heavy 
 damage to their target, or suppress them, keeping them from moving or fighting effectively.
  
  The Dreadnought isn't a squad per se, it's a cross between a terminator and a tank  a hulking 
 walking machine, equipped with claws and heavy flamers or a massive assault cannon. The dreadnoughts 
 have always been a particular favourite of mine in the DoW games  they are a truly brutal and 
 awesome weapon of war. 
  
  Last, but not least, is your Commander, IE you. He can be specialised in ranged or hand to hand 
 combat and is your most powerful unit. He has access to numerous special abilities and an additional 
 branch of wargear such as battle standards and teleporters.
  
  Later in the game, all of the squads can be upgraded with Terminator super heavy armour (assuming 
 you have boosted the appropriate statistic) . This changes how they behave somewhat, making them 
 much tougher but slower. They can't be suppressed but they can't use cover either (they destroy 
 it when they walk near it) . It can also radically change the roles of the squads  whereas early 
 on you may task your devastators with vehicle take down duties and your assault squad to scatter 
 and hold up your opponents, that switches with the arrival of terminator armour. The devastators 
 gain access to the infantry busting assault cannon, whilst your assault squad get vehicle mashing 
 thunder hammers. You don't have to use the new armour, but it makes it feel like you have more 
 squads to choose from than you at first may think.
  
  Clearly with all this talk of wargear, levelling and limited specialised squads, DoW2 is not a 
 traditional RTS and what is more, it is very different from the original DoW as well. The actual 
 game play, for me, seemed to compare more closely Company of Heroes than Dawn of War. Units capture 
 control nodes across the map and use the terrain to provide cover from incoming damage. But pretty 
 much all similarities end there. With generally only four squads under your control at any one 
 time, it becomes much more about absolutely maximising how each and every one is deployed and used. 
 For example, leave your Tactical or Devastator squad out of cover, or open to swarms of melee units 
 and they can quickly succumb and using your Commander against hordes of weak creatures is generally 
 a waste of his talents. 
  
  Squads can never be completely defeated. Squad members die, but can be replenished for free when 
 near a control node. Squad leaders become incapacitated and must be revived by another squad or 
 your commander. If all your units are incapacitated then you have failed the mission. That actually 
 never happened to me though, I played through on the default settings and found the challenge to 
 be about right. The key missions never felt too easy and quite a few times I only scraped through 
 a mission by the skin of my teeth. 
  
  The story missions are generally well thought out. There is plenty of chatter between your squad 
 mates to set the scene, lots of scripted events and sudden challenges to overcome, as well as plenty 
 of tough boss fights. In fact the boss fights are nice addition to the genre; usually at the end 
 of each mission is a unique, very tough, opponent to fight. How tough varies a great deal, but 
 these opponents range from unique Tyranid Warriors and Orc Meks right through to massive Hive Tyrants 
 and Eldar Avatars. These fights will require the use of tactics, timing and your special abilities 
 and equipment to get through.
  
  All of this is rendered with some impressive graphics and sound. Units and maps are colourful and 
 varied. Everything is well animated and there are some fantastic graphical effects  blood splatter, 
 muzzle flash, explosions, terrain deformation and the destruction of foliage and buildings all 
 look impressive. The big special attacks look as impressive as they should be, filling the screen 
 with firepower and devastation. Units emit battle cries and screams of pain at appropriate times 
 and the weapons and explosions are full of bass and carry real weight, the assault cannon and heavy 
 bolter sound especially meaty. The music also fits well to the game, generally you don't notice 
 that it is there, which tends to mean they have got it right.
  
  The in game graphics and sound all help bring this game to life, but they are also accompanied 
 by CG cut scenes, rendered with great detail and produced with excellent voice acting. In fact 
 the voice acting throughout is perfect, all the briefings are given verbally and there is a lot 
 of conversation between characters during the game. 
  
  The last area of the game to touch on is the multiplayer. I particularly enjoy playing coop games 
 of DoW, so it is nice to see that it is still possible to do that, but they have also added the 
 option to play the entire campaign through cooperatively, each player taking control their own 
 troops as you both try to achieve your goal. 
  
  The competitive play is mainly based around a Battlefield 1942 style system of controlling key 
 locations. Each side starts with 500 points, controlling two or all three of the key nodes will 
 see your opponents points reduced. There is no way to get these points back, which helps keep the 
 game time down and generally presses home the urgency of securing these nodes.
  
  You can play any of the four races featured in the single player game. You choose your race and 
 one of three commander types  generally offensive, defensive and utility classes. You are then 
 given a base, through which units are trained and are sent off to start securing the resource nodes 
 (resource and energy) needed to produce new units. There are no buildings to construct and place 
 and typically the fighting will start within the first couple of minutes and not let up from there. 
 
  
  Units that are killed in multiplayer, except for the Commander, really are killed and will have 
 to be completely replaced. There are three tiers of units and tiers two and above can have additional 
 upgrades purchased for them, as well as gain levels through combat. Sadly, the depth of the single 
 player campaign characters is gone though, you are given a small selection of upgrades to buy for 
 them and no wargear to use. I'm not sure if that's a good thing or not  perhaps some kind of persistent 
 online competitive multiplayer campaign would have been a nice thing to see. 
  
  At the time of writing the online play is not without its problems, although these are generally 
 to be expected so soon after launch. The ranked match system tends to takes too long to locate 
 a game and there are some minor balance issues that I'm sure will be addressed in time. That said 
 non ranked system seemed to work well and without any noticeable problems. Overall the online games 
 are fun, fast paced and offer a unique take on competitive RTS game play. Having said that, I do 
 miss the build up and additional layer of tactics that larger numbers of units and base building 
 offered  just a personal feeling and one that I'm sure won't be shared by all.
  
  Whilst the multiplayer is not quite perfect, it is a very solid online game that offers a new take 
 and new set of challenges in the genre. The single player campaign is well thought out, well implemented 
 and engrossing, the only problem being the repetition of some of the randomly generated missions. 
 
  
  With Dawn of War 2, Relic have once again delivered a visceral game world, engrossing story line, 
 interesting characters, incredible CG and impressive graphics and game engine, all combined with 
 another successful new take on the RTS genre. It's great to see their efforts to keep doing something 
 different paying off and hopefully it will stand as an example to others, that you can consistently 
 innovate and obtain success, even when maintaining your long running franchises.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: holyknight234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Most of the complainers of this game is that this game doesn't have base-building and that it isn't 
 similar to Starcraft/ Red Alert/ etc.
  But then, you have to think, wtf cares?
  RTS is called RTS because it means Real Time Strategy.
  Buildings doesn't have to be a major 
 factor of a strategy
  Mining gold/minerals doesn't have to be a major factor of a strategy
  
  DOW2 left all those standard rts games and made it different, and is that bad? no.
  
  Another 
 complain is that the units are too small. Then again, gotta think about this. Would you rather 
 have a massive battle where it's hard to control a unit because it's so hard to see them? For me, 
 I'd rather play a game with less units for more control rather and hugeass battle with chaotic 
 control.
  
  Right now, there are only few maps, but Relic is getting more maps through DLC for free.
  
 
  DOW2 is an awesome game, and I do not regret buying it (actually, I'm really happy for buying 
 this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dangerouspowerz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War I was a mediocre RTS which didn't offer anything new, if we look at it now we can clearly 
 see that there was nothing special about the first games. Also in the last expansion, the balance 
 between the races was none existent.
  All the gamers who played the old games know that the Imperial Guards were just in the game to 
 die, if you played multiplayer, the Imperial Guards objective was just to slow the enemy down.
 
  Also the Necrons were grossly overpowered, because their commander had a special ability to revive 
 fallen soldiers.
  Now this seems fair because the Necrons are very slow moving and Eldar can easily kill them, However 
 I did find that this special ability revived most of the fallen army.
  This made the Necrons in to a slow walking army of death, which just ruined the entire game.
 
  Now with Dawn of War II, Relic have taken the RTS concept and combined it with a few elements 
 of action RPG, and the result was very good I must say.
  In short, you control a small platoon of 4-6 units to battle against enormous armies and some times 
 you need to fight back wave after wave of incoming Orcs and Tyranids.
  One could say that the way Dawn of War II works is like DOTA, however with a small army at your 
 command and a hero who has some special abilities.
  Now to the campaign.
  You can only play as the space marines, the exact same strategy Relic had with Dawn of war I and 
 this is because they will most probably release Dawn of war II expansions with the other races.
 
  The objective you are given is to defend a small system of planets from an invasion of various 
 kinds of aliens, at first it seems simple. The first few levels are not really hard, however when 
 the Tyranid attack you need to rush from planet to planet defending small provinces with your platoon 
 against billions of aliens.
  This is one of the problems I have with the Warhammer 40k story.
  The space marines are always 
 portrayed as some kind of terminator, because always when they fight they are always less than 
 the enemy.
  The mentality of the space marines must be: 1   999
  However this is because, as I said before, the Imperial Guards job is to slow the enemy down and 
 when they have almost lost the planet, the space marines ride in and save the day.
  However in this campaign the platoon of space marines know that they will lose against billions 
 of Tyranid.
  
  Also you do not build any buildings in this game; you simply reinforce your squad when a member 
 dies. However to do this you need to capture certain relay stations.
  One can compare it to World in conflict, but you can't call in new units when they die.
  At first 
 I wasn't sure if this is a good thing or a bad thing, however I eventually I started to like this 
 concept.
  The campaign also has one other problem; it's to much of the same thing and it's to long.
  It 
 took me a few days playing the game before I completed the campaign, this is because you play the 
 same levels over and over again. this is because the small platoon of space marines need to constantly 
 defend the 3 planets from aliens.
  But in the end I did enjoy it.
  Now to the multiplayer, some of you might have played the beta of Dawn of war II, and it has now 
 improved very much. The main reason why you buy this game should be because of the multiplayer, 
 it's hard to explain why it's good but you need to trust me when I say that I haven't had this 
 much fun with a multiplayer game in a long time.
  In the multiplayer you do command a small platoon of units, however here you have a barrack which 
 can build new units.
  
  This is a game of micromanagement, if you do not like to control every individual unit then this 
 might not be a game for you, but if you like World in Conflict and other games like it, then you 
 will love Dawn of war II.
  
  I give this game: 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchrisbobisx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  I know a lot of you might think "the multiplayer saves this game" you cant get a 9+ game with only 
 a good multiplayer. Personally I loved Dawn of War 1's single player. There was a story, and cinematics. 
 However Dawn of War 2 has the most boring single player I have ever played. It was worse than the 
 conquering the worlds mode in the Dawn of War 1 expansions. 
  
  Single player is fun, until you notice the mission briefings, maps, and missions are exactly the 
 same. I enjoyed single player for about 3 hours afterwards it just gets repetitive. You basically 
 just "fight to the golden circle" all the time. A golden circle on the map is where your suppose 
 to go and where the objective is. The maps look all the same, and you spawn in the same location. 
 I was hoping the single player would be story driven with lots of locations and cinematics but 
 that was not the case. There was some cinematics in the beginning but later on in the game they 
 are just the same ones over and over again. The only thing new you get after fighting the same 
 battles over and over is a short dialogue exchange after you finish key missions.
  
  Another thing I hate about the game is there is no store where you can buy wargear. I say this 
 because the loot system is terrible. When you play this game you will no doubt wonder "when will 
 I get terminator armor" I have waited patiently and im almost done with the game, I'm getting terminator 
 armor compatible weapons for quest rewards, but I still have not found the armor. As the story 
 has little replay value I would think getting terminator armor early would have spiced things up, 
 because there could have been more better terminator armor variants to collect.
  
  Anyways the single player alone was very weak. And was MORE repetative than Dawn of War Soulstone's 
 single player. I have not tried Multiplayer but I never liked Dawn of War 1's multiplayer so I 
 probably wont be that thrilled either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  The game play is great, excellent any one looking for a Table top Exprince should get this game, 
 only thing lack was turn based instead of Real time based.
  
  Game play is fun, intriging, and really makes you feel like you are playing warhammer 40,000 table 
 top.
  
  This is a true RTS in words that its real time, but its not a standard rts like C&C or orginal 
 dawn of war which has been done so many times I feel like vomiting any time new RTS comes out.
 
  
  This game add spice of life to the RTS, I personaly Enjoy the single player more so then the mutil 
 player me and my freinds played mutil player for about 5 hours 3 on 3 and no one got any where.
 
  there pretty much was no ending to it and finnaly we just gave up and called it a draw and started 
 anthere game, full annilition seems to have that issue, but the capture flag games go by way to 
 quickly your talking 30 mins or so and the game is over.
  
  what game could used was table top style mutilplayer where you get so many points and you purhcase 
 units and then thats all you get for units for the whole game last man standing wins the game.
 
  
  It would added more stragy value to the game play for the mutil player.
  
  single player is far far to easy it is really fun but to easy there no way you can lose this game 
 even if you get killed in missions you never die theres not reaosn to worry about dieing and there 
 no penalty at all it seems.
  
  no matter what diffuclty you have it on, this by far makes game to easy.
  
  if your troops 
 do die they just get picked up and you have to start mission over agin.
  
  missions become kind of dry, the maps are same things over and over agin it would been nice to, 
 have random maps generation in the game.
  
  there is a random mission gernation to game you can do as many missions through out the game as 
 you can stand, with out actully ever completling the game. or you can zoom thro the game and defeat 
 it in couple of hours.
  
  problem is that you spend all this time building up your squad and getting kool new units and items 
 and customizing your stuff and after you beat the game thats it they take it all away from you.
 
  
  this game play style would been really alot of fun but I think they should did an Inqusition rpg 
 with same game play style as this game and then just did completly random missions thro out univere.
 
  
  or same thing could been down with this game isntead of tying you down to 3 worlds they could opend 
 up the univer of warhammer 40,00 and had random pop up missions that you could take on, thro your 
 space marine commander giving you choice would you want to do this or that.
  
  its great game great new style alot going for it but its just not quite all it could been even 
 so I am giving it a 9 becuase its really alot better then anything elese out there except for superem 
 commander for RTS and I am judiging this as a squad based RTS, RPG. which this is only thing out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kram590
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:18 am PT
Review:  Well, I almost didn't buy this game after reading the reviews. But after reading between the lines, 
 decided to check it out. Everyone is partly right. It's really not a stategy game per say. I think 
 it's well done component wise. I love it cause it's just plain fun. Kind of like City of Heroes. 
 Fun but not deep. But that fits my lifestyle. I don't have hour upon hour to sit at my computer 
 and after spending tons of time getting wiped out in the end. Just good old killing things and 
 watching stuff explode. Each mission takes from 10 minutes to 45 minutes which is just right for 
 me. After getting to level 11 I started over to get more out of it after learning the game a bit 
 better. I can see if one goes into it with certain expectations they could be dissapointed. I can 
 recomand it for the casual gamer or one not possessing the "professional" gamer skills. (Like me) 
 I just like games that are more "Fun" then a job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matpantera
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:07 am PT
Review:  Dawn of war 2 is good but could have been better the single player should be like the first dawn 
 of war if its not broken. The single player is a bit like an old warhammer game Chaos Gate but 
 a million times improved this game looks great and plays well just missing what the first game 
 had. Only four squads to control sucks the kit collecting and leveling up keeps the game form being 
 boring the story is good if you like the warhammer story. Does get a tad repetative with same maps 
 and squads only half way though so could improve. The multiplayer is good more like old DoW but 
 still need more units and armys to play this game properly and see all the effects and detail put 
 in you need a decent graphics card. I hope this game would have been like the first just better 
 graphics more detail more units better in depth story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffad
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  The original Dawn of War is one of my favorite games. I still play it in skirmish mode using the 
 Dawn of Skirmish AI mod and the Dawn of War Pro mod. I was really looking forward to this game 
 but I have to say that this game has been quite a disappointment. I like playing Real Time STRATEGY 
 games, but in this game the Strategy part seems to be missing. Games like Diablo bore me because 
 they are just too simple. The single player campaign feels like I'm playing Diablo with 4 units 
 instead of one. I just don't find it interesting.
  
  The Skirmish mode also feels like they took all the strategy out of it. When I play it I am just 
 cranking out units and capturing resource points. It's impossible to defend the points you have 
 captured so the entire game just devolves into units running all over the map capturing and recapturing 
 points. I find this to be very tedious. There really isn't any planning for the fighting that does 
 occur, it's usually one or two units vs. one or two units and it's over too quickly for any kind 
 of strategy to be used other than "If I'm losing, hit the run back to base button". If you like 
 your strategy extremely dumbed down then you may like this, but if you like to actually put some 
 thought into the deployment of your units and have something resembling an actual military engagement, 
 this game is not what you are looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crelus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  So what is DOW2 about? Well, as near as I can make out it is focused on being a multi-player action 
 game. Somewhere along the lines of what unreal tournament is for FPS games, with the focus being 
 on multi-player action rather than a single player experience. If this is your type of game then 
 you will probably love it. However, if I want to play something online I'll play WoW. This is not 
 why I bought DOW2.
  
  I had the same feeling with World in Conflict. It seems the focus of the developers was on the 
 multi-player element since they think that's what everyone wants today. That's fine, except for 
 they totally abandoned what made the first game what it was in an attempt to reach the "new" generation. 
 It seems they used the popularity of the first game to promote this one rather than introducing 
 it as a new product. If it's not a sequel don't call it one. 
  
  What are the specifics?
  
  First, Single Player deviates so far from being an RTS that it isn't an RTS. I've heard people 
 say that this is the "RTS Purist" talking, but if I order a hamburger and get chicken does that 
 make me a beef purist? I get the feeling that the developers were more interested in making their 
 mark and creating something new to win awards than they were in delivering the sequel people wanted. 
 I'm bored with single player and have literally gone back to playing the first DOW game.
  
  Second, Multi-Player isn't what I'm interested in. Again, I'm sure some people love this aspect 
 and they will give the game high ratings. I'm not one of them and I find nothing interesting. Why 
 they couldn't make a skirmish mode that was more than a stupid arena fight is beyond me. The multi-player 
 maps are bland and remind me of top down unreal tournament maps.
  
  Third, Steam - WTF???? I went out and bought the DVD so I wouldn't have to wait and download that 
 game. I stuck it in the drive and it installed stream and then proceeded to download the whole 
 frickin' game despite it being in the DVD drive. I had to wait four hours! I like steam, but if 
 I don't buy a game on steam then why am I forced to use it?
  
  Fourth, Windows Live? Yeah, because Microsoft needs to monitor what I do even more. I've already 
 got steam so why do I need Live too? Any more extra software and I won't have enough memory to 
 play the game.
  
  I can't say DOW2 is a terrible game, but it just leave me feeling kind of empty. It's already on 
 my shelf collecting dust and I doubt I'll ever run it again. Another waste of money. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kubilius
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:25 am PT
Review:  I must admit i never played previous games for longer than 1 hour, as I was always frustrated about 
 poor camera work (very limited zoom in/zoom out, no camera rotation?) , strange menus, big graphics... after 
 playing Supreme Commander you don't want to go back to 1995 style camera works, do you?
  
  So not sure what happened, but I decided to buy this one, i'm playing it and I kinda love it!... 
 but there are many many things that I don't like about this game as well, thus I don't think it 
 will stay long on my play list, especially with Total War coming out.
  
  The graphics of the game are very very good, troops are interesting (except the orcs... space orcs, 
 wtf?!) , RPG element (modifying your troops, gathering loot) is also kinda fun. But after 3-4 hours 
 of play you realize that this is not a strategy game after all - you can't build bases, you don't 
 have massive armies, you just run around the map with your 4 squads and try to survive by reaching 
 the other side of the map. It resembles the "escort the princess alive" missions that sucked so 
 badly on any other games. And in this game - it's all that you ever do in single player campaign. 
 So after innitial joy of flying to other planets, customizing your troops, checking various pointless 
 stats, you realize that's its kinda pointless and throw away single player campaign pretty fast. 
 
  
  Now multiplayer is totaly different! Fast paced and bloody online battles is the only thing that 
 allows giving this game 7+ score! So they could have basically skipped the single player and dive 
 straight into multiplayer. It seems to become a common problem for many good titles - they throw 
 away resources for mediocre single player. 
  
  Edit:
  
  Ok, the more I play it, the lamer it gets ... Multiplayer got boring in 2 days, so I resumed single 
 player and it's so repetetive, that after strugling for like 20 identical missions, I had to give 
 up... Maybe will launch it to play several multiplayer matches once in a while, but a game that 
 starts sucking in 4 days is not realy worth the money.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allenpenick
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I really had high hopes for DOW2 after being a huge fan of Company of Heroes & original DOW. I 
 thought it was going to be a wonderful highbred of those two RTS by THQ/Relic. Instead it is plagued 
 with many shortcomings.
  
  1. Very small population caps.
  2. No Buildings.
  3. Small number of unit/vehicle choices.
  4. Resource types are dumb.
  5. Tedious & repetitive 
 combat.
  6. Dumb AI.
  7. Limited Maps.
  8. Limited # of players per map.
  9. STEAM & LIVE accounts/programs needed to play
  10. STEAM servers always busy so you can NOT 
 play when you want.
  
  I tried to like this game, played it many times and felt more disappointment every time. I love 
 all things Warhammer. The game does look good and runs smooth but fails at entertainment. The most 
 annoying part is being NOT able to play when I want because of STEAM.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDI_P
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:08 pm PT
Review:  The game has a lot of brilliant ideas in it. 
  
  The campaign design is awesome. It make you choose which is the priority target. Which area to 
 defend first, and sometimes it makes you choose between mission rewards and campaign bonuses in 
 a province. 
  
  However, the storyline is quite disappointing at this stage. I agree with the review in game spot. 
 Storyline make a huge impact in this game. With bad storyline, it makes the game look bad.
  
  The multiplayer section, however, is really good. It is like Battlefield games, where teams 
 have to work together to capture/defend a node. However, teams can't keep defending because there 
 are not enough units to defend such an area. Therefore tactical maneuver is required all the time. 
 Teams have to spread out and control, then unite for offence, and spread out again to defence/capture. 
 
  
  It is a good game. I love it. Bad storyline, but awesome game play. It is a mix of rpg and rts. 
 the whole thing is pretty new concept. Good job THQ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SubtleOne
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This is yet another hybrid RTS that works quite well. We first had the Civ+RTS = Rise of Nations, 
 and that was loads of fun. Then came Sins of Solar Empire that crossed 4x space with RTS, another 
 classic, and now we have Dawn of War 2 which is RTS meets action RPG. To begin with, it is good 
 fun, and the reviews do it justice by complimenting the strong points and criticizing the weak 
 ones. The GameSpot review rails about the lack of strategy in the single-player campaign. Well, 
 there is truth, though it really depends on the difficulty level. The default playing level is 
 so easy (and I'm not an RTS buff) that it really plays like the typical action RPGs (Titan Quest 
 - Diablo, etc) that it seems more a hack and slash (or shoot and blast) than a strategy game. It 
 is not that bad IF you play on the next highest level at least. There you do need to be careful, 
 select your approach, and you can definitely die. At least at first. I will be honest and say i 
 have only played some 10-15 missions, but it is enough to get a feel. A big part of the strategy, 
 and richness, comes from plotting your teams, their equipment, and how you plan to approach the 
 missions. The multiplayer is what was said, but as for the single-player, I suspect that as with 
 DOW1, we can expect some extremely rich campaign packs to follow up. The production values, and 
 overall experience are top-notch and great fun. Just be sure to play at a higher level once you 
 get the hang of it (5-6 missions) , as it can quickly become easy to the point of tedium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jallu2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I played every DOW 1 expansion and was very excited for this game, after playing the beta and the 
 first few missions of the campaign i wasn't pleased. 
  
  But wow, once you play a little more and get a feel for every unit it becomes amazing, and the 
 campaign becomes intensely fun. All strategies were the same in single player before this, turtle, 
 build up base, get powerful units, destroy enemy base. Not anymore folks, this is non stop action! 
 And because of the different squads it never gets repetitive, once you master one combination try 
 another. I started a new campaign right when i beat it the first time. I recommend harder difficulties 
 as well, keeps you moving. 
  
  Everyones raving about the multiplayer but as someone who prefers campaigns, let me tell you, this 
 is a good one. Constant story evolution and cutscenes, a reward system, intelligence on targets, 
 time factors. It's awesome.
  
  Bottom line is its new, its fun and exciting, and it's highly addictive. Plus theres Loot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaM_SaM_SaM_SaM
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game, and left a night to install and play for the rest for the night, was never 
 going to be that simple :| I put the disk in my drive, spent an hour getting steam to respond to 
 installing it. Spent 2 hours searching error messages in google. Then 4 hours downloading the FRENCH 
 patch on steam :P This installation was pretty bad. Not the worst ive ever had, but still up in 
 the top ten. 
  
  The game itself however, is amazing. Top quality graphics, brilliant animations, and the best multiplayer 
 stragey game i have ever seen. It uses the same cover engine that we saw in Company of heroes, 
 except its been updated abit (very well i must say) . The only thing at all wrong with it is its 
 tendency to crash, have problems, and then.. its a windows live game :| But thats an entirely different 
 story. Single player isnt as rubbish as everyone is making it out to be. The campain has a good 
 6 hours in it, and the casual skirmish matches we know from the first Dawn of War series is still 
 here! I think theres a good chance we'll be seeing some expansions to add more races (Imperials, 
 Tau, Necrons, Dark Eldar) but we will have to wait till next year to find out. 
  
  Anyone who was a fan of the old Dawn of war series WILL like this game, and fans of company of 
 heroes will be drawn in, as well as other stratagy game fans. 
  
  
  Thankyou for reading my review (first one ever :D) , i hope it was as helpful as possible :) 
 
  
  SaM
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:28 am PT
Review:  This is one of the games I have been waiting for a long games, why.... well because I'm a great 
 fan of the series, I have all the dawn of war games until now.
  It was a little disapointment when I saw that there weren't any buildings, but the fact that they 
 turned it into a tactical-rpg is a great thing, and replaces the rts system very well.
  I love the story, the gameplay and the characters, nice character development and very random and 
 diverse items.
  What I think that the game lacs is the absence of all the races that were present in the other 
 games: tau, necrons, dark eldar, and all the others, and the campains with all the commanders and 
 races, but hopefully expansion packs will appear with the other campaigns.
  Overal the game is great, and I've enjoyed quite a few good hours of playing, no bugs and crashes.
 
  I recomend it for all the DOW lovers out there and I nicely ask the gamers that haven't played 
 DOW until DOW 2 not to consider the game a total let down... because the don't know the series.... so 
 play the games u wanna play and u are used to... don't try something new if u are gonna pound it 
 into the ground with your review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hphatecraft
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 7:38 am PT
Review:  I'm not in the mood to write an in-depth review that nobody will ever really read so...
  
  DoW2 isn't a typical RTS. If you can get past the lack of base building (which was easy for me 
 to overlook) then you'll find a deep and rich gameplay mechanic that puts the focus on squad combat 
 tactics. Even with some of the balance issues currently experienced in the multiplayer mode, this 
 game has tons of replay value for gamers who enjoy a mix of strategy, tactics, and quick thinking.
 
  
  DoW2 will keep you on your toes, and you'll want to stay there. It's loads of fun if you can find 
 a couple of buddies to join you in 3v3 fights. Hell, the single-player/coop story mode is a lot 
 of fun if you can accept the fact that it's more like Diablo than Starcraft.
  
  A lot of RTS fans have been bad-mouthing this game on forums around the net. I can definitely understand 
 why a hardened RTS fan might not immediately love this game, but I also think that if these people 
 would give the game a chance then they'd find that a little change can do them good. Not every 
 game should have to be a carbon-copy of a formula used successfully in the past. I want developers 
 to produce new and unique experiences instead of relying on safe and proven ideas from the past. 
 And where the developers should be innovating, the gaming community needs to be more receptive 
 to games that begin to break the mold.
  
  If you are looking for a solid and rewarding game, DoW2 will give you that experience. I've purchased 
 several games in the last few months, and DoW2 is the only game that I will continue to play for 
 an extended period of time. Oh, did I mention that I don't even like RTSs? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainsec
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 7:15 am PT
Review:  Blood runs from your chainsaw sword as you look down on foe and you continue to hack on through 
 your opponents by the dozens. Such is the life of a space marine and you better get used to it 
 or go home crying. 
  I started out on the single player campaign after picking up as I do for all RTS, I view the interesting 
 albeit not spectacular single player campaign as more of training for squad features and management 
 rather than for a rewarding single player experience. Yes it is fun and interesting especially 
 the degree of customization but the campaign story is weak and there are bugs if you have graphics 
 set higher than medium. 
  Multiplayer is another story, it is fun, frantic, kinetic, brutal, and joyous provided you can 
 survive the worst matchmaking system on earth. It takes between 5 and 10 minutes to find a match 
 of people supposedly around your level. However, in ranked play I am frequently paired up with 
 people that have lost 32 out of 34 games and have a 1 for a true skill. This would not be so bad 
 if it was the same for the other team, but it seems that Relic loves to stack one side against 
 the other.
  When matching works properly though, both sides near even skills, the battles are amazing as both 
 teams struggle to gain 2 of the 3 victory points and hold them for roughly 500 seconds. Some battles 
 are truly spectacular in this fashion. The closest game I played in skill by the time we won almost 
 every piece of cover on the capital spire was destroyed by grenades, gunfire, and the Avatar. The 
 ground was scorched from orbital bombardment after bombardment.
  Lack of different gameplay types, maps, bugs, bad matchmaking, and balance issues hold this back 
 from being then end all of RTS. I am not talking about balance issues because I am a bad player 
 and feel the need to blame someone. I am talking about the Tyranids being able to produce 3 or 
 4 of their super unit and field them at the same time. Granted in health respects it is not as 
 resilient as the Avatar but with near immunity to all but over super units and high-end vehicles 
 that cost more then the Carnifex it can be a bit of a problem. Only the Tyranids truly feel imbalanced 
 and only then at the high end if you manage them before that far in they feel balanced. However, 
 all of the major gameplay issues can be fixed with patching. 
  Look, for an amazing multiplayer experience provided you can find a team and opponents', even head 
 to head matches take a while to find. Another plus is as you rank up a race in multiplayer your 
 units unlock new visual looks in the form of new armor. It is automatically fitted to your units 
 and provides no stat bonuses beyond bragging rights. A rewarding but simple single player campaign 
 and ramming a chainsaw sword into people's still beating heart. Good times, I give it Overall 9.5 
 on the contingent that Relic patches the matchmaking system to it not taking all day. If they don't 
 a 9. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazzerz
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:11 am PT
Review:  Way too much focus on the online component and absolutely no attention paid to the single player 
 campaign. 
  
  In other words, single player is a joke. You'll breeze right through it in a few short hours. GS's 
 mention of it's "lengthy campaign" made me laugh, it just doesn't exist. I got from start to finish 
 in 5 hours... big whoop.
  
  And what's with the sad attempt at AI here? Even on the highest difficulty settings I never noticed 
 any change in tactics whatsoever from the computer. Everything seemed like it was pretty much the 
 same as before. I played through on the hardest setting like I was going through it on the easy 
 mode.
  
  Even with all the attention going straight to online play, even that sucks. There's about 3 maps 
 and only about 2 different online modes... How is that even close to being acceptable? Noticeable 
 frame rate drops while online, players constantly disconnecting and already there are a slew of 
 hacks being used in every single game I've played.
  
  What a serious letdown. I wanted to like it, I bought the damn thing for god sakes. But there just 
 isn't anything worthwhile here. It's all been done before.
  
  Next....
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: templar71
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:05 am PT
Review:  This was so nearly a great game. The story telling is completely true to the Warhammer universe 
 and the individual characters are well crafted, both in voice acting and the different personalities 
 linked by a common sense of duty. The missions and consequences of failure are well done, but the 
 maps are a bit repetitive. The gaining of gear, experience levelling and mission ratings are superb 
 and the protagonists are well detailed and individual, Gods I hated those eldar Banshees. The story 
 is excellent and the campaign has been well thought out for the most part.
  
  The bad bits - there are more snags than I would have expected. Shipping without the bonus codes 
 is a minor glitch, as is the fact I had to delete Soulstorm to stop random crashing, and the 90% 
 of the times when you have to sit through the introductory video when loading (which seems to have 
 sound issues) , but my main complaint is STEAM! If you aren't devoted to online gaming (and I know 
 some people are, I'm just not one) then Steam is invasive and unhelpful. The offline mode won't 
 work unless you have an active internet connnection, the Steam interface is persistent, annoying 
 and utterly useless if you aren't playing on line. Having this forced on my really ticked me off. 
 I very much felt this has been designed to force you into online play whether you want to or not.
 
  
  I really enjoyed the campaign, but could not help feeling it was tacked onto what was intended 
 to be a multiplayer experience. Hopefully this will be followed by some of the excellent expansions 
 that typified DoW, but don't force Steam on me every single time I want to play a quick game. In 
 summary, so nearly great, but spoilt by invasive Steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fancelot
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  There are two components to this game. 
  
  Single Player and Multiplayer.... these are two entirely different beasts.
  
  For me, the beef 
 of the game is multiplayer and single player is just icing on the cake.
  
  First off I'll look into the single player aspect of the game. Feel free to skip if you're not 
 interested tactical single player and interested in the more strategic multiplayer aspec of this 
 game.
  
  ************* SINGLE PLAYER *********
  
  Single player in DoW2 is quite simply a Tactical Simulator on a squad to squad level with RPG elements.
 
  
  If you enjoy 2 or more the following games or have the following attributes, you'll probably find 
 DoW2 single player to be quite enjoyable.
  
  *X com series
  *UFO series
  *CoH single player
  *Diablo series
  *Titan Quest series
  *Love warhammer 40k fluff
  *Enjoy 
 playing smaller scale table top 40k
  *Enjoy online co op
  *Enjoy utilizing tactics
  
  Basically in single player you get to command 4 squads in battle doing missions that you select 
 from a system map. Eventually you can access 6 squads and each individual squad can be customized 
 with armor, weapons, and accessories rewarded through mission rewards and random drops. As you 
 go through the missions, your squads level up allowing you to customize them further with points 
 allowing them to unlock powerful new abilities or passive traits. 
  
  The story is actually pretty decent for an title in this genre. It's not mass effect or hollywood, 
 but all your squads have a backstory and personality and I actually did somewhat get attached to 
 them over time as I learned their strengths and weaknesses and how awesome they can be if used 
 right. 
  
  As for the missions themselves, most of the main story missions are well done with varied objectives 
 and scripted events, there are alot of side missions you can do for extra experience and gear, 
 however they are usually either defense missions where your squads hold out against waves of enemies 
 (good fun, good for testing new weapons/accessories) or missions involving killing a boss. The 
 boss fights themselves aren't terribly exciting, usually a boss has 2-3 special moves that you 
 have to avoid... unless you play on the lower 2 difficulty levels, then they are just boring. Also 
 they have special weaknesses that you have to figure out, these bosses can range from really bland 
 and cheap to exciting and fun/cool to fight.
  
  There are also 4 difficulty levels
  1. Easiest- don't bother, units can be set on auto pilot and you'll probably still win
  2. Sergeant 
 - good starting point for people new to DoW2 to learn the basics in combat.
  3. Captain - Decent AI, challenging but not frustrating. Need to use coordinated tactics with most 
 encounters.
  4. Primarch - if you enjoy pain... less painful if it is shared with a friend in co op.
  
  Overall 
 the SP player campaign will take 8-15 hours to complete depending on the difficulty and how many 
 side missions you decide to do. However, there is quite a bit of replayability because you can 
 never access all the abilities of your squads in one play though and a second run through will 
 probably yield different weapons/armor as drops.
  
  Also, Co op singleplayer is amazing fun. Basically co op splits the squads between you and your 
 buddy so you each control 2 squads in a mission. Of course during mission loadout screen you can 
 choose who controls which squad. It's always a lot of fun to work with a buddy to tackle some of 
 the obstacles in the campaign.
  
  Ok enough with single player, lets move on to the beef of DoW2
  
  ********* MULTIPLAYER!!!! 
 ************
  
  Ok I'm going to approach the multiplayer review a little differently.
  
  I'm going to start right off stating what DoW2 multiplayer is not.
  
  DoW2 multiplayer 
 is not for people that enjoy memorizing the most efficient build orders for their faction or when 
 going against a specific faction. 
  
  It's not for players that enjoy spending the first 2 minutes of a match building the same buildings.
 
  
  It's not for players that enjoy turtleling, spending 90% of a match accumulating resources, going 
 through the same tech trees and staring vacantly at the build times for their units while only 
 fighting for the last minute of a match.
  
  Now I'll move to what is basically the ESSENCE of DoW2 multiplayer and everything it IS.
  
 
  In a DoW2 match, you have to fight for your resources and victory points, fighting starting roughly 
 in less than 30 seconds in a typical match. You constantly have to decide which resources and victory 
 points to defend or to assault. Whether it's best to spread out your units or work them in unison 
 for those nodes, all based on their current positions and the positioning of cover on the battlefield. 
 These strategic decisions can easily make or break a match.
  
  Also at first glance there isn't a big unit selection, however it is very deceiving. Almost all 
 units in DoW2 have a selection of upgrades to choose from as the match goes by. For some units 
 upgrading can change their role entirely and because of this upgrading system its makes combat 
 in DoW2 very fluid. It allows you to counter your opponent on the fly, a system where the role 
 of your squads change through the course of battle. It's a constant struggle between you and your 
 opponent to counter one another, and rarely is there a pause in action due to the fluid nature 
 of DoW2 as you both engage for resources and adapt your units on the fly.
  
  However don't be mislead into thinking DoW2 is all about finding the counters for units, far from 
 it. A lot of winning matches is your actual tactical performance in the battles themselves. In 
 an engagement you constantly move units around to find ideal cover. You feint to lure enemies into 
 kill zones. You hide behind walls and trees to set up for ambushes while sending a unit to distract. 
 You always take into account the enviroment. Is your opponent entrenched with their backs to a 
 wall? Well go around the wall, and blow it up so you can just hit them from behind. Does your opponent 
 have units all covering each other making it hard to push? Well a explosive to the front and a 
 surprise jump pack to the back followed by a push will disrupt/destroy it. 
  
  As you are doing all this and as you kill your opponents units, you rack up another resource to 
 use special abilities and devastating super weapons/units later on to turn the tides. 
  
  To sum it up. DoW2 multiplayer is amazing, its fast paced, brutal, and some of the higher level 
 matches you can be truly be amazed at the tactics some people employ and the brilliance in how 
 they execute them.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franco_atirador
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I think many players underestimate the actual value of this "mini" revolution relic brought.
  
  We are look at a game that took players and testers considerations to an whole level never 
 seen before, revealing just how important it is the relationship between RELIC and its costumers.
 
  
  The "RTS" title might mislead, because in fact this is very similar to a TTS (real time tactics) 
 game. However strategy does exist, you must plan and manage your resources, or your overall strategic 
 layout on the map.
  
  In the single player the feel you get is that of mixture between a TTS and a mild RPG with a splash 
 of "wh40k: chaos gates" to it.
  
  Its fun, requires planing, flexibility and really puts your brain at work on how to combine your 
 arms and shape them, to carry out missions with success. My experience is that of the Captain level 
 of single player , it is very challenging level taking many times the skills of any player to the 
 limit. Those that complaint its a easy single player, obviously did not go past the normal or easy 
 mode.
  
  The RPG element of building your units skills and shaping them really just adds even more strategical 
 depth, not the contrary.
  
  Graphics:
  Superb, great effects, drawback is that its not very suitable for low-performance machines.
  
 
  Sound:
  Solid, and the tyranids animal/monster-like growls and hisses were pulled off brilliantly, not 
 overdone just right on the spot.
  
  Playability:
  easy to get the hang off, specially to those used to Relic's previous title COH. The content re-playability 
 is very high with rock solid a online experience and awesome campaign.
  However i hope that Relic shows support for the mod community to take this game to even bigger 
 heights and extending it's shelf life.
  
  Conclusions:
  Play this if you feel like you want something new, something fresh, a game that has a bit of everything 
 to offer.
  For WH40K fans, its a opportunity not to miss.
  
  Score: I give it 5 stars, its a game that shows effort, creativity and uniqueness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InuHanyou1701
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War 2! Well we've been waiting for this one for a very long time. So what can I really 
 say about it? I can't say much about the graphics because of the major crash occuring that Relic 
 is still working on. But I digress. The game still looks pretty flippin good on medium settings. 
 Let me start off with the negative things in the game so that I can finish on a positive note shall 
 I?
  
  There are only really a few things I can say about Dawn of War 2. (It's Dawn of War... it's hard 
 to criticize it. XP) . I think the biggest thing is that there is only a Space Marine campaign. 
 However, I have a sneaky suspicion that Relic will be adding other race campaigns (Eldar, Orkz, 
 Tyranids) as DLC. Why? If you look at the instruction manual you'll see the first description of 
 the campaign and it tells you that you'll have to select a race. Another negative aspect of the 
 game is the lack of base building. However, this is not as big of a deal as we knew that there 
 would be no base building to begin with. Another gripe I have is that the game can be pretty difficult. 
 Especially if you're as bad as me at gaming. =P The graphics crash is completely unacceptable Relic. 
 Normally I'm not too critical about glitches because I know the rule of programming. Fix something, 
 and 10 other things break. But I can't really understand how this could have escaped the eyes of 
 the developers. It's not too difficult to install the game on a Windows Vista computer after it's 
 gone gold just to test it for release bugs. But I digress. I have alot of respect for Relic and 
 I know they will fix this, given time. My last gripe is. Steam. I. Hate. Steam. I have always hated 
 it and I don't like the fact that you have to run the game through Steam. It's just one more thing 
 to run in the background and slow the game down and it's just plain annoying to HAVE to have an 
 internet connection to prove that you have bought the game. Relic you need to trust your customers 
 more and it has been proven countless times that no matter how much DRM you put on a game, pirates 
 will always break through. STOP IT!
  
  Oh here's the best part. =P The story for Dawn of War is incredibly engaging. When I play the game 
 I have a hard time stopping, because I just want to know, "Ok! What happens next?!" Relic has dobne 
 a wonderful job of creating a very engaging story. While there is no base building, it's still 
 an amazing game. You have a maximum of 6 squads. A scout, Space Marine Squad, Devestator Squad, 
 Assault Marine, Commander, and I don't know the last one yet because I haven't gotten that far. 
 You start each mission off onboard your battle barge and you select your mission from there. There 
 are batltes to fight across multiple planets and as you progress in the story it gets more and 
 more difficult to pick and choose which battles to select over the other, but that's the allure 
 of the campaign. From what I can tell, the campaign is massive but please bear in mind that I have 
 not played all the way through it so I can't give exact timing yet. The game runs very well on 
 my computer which only has an NVIDIA 8800 GT in it. I have been able to run the game on ultra for 
 a few levels but the crashing made me switch back to medium. (Relic please hurry an fix this) . 
 I did play the multiplayer beta but have not played the final product. I can tell you though that 
 the multiplayer did not impress me in the least. I think Relic would have benefitted a great deal 
 from going back to the traditional RTS formula at least for multiplayer and skirmish modes. I also 
 have yet to play online co op with my friends (Because they haven't gotten or are not going to 
 get the game) but the fact that the game supports it is outstanding! I am very pleased with Games 
 For Windows LIVE. If you like Xbox LIVE you will like GFWL. It's basically the same thing except 
 a little watered down and with no party support. 
  
  All in all, Relic has made yet another excellent addition to the Dawn of War series. I wonder what's 
 next? Hopefully more campaigns for the different races and maybe a Dawn of War Space RTS? ::Hint 
 hint::
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fast2ghl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I must start this review off by mentioning that I own all the previous titles in the Dawn of War 
 series by Relic, DoW, Winter Assault, Dark Crusade, Soulstorm. I enjoyed all of the first games 
 immensely, in fact I still play them all the time over LAN with my buddy's, after all there is 
 nothing quite like building up the perfect army, and then rushing into the enemies base and walking 
 all over them!
  
  With that being said, I believe that what we have here in front of us now in the form of Relic's 
 new title "Dawn of War II," is every bit as engaging and fun as the first games, if not more so! 
 I would go as far as too say I have not had more fun playing any other RTS then I have with the 
 time I've spent with DoW II!
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Dawn of War II is a different game then its predecessor. You must get this through your head if 
 you are to enjoy the game. It is not unlike its predecessor in the sense that the subject matter 
 is the same, and the same great polish and presentation is back in full force, if not more so this 
 time, but it is not the same game as Dawn of War. In fact what Relic has done this time around 
 is take a great game, and reinvented it. They have taken; in their own wordswhat worked best 
 with the first games and Company of Heroes and put the two together." This could not be more true. 
 If you have ever played Company of Heroes then you will know or be able to better expect exactly 
 what kind of gameplay and experience you are going to find within DoW II's beautifully crafted 
 package. 
  
  The general idea with DoW II is that the base building that everybody loved so much has been ditched 
 in favour of a "direct action" style of play. Instead of building up a base and creating units 
 that way, you are provided with a screen before each mission in the campaign in which to level 
 up, choose your loadout, and also equip up to four separate squads not including your commander. 
 This works wonderfully for the game, it provides a great feel to the combat, as there is no waiting 
 or holding back trying to build stronger forces, infact your good to go right out of the drop ship. 
 I find this refreshing as the old games could get a bit tedious sometimes trying to build up your 
 forces before making your fatal attack. 
  
  Some people on here are claiming that the strategy is non existent in this rendition of the game, 
 but I whole heatedly disagree one hundred percent with this statement. I would argue that if anything, 
 DoW II has more strategy in it then most other RTS's I have played. You must constantly be considering 
 what moves to make next, weather to move your fire support for surppressive fire up, or leave them 
 where they are, move your force commander in closer for the kill or hold him back and use an orbital 
 strike to clean up the infected, and purge the alien/unclean! In this way, I find this rendition 
 of DoW to be much more involved and your not just trying to over power the enemy with a huge army, 
 you are infact trying to outsmart the enemy with proper planning and unit movement.
  
  The ability to level up your squads and commanders is an excellent addition as well. This is much 
 like RPG's in the sense that you can find and collect better items, abilities, and weapons on the 
 battlefield and then bring them back to the orbiting ship and equip and upgrade your squads. You 
 also get to add level points to the squads which eventually open up new abilities or "traits." 
 This kind of involvement in the game I find highly rewarding and its definitely something that 
 adds depth to the campaign and the gameplay in general.
  
  DoW II only features a handful of multiplayer maps (7 to be exact) and 4 factions, three of the 
 original games and one new one from the 40K universe; (Orks, Eldar, Space Marines and new for DoW 
 II, the Tyranids) Although this may sound like a very small amount of content, the varied abilities 
 of the different factions as well as their units individualism keeps things fresh. All the maps 
 are varied and well designed, and are more then enough to keep us all entertained for some time 
 until the inevitable expansions to DoW II start to show.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Relic has covered everything in this department, the lighting is perfect, the textures are gorgeous 
 on ultra and the character and vehicle models are superb. When you get right down close to the 
 action with your camera the battles look excellent. Small details such as visible damage to units 
 and the new ability of hand grenades to rip apart enemies (specifically the Orks) is amazingly 
 satisfying to watch and totally cool! Bottom line, the graphics are polished and on a high end 
 gaming rig, they help bring out the best of the experience!
  
  SOUND:
  
  Again, nothing bad to report here. Relic has covered all the bases. The voices of the different 
 factions sound exactly as creepy or futuristic as they should, the sound of an orbital strike smashing 
 into the Eldar or Orks is decidedly powerful and the musical score is properly grand! Everything 
 just sounds right!
  
  CONTROL:
  
  No complaints here, the screen layout is intuitive, everything is where you would expect it to 
 be. The standard use of the mouse and its buttons that you would find in any RTS still applies 
 here. Left click to select and apply special moves and right click to order movements to units. 
 All and all, everything is properly tight in this department.
  
  MULTIPLAYER:
  
  This is where DoW II really shines. The Singlepalyer Campaign is good, but the multiplayer is excellent. 
 The battles are nothing but pure action and fun, either with friends over LAN or online in the 
 Co-Op Campaign or 3v3 or 1v1. There are a few different skirmish's to choose from and 7 different 
 maps. All 4 of the games races are playable factions in multilayer as well. The army painter is 
 also back and it is better then ever, allowing you to customize the look of your squads before 
 going into battle to crush the enemy!
  
  RE-PLAY VALUE:
  
  I would have to say the replay value of DoW II is absolutely top notch! You can replay the campaign 
 over and over I suppose, or you could simply continue to replay skirmishes or multiplayer maps 
 as the experience online is second to none, and always different.
  
  BOTTOM LINE?
  
  PLAY THIS GAME! Dawn of War II is an absolute blast, and it is a MUST BUY for any fan of RTS or 
 RPG type games, or a combination of the two. It brings some new ideas to the table, and most if 
 not all work exceptionally well! As long as you're not expecting DoW 1 then you will have nothing 
 but a blast playing DoW II! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman455
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big RTS fan, ive always loved building up these huge armies and going to cause mass destruction 
 upon my enemies, but one problems with most RTS games out there is this. They are not Original!!! 
 But this one changes things up
  In Dawn of War II one of the first htings you need to know is that this game is not your classic 
 build up an army sacrifice half of them and win style game. you dont have a main base, you dont 
 create soldiers, and you dont go digging for recourses. At this point you may be thinking, hey 
 wait that doesnt sound much like an RTS to me, well it still is, but its different. In DoWII you 
 manage your individual squads instead of a huge army you have 4 squads at your disposal at once. 
 All these squads are customizable with weapons armor and abilities, which adds more depth and planning 
 behind an individual unit rather than just sacrificing your troops. When you capture a location 
 like you do in almost all RTS's ive played, you re-enforce your squads units, such as: i have a 
 scout team of 4 people (you always have your main squad leader and then a couple troops with him) 
 and 2 or 3 of my scouts die but the scout leader is alive. i get to a capture point and the 3 scouts 
 i lost are replaced. There is allot more complex things i could go into but i wont for times sakes 
 now on to the actual reviewing
  
  Graphics. Depending on your PC the graphics can range from mediocre (my pc) to high i personally 
 havent run this game on a higher PC but even with my minimal computer's setting it ran smoothly 
 and looked okay. 8.8
  
  Lasting Appeal. the game itself is rather long in amount of levels to beat but these dont take 
 that long after all the game isnt meant to be an army builder game. also skirmish options are always 
 cool 8.5
  
  Gameplay. the gameplay is unique and different from all the monotonous RTS's out there but this 
 style may not be for everyone i personally liked the fact that there were alot of smaller battles 
 so it didnt get to hectic to keep track of all my units 9.0
  
  My overall rating in the end is a 8.8 but since GS only allowed rounded up i set it as 9
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomkov89
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:43 pm PT
Review:  First things first: 
  
  The main campaign is the weakest part of the game. At the beginning its real fun, but soon gets 
 boring. In addition its ridiculously hard (on the 'hard' level) . Enemy is like 10 times tougher 
 than your infantry and gets constant backup. Its really annoying. 
  
  Second thing about the campaign - the achievement system. Its almost impossible to obtain highest 
 ranks, because its unbelievably hard to complete the mission fast without losing soldiers and whats 
 more - eliminating at least 80% enemies... That's so $*#& (% irritating...
  
  The cool thing is that throughout the campaign you collect gear and level up your sergeants. But 
 anyway it could be better. Even with powerful gear and abilities enemies will own you without problem 
 when in bigger groups.
  
  The next thing is using environment as cover. It was really good idea. I havent played games which 
 delivered such options. But very often its impossible to fit your squad near some trenches or ruins 
 which makes them extremely vulnerable to enemy assault. And you almost cant move your unites freely 
 - only "stick" them to cover... This is really annoying.
  
  As for the multiplayer. The idea is cool and I hope that it'll help DoW II to last some time. But 
 the possibilities to upgrade your squad (like buying new weapons) is very limited in compare to 
 DoW I where you could hire more marines (now its limited to 4 or 3) and give them up to 4 weapons 
 of your choice. If you equip the squad with a chosen weapon, only one marine gets it. And thats 
 the end of upgrading.... So dumb...
  
  I was hoping for a really good game to enjoy for a long time, but DoW II will keep you satisfied 
 very short. 
  
  But the good thing is, that its very likely for Starcraft 2 to be released in march or april. So 
 stay tuned for the return of the best RTS ever.
  
  Hope you enjoyed the review. And sorry for all the grammatical errors, I was typing in haste. 
 
  
  Peace up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 11:18 am PT
Review:  No, Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War II doesn't feel like your typical RTS... and that, my friends, 
 is a good thing! Did we really and truly want another "Build, Harvest, Amass and Rush" game? Let's 
 leave that to Starcraft II and the redundant C&C 3, shall we?
  
  Dawn of War II is a celebration of near-perfection; near perfect pyrotechnics, graphics, sound 
 (crank that 5.1 WAY up!!!) , and gameplay. It plays like a blend of Diablo-style action gaming (grab 
 that loot, plan your skills out, and decide how to outfit your squads and who to send!!) , real-time 
 XCOM (place your squads, overlap your fields of fire, toss them grenades and call in the artillery!!) 
 with a smattering of Company of Heroes... all minus the redundant aspects of RTS games, such as 
 building a base and wasting time defending strutures.
  
  Instead, it's your Hero units you struggle to protect... not lifeless buildings. Heros become so 
 powerful and valuable (what with all that lovely armor, weaponry and added gear for stats) that 
 you do everything to protect them and keep them in the fight.
  
  To me, everything in this game screams quality... even the interface and cutscenes. Sure, the story 
 is a trifle redundant... but if that's the only knock you can come up with against a game designed 
 to please the senses with lots of gunfire, explosions, creative and tough enemy units and vehicles, 
 well heck... I'll take the weaker story.
  
  And I haven't even tried the multiplayer yet.... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zomglolcats
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  I think the lack of base building was a big mistake with this game. I think most of my gripes with 
 the game would be solved had it included at least some. As it stands now, I tend to have more fun 
 with Space Marines as I can pick the Tech marine for my hero and build defensive turrets and relay 
 points. Certainly doesn't make up for no base building but at least allows you to set up strategic 
 defenses.
  
  The game is just lacking all around. I can understand only 4 races ( I think the original Dawn 
 of War shipped with 4, then added the other races in expansions) . That's not a problem considering 
 the first one had 3 expansions adding races, so we can be assured they will do the same with the 
 sequel. The real problem is that no base building takes away from the strategy. I remember having 
 many options when playing the Chaos in the original. I loved constructing the demon pit and spawning 
 demons to go wreak havoc on the enemy. It seems as if you have a lot fewer unit options in this 
 game, which leaves you with a feeling of "is that all?" when hopping into a skirmish or multiplayer 
 game.
  
  You can upgrade your HQ twice, adding more unit options, but the upgrades unlock only a few new 
 units to build, including vehicles. Building up defenses for your base is pretty much nonexistent 
 in the game. You start with two defensive turrets near your HQ, but that's it. Unless you choose 
 something like the Tech marine for the Space Marines, which has the ability to create defensive 
 turrets and relay points, which I have found to be the most enjoyable for me.
  
  Most of any sort of "teching up" in the game involves upgrading your hero or squad with different 
 weapons and abilities. Fortunately, Heroes aren't devastating like in Warcraft III, which I really 
 hated the hero system in that game. They are basically just special units and that's about it. 
 Each race can pick from 3 different Heroes before starting a match, each one with a different purpose, 
 whether it's pure offense, defense, or covert.
  
  I don't have many problems with the way this game plays, but the few I do are pretty major gripes 
 which will turn some off from the game altogether, especially if they were fans of the original.
 
  
  I like the Victory point gameplay (you can also play Annihilate, where you just kill the other 
 team) , I love the squad combat, the graphics are great, the multiplayer IS fun. It's just that 
 the game could have included so much more. Maybe they didn't include a lot of things deliberately 
 so people would buy the expansions that will surely come, but that is a poor decision if they don't 
 include enough in the game in the first place for people to enjoy. Few maps, not many gameplay 
 options, etc.
  
  And Games for Windows Live is just a terrible choice. You can't even enter a lobby to chat with 
 people before setting up matches. You either try to join a ranked match (which seems to take forever 
 to match you with anybody) or go to custom unranked games, and just browse a list of available 
 games. The lack of a chat room lobby without joining a match is pretty unforgiveable.
  
  As for the single player campaign, it's forgettable and not really worth my time to complete. The 
 leveling up, assigning stats, and upgrading with loot is fun, but not enough to carry the campaign. 
 And it in no way prepares you for any skirmish or multiplayer matches in regards to how the game 
 mechanics work. They are two completely different animals. The story is pretty forgettable and 
 doesn't grab your interest, and considering the campaign is more of an RPG approach, not having 
 a stellar story is pretty miserable. If there was one thing Warcraft III got right, it was the 
 awesome single player campaign storyline which kept you playing to see what happened next. Nothing 
 of the sort in this game.
  
  People criticize the upcoming Starcraft II for breaking the game up into 3 parts for the campaigns, 
 but given that they will be full length campaigns with major story elements that is fine, and considering 
 the extremely disappointing campaign in DoW II, I'm anticipating that.
  
  People also criticize Blizzard for playing it safe with Starcraft II and not changing much with 
 the game, but, as Dawn of War II clearly shows us, changing the game play isn't always a good thing.
 
  
  Overall, I just don't get why Relic didn't just take the original Dawn of War, give it a new graphics 
 engine, and just expand upon what they already had. If you never played the first one, you might 
 find this more enjoyable, but honestly, I think you'd be better off playing the original plus the 
 expansions. I think I'm even going to start up playing the original again, as DoW II hooked me, 
 but left me disappointed, and craving things the first one had that the sequel lacks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xrageii
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  Amazing. The campaign is a little bit repetitive after many hours, but there is enough new wargear 
 and squad abilities to mix it up though. The army painter is really good and the new scheme types 
 for space marines are awesome.
  
  The multiplayer is a lot of fun, more maps would be better but the maps they have are really nice 
 and well done.
  
  Overall this game is the perfect blend of RTS and RPG and an amazing follow up on the DoW series! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakann1234
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:29 am PT
Review:  This STRATEGY game has absolutley no buildings to build...
  The only thing each of 4 races have is up to 9 units witch you can build. And not a single building.
 
  
  Very disapointing.
  
  And what makes this game even worse is its missions.
  Every single mission you have in single player is just something like this:
  
  pick up to 4 
 squad of max 5 soldiers and click your way to the other side of the map where you fight some kind 
 of a boss.
  
  There is no strategy no tactic. just mindles not rewarding grind through missions...
  
  One 
 of the worst games that ever came up.
  And i loved the previous game, but this? this is just horrible...
  
  The story is also horrible.
 
  
  And they call this a good graphic???
  Evrything played to maximum with 1920 resolution and it looks almost the same as red alert 2... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamsternet
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:18 am PT
Review:  What a terrible game. The gameplays shody the campaign was made by a 2 year old and theres no bases. 
 I bought this game because i thought it would be a brand new, better version of dawn of war. Sadly 
 it isn't. there is absolutely no reason to buy this game. Yeh sure the sound and the graphics are 
 outstanding but its like having a book with no writing in. With starcraft looming and halo wars 
 just around the corner this just is no competition. This game is just not up to scratch. The worst 
 thing of all though is the no bases. How can you have an RTS with no bases? Halo wars got a terrible 
 score from gamespot but at least its an actual RTS. I know lets go and buy something that doesnt 
 know what it is. And also you've got your heroes. Warcraft had been there done that before the 
 21st century!!! I'm sorry but this game should have been so much better. My copy of the game currently 
 resisdes in the game preowned section 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosa_the_spy
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:42 am PT
Review:  For a game to be called R. T. S. it should have structures money system and building units which 
 this game totally lacks, the difference between R. T. S. and R. P. G. is the thin line that is building 
 stuff on the map during battle, so what happened here was that they tricked strategy fans into 
 buying this game labeling it as R. T. S. when its truly an R. P. G. and guess what we hate it and will 
 post that everywhere. You scammed us unless this game has an expansion pretty soon that adds buildings 
 and actually some kind of resources system to buy stuff with and train units on the field then 
 it should be changed from this genre and taken to its correct one.
  Dawn of war 40k the original game out classes this new version if u can even call this a version 
 of the original game its a sequel of a different genre.
  
  AGAIN this is an R. P. G. game Strategy Fans don't come near this game total disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItinerantChild
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2009 5:25 am PT
Review:  DoW has always required quite a lot of strategy and skill. Mixing your troops, researching, building 
 small bases, defend, attack, scout, disrupt.
  
  The problem with this game is that most of that has gone. Where before you either teched up, hunkered 
 down or rushed the enemy here you simply group your troops together and click to go here, click 
 to shoot them and then click to move again.
  
  The necessity to think about how your troops are equipped, where they are and what they're doing 
 has gone. While the single player campaign is repetetive, DoW always has been but atleast in Dark 
 Crusade the bases you built remained and in Soulstorm you could garrison troops to give even those 
 skirmish like battles a sense of continuity and importance that has gone now.
  
  The introduction of boss characters is a shame as well. They are simply average characters with 
 stupid ammounts of health and they really illustrate the lack of strategy in this title. There's 
 no need to plan how to take them on just set all your troops to attack them and leave it be occcaisionally 
 using a medikit. I even made a cup of tea whilst killing one the other day.
  
  It has become much more CoH than DoW which I'm sure some people will like but for me, if I wanted 
 to play CoH I'd buy it. Things like suppression and focus fire don't add to the game, they take 
 away from it. Before if you wanted suppressing fire you simply equipped a squad with heavy bolters 
 and set them in support of you main body of troops.
  
  I could rant on for ever but the crux of this is that I ahve waited fot this game for a long time 
 and I was extremely disappionted when I finally played it. Its still fun but its not DoW. Its a 
 real shame, real shame.
  
  I'd like to see the equipment and exp points aspects maintained but I want my little bases, my 
 control over research and tech and the ability to decide on how my attacks are orchestrated. Send 
 out infilrated scouts to kill of all the enemy's workers? Can't do that any more. Gradually strangle 
 their resources? Can't do that any more. Lure the enemy's troops into a killing zone cover by heavy 
 artillery? Can't do that anymore. Repetetive clicking and a huge sense of detatchment and lack 
 of immediacy? You got it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migduvednok
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 3:34 am PT
Review:  I only played Dawn Of War three levels in, before quitting it. The levels are as linear as almost 
 all other RTS's out there, the sound effects are the same silly boisterous chants as in other RTS's, 
 the socalled customization is limited and therefore also takes on a linear angle, the missions 
 are the usual kind with a beginning-mission that is over-hyped with a cool introduction, and supplemented 
 with one-after-the-other of around-the-corner sidemissions that completely fail to awake any kind 
 of surprise or delight - to the contrary. 
  
  . What i would have liked to see from this game was: A) a thorough introduction to the world of 
 the Space Marines, B) sort of open-world levels, C) full customization of weapons and armor/colors, 
 D) an indepth guide to the world and the game but much less hand-holding while playing. In total 
 Dawn Of War is uninspired and not able to hold my interest, which is a shame because, although 
 not a direct fan, i'm fascinated by the 40K universe, and have been for nearly 15 years. This game 
 is a letdown, in that regard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbhatred
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 3:29 am PT
Review:  As with the reputation that relic has had over the years with real time strategy games, they have 
 once again tried to do something new with dawn of war 2 by trying to what seems like combining 
 different features from games such as the original dawn of war and company of heroes.
  I
  f we are to start off with the single player section of the game, some people are definitely going 
 to be disappointed. The large scale battles are gone and have now been replaced with small scale 
 contacts with enemies requiring the use the four squads with you to defeat them and advance to 
 your objective. While this will sound like it requires more strategy than just selecting a unit 
 and telling it to attack someone, in some cases it doesn't. Relic has unfortunately gone and made 
 the campaign a little bit too easy in some areas. If you wish to simply complete the level then 
 that is easier than finding an excuse not to homework (in my case that would be because I'm too 
 lazy) . While you men can quite easily die from just standing out in the open and soaking up all 
 the bullets that the enemy with graciously throw at them, this will only slow you down because 
 on every level there are multiple locations where you can replace the fallen soldiers that have 
 fallen in battle with an unlimited amount of reinforcements. For example, at multiple stages in 
 the game you will come across bosses which sticks to the new RPG style of game play which the game 
 has taken on (which is added to with satisfying loot drops and levelling up) and if by any chance 
 he wipes out most of your men you can simply hit the fall back button, reinforce your squads and 
 then go back and finish the job with the boss having regained no health whatsoever. So basically 
 the campaign is definitely far too easy, but it does make up for it with an interesting story, 
 beautiful cut scenes and just a general addiction to wanting to carry on to find the best loot 
 and kick those Tyranids back to. where ever the hell came from. Although other factors such 
 as bad voice acting and a basic cooperative mode let it down. 
  
  Now on to the multiplayer. Without a doubt this is the best part of the game. Here you will be 
 able to play as all four of the races that you see in the campaign and brings back some of the 
 traits that made dawn of war so addictive, but not all of them. Each player, whether it is a 1 
 vs. 1 or 3 vs. 3 matches, will start off with a base building, the race that they selected and 
 a hero which is now selected from the menu before the game. Each race has 3 heroes which mainly 
 consist of offensive, support and another (this consisting of stealth, tunnel building or teleport 
 depending on which race you choose) , these will then be probably the leader unit of your army and 
 their abilities and war gear really play an important role. In the multiplayer your units will 
 need to use cover like in the campaign, but here it is far more important to use as it is always 
 cheaper for you to simply reinforce your squad than building another one. While there may be some 
 balancing issues to work out, these will eventually be sorted out in the future with patches. 
 
  So overall I believe that dawn of war 2 deserves some credit for the new path that it has taken 
 which has allowed it to make an interesting (although repetitive) campaign and a dynamic multiplayer 
 which makes it worth buying for any warhammer or dawn of war fan. (sorry if this gets posted a 
 second time)
  
  9/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heiziux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:50 am PT
Review:  Most strategy games focus on building, maintaining those building and then fighting. This game 
 does something that not everyone might like. I loved the Dark Crusade campaign because it was Conquer 
 The World type. When i got this game i was expecting the same type campaign. I was very surprised 
 when i saw campaign didn't include building, just fighting. At first i thought it would be boring.
 
  
  But then i tried the multiplayer with my friend which is a fan of the series like me. That's where 
 the game shines like no other. Not wasting time on building turned out to be great, all focus was 
 on combat, a simple game of 1v1 becomes a great experience.
  
  The game also has great graphics and low requirements.
  
  Not a lot of people will like this 
 type of strategy but anyone that liked Company of Heroes should love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiNtEnDo4eVa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 1:09 am PT
Review:  I've been playing the game since the beta and I have to say it's an interesting take on the dawn 
 of war series. It's less RTS oriented than its predecessor, but that doesn't mean it's without 
 very strategic gameplay. The focus is now on the frontline, and not your base. This radical change 
 is bringing about a love or hate thing between players, and I personally love it.
  
  Before the game came out a horrendous patch was out for a while in the beta that caused everyone 
 to have a crap-ton of resources and people spammed tier 3 units very quickly. This has been totally 
 fixed with the release of the retail patch.
  
  But there are some major flaws that would've brought my score down more if I wasn't in love with 
 the gameplay so much. Let's start off with the
  
  Pros:
  -Excellent graphics/Effects
  -Great game play (very much like COH) with emphasis on small squad combat. Every unit is important. 
 Intense combat, the action is never dull.
  -Ranked multiplayer is loads of fun when you play with friends.
  -Awesome campaign (with co-op 
 mode)
  
  Cons:
  -Ranked games can only be 1 on 1 or 3 on 3
  -Windows Live is an extremely terrible service. I hate it so much.
  -One person graphically lagging 
 in a game lags everyone, weird.
  -Population caps are quickly reached
  -Pathing of units when falling back always picks the "quickest route", sometimes running your unit 
 back in the opposite way you want it to like into enemies. Not good, this needs to be fixed.
  -Only like 9 units per army, causes a limited amount of builds and uniqueness
  -Very small selection 
 of maps.
  -TrueSkill. Rankings on the ladder are based on the "TrueSkill" system familiar on other XBL games. 
 It really is a terrible system. Steam I could live with, but I REALLY wish this game didn't come 
 with Windows Live and the Trueskill system...
  
  Overall, I think this game will be a great game in the future. At the moment, there is a very little 
 amount of content. I'm still playing it because I love the gameplay and the game itself, but it 
 does get a little annoying when you notice there's only 4 maps per game mode (8) and a very small 
 amount of units. In time, if Relic decides to update the game, I hope to see a larger selection 
 of units or a very LIMITED amount of base building (like COH) to increase the diversity of strategy.
 
  
  GFWL and TrueSkill are also annoying, but hey, what can you do?
  
  If you can live with the cons, and enjoyed COH or the dawn of war universe, this game is for you. 
 I currently play it and I enjoy it very much. It does seem like the cons outweigh the pros in the 
 game, but everyone should really give it a try. I can say a lot about the cons in the game, but 
 there's not much I can say to express how awesome the game actually is. It just is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlock_Ixidor
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 21, 2009 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I played a lot of Dawn of War from the beggining to Soulstorm, and I really enjoyed them (soulstorm 
 failed as an expansion but it was okay untli then) It was a true action rpg game, intended for 
 competitive game play. Now developers took away every thing was cool in Dawn of War series and 
 copied a lot of bs from other games, there's no micro, imbalanced units everywhere, melee units 
 run as if they were in slow motion, no base building... Graphic optimization is awful... i felt 
 like playing footmen frenzy or some crap like that. It's not even intended for competitive gameplay, 
 they just want you to be another fool who plays meaningless games. Also... look at its price... 
 50 dollars! It's not a high-end game to be so expensive. If you liked Dawn of War don't buy this, 
 if you like Warcraft 3 mods maybe you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingfuzzball01
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  after much consideration, DOW is meant to be the computer version of warhammer 40000 on tabletop. 
 the game it self is supposed to depict massive battles with armies on a grand level. instead they 
 threw in some ideas from COH and a SMALL tactical version of these battles. i expected much bigger 
 armies battles everything to make it as if a killing field. you might ask WHERE IS THE STRATAGY 
 THEN!? well thats the thing, they did however add in buildings (but should of did a better job 
 in) . take a look a EMPIRE TOTAL WAR. massive armies but alot of stratagy, which relic could of 
 done the same. aside from the horrid thought process the game is unbalanced with units. my overall 
 CONCLUSION...
  
  6.5
  
  GET EMPIRE TOTAL WAR INSTEAD OR SOMETHING INSTEAD OF WASTING MONEY
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  A few minutes with Dawn of War 2 and you quickly realize, for all the hours you put into the first 
 series you will gladly be putting that many or more into Dawn of War 2. While it's not a 'flawless' 
 title there is no doubt that true RTS fan are going to quickly add this to their favorites collections 
 and many others will probably too aswell. Sleek graphics, strong audio, complex inter-weaved story 
 and enough blood, guts and Waagh! to satiate even the more brutality starved.
  
  Mechanics - The most dramatic and possibly welcome change to the entire Dawn of War (or DoW) franchise 
 is the obvious removal of Base Building, while this is generally great fans of the originals may 
 find themselves wishing they could amass a larger force to utterly wipe out the enemy. Instead 
 of building a base almost all the missions begin with you 'Hot dropping' into a zone, from there 
 you take Beacon Objectives which act as re-spawners. You squad limit is Finite (4) and so is the 
 maximum number of members to each squad, if a squad member dies you must fall back to a previously 
 taken Beacon and wait a few short seconds to have the fallen squad member replaced. No longer do 
 you throw forces at enemies in hordes until you win with sheer numerical force. Generally this 
 is a very very good system, making you think more tactically about how to over come your enemy 
 rather than just maxing out your unit cap then over running them. At times though you'll find that 
 your units get taken out so quickly or that beacons are so far away that you get more down time 
 than you would like, running back and forth to beacons, simulating the wave effect since unit replacement 
 is free and infinite while the enemies ranks (at least early on in the game) are limited to what 
 they started with. The fact that all your squads level up this time around, well past the old RTS 
 style of to or three meaningless ranks like with Command and Conquer Generals, the levels for squads 
 in DoW2 are more like a serious RPG. Letting you choose where to put points (Health, Ranged, Close 
 combat or Energy) and depending on your play style you can tailor every squad to your liking. To 
 top this off every squad can be upgraded item wise, with new weapons, armor and items. Though the 
 unit count has been brought down, you feel much more in control of the combat being able to tailor 
 your units so specifically. Also many of the levels now have Boss Battles, yes Boss Battles. More 
 relating to the RPG style earlier mentioned, the battles are pretty well done, not too hard or 
 easy (unless of course you've put the work into capturing foundries to increase your Tarantula 
 Turrets, placing 3 or 4 of those in a boss arena makes short work of them) and beating a boss usually 
 grants a nice reward of some special item. Last but not least is the addition of a 'cover' system, 
 which those experienced with Company of Heroes may find extremely familiar. Basically when you 
 go to move your characters they attempt to find cover to protect themselves, this adds greatly 
 to the tactical sense of the game since enemies in heavy cover need to be flanked or stormed in 
 order to defeat as heavily entrenched enemies will take a very long time to kill from just direct 
 firing. A well buildings can now be garrisoned by troops to create fortified defenses, but like 
 normal for every ability there is to get an upper hand there is a counter for it. A single grenade 
 or demo charge instantly take out a squad in a building. 
  
  Game play - While the basic concepts that made the first DoW so entertaining still remains, many 
 new ideas have found their way into the series and in my opinion they're welcome to stay. Squad 
 leveling, squad cover tactics and gear upgrades add a entire aspect to game play that has been 
 scratched before by many RTS games over the years but never fully touched, with DoW2 though the 
 idea has been scratched, touched and pounded into place. The cover system that was good in Company 
 of Heroes is just as good in DoW2 though slightly more intuitive as to what the player is trying 
 to portray with his or her mouse clicks. Combat is now not only the center of the game play it's 
 practically all there is, with the entire mechanic of base building removed besides the small side 
 objectives of capturing key points like factories and beacons which requires 99% combat to capture 
 in the first place anyway, there is nothing else. Which works great for this series since combat 
 is what it's always done best anyway. Cover and flanking maneuvers are much more involved which 
 really get you deeper into the game, while this may sound taxing it isn't all that bad with the 
 drastically reduced unit cap compared to the first DoW. Bloody, dark and brutal is the best three 
 words to describe the game play in DoW2.
  
  Graphics - As expected they're crisper, smoother and more detailed. Environments are quite detailed 
 with scattered debris, flora and fauna. Units are also a good deal more detailed and just plain 
 better looking, while the usual horde style units look good it's the unique bosses and units that 
 stand out of course with their own little differences. Fitting in perfectly with their races supposed 
 styling while still managing to look plenty different. Effects look great and while not quite as 
 bloody as the first DoW (in which after a good skirmish the ground would be solid red from the 
 blood of slain enemies) the blood that does show up is of course better looking.
  
  Story - While the story isn't some insightful, philosophical or self analyzing story it is very 
 good at keeping to the feel and power of the actual Warhammer 40,0000 universe set by Games Workshop 
 and it's numerous fiction writers. If your a fan of the actual 40,000 universe you should be in 
 for a treat, plenty of Space Marine quality dialogue to keep you entertained. Also the intricacy 
 of having all these different races intertwined fighting for whatever reasons they have while a 
 greater threat looms above them all is quite interesting to watch unravel. 
  
  Overall - While the game is exceptional in almost every aspect, the game does suffer from the same 
 problems of almost all RTS games which is as you get further and further into the game the odds 
 against you are stacked higher and higher. While I'm all for challenge, eventually (especially 
 on higher difficulties) things just become over whelming. Online support is even better than before 
 with not just multi-player competitive but also Co-Op, the Co-Op idea for RTS translates well for 
 DoW2 too. Being able to have a friend give out orders makes certain missions like the Defend missions 
 especially enjoyable. Finally while the game is very good one thing did bother me, the lack of 
 races. When playing the DoW games (especially Dark Crusade) I was shocked, they have every race, 
 even the ridiculous Sisters of Battle in the game but they didn't have the Tyranids. This time 
 though they have the Tyranids but at the cost of basically all other races, the limited selection 
 of races does tend to drag the game down some as while my favorite race is the Space Marines my 
 second favorite is of course the Chaos Space Marines which lack an appearance this time around. 
 I'm sure later add-ons will bring them into play but being that they are such a primary race (go 
 to a Games Workshop on a game night and try not to find someone that isn't playing with Chaos) 
 you would think they would have come into the fray. Either way, lack of races aside the other downfall 
 of this title would be not the reduction in squad count but the downsizing of squad size. When 
 you're biggest squad is only 4 marines you just feel under powered at times, especially when fighting 
 hundreds of Tyranids at once. While you typically do come out of these confrontations unscathed, 
 it just doesn't feel as common sense as sending in a much larger force would. This is nit picking 
 though as it's obvious that squad size was kept down for manageability's sake. When it comes down 
 to it the game has few flaws and the ones that are there are more or less flaws by opinion and 
 not by fact. This is a definite buy for RTS fans but even for any real PC Gamer aching for a good 
 game this should be a instant add to your collection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VoidCrusader
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 11:25 am PT
Review:  This review is focused mainly on the single player campaign. So anything said here may or may not 
 apply to the online play. With that disclaimer...
  
  This is a great game. There I said, I may be biased as I love the 40K world, but I think even without 
 that I would love it. The pacing of the story is solid, with enough optional missions thrown in 
 between central missions to let you never feel you were rushed through. 
  
  This game should not be considered an RTS though. You have no resource management, you can't create 
 squads, you don't build command centers or places to upgrade your troops. This game is a tactical 
 RPG, think Final Fantasy Tactics or Fire Emblem turned real time and you would know what to expect.
 
  
  You take the role of the nameless, until you give him one, Force Commander. Someone who the entire 
 chapter seems to feel is an exceptional leader and who can by himself save the chapter from disaster. 
 Obviously the designers were intending this game for me, I am flattered. 
  
  On each mission you will be able to choose from several different squads to accompany you, up to 
 3 of them at any one time. Each squad fills the typical role one would expect in this kind of game; 
 ranged support, fast strike, melee, etc. Also each squad, as well as the force leader, can be equipped 
 with various items you pick up during your campaign of Xenos slaughter.
  
  Also with the Xenos slaughter comes experience points (told you RPG) that let you gain levels to 
 raise various skill areas for each unit. This brings a nice level of customization into the game, 
 letting you mold squads into the dream form you want them to be. 
  
  The difficulty of the game is a little more easy than I would like, maybe this has to do with me 
 starting on average difficulty. But barring one or two boss fights I never really felt that I was 
 in danger of losing a mission. In fact near the end I would often just send out my commander to 
 go stomping through the enemies for kicks. I like to imagine there are legends of this written 
 on the Blood Ravens chapter records.
  
  The maps get a little repetitive, but this can't be argued too much on as you play on the same 
 battlefields quite a bit, having to defend what you took. 
  
  The nicest thing about the game is the controls, just having four squads to manage may help as 
 well but I really never had difficulty remembering who had what power up, switching to them, hotkeying, 
 and then getting back into the action. It was a very smooth process.
  
  So, if you love the 40K world, or just love Tactical RPG in real time. Check out this game. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakkoda24
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for DoW2 since it was first announced around June or July and hope it wouldn't 
 turn in to another Spore with all of it's hype. When I finally got the game it was everything i 
 hope it would be.
  
  --Fighting/Tactic System
  The interface isn't beginner-friendly but once you get used to key bindings controlling your squads 
 is easier and you won't suffer as many casualties. With the cover system being so similar to Company 
 of Heroes, this brings one noticeable problem. Your troops can get hung up on light/heavy cover 
 when trying to run or retreat. The encounter are always different and action-packed. And let's 
 face it, nothing is more satisfying than seeing Thaddeus and his assault marines tear down hordes 
 of 'nids.
  
  --Loot/Squad System
  Wargear is most definitely, a very innovative feature. Slapping on a Thunder Hammer so your Force 
 Commander can slam down enemies or if you prefer a power weapon with a nice bolter, it doesn't 
 matter because it's all possible. Switching gear in and out of your various squads so they can 
 be as effective as they can is fun in itself. Very nice not having large numbers to look after 
 in-game.
  
  Summary!
  DoW2 is definitely a game you will find yourself playing for hours on end. Whether you prefer competitive 
 multiplayer or a deep campaign, it's there. The game stays true to the Blood Ravens lore and same 
 for the other races. In the simplest terms, purchase this game so your not left behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:11 pm PT
Review:  The mechanic of DoW2 is not new, it existed at the very least in WarCraft ... the one released 
 after Dune2, as in the second major RTS in my mind. The gameplay is simple, you have a squad, made 
 up of You, a standard soldier group, a heavy weapon group, a sniper / infiltration group and a 
 quick deploy group. These all have names in the W40K universe, but that's not important. Out of 
 those 5 you pick 4. There appears to be space for a 6th, but after about 12 missions that space 
 has not yet been filled. (Clearly i have yet to finish the game so take my opinion with a grain 
 of salt) .
  
  So you take said group, depending on what you think the mission requires, there are hints telling 
 you if firepower is better than infiltration but at the end of the day, it is how you play the 
 game, not the setting that wins the mission. And then you clean the map. Unlike WarCraft and StarCraft 
 (or Battle Realms) you can re-inforce your squad by securing strategic points, or captured buildings 
 ... you simply move the reduced group next to the building and replacements appear over time. That 
 might sound simple, but given the size of the maps, it can take time to get your guys to where 
 they can be reinforced, so it can make the action frantic. 
  
  Missions are generally short, and you get points for finishing them quickly, though you also get 
 points for the percentage of enemies killed, so it's up to you (once again) how you play. Also, 
 most maps feature targets of opportunity, so you can capture a communications array or a temple. 
 The benefits differ (and in honesty i have not been reading the hints that come from this) but 
 the impact doesn't seem to be that vital ... something to explore in a second play through :)
 
  
  So, second play through is already on my mind, and this is rare for me, so the game has me sucked 
 in. There are a number of components that make this so good though. Firstly i like the warhammer 
 40000 universe. It is so optimistic (in what humanity achieved) and so depressing (there is only 
 war) and the setting of ruined cities is something i very much enjoy to look at. The setting is 
 nicer (in my eyes) than say Company of Heroes with its more realistic towns. Also the scenery varies 
 depending on which planet you're on. 
  
  I noticed that there was a demerit in the GameSpot review for weak story. I would actually disagree 
 with that. The story isn't weak so much as predictable ... surprisingly you don't go to the planet 
 to have a picnic. Also the characters, the heroes if you will that define the specialist niche's 
 are so beautifully W40K-esque. Gruff, tough and completely oblivious to life without war. I wouldn't 
 say the story is weak, i would say it is predicated. 
  
  Controls ... simple and predictable, nothing really new there, though what is new, is that you 
 don't have a huge HUD. In a way this is a natural evolution, but it took it's time getting here. 
 First time i saw it i thought it was a bug, and half the interface had not loaded. In retrospect, 
 i was clinging to the older interface not knowing what i was missing. 
  
  Also, there seems to be some heritage in terms of Supreme Commander, though it's subtle - maybe 
 SC is similar because of the setting, but i can't help but feel that there is something there, 
 just on the edge of my mind. I liked SC but DoW2 is better. Ouch... let me re-phrase that, DoW2 
 is different. SC is the standard building base, go kill enemy, but it got dressed up with missions 
 and NPCs that needed assistance. So far DoW2 has not featured NPCs in the missions, but then there 
 is less scope for that, afterall you are going to a mission to do a thing, and unlike SC ... there 
 is no ever expanding map. So although the games are vastly different, to me there is something 
 there that binds them, and it isn't that both are released through THQ. 
  
  Music, movies and briefings are short, subtle and nicely done, not too little and not too much. 
 There is never the ... "come on, get to the fighting already" because while the briefings are going 
 you can level up your guys and assign weapons/ armor. Oh yeah ... There are RPG elements in the 
 game, as you play your guys level up and find armor/weapons and such and it influences how you 
 play the game. It is nice, and works well with the overall strike team setting vs go out and kill 
 enemy.
  
  What else... Skirmish missions against the computer are fun, though unpredictable, Multiplayer 
 online i've yet to try.
  
  In closing, i like the game. Not surprising as i've played through the original twice (a rare thing 
 for me) . I can't wait for an expansion because frankly, i want more races to play as. Be it Imperial 
 Guards or Sister's of Battle. Heck even Eldar or Chaos could be fun... I hope when the expansions 
 come they aren't like the ones for DoW, in lacking structure, or feeling rushed. Nevertheless the 
 game at hand is great, and what it offers is fantastic. I hope to see more like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_LOVE_PC_GAMES
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the DoW games and im seeing that this one is different but it is better than the 
 previous ones, where we spend lots of time building and then after the win we have to start building 
 again on the next mission, but now we only have some soldiers so we have to have some more strategy 
 and start the action right away instead of getting a boring time building. The Co-op is a nice 
 choice for campaign. 
  All units have special powers, thats good because we have to think what we are going to use, and 
 decide what to use in the sittuation we are.
  Four Races each of them has 3 different types of leaders, nice , so we can choose our preferences.
 
  I just dont like that they removed the other races: necrons, tau, chaos, sisters of battle, dark 
 eldar and imperial guard. They were so different from eachother and that is very good because we 
 can choose our favourite race or just keep changing to play with new units, and if they had continued 
 now we had 10 races, lots of diversity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:16 pm PT
Review:  i'm a dawn of war 2 fan and when i bought this game i had srsly high expectations due to the fact 
 that dawn of war 1 with it's expansions is one of my favourite games. 
  
  when i installed the game you had to register with windows live to play online, this really srsly 
 frustrated me but i eventually got it done and went online to play multiplayer. 
  
  i played my first match, at first i didn't quite understand what was going on, the gameplay was 
 so much different from the first game, it was like playing company of heroes really but... so different 
 at the same time. it was a victory capture and hold match so i caught on what to do quickly. i 
 was playing eldar, when you join a game you pick your commander, i picked the warp spider commander 
 and it was very interesting to see commanders have wargear upgrades like in dark crusade ( the 
 necron lord ) . the unit cap was srsly limited, you couldn't really get alot out of your unit cap 
 especially due to the fact that vehicles and infantry take the same cap, out of a hundred.... besides 
 all that i think all the units in this game are unique, there is not a single unit that's really 
 like another unit and i really like that there's so much potential stratedgy behind this game. 
 there's not as many units as there were in the original dow1 BUT i really think that doesn't matter 
 in this case. i think there will be up coming expansions that would add more units and maybe factions 
 and that would srsly make the game even better. i think the upcoming patch is gonna change alot 
 of things for the better because right now there are a few small things that are really... hmmm 
 should be changed i guess
  
  the visuals for this game... is like... orgasmic, when i originally played the game i had it on 
 max settings basically it ran... HORRIBLE LOL but i found out later it was because of my soundcard 
 being so.. suckage so i changed the sound settings and it never lagged again until i used orbital 
 bombardment rofl. i really think they've done a good job on this game since unit models have so 
 much detail and the visuals so pretty. sure i'm a fan boy but you could play this game and say 
 the same tbh.
  
  overall i think this game is really good even with it's bad sides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhopper
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  If you looking for a new twist on a the RTS style of game play I believe that dawn of war 2 is 
 a start in the right direction. 
  
  Dawn of war 2 tries changing the RTS formal, by creating a more micro managing game where you have 
 to use cover and flanking moves instead of the normal RTS unit spam. This works but because most 
 races have so few choices of units it does feel like when two of the same armies are fighting each 
 other things just meld together.
  Dawn of War 2 is not the best RTS out there but it tries something new to an overused RTS formula 
 and with some work mainly with a few more choices of units, another army, and more multiplayer 
 missions the game can be a great RTS. I have so far enjoyed the game and look forward to add-on/patches 
 that would fix these problems.
  
  multiplayer 10/10
  campaign 8/10
  graphics 8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRork
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  This is a good game. A damn good, addictive game. The RPG elements make it quite engrossing and 
 keep you on board despite only having a dozen or so maps that you return to with some frequency.
 
  
  The interface is very good, with squads automatically having a number assigned. The small number 
 of squads makes it easy to manage... but even then scenarios can get very intense trying to ensure 
 squads don't get taken out of action.
  
  But like the original Dawn of War, before Dark Crusade, it's not quite all there. That game was 
 good, but only came into its own once the expansions allowed you to have a go from the other races 
 PoV and really revamped the whole experience.
  
  This is going to be a great single player experience... once the expansions come along. Right now 
 it's just good.
  
  But if the likes of Winter Assault and Dark Crusade made a fairly average game into a great game, 
 imagine what the expansions to DoW2 will do... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldogc
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  DoW2 is pretty fun to play initially. the plot is as ok as any of these types of games and the 
 gameplay is quite fun for the campaign. Unfortunately the game requires you to not only use the 
 horrible games for windows live but also steam for some reason. Is the game worth all this? probably 
 not however it is a fun play, I havent done much with the multiplayer aspects yet but I dont think 
 they will be very fun from what I've seen yet. No base building at all no defence structures nothing 
 like that, essentially its one of those "new" rts games that don't really involve a lot of stratigy, 
 just unit rushing.
  
  In summary multiplayer probably a bust, could be fun for the co-op aspect however, single player 
 pretty fun but not worth the ridiculous drm requirements of both steam AND games for windows live. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_22_muie
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 6:25 am PT
Review:  that Relic creates and that is from Homeworld to DoW2. I recommend the game to people that like 
 to try new things and love quality.
  I like tha campaign and the fact that the action is repeating from time to time.
  Space Marines 
 - cool to play, resilient not so many units but they are cool.
  
  Orks - They are my second favorite after Tyranids, I always choose the Warbos. They got more personal 
 in one sqad then the SM and more chipper, but the numbers overwhelm and they are so good designed 
 and detailed. You got a dude speaking with you all the time and he is really funny.
  
  Eldar - I`m not a fan of Eldar , I don`t realy like the way they look, to small and skinny. I do 
 like the tanks and the Wraith Lords (DoW2 ones look realy good) . As for tactics they are one of the 
 best suppression generating race. I so hate the shuriken canons. They move realy fast but they are 
 fragile.
  
  Tyranids - This is my favorite race, i love the play stile and the versatility of the units, the 
 units are really detailed. Tactics = by the numbers and it`s all about synapses and what tipe of 
 synapses you use against the units your enemy is producing. Some times you don`t even need heavy 
 units to destroy your opponents heavy armor.
  
  Most people are afraid of new things and with ignorance leading there life`s they will always choose 
 a ignorant answer.
  Ah and about Steam and GFWL , is it that hard to make 2 accounts? If you want the game and love 
 the type then stop whining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RinTinTinVan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:26 pm PT
Review:  It's fun while it lasts. The single player's RPG elements are addicting as you collect wargear 
 and level up your squads. The story is shallow at best, but it's enough to make you want to trudge 
 on to the end. There's little actual strategy in-game. You point, click, and slaughter. Most of 
 your strategy comes in the form of outfitting your squads. It lacks the complex micromanagement 
 of other RTS's and the complexity of pure bred RPG's, but it works. Future expansions will probably 
 add other races than the space marines to the single player campaign, but I don't see why they 
 couldn't just add them to the initial release, although play time is decent as I played the most 
 of four days. With a substantial modding community in the future, I'd probably play once more. 
 Until then, there's little reason to.
  
  (Multiplayer not reviewed.)
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jshiraq
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:51 pm PT
Review:  After calling around to every store in town I finally got my copy of DOW 2. All I can say is I 
 want my money back. The installation is painful. You MUST install STEAM, Windows Live, and set 
 up accounts for both. It seems like I have accounts every where now. You must log into those accounts 
 every single time you want to play. ARRGH !! 
  Ahh now for the horrid game play. If you enjoyed DOW 1 do not buy this game. The developers took 
 everything that was great from DOW 1 and flushed it down the toilet. My problems with this game 
 are:
  
  #1 No base building (none what so ever)
  #2 Too few units. (40K is supposed to have massive battles not 4 squads of 3-4 space marines running 
 around.)
  #3 Crashes all the time. (Maybe future patches will correct this)
  #4 Losing one Soldier is a major event (terrible game design)
  
  All in all a very disappointing 
 game. Do not waste your money on this crap game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maelor07
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Prepare for Waagh! 
  
  Warhammer 40k: Dawn of War II has slowly become my favorite RTS game. Why? Because the campaign 
 isn't like the usual RTS's. It's truly addicting. I love RPGs, and I also love RTS's but there 
 very few campaigns that I have completed for RTS's. This however, is completely different. Dawn 
 of War II combines these two genres, and it creates the most compelling RTS campaign I have ever 
 played. One of the most compelling experiences as well.
  
  As previously stated, the campaign is excellent. Character customization is perfect, and the missions 
 do become a tad repetitive, but really it's almost un-noticeable. It's fairly long and it's full 
 of addicting action.
  
  Multiplayer changes a bit from the campaign, but that's really not a bad thing. There are four 
 very different races with very different advantages and disadvantages, and the focus on units and 
 not base-building will set off some, but I personally love both kinds of strategy. Focus on units 
 lets you develop a truly killing instinct that once mastered, will grant you many many victories. 
 All in all, the multiplayer is a total blast.
  
  The game is very polished and very bug-free. Performance is extremely good, and I was really surprised 
 I could run the game at the settings it's currently running at. There is currently one issue however, 
 there is currently an error concerning memory leaks, which crashes the game, but at the time of 
 this writing, it has been stated that a hot-fix will be launched in a few hours, so it really isn't 
 an issue AT ALL.
  
  All in all, the game is a next step further in the genre of RTS, and if you like any kinds of RTS's 
 and aren't a die-hard fan of base-building, I recommend you go out and buy this game right away 
 without even a slight hesitation. You'll love it.
  
  For those of you that want a few tips and tricks for multiplayer or just who want to play with 
 me, my gamertag is Kronos147. See you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProfileth
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War 2 makes me continue to think that definitely, new games are starting to suck. 
  DoW 2 lacks the intense gameplay, strategy, and innovation that DoW brought to the table for RTS's.
 
  DoW made you multi task and think how can I : 
  Capture those resource beacons
  Defend the beacons I have
  Attack my enemy
  Surprise my enemy with a flank 
  Upgrade my units 
 without going broke
  Get that relic so I can make a (insert super unit here)
  
  But sadly all of those fun things are gone except #1 and #3.
  The unit choice has been brought 
 down from over 20+ per race to 7-10, the number of Races has been brought down from 8 to 4 with 
 only 1 new race the Tryanid.
  The problem with no base building is that it all boils down to who can click the buttons in the 
 best order. It requires limited (not no) strategy to play and if your base is destroyed there is 
 no chance of building another because there are not any builders at all except for some over powered 
 engineer heros.
  The new cover system and suppression system are good ideas but are very poorly implemented. In 
 real life, if you are in cover what you do is you pop up take a couple shots and reload, because 
 you are safe from enemy fire. But because no one except rocket launchers reload this would not 
 work apparently or for some other reason the Dev team decided to turn cover into armor. Cover only 
 decreases damage, and any smart person knows that they can send a dreadnought or vehicle to run 
 over and destroy the enemy cover so it is almost negligible in the late game. The destruction of 
 melee units also has lead to a much more boring and less gory game (good or bad depending on how 
 you feel) . Melee units before could be used to flank and decimate strong ranged people, or fast 
 melee could rush and scatter a firing platoon, but now because a squad can only be about 4-8 people 
 instead of ~4-20 any melee unit that is trying to rush an enemy is shot down quickly and if it 
 can get there the melee damage is so low that it does not really matter. I am not saying that a 
 lower squad cap and lower unit count is bad, just it makes it so you depend alot more and spend 
 alot more on fewer people so if one dies it is very important so much so that 1 death can lead 
 to losing a game. 
  The suppression system also lacks any deep thought, if you are firing a big gun at me am I going 
 to 
  A: Slowly continue were ever I am going and ignore being shot
  B: Run the hell out of there and try not to get shot
  C: Stop and try to hide behind cover and 
 wait
  D: Both B or C
  The answer is D, a lowly infantry man if under heavy fire and has no cover would run away or if 
 near cover try to hide, but seeing as cover does not work as previously mentioned the only option 
 would be to run. The game even gives you a button to stop the affects of suppression and retreat 
 to the nearest point which is usually your base for some reason or if you pick the engineer hero 
 you can build a structure for people to get reinforcements and retreat to. The affects of suppression 
 are in fact quite odd. When a unit is suppressed they will continue doing what ever they were doing 
 but will move very slowly and take more damage. The supposed reason they go slow is because they 
 are trying (in vain) to duck down and avoid incoming fire (realistic) . But instead of taking less 
 damage the unit that is trying to not get hit, go-figure gets hit more because his ducking down 
 changes nothing and not a single unit ever seems to notice this (unrealistic) .
  
  Some other quick notes of bad ideas that were implemented 
  Small levels
  Crouded small levels
 
  Almost no vehicles
  Vehicles are super powerful
  They took away the chainsaw swords and other really cool melee weapons in exchange for well... 
 um.... less interesting melee fighting?
  Snipers that have less range than a machine gun
  Only being able to pick 1 special weapon/item per squad
  Boring melee fighting
  Tyranids that 
 function just like everyone else
  Every faction is the same for some small differences
  Many not balanced units/abilities ex: grenade spiking (they will fix soon though)
  Most of all 
 making the graphics better than the game play; (see Halo Wars ;) )
  The good things (few but important) are a very nice graphical engine, a decent single player game 
 (though only the space marines are able to be played in the campaign) and it is kind of cool to 
 see the bullets fly out of the guns and go to the target, instead of tracers. The one thing that 
 may redeem DoW2 is the slight possibility of mods, if you own DoW then you may know that there 
 are very many mods that did extraordinary things for the game and if we are luck maybe they can 
 help DoW2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ibrahim17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  DoW II takes all the best features from CoH, DoW, Diablo II, X-Com, Dune, and WoW and puts it into 
 one game. Not to mention it has that gritty/dark/brutal feeling, similar to when your playing a 
 game like Gears of War. It's very fun, addictive, challenging, has excellent graphics & sound FX, 
 and has incredible quality & polish.
  
  The MP alone is with the price of the game, and is like a game in itself. The Campaign is almsot 
 completely different, except it shares similar gameplay to the MP. The campaign helps capture the 
 tremendous power & bravery of the space Marines, and gives you the closest representation of what 
 WH40k is to date.
  
  There's room for a lot of improvement (more units, races, maps, items, improved AI) but that's 
 not a bad thing. Thankfully it seems like Relic plans on adding a lot to this franchise, so you 
 can expect support & free + paid additional content for many years to come. This game is EASILY 
 worth 50 dollars. If you're a WH40k fan, it's a MUST have, if you enjoy Sci-FI or like any of the 
 games I mentioned above, it's worth a try definitely. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedMageNeko
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  They original Dawn of War pioneered a lot of innovations for the RTS genre. Dawn of War II continues 
 this trait and works to make the RTS genre far more open to new players while giving old fans something 
 enjoyable to play with.
  
  The first, largest, and perhaps most controversial is the removal of base building. In Multiplayer, 
 you start with a single structure that creates all units. Beyond this, they only building done 
 is adding to Power Nodes captured and (for some commanders) creating turrets or reinforcement points. 
 While for most RTS fans this can be shocking at first, it quickly grows on you by removing an element 
 that slowed down gameplay.
  
  And gameplay in this game is FAST. Matches tend to last 15, 20 minutes and from the start you'll 
 be engaged in running firefights, securing key areas, and playing a game of cat and mouse with 
 enemy forces.
  
  The second addition to Dawn of War is leveling units. In single player, squads level as high as 
 20 and become near unstoppable on lower difficulty levels. In multiplayer, squads level only to 
 4 (With commanders hitting 10) but still become quite noticeably stronger with each level. While 
 games like Command and Conquer tried similar things, Dawn of War does it better by making your 
 units more expensive, your forces smaller, and each serving its own purpose, serving to keep you 
 attached to each unit.
  
  Single player plays out a bit more like an RPG then an RTS, with only six units under your command 
 throughout the game. Each squad is unique, with its own unique commander, abilities, and growth. 
 And as each squad gains levels, you get points to spend in each force to make them stronger in 
 certain areas and unlock new abilities.
  
  The voice acting on the squad commanders is very well done and you'll instantly know who's talking 
 each time. Each commander is also unique and has his own charm, from the brash and somewhat naive 
 (for a Space Marine) Thaddeus to the rather rage filled Avitus.
  
  As you go through the campaign, enemies will drop wargear of various types, from armor to heavy 
 bolters and flamethrowers. Armor in particular works to customize your units, with end game armors 
 looking absolutely amazing.
  
  The story is actually pretty good, with a number of tense moments cropping up. It also sees quite 
 a bit of difficulty in "Boss Battles" against enemies with far greater strength and endurance then 
 your other foes. These can range from the rather simple, early on battle to they insanely strong 
 near they end of the game. Trust me, I have a new found respect for they Eldar and their Avatar 
 of Khaine after facing it in single player and watching my squads get nearly wiped out again and 
 again.
  
  This game's only weakness really is that it has a bit of a shortage of maps, with about a dozen 
 in single player and 7 in multiplayer. All the maps are good and far more are going to be released 
 quickly, but it can get a bit repetitive fighting on the same map a few times.
  
  I found this game to be a LOT of fun and I'd suggest it to most anyone, particularly 40K fans or 
 more casual games. Its simple enough you can learn it overnight, complex enough that it will take 
 you months to master. Its bloody, beautiful, and a hell of a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lethalgoose612
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm just going to knock this out right in the beginning. Here is everything that might most turn 
 off a player from Dawn of War 2.
  1. There is no base building. If you enjoy managing your buildings and tech trees than realize 
 this is simply a different kind of RTS with an entirely different form of strategy. 
  2. There are fewer units than in Dawn of War 1. Is this bad? Absolutely not, but I'll explain things 
 further on.
  3. The campaign is more like a strategy RPG. Think of it like Warcraft 3 in a Warhammer 40k universe. 
 Many DoW fans may be turned off by it, but the campaign definitely doesn't fall short of what Relic 
 was aiming for.
  
  Graphics: Now I won't bother reviewing the graphics beyond the obvious. They are fantastic compared 
 to the first DoW, but they aren't cutting edge. Sorry, but Crysis will be holding that mantle for 
 some time.
  
  Gameplay (Multiplayer) : The gameplay is phenomenal, and the most drastic change would be the lack 
 of base building. This turns off a lot of RTS players as many as it reels in. Some people have 
 strategies around pre-set build orders and tech advances; that is great, but I would advise sticking 
 to Age of Empires or Civilization. DoW has absolutely none of that. Every ounce of strategy is 
 on the field through the use of tactics. A common misconception is you cannot turtle in DoW 2, 
 but you in fact do that every single time you are trying to hold a Victory Point in multiplayer. 
 In fact, the Technician for the Space Marines is the perfect hero for holding down a position. 
 The economy works almost just like DoW 1; the only difference is you now have to hold positions 
 for power just like you do for requisition. Power nodes are incredibly precious, and you will have 
 a hard time (although you are never useless) if you can't get your elite units out in the late 
 game due to a crawling income of power. The tech trees do not exist in DoW; the powers you get 
 are decided by the hero you choose and the equipment you hand them and your units (a feature which 
 remains strong.) To get better equipment you have to advance your base, and the only timing for 
 it depends on whether you are rushing or not and whether you are in a secure position to spend 
 the resources for it. The exclusion of that of course means that all of your time is focused on 
 constantly fighting off the opponents. The only time you will ever just be sitting around is if 
 your only chance to win is to whole up by your base and let the enemy come to you while you submit 
 them to traps, powers, and your fortified position, where afterwards you rush the enemies base 
 while they lack the troops to defend themselves. Tactics, tactics, tactics rule any situation, 
 even the last stand I pictured for you. The rock-paper-scissors method is definitely apparent, 
 but it is so intricate and advanced that is comes across as being realistic rather than a cliche 
 RTS game mechanic. Balancing is always an issue, but what makes the better player is the ability 
 for a person to adapt to a constantly changing environment and manage their troops carefully. Mass 
 armies of assorted troops always exist and always happen, but sometimes they are the simplest to 
 kill just because you are managing your troops whereas the enemy will decide not to. Finally, realize 
 this is not DoW 1 (if that hasn't become apparent.) There are fewer troops, but games never last 
 more than 30 minutes anyways so you won't be disappointed when each faction has only 10 or 11 units 
 to choose from (just saying that sounds picky, as there are 4 incredibly unique factions making 
 the troops seem very diverse.)
  
  Gameplay (Campaign) : The campaign differs from multiplayer in very clear ways. You control 4 squads 
 of Space Marines which never actually "die" but are more knocked unconscious. You will never build 
 a single units, and you don't even have a HQ like you do in multiplayer. The levels are linear 
 in the way that Warcraft 3 was. You never stray from your main objective, and you don't go around 
 expanding the map. Your units collect loot just like Warcraft 3, and these are equipped before 
 you go on a mission. Basically, the game functions like an RPG; even the stat system is very much 
 like the full out RPG, Mass Effect. The best part are the bosses, and these bosses have scripted 
 abilities, strengths, weaknesses, the works. They are so much like bosses within an action game 
 than you suddenly struggle to contrast the two of them. I personally love the campaign, and only 
 opinions and preferences can say whether the campaign is entertaining to one person or the other; 
 however, there is no denying that Relic did exactly what they were intending to do, and they did 
 it well.
  
  Factions: This doesn't require much explaining. Anyone familiar with the Warhammer 40k universe 
 knows that each faction is incredibly unique, and the game basically starts off with the 4 most 
 recognizable and generally desirable races in the lore. The battlefield definitely feels like it 
 has more friction than the original DoW release did. Be sure that the other very unique races will 
 be making their way in the expansions, such as the Necrons and the Tau. I would imagine the Chaos 
 and Imperial Guard would be the most predictable races for the next expansion though. If you are 
 a fan of the Warhammer universe, you will not be disappointed by the diversity the battlefield 
 has to offer. Maybe not having 9 races seems like a real bummer, but you will hardly ever even 
 notice.
  
  Sound: The sounds are very well done. The bolter fire is very satisfying to hear when clashing 
 with the shuriken guns of the Eldar, and explosions sound as great as they look when they impact 
 a group of soldiers or a spot of destructible cover. The best part ever is when you suddenly hear 
 the Avatar's feet pounding the ground from far off screen. This may inspire your units, but it 
 will also inspire you just as well as it will send a shiver down your spine (were you the opponent) 
 as you scramble to focus every shot and trick you have to bring him down. I advise surround sound 
 to experience the most mayhem from the battlefield, as it will never be quiet.
  
  In closing, I would like to ask that you be careful about the reviews that rant about this game 
 as well as slam it. This game is very different from the first Dawn of War as well as the majority 
 of RTS games on the market. Relic does what they were trying to accomplish very successfully, and 
 as such the majority of people will love this game, as do I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undertaker6736
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Not too much can be said for this game, except its great.
  While the single player may not be as deep as one would have liked, its still pretty immersing. 
 The RPG elements are nice.
  The story is weaker than I would have liked, but not bad overall.
  I think they will build upon 
 this platform and continue with the unique gameplay but flesh out the story/content later.
  However, multiplayer is where this game shines. Each race is well thought out and easy to play, 
 but still have alot of depth. Easy to play, difficult to master. The only reason this game isnt 
 a 10 in my book is the lack of content in singleplayer. They were ambitious in their excursion 
 into a new realm of RTS, but... I think it will become more fleshed out in time. Definitely by 
 the next expansion, or with the large amount of DLC they are promising.
  Check it out, its definitely worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triple34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:04 am PT
Review:  I think this is a great game and a great second step in the 40000 titles.. But I don't think everybody 
 don't understand the process of how relic works. Yea the game is kind of bare for a game that we've 
 been waiting on for years. And yea we don't have all the units and upgrades that we would like.. But 
 remember back in 04 when Dow first arrive and fastforward to the darkcursade. (I don't count soulstorm) 
 Think of all the changes that had taken place for the life span of that game.. all the new units 
 and abilities that was added. I think that this is what relic have planned for this title, Already 
 you can unlock chapter command wargear. Sure I believe they should have added more options and 
 more maps but we may had to wait another 2-3 months. I'd rather get it now and enjoy all the new 
 addons and upgrades that I can just about guarantee that they will be adding very soon to this 
 title. So enjoy it and be perpared, More Change is coming!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffinsagent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:28 am PT
Review:  The game concept is nothing new as I have played games like this before. It's basically an RTS 
 game with a little RPG thrown in. As the game progresses, you pick up armor, weapon and other perks 
 and are able to add, remove or upgrade them to your heroes. Each character will also level up and 
 gain exp which can be added to your power, health, etc to make your character unique in each game. 
 I kinda miss the RTS building capability, but I can see why it was left out. The game is entirely 
 new and honestly, should not have even been added to the Dawn Of War franchise as the game enters 
 into a different category all together. You get the instant action, without having to build your 
 troops or vehicles which is refreshing and I would buy it again in a heart beat, but the last D 
 O W game was still the best in the series. 
  
  The camera angle is really good from the advantage point given and the ability to zoom in fairly 
 close as desired, but unfortunately you can not turn the camera as you could on all other D O W 
 games. I really hope they create a patch which fixes this.
  
  Long-short, the story and missions are fun. Game is a refreshing change, but I wish they would 
 continue the Dawn Of War series based on the older concepts and game play. This should of started 
 an entire new series with its expansions, while continuing on the original Dawn Of War games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:13 am PT
Review:  I do not believe that i have to install that cr*p Steam in my computer to play this game. If you 
 want to play this game then get ready to open your legs because Steam wants to have its way to 
 allow you play with this title.
  
  Anyway about the game:
  
  THE GOOD:
  - Excellent graphics and sounds.
  - Cover system (with some patches it may be improved) .
  - 
 Deep and simple to handle gameplay.
  - Focuses in battle strategy and not in base building or resource gathering.
  - Promising multiplayer
 
  - Great music that matches the Warhammer universe
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  THE BAD:
  - STEAM is required 
 if you want to play this title. (bleh...)
  - Windows Live (bleh again...)
  - It misses a lot from the addicting gameplay style of DOW 1.
  - AI is predictable and does not 
 feel to have been upgraded from the DOW 1 series.
  - Weak and repetive single player - Campaign story could have been better.
  
  Final Score = 
 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cliffdawg9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  First things first, every reviewer on this board that says "I have been waiting for this game for 
 a year and it's not what I expected" they need to get a slap in the face. Sorry, had to get that 
 off my chest. I HAVE been paying attention to this game for a year, so I knew what to expect from 
 it. The game designers made sure that they talked about the revolutionary changes they were making 
 to the game FOR A WHOLE YEAR! Relic said it's not going to be DOW 1 with flashier graphics and 
 bigger explosions like some other games coming to market later this year. IE Starcraft / Starcraft 
 2...
  Let's get to the game itself; no more lame base building and resource management. Base building=SimCity, 
 resource management=Oregon Trail!!!! This game gets you right into the action which is exactly 
 what Relic told everyone it would be like! 
  Now let's break down the game:
  
  Single Player: 
  It is what it is, pretty basic, but enjoyable. I really like the interface screens 
 and the menu for selecting battles. The gameplay is fast paced with the cover and skill based dynamics 
 of the game really making things interesting. I think that the hero upgrades are a plus, it does 
 interest the gamer in the success of their hero units, especially if they really slaughter the 
 enemy!! 
  
  Co-op:
  This is where things get interesting! I have a buddy whom I played beta with and we joined up last 
 night for a couple of games of co-op play. All I have to say is what a blast, probably the best 
 invention (in RTS) since sliced bread, seriously. We had a ton of fun. It's a nice little twist 
 to be able to ask a buddy for assistance if its needed. Also your game or his gains the experience 
 not both, I think that this keeps things simple; no sharing resources stuff like that. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer is where the life of this game lives. It's the main gameplay for any 
 good RTS. DOW multiplayer is free, easy to get into, and has an excellent gaming community. I have 
 found that the multiplayer experience is easily one of the more enjoyable multiplayer games I have 
 played in a long time. Again its fast paced (you will be firin' yur lazor in 60 seconds!) It keeps 
 you focused on battles, not making buildings (I will refer to SIMCITY on that one) Capturing req 
 and power points is what the games come down to, and then ultimately keeping those points protected. 
 They do also offer annihilation gameplay but Victory point gameplay is more entertaining in my 
 opinion.
  
  Overall:
  I give this game a 9.0-9.5/10. There are two reason this game does not get a perfect score, one 
 is Steam. The other issue I see problems with is the slightly repetitive gameplay. The Steam issue 
 is pretty basic and took me only a few minutes to figure out, but it was enough of a frustration 
 on a game that should be perfect (install wise) on release to the public. As far as patches and 
 things like that go, gameplay patches are acceptable, not installation issues and I know it's not 
 just me because there is a bit of public outcry on the issue of steam. The repetition in the game 
 does not make it less fun for me, maybe I'm just a simple guy but I can enjoy each mission for 
 what it's worth. A game like this, where the point is strategy does need some similar elements 
 in each level (with some corresponding increase in difficulty) so you can actually learn what works 
 and use said strateegery while working in the neat little upgrades and bonuses keeps things new. 
 That is why this issue does not affect my score more than it does. But even I know how to throw 
 a twist and turn into a plot. Maybe I have not clocked enough hours to know any better. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: srampe
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:44 am PT
Review:  The reaction for this game seems to be love it or hate it. Personally, I love it, though I can 
 see why others would hate it. I'll try to address both here. My comments refer to the single player 
 campaign - I have not yet dug into the multiplayer.
  
  Dawn of War 2 is different. It has traded out traditional elements of RTS for RPG elements. In 
 some ways, it follows in the footsteps of the D&D Dragonshard RTS that came out some years ago. 
 But where that game was clunky and awkward, this game is smooth, quick, and violent.
  
  As you might expect, production values are incredible. You can easily see these by watching some 
 of the movies. Base building has been eliminated. Instead, you get to select from a number of squads 
 before a mission. These squads are with you throughout the mission. If they are defeated, they 
 can be revived, and then reinforced by capturing relay points on the battlefield. Each unit has 
 2-4 selectable abilities. What this means is that you spend significantly more time focusing on 
 small unit tactics. No longer are you base building, massing forces, and throwing them in a large 
 group at an enemy, hoping that your mass is bigger than theirs. Here tactics really matter. Get 
 out of cover and you're going to get mowed down. Use your jump marines to tear up their ranged 
 infantry. Position your heavy bolters to pin down enemies so that your commander can come in and 
 carve them up with his chainsword. Use demolitions to take out buildings, or deploy your scouts 
 in them with sniper rifles to target particularly difficult enemies. The point is, battlefield 
 tactics are critical. And since you don't have to constantly worry about resource gathering, base 
 building, and pumping units, all of your energy and effort is focused on the battle. If all of 
 this sounds great to you, you're going to love this game. If you can't let go of the idea of base 
 building and resource gathering, then this game is probably not for you. Nothing against that type 
 of "traditional" RTS, but this ain't it.
  
  There are heavy RPG elements in the game. You collect equipment during the mission that refresh 
 your limited use abilities (like stimpacks and grenades) , as well as collecting more permanent 
 equipment. At the end of each mission, you can trick out your squads with this snazzy gear. In 
 addition, you collect experience points throughout the missions. Interestingly, the quantity of 
 XP that you collect seems to be based off a variety of factors, rather than just blowing up bad 
 guys. You get rated on three different factors - percentage of kills (ratio of total kills to number 
 of enemies available to be killed) , speed at which you complete the mission, and how successful 
 you are at preventing your own squads from being knocked out. During a mission, I find myself continually 
 tilting back and forth between pushing ahead hard to make better time, the desire to clear then 
 entire map to get extra loot and more kills, and the need to protect my limited squads. This adds 
 an overall strategic element to what is a tactically focused game.
  
  There are other minor innovations to the game as well (co-op mode in the campaign) , but I think 
 you can probably judge for yourself if this game is for you or not. I've been playing RTS since 
 the days of Warcraft (1) and the original C&C, and I can honestly say that I love seeing the innovation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rap0stle
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:00 pm PT
Review:  I could go on and on about how this game fails. 
  
  Foremost... this is RTS. This is an RPG, and essentialy plays no different than dungeon seige. 
 The squads are RPG units, and are used accordingly. The only element of strategy comes from having 
 to chose which direction to go on the mundane and repetitive maps. 
  
  The units are unresponsive, slow, ... the move and lumber around as if running in water. 
  
 
  The cover system is a joke. Order a unit to fire on incoming enemy... they will muck around, jostling 
 around each other, .. caught between finding cover or attacking.. and usually at least 2 or more 
 units just stand there in the line of fire. 
  
  You can not set melee units to attack by melee by default. This makes the skills paths redundant.... 
 spend your points on melee strenght, only to have the units act like ranged units by default. 
 
  
  The style, pace..... electric intensity of the DOW RTS is gone!!! 
  
  The only modern competitor to Star Craft has been toned down and simplified to cater to the console 
 style of play. 
  
  Hey.... you cant even save durring a mission on campaign...... pathetic. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volk13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Great Game!
  
  Intense game play both multi and single player!!! The squad improvement is great - makes it worthwhile 
 to keep on playing to get extra wargear. Wargear itself is a great concept in addition to increase 
 in Xp and abilities. The game is challenging and fast paced. Different squads need different tactics 
 and mad rush inforce will only get you killed. Great for people who love small squad tactics. Single 
 player campaign has a great storyline and keeps you involved. Have not tried multiplayer yet to 
 see the difference from Beta, but I bet it will be great! Did not see any bugs yet. My only gripe 
 is that you cannot save in mid mission - that option should never been removed. Also more multiplayer 
 maps are needed sicne with Beta most fo them where played to death. But I guess that with updates 
 and modding hopefully more maps wil lbe coming. Overall great game that was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer, its been Relic's flagship game for almost 3 years or so, it would make sense to make 
 a sequel to that wildly popular game, and that is by god what they did. They took what Dawn of 
 War had, threw it out to concentrate on namely the series trademark, the gritty, bloodthirsty combat.
 
  
  Gameplay has changed dramatically, it took all the building aspects of Warhammer and replaced it 
 with a tactical managment type of combat, this is a great change of pace for this game, since the 
 combat was what Warhammer was all about, this game really does feel like a true sequel to the game, 
 I mean, you see your Space Marines ripping up orks into meat rolls, blood flying every which way, 
 I can't tell you what is more satisfying. **EDIT #2** Alot of people are rating this game low only 
 due to the fact that it has changed drastically from what they played from the original, people, 
 its a sequel, they are ment to create changes, this one being the better since it focuses on combat, 
 slow and unresponsive units? You try lumbering about with 100 pounds of armor? The cover system 
 is what makes the game so unique, being that not many games use said system, this game and starcraft 
 are two different leagues, one concentrates on completely unique races, whilst this one is just 
 hands down, blood-ridden combat, comparing this game to starcraft is rather unfair.
  
  The thing you'll notice right off the bat is that the gameplay has a more tactical consideration 
 feel to it, that means that you have to think about your decisions, and your attacks, running head 
 on into the thick of battle isn't smart, mainly because Cover has been amped up quite a bit, marines 
 in cover have a better advantage than the opponent who might be standing in the middle of the battlefield, 
 but remember now, such cover bonuses can be negated with flamers or a well placed grenade, adding 
 alot of tactical managment (micromanagement.) . 
  
  Another thing you might notice is that Relic pretty well took building out of the picture, again, 
 this game focuses heavily on the combat, nothing else, just pure, in your face combat, this game 
 isn't about turtling up in your base and stinging anything that comes into view, its about strategically 
 taking out your enemy without, or with minimum casualties, don't think you can hide in buildings 
 around your base, a vehicle, rockets, satchels, or grenades will be able to take down said building.
 
  
  The Singleplayer campaign has a better feel to it, but that is strictly looking at it while pulling 
 up comparions to its predessors. You lead a company of Space Marines, who have been sent to cleanse 
 the planet of the Alien scum as so they would refer to them as. At the beginning, you get two units, 
 the force commander, and the rifleman, now how you use the two units is entirely up to you, but 
 as you probably already know, the rifleman won't take down melee units as well as the force commander 
 could, but that is not what you strictly are limited to when you are playing the campaign, not 
 long after the first mission, you do have access to Devestator Marine Squads and Stealth Marines, 
 so on so forth, can't wait for the Terminator squads to become available.
  
  The mission based campaign will draw comparisons to Risk based games, thats true, because in ways 
 it sorta looks like a Risk board, but the thing is though, you are trying to retake each province 
 back on every planet, and like the Dark Crusade campaign, each province holds different wargear 
 for you men or company to obtain, they also contain strategic points on each map, for what they 
 are worth, remains to be seen. **EDIT** The points on every map count towards a special ability, 
 capturing Sensor arrays for example count towards how many times you can call artillery in on one 
 map, this makes alot of maps easier, especially against bosses.
  
  Now concerning the Wargear, yes I know, but this is where the plot thickens, the game has taken 
 a turn for an RPG feel to it in its singleplayer, with your persistant squad being with you for 
 every mission you come across, over the campaign, they garner experience, which can be used to 
 up there range damage, melee damage, so on so forth, playing out similiar to many other RPG's out 
 there, this system is similiar to EndWar.
  
  The races has been downed to four, I was disappointed when I heard this, but this isn't necessarily 
 a bad thing, I mean, the Space Marines, the infamous Orks, The mysterious Eldar, and the deadly 
 Tyranids. They all have there own unique personalites, and there own playing style, but don't let 
 that prevent you from straying to one race permanently, switching to another race isn't difficult, 
 just a bit frustrating, especially if you have no clue what to do with that particular race.
  
  Graphically, this game looks fairly stunning, with the environments stealing the show completely. 
 Utilizing the Essence Engine 2.0, they are able to create Battlezones that look both believable, 
 and fun to fight in. The destructible environments add a scent of hecticity in the firefights you 
 have with in this game. Lighting and shadowing within the game are done with a grace, with light 
 shimmering off the Body armor of most units, and with the meticulous bump-mapping detail to all 
 character models, especially with the Tyranids, this game will stun you, if you have a modern PC, 
 this game will run superbly on ultra detail, even for those users still running on Dual Cores. 
 Relic added small cosmetic touches to the game that really help add a shade of realism to the game, 
 the vehicles you'll notice are awefully bigger than the marines.
  
  Sound does just as well as the Graphics, you will never hear more satisfying Firefights in any 
 game to date, guns fire with a commanding attitude, explosions send a bassy wave, shaking the entire 
 floor, chainsaws shredding through hordes of Orks, the battlecry of fellow comrades, the effects 
 really help immerse you into the experience.
  
  AI of this game isn't great but does well enough to deserve mention, the AI aren't stupid, you 
 advance, they will start to get into cover and take you out. Reaching out from the flanks, throwing 
 grenades, or hiding in buildings are one of the many things they do to take you down, however, 
 it is rather questionable why they don't retreat, even when facing unstoppable odds.
  
  Multiplayer is a blast, especially if you have players you know playing along with you, with the 
 standard array of game-modes, this will be a keeper for most of all RTS fans out there. A very 
 interesting feature, while done before by Red Alert 3, still a nice touch none the less is the 
 inclusion of a Coop Campaign, so for those with friends who have the game, you two can play coop 
 togther, this also adds to the tactical considerations in the game, deciding who should charge 
 and who should suppress are by far the most commonly asked questions within these conquests.
  
  You will notice that this is a Windows Live game, meaning you will get achievement points to 
 add to your Xbox if you have one, this isn't a bad thing, even for those achievements whores out 
 there, however, you will need a steam account if you want to run this game, not bad either, helps 
 prevent some pirating out there, so if you already have an account, then don't fret.
  
  The only bad thing about the game is that it did stray a little far from the award winning formula, 
 not a bad thing, its just that most of us weren't ready for such a change, I guess people should 
 have saw something like this coming, but for people like me, I am open to change, and this sequel 
 really did hit the spot for me. Your friendly AI does great, but the reaction time is a bit pitiful, 
 meaning that it takes some squads a bit of time before they begin running towards the target marker, 
 not a complaint, but it is something you notice. The bossfights... They aren't what they are cracked 
 up to be, but in ways they are fairly frustrating, they take a long time, and it is hard to manuveur 
 your squads out of the way of the bosses... Special Attack. The only thing that can take down a 
 boss is a concentrated array of gun fire, and the force commander repeately hitting the dam thing, 
 not hard, but at times, frustrating. **EDIT** There have been some persistant crashing issues with 
 Dawn of War, especially with the connection to Xbox Live, its something to be concerned about, 
 crashed on me most of the time, but the time I was in was no doubt alot of fun.
  
  Dawn of War II in the end is a very satisfying sequel, Most RTS fans will be pleased with the results 
 of the game, if you are a fan of the series, or you are just in for bloodthirst, and strategic 
 carnage, then Dawn of War II will be the game you will be craving for the rest of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kompassssss
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  today we will speak abbout dawn of war 2 (dow2) . ill start abbout graphic im playing this game now 
 and i also played all older parts and can say they made what was needed to be done. finaly ubgraded 
 graphic all those effects and how skills look are realy good. if i woud rate graphic i woud give 
 maby 7 or 8 looking at how many strategy games have better graphic. i cant say anything wrong abbout 
 this its cool. and now i speek abbout not soo good things i saw in previos parts they wanted to 
 mix this game whit rpg and finaly they made it. and i think they had to figure things a bit longer 
 before doing any real acts. in campaign u control 4 scuads of marines and 1 leader whipe level off 
 enemy colect equipment and go to onother its kinda boring. and they made this cover ability u can 
 order squads to take cover near all kinds of things like rocks or threes. but i personaly thing 
 it needs abit spoiling cause not always all scuad members cover near objects sometimes one or two 
 go in front of object and die in fire thats anoing. and i heared just 1 out of 10 perons that said 
 no bases is good. i myself like bases in strategy i use soo caled turtle tactic make a base and 
 defences as high as i can then strike whit one heavy assault. in game were is no bases i cant do 
 that. soo for gameplay i woud give just 4. good rpg elements but they ruined all strategy. now abbout 
 sound i speek short its good i give 8 to sounds and 7 to music not bad. and all other things i didnt 
 liked is main menu skirmishes are deep inside multiplayer like they are some kind off mini game. skirmishes 
 are realy wery inportant part in strategy games. nad what whit windows live are they so paranoied 
 that hackers make copies and many money are lost .so they made it for steam + windows live but 
 ive still heared something abbout copying this. when did u learn ppl the only place hackers cant 
 enter is ur official servers. until now noone found way to somehow hack online. gaming. for owerval 
 rating i give 6 cause i thought i will get to play onothes legendary skirmish mach ass one i played 
 few years ago on dow dark crusade. eith hours mach i thing is sereously a legendary. thats all i 
 wanted to say abbout this game disapointed. 
  Posted Feb 20, 2009 1:10 am GMT Category: Games 0 Comments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sourgummyworm
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. A true disaster. Should not be labeled "Dawn of War." I have been watching 
 this game since it was first announced, and I cannot be more disappointed.
  
  The campaign is awful. I thought it would be the same gameplay with bases and stuff. Nope. You 
 get 4 squads of assorted types of heroes and essentially go mow down the orks for a while. I was 
 really excited watching the videos, but the campaign sucks. A few good ideas, like wargear and 
 all, but with no base gameplay to even start with. If your men start dying, run back to the little 
 satellite and they are 100% healed and reinforced. If the squad dies, all you do is revive the 
 fallen leader and bring him to a satellite. Viola! Brand new! You can no longer reinforce units 
 by clicking a reinforce button, no longer do anything you loved in Dawn of War. 
  
  How about a skirmish? You get one building: the HQ. And it looks like a chapel-barracks from Dawn 
 of War I. The most advanced unit you can build is a predator tank for the Space Marines. I thought 
 they were going to add buildings, units, tech, etc. I was very wrong, they took out every fun unit, 
 changed the names of all the units in what appears to be an effort to "simplify things". 
  
  You no longer capture and reinforce resource points. You can capture points, but they don't 
 allow buildings. Also, you have to capture power point and build a structure on them, then bring 
 generators raining from the sky. 
  
  The developers went from a tried and true game style and went down a risky path of innovation. 
 Their attempt to rethink the RTS genre failed miserably. Every second put into this game was a 
 waste of time. Their efforts failed miserably. I don't think I'd buy this game for $10 knowing 
 what I do now.
  I can't play it anymore it is that bad. Looking to sell my copy already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmudbug
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I know alot of people are angry at this game because of the no base building part. But, I think 
 that this game should be looked at as something diffrent than a normal RTS. We've built bases and 
 spamed out units over 100's of other games, but rarely to we invest any intrest in the units we 
 send out to fight or the way that they fight. I like the feel of this game things are easy to find 
 and control. It is easyer now to focus on tactics and useing your units abilities to their fullest 
 in multiplayer. 
  
  All of the above applies to the multiplayer aspect. The single player game is a neat mix of rts/rpg. 
 The way you take care of your units and upgrade them with new gear and stats is right out of a 
 rpg. What this game reminds me of is the old mechcommander games in terms of what you invest into 
 your units. The gameplay feels fresh to me, and i enjoy it.
  
  I gave the game a 9.0 because the visuals are good, and it runs smooth. The gameplay is fresh and 
 diffrent. The people who put out the game tried something diffrent and it does work. The game is 
 fun. The points I did take off where because of the maps. This game shipped with very few maps, 
 2 or 3 more would have been ok for me. But with the maps we do get there is very little diffrent 
 between some. Shipping the game with maps in this state seems questionable to me. But this problem 
 is easy to fix with free map packs in future updates to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  lets start off with this
  
  if you loved the old dawn of war games
  
  YOU WILL HATE THIS!
  
  this is nowhere near as great as the previous games, the only thing 
 they did was improve the graphics a LITTLE, take vannilla DoW, and remove chaos, replace em with 
 tyranids, and removed even more than they added
  
  the graphics are very decent, thats all i can give em!
  
  
  now, removing base building totally 
 removes what made the previous games so great - faction differentiation.
  
  the factions all feel exactly the same, and there isnt much strategy involved, plus as soon as 
 you send even the weakest soldiers against the enemies' strongest, they will run back to their 
 base! AI = 4/10
  
  the tyranids we have waited so damn long for have not NEARLY reached expectations!
  
  and the 
 fun of dawn of war was conquering the battlefield with floods of soldiers, and slowly expanding 
 your base to cover a whole giant area.
  
  here, you only get one, easily destroyable HQ, which you cant expand at all, and all you get to 
 do is send your soldiers with limited numbers to run at the enemies' cowardly soldiers.
  
  the fight for resources has also become pointless
  
  now, you CAPTURE power posts! this is 
 a pain! and you cant even build expansions onto your requisition outposts!!!
  
  the FUN of dawn of war was the base building!
  
  they removed the awesome voice acting, ALL 
 of your favorite factions, base building, faction differentiation, and there isnt that much to 
 the story because you only get to play as the space marines. crappy soundtrack, terrible resource 
 and unit limit system, and there is little to no way to defend your captured areas.
  
  remember the drop pods with the space marines in the old games? that made it so fun! now thats 
 gone
  
  they removed whatever fun was in the game
  
  IMO, the tyranids arent even that great! they got only a few units
  
  and is it really a "swarm" 
 when your limited to 5-10 squads? or when you cant expand your base to further horizons?
  
  
  
  if you loved the old dawn of war games
  
  YOU WILL HATE THIS!
  
  overall, this 
 isnt worth your money if you love to litter the battlefield with structures and units
  
  
  
  the campaign is more repetitive than any game you will ever play
  
  every single mission 
 is the exact same objective - take four squads of small numbers to reap through the area to the 
 other side while staying alive, just to get to some ordinary unit that is superpowered with 5x 
 health, to gain nothing from the win. 
  
  the story just sucks! the multiplayer has no strategy to it at all, and nothing to really spice 
 up the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redrobodragon
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect and it deserves 10/10. I play it on maxed out graphics and the details are 
 AMAZING. The multilayer is the best I've played in any RTS game. Screw buildings, you get to focus 
 on the action! and trust me, you need all the focus u can get to use in the field with all the 
 skills and abilities from each unit. The Units are innovative! The actions are not repetitive like 
 other RTS games, Ie: special kills
  
  Best part is the campaigns! The missions are so much fun and the leveling of you squad and upgrading 
 them the way you want ie: Str, Will, Ranged, Stamina. You can even decide what kind of skills and 
 abilities you want for each single unit/squad.
  
  Its true that you get 4 races as opposed to 8 races in last DOW but 4 is still above average of 
 3. If you are and RTS player then you MUST PLAY DOW 2 ! I've played Red alert, Tiberian sun, Warcraft, 
 Starcraft, Supreme Commander, World In conflict, u name it, This is ONE of the best I've played 
 ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowerpass
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  Come on guys aren't u tired of base building strategy game. Coz in all of those games we have to 
 make base build a massive army and detroy the other one. But don't u think it's time for a change. 
 This is where DOW2 comes first. This game has no real base building all it does is that it makes 
 jump right into a battle from almost the word go. Though the battle are not on epic scales but 
 you will need lots of tactics to overcome your enemies. Especiallu in the harder difficulty mode 
 which i recommend you to do. There are lots of upgrades for your soldiers. You can chose them to 
 your style of play. There is a very storng multiplayer mode. I am just loving at the moment . Still 
 there are lots of things to say about DoW2 but i dont have time coz I am going to play It again. 
 So i recommend to all the strategy and also non strategy fans to check this out coz i believe you 
 all gonna like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aura_enchanted
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:36 am PT
Review:  this game is brilliant. anyone who says different should be run over by a truck or go back to waiting 
 on their $120 copy of starcraft 2. now that this is out of the way i shall review:
  
  most people wanted it to be a real Real Time Strategy instead they got a proper do justice tabletop 
 port (minus all the complex limitations of the codex's and turn based play) making this an Real 
 Time Tabletop. this is a brilliant game that improves on the already phenomenal track record of 
 Warhammer 40000. combat is fluid and involves careful selection of units with what resources u 
 have. unlike a real RTS. which features cannon fodder infantry and overpowered and overpriced super 
 units (case in points being RA3, starcraft, advanced wars, supreme commander, etc.) which are a 
 B! tch to take down, if at all impossible or result in a boiled down cold war (meaning whoever happens 
 to have the most of said super weapon) . in Dawn of War 2 this doesn't exist. to suggest differently 
 for a minute is borderline insanity. who says an RTS needs to have a Cluster F#ck in order to settle 
 any test or arms.
  
  this game instead gives u a 100% grade A tactical strategy game involving the use or precious commodities 
 over who has the most of or the most powerful. the storyline is rich and original. the multiplayer 
 though constricting in number of player will satisfy those who give it a dedicated effort and the 
 visuals and audio is without a doubt the most flawless thing i have seen in an RTS since supreme 
 commander had its dual screen function.
  
  so here is my take on this game: if you love single player RTS and online small teams play this 
 is definitely a buy. if you hate the constricts of classical RTS and its combat cluster F#ck this 
 game is a no brainer. and finally if u love blizzard so much u cant go a day without playing warcraft 
 or starcraft then don't buy this game because you wont find anything here that will satiate your 
 need for a cluster F#ck.
  
  pros: great singleplayer, great visuals, awsome audio, lots of unit customization and lots of brutal 
 gore, no base building.
  
  cons: not a large multiplayer, ISNT AN RTS SO STOP CRITIQUING IT LIKE ONE! and no base building 
 (really is a good and bad thing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylanius
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2009 6:59 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War 2. Lord, how I wanted this to be my favorite game of the year, but so far, it's not 
 looking too good. I played all of the previous games (yes, even the red headed stepchild SoulStorm) 
 and got a fair amount of enjoyment out of them. However, DoW2 is completely different, and not 
 so much in a good way. Since everyone and their kid brother played the multiplayer beta, I'm going 
 to focus more on the singleplayer campaign.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are actually pretty sweet. Orks don't look nearly as cartoony, Nids are 
 monstrous, and the Space Marines and Eldar look as tough as ever. The races' dreads really lumber 
 around and kick debris all over the place. Tanks actually look and feel powerful when they come 
 rumbling onto the battlefield. I certainly don't see how any reviewer could knock the graphics. 
 No doubt about it, this game is gorgeous. I'd confidently give graphics a 9.
  
  Sound: The sound is alright. The Nids sound alien-y, the Orks are Orky, Eldar are elegant and the 
 Space Marines have calmed down a lot since DoW. The music on the other hand really sounds like 
 it was heavily inspired by Lord of the Rings. Sometimes it doesn't mesh with the game and you have 
 to hear this overly dramatic music when you're just walking through the woods. The Force Commander 
 also likes to just legitimately scream his head off in the middle of a fight. It sounds like he's 
 plummeting off a cliff The voice actors do a fine job even though some of the character cameos 
 from DoW don't have the same voice actor. Bit of a pet peeve but whatever: I'd give the sound a 
 7.5. It's fine stuff despite the insane FC. You may want to mute the music and provide your own 
 soundtrack though.
  
  Gameplay: I have absolutely no qualms with the hero system or lack of conventional RTS elements. 
 Look at tabletop Warhammer: you start with a set number of guys and try to outfox and eliminate 
 your opponent with what you bring to the fight- complete with customizable commanders. This aspect 
 of DoW2 is very authentic to the tabletop game and I completely support it. Warhammer 40k doesn't 
 have buildings with production queues; why should this?
  
  When you play through a level, some of the mobs drop equipment, along with the additional piece 
 you get as a mission reward. This is similar to WC3 but it's sort of cool to collect the different 
 equipment for your guys and this deepens customization. Little is more satisfying than watching 
 your custom guys hammer away against the enemy. I'm proud when my team slices through Orks like 
 a hot knife through butter. There's also a simple skill system where you add points into health, 
 melee, ranged and special meter. These lead to unlockable traits like "Power Shot" or something 
 similar. There are also special attacks and equipment your commanders can use, like healing or 
 chucking Melta Bombs. Cover is used exactly like Company of Heroes where you've got heavy, light 
 and open ground. Use cover to your advantage. There are plenty of missions to play through and 
 the world map incorporates Dark Crusade-like territories. Even though the maps are short, there 
 are plenty of missions. We've all been here before and it's been cool. Fantastic, Relic: The groundwork 
 for a breath-taking game is right here in our midst.
  
  All of this is enjoyable but here is where the game really falters and significantly dampens the 
 experience for a casual gamer like myself: your target audience. If you kill a certain percentage 
 of your enemies without losing any of your commanders in a certain amount of time, you get a bonus 
 deployment. Sweet, right? Too bad you have to clear the map in five minutes, taking no losses, 
 and eliminating 90% of enemies. On average. Initially I was contemptuous of how amazing grenades 
 worked and how fast enemies fell, but after level 10, I acknowledged that my score tended to be 
 miserable. I mean, how do you ANNIHILATE a level (following your requirements for the bonus) before 
 a certain point? When I have a power hammer and two squads of terminators it'll be an easy task 
 but what's up, Relic? Why is the bar so high? I rarely ever get any bonus deployments per campaign 
 and I'm a casual-ish player: your target audience playing on normal difficulty. This is discouraging 
 to me. I can't split my squads up and tackle different objectives at once either because when they're 
 all by themselves or if my commanders are divided into two groups, they're just overwhelmed by 
 the enemy. To top it all off, my score at the end of the mission is way less than satisfactory, 
 even when I eliminate 60-75% of the foe, save all four commanders and complete the map in 10 minutes. 
 No bonus deployment for me.
  
  The only other outright terrible aspect of one player is the boss fights. Boss fights are incredibly 
 obnoxious. The AI is very smart in this game- when a satchel charge comes flying towards them, 
 the enemies get out of the way. Cool, cool- fair game. I'd do that too. But how am I supposed to 
 bomb a boss that runs from my satchel charges and is immune to suppression? Boss fights tend to 
 take at least four+ minutes alone since my guys just have to open fire and try to target the boss 
 who has an AWESOME LOLOLOMG TELEPORT/AOE MOVE that just devastates my guys when it hits. I absolutely 
 loathe taking on bosses. This is probably because my score shows up afterwards, reminding me how 
 terrible I am under this game's standards. Maybe with four-player co-op we can become an Ork/Eldar/Nid 
 crushing machine. Unfortunately, I have no one to play with, so I don't know. 
  
  In a similar vein of this aoe/get out of the way business, it's worth mentioning that all of your 
 guys have "reaction time." When you click to give them an order (even an important one like "move 
 away from the nade!") , the guys take at least 2 seconds to actually drop what they're doing and 
 shift position. Retreat is a different story, but why run across the map to the beginning to escape 
 a single grenade? All enemy grenades have 5 second timers and thank God they do else they'd erase 
 my squads two minutes into the map. But even so, bosses tend to completely abuse my squads simply 
 because my guys won't listen to me and react. You're a SPACE MARINE! MOVE!
  
  I rate gameplay a 5: It's got some very cool customization aspects and the game itself is MUCH 
 closer to what Warhammer 40k actually is. However the experience is marred (baaadly marred) by 
 some incredibly frustrating aspects- at least as seen by a casual gamer.
  
  DoW2 aimed for the moon but kinda sorta landed in the stars. While DoW2 can confidently claim that 
 it's a Warhammer game, the incredible in-game standards of success, annoying bosses, and your squads' 
 "reaction time" really negatively impact the experience. Perhaps in a patch Relic will ease up 
 on the standards or tighten reaction times. Who knows? It's safe to presume that buildings will 
 eventually find their way into the DoW2 franchise because of the public outcry and thus appeal 
 to many other players. As of right now, DoW2 is a fun game that appeals to Warhammer fans, not 
 so much to RTS fans. If you're a tabletop gamer looking for a fun computer game, try DoW2. If you're 
 an RTS fan looking for the new StarCraft, you won't find it in DoW2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuconteaza
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 1:12 am PT
Review:  Everyone wanted the tyranids in dow 2 so now we get them... but at what cost?
  We go from 9 races, buildings, plenty of multiplayer maps, and campaign (shallow as it may be) 
 where you could play all the 9 races... to a campaign that starts out strong but eventually gets 
 just as shallow and repetitive (minus the choice of races) , the always nice havok engine and nice 
 cover system. Is it worth it?
  
  While playing through the entire campaign i thought it was really clever how they just made a space 
 marines story with squads and no actual "war", saving that for multiplayer. 
  Well surprise surprise, that's it, it doesn't get any better.
  
  Dawn of war 2 has LESS than 
 dawn of war 1. Not including the expansions. Do you comprehend that? The first expansion, winter 
 assault, blows this game out of the water.
  
  They cut out so much stuff that it resembles more Space Siege than any other strategy game. Dawn 
 of Heroes, no war here.
  
  A very nice party based RPG single player. 9/10
  A very shallow strategy game. 4/10
  
  Just hold off until the first or second expansion, then 
 it might be worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AxeEmAll
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 1:12 am PT
Review:  It is a great game, since you do a lot of strategic thinking. It's not a base-building game, and 
 thank God for that, for other RTS games are too noisy; that is, they rely more on the number of 
 troops to destroy the enemy's base than on planning which units work best for a given situation.
 
  
  In Dawn of War 2, it is the strategy that takes the foreground. The units you build have specific 
 strengths and weaknesses, and if one does not consider these in battling the enemy, he loses big 
 time.
  
  For a game that relies more on brains than brawn, with the brawn part being the result of the brain, 
 it's highly recommendable.
  
  Part of the strategy involves capturing tactical areas to increase points for upgrading troops. 
 This makes the game more interesting since you have to consider which upgrade best suits the ability 
 to defeat the enemy. I wish I could reveal more, but that would be spoiling the fun. If you still 
 enjoy World In Conflict as much as I do, Dawn of War 2 is a breath of fresh air in the direction 
 of the fantasy sort of way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleepknot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 12:42 am PT
Review:  Well i'll make it a short one. I was expecting from DoW 2 to be an engaging RTS, with lots of things 
 to offer, lots of tactical choices that came from the extremly varried unit types. My first "letdown" 
 was when i saw 4 races. Ok i wasnt expecting 9 but still.... but that was okay. when i got into 
 the game [ getting over the 6 [six] maps or so,,, which i did not belive to be Relics work. i mean 
 ?! ] the gameplay initially pumped me up. Tyranids, okay cool, assault space marines fly coolish, 
 imba dreadnough ,,,, but then i realized. IS THIS DOW? No. Because it has become from a extremly 
 well balanced multiside RTS to a simple, rush-like one. And i hate that. U can have a maximum of 
 lets say, 7 maybe 8 squads, maximum 6 units or so per squad. And if u think that 4 races, 1 building, 
 max 6 squads per team, NO super units [execept the Avatar..^^ ] , no listening posts [this way the 
 game encourages rush] and virtually NO feeling... is WH.... then think again my friend. Good luck 
 pwning with Necrons in DoW 1. C ya there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WerTwist
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 12:13 am PT
Review:  Wow... I'm a huge fan of the Dow 1 series and so I was craving for some DoW 2 goodness... but what 
 a let down...
  
  Ok, the graphics and sounds are nice, as was to be expected, but the game play is just... not RTS 
 to me. No base building, only preset units, the same maps visited over and over again.
  I can live with this in single player, although even there it gets repetitive, but in multiplayer? 
 The PAIN...
  
  By the love of God, what where the developers smoking?
  No base building... I just can't get over this one... why in the nine hells, did they throw base 
 building out of the window? There aren't even any listening posts you can build...
  Where did the settings for multiplayer go? Choosing between 2 victory conditions and fixed or random 
 starting positions just doesn't cut it.
  And only 5 maps for multiplayer... WHY? They could have at least adapted some of the single player 
 maps. :- (
  
  Ok, this is only my personal opinion, but if I play an RTS I want to build a base, I want big, 
 long battles, not these 10min max skirmishes we have now...
  
  It's just so disappointing...
  
  Of course YMMV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Man, I was soooo looking forward to this game, DoW1 made me love RTS's all over again, but man 
 they really dropped the ball on this one. ;/
  
  Let me start by saying it is by no means a bad game, and some might even love it, i simply am not 
 one of those ppl.
  
  The feeling of dark gritty brutal warfare is gone, being able to watch a gory battle unfold infront 
 of you on your screen is gone. Instead you get small skirmishes that lack any of the visceral feeling 
 that made DoW1 so great.
  
  There is no base buliding at all which is a HUGE let down, I always liked building a base, starting 
 off weak then becoming a death machine. 
  
  I dont know how they can consider this a strategy game when you have 4 squads with no base... Pretty 
 much your only option is well, take cover and try to flank.... i guess... It plays alot like Company 
 of heroes but with about 1/4 of the units.
  
  I dont wanna be too harsh on the game, but everything about DoW1 that i loved has been ripped out 
 and replaced by something else, I will play it some more to give it a fairer shake but man i gotta 
 tell ya the first thing im thinkin while playin this game is i hope someone mod's it.
  
  Feels slugish too, well try the demo b4 you drop for 50 on it, do yourself a favor because if your 
 looking for a DoW1 with better graphics this is not it, this is like the red headed step child 
 of warcraft3 and CoH.
  
  Im just really really really let down. If i wanted to play CoH i would ya know...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnhao
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  If you are a die-hard W40K fan, then DON'T BOTHER WITH THIS GAME. I purchased this game out of 
 my love for the original, but instead, what I got is a stripped down action/squad adventure game 
 that does not in any way deserve to be considered a "Real Time Strategy" game.
  
  Seriously, where is the strategic aspect of this game? Surely the act of hiding behind the myriad 
 of covers scattered randomly across the battlefield is not strategy, just common sense; what then, 
 is this game about?
  
  Here is what this game is about: it is a stripped down squad-based action game from a third person 
 perspective, where you brutally kill and crush everything that moves on the screen in a brutal 
 and bloody manner. There are no real decision making involved in the process, resulting in an extremely 
 boring and tedious gameplay. Of course, many may argue that the unit customizations and deployment 
 offer TONS of choices to be made, but really, will a more powerful armor affect the tide of the 
 battle? Will a SHINY sword butcher waves of enemies in one swing? Or will the deployment of an 
 infantry squad as opposed to a scout squat drastically alter the outcome of the battle? I think 
 not.
  
  I understand that the developers are trying to appeal to the general public by severely watering 
 down the RTS genre, but why even call this game an RTS if the game only involves rushing from point 
 A to point B, while killing everything on the path? Where is the strategic element that made this 
 genre successful? Where is the core RTS game structure? If THQ/Relic decides to make an imbecile 
 game for the entertainment of the general public, then please, don't call it Dawn of War II, for 
 calling it Dawn of War II implies certain standard, certain expectations the many DOW fans have 
 come to expect from a sequel to that great game; instead, call the game "Squad-Based Mindless Killing 
 Spree with REAL Dawn of War Characters" or something... as a matter of fact, I sincerely believe 
 that THQ will be able to sell this game under any title with the help of that Great looking box 
 cover (that's some seriously good-looking box cover you got there, THQ, even I was fool into believing 
 that this is a TRUE sequel to the original DOW) .
  
  All in all, if you, like the rest of the bottom smashing populace, enjoys a quick fix and a bloody 
 killing spree where no thinking is involved, then this game is for you. As for the rest, DOW fans 
 and RTS fans in general, do not waste your money on this game... again, this is not a RTS, just 
 THQ trying to rip you off.
  
  Damn, that box design looks REALLY good... I guess that old saying, "beauty is only skin deep", 
 is true after all...
  
  Final verdict:
  0 for the game, 1.5 for that GREAT looking box-design. (Hope THQ is going to keep that box-designer 
 for DOW3... maybe the space marine is going to GLOW in the third one...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malstyne
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I can summarize this game by saying it has nothing to it.
  I don't even know why they called it Dawn of War 2, when it has so little in common with its predecessor.
 
  
  No buildings!
  Only 4 races!
  11 units per race!
  No listening posts!
  Only one hero can build turrets!
  No choices!
  No strategy!
  
  Every game is the same. 
 Everyone builds a few scouts, gets some points, build a few infantry, put them by the points, and 
 then spend the next 10 minutes running back and forth like gerbals from point to point losing or 
 recapturing it until you get the resources to upgrade your one and only non moveable building-your 
 HQ that you start with. After that, you get a whopping 4 units to choose from for tier 2, do the 
 same, and on to tier 3 for the same thing. No buildings to be made, no air units, only a handful 
 of useful infantry and vehicles. There are simply no decisions and thus no stratgey at all. 
  
  They call are now calling it "tactical" instead of a strategy game, I call it boring. It takes 
 as much decision making as when to pull down your zipper when going pee.
  
  Before anyone says I didn't spend time with it, I played a good 30 games vs human opponents, for 
 a fair shake, and won about 65% of them.
  
  One comeback the fanboys are making is that buildings allow you to turtle and they don't want turtling. 
 That is just plain BS and a sad excuse. Buildings have nothing to do with turtling. Buildings provide 
 choices! Everyone worth thier salt at an RTS also knows that turtling is not really an option anyway. 
 Almost every RTS will make defensive structures less powerful than an offensive army. Only noobs 
 playing max resource game turtle and it is easy to overcome. So why ruin the game over it?
  
  The company admitted to simplifying the game to appeal to a wider audience.... yea the people 
 who don't like to think. I really don't know why they would change the formula from DoW 1, when 
 it was such a successful game.
  
  This game will sell on hype and the success of its predecessor. It is a cheap gimmick to provide 
 more sales for THQ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robya
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Too many people are rating this game off of the seemingly shallow campaign mode. The single player 
 campaign is basically supposed to be used as a minor tutorial to learning all the new caveats and 
 strategies of how this RTS game works. Why are we even caring about the campaign? We rate Battlefield 
 2 in the 9.0's even though it has no campaign. That is because it is meant for multiplayer, just 
 like this game. 
  
  Anyways, let's talk about what is the main focus of this game: online. Admittedly, after playing 
 the first online match and failed to see a builder unit, I had a hard time enjoying the match. 
 It took me a couple of matches to get used to the new play style and emphasis on keeping your squads 
 alive, cover, and intricate use of all your units. But after I realized how the new game works, 
 I could not stop playing it. You get to choose from three hero units from each race when going 
 into battle where each hero has a different play style. There are tons of ways to play the matches 
 and tons of different strategies to use. 
  
  Yes you do not go out and destroy the other players base, you have to capture and hold more victory 
 points than the other team to reduce their points to zero, after that, you win. This forces players 
 to quickly go out on the map and fight. These victory points also allow for some interesting turns 
 in the battle and can lead to some very fun comebacks. It is great fun. 
  
  Some people complain about the lack of races as opposed to DOW1. They fail to remember DOW1 only 
 started with 4 races, this allows them to make sure those starting races are very well balanced, 
 they will surely add more races in future expansions. Others complain that the AI is too easy, 
 this is partially true when you get pretty good but as it is anyways, you should be playing other 
 human players online to get the full fun matches.
  
  Matches can range from 10-25 minutes on 1v1 depending on the skills of both players and presumably 
 a little longer in bigger rooms. The victory point method of winning though forces matches to eventually 
 come to an end which is nice since you don't always have to set up 45 minutes of time just to play 
 one match.
  
  I just ask you all this one favor, give the game a day or two before you make your final decision, 
 it takes some time to get used to it all and learn all the intricacies of upgrading and all the 
 strategies you can follow. If you give it time, you will surely fall in love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T3_DescenT
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  I imagine alot of you did as i did when you started playing this game, loaded up a skirmish and 
 jump into battle. First thing i did was look for my builder. To my suprize there was no such thing. 
 Instead an intence battle for resources and a single base which rarly needs defending are the tea 
 and crackers to this new adventure. After a few matchs and being creative with build stragities 
 and applying different wargear that your units can save up for i come to find that this new concept 
 was quickly addictive. after several matchs with random playwers i teamed up with some other gamers 
 that seemed to have the same love for the new stragities as i did. Teamwork, in this game more 
 then some of the previous, is KEY. Between distracting and flanking you never know what twists 
 can happen (word from the wise, dont leave your guys standing in one place for too long... less 
 that orbital bombardment remove your entire army from the map in one shot If your looking for somthing 
 new in RTS games this one cerently has my vote. Gratz on another great game THQ / Relic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thought_1
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:29 am PT
Review:  DOW2 copies Warcraft 3's mediocre hero system, except they forget the key point to all rts, resources. 
 Replacing the terrible strategic point, capture points with fewer, larger and even more pointless 
 take points. Fewer units that can withstand a withering amount of damage. what happens when you 
 are about to lose a unit? run away, resulting in a pointless game of cat and mouse around a tiny 
 map, with little viable cover.
  
  The rts in general has evolved at a snails pace in comparison to all other genres.
  
  magical 
 capture points perfectly symmetrically aligned across the battlefield. amazing! pointless.
  
  Would it be too much to ask to incorporate actual STRATEGY into a STRATEGY game?
  
  hear 
 me out before you claim that sitting in cover near a capture point is strategic. it is imbecilic 
 and tedious.
  
  why not replace the completely farcical capture points with real world points of interest? rather 
 than a magical tower of power, you have a functioning bridge that is key to supporting troops? 
 do you:
  
  a. destroy the bridge to cripple enemy movement and put your funds into jump troops?
  
  b. 
 sabotage the bridge with sappers? waiting for just the right moment to bury your opponents Land 
 Raider in a wall of scrap?
  
  c. forget the bridge, lets go stand by that pillar! 
  
  DOW1 was decent, the pathing was infuriating, but nonetheless, great to see 3D 40k w VO and all 
 the goodies.
  
  DC - also decent. the global campaigns were great.
  
  DC/SS - terrible. I still want my money back. rather than improve on what worked in DC, they stretched 
 it out into a pile of garbage. NO WONDER YOUR COMPANY WENT DEFUNCT AND YOUR PROJECTS CANCELED.
 
  
  DOW2 - seriously skip it, you wont be out anything. its flashy, but so are a hundred other games.
 
  
  It pains me to see such a poor rendition, since I would love to see the 40k games flourish, unfortunately 
 they took what was great about 40k - intimate battles between hordes, ripped all of that out, and 
 took a dump on it.
  
  We will have to wait and see if Space Marine delivers our 40k fix, as long as they nix the terrible 
 button-mash struggle. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
