-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer: Mark of Chaos
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warhammer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strong visuals bring the Warhammer fantasy universe to life like never before.
 real-time battles are cinematic and let you play as a fantasy general.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Technical issues make multiplayer a frustrating experience.
 campaign is fairly basic and features uneven production values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.4, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,700 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Black Hole Games
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 14, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mark of Chaos captures the fantasy combat of the Warhammer franchise in a beautiful way, but it's 
 marred by some technical issues and a basic strategic campaign. 

  Orcs and elves have been done so many times at this point that it's easy to be jaded about the 
 arrival of yet another fantasy game. So it's a credit to Warhammer: Mark of Chaos that the game 
 makes you sit up and pay attention when its gloriously detailed 3D units come up onscreen. This 
 strategy game, based on the popular Warhammer Fantasy Battles miniatures game, is a visually impressive 
 affair, though the first chapter in what will probably be a long-lived series doesn't quite live 
 up to its own potential and is saddled with some frustrating technical issues.  

          The battles in Mark of Chaos are just like the ones in Total War games, only these feature 
 orcs, demons, elves, and other fantasy creatures.     

  With its beautiful real-time 3D battles, it's natural to want to compare Mark of Chaos to the popular 
 Total War games, which have the same sort of epic battles, only with real-world historical units 
 instead of fantasy ones. And, like the Total War games, Mark of Chaos comes with a turn-based campaign 
 to tie those battles together. Unfortunately, the campaign in Mark of Chaos doesn't feature anywhere 
 near the amount of strategic depth or replayability of Total War. There are two campaigns to choose 
 from in Mark of Chaos. One lets you play from the perspective of the mostly human Empire and its 
 elven allies. The other lets you play as the forces of the orc-heavy chaos faction and its skaven 
 allies, which are essentially humanoid rodents of unusual size. Those four factions are the only 
 ones in the game, which doesn't come close to the number in the miniatures game, but at least there 
 are three variants of each faction. Plus, we must admit that there's something almost sinisterly 
 cool about the Empire faction and the Germanic undertones in its reiksguard units and elector count 
 heroes.  

  Both campaigns are very linear. All you do is move one army along a predetermined path and engage 
 in scripted battle after battle. Along the way, you'll need to assist a besieged city, crush an 
 encampment of enemy forces, and engage in a one-on-one duel against the enemy hero. There's an 
 occasional branch that happens every now and then where you can pursue an optional mission, but 
 for the most part, the campaign map gives you the illusion of control as you move your army to 
 the only place on the map where it can go. It doesn't help that the map itself is incredibly dark 
 and plain, to the point that it's usually just a brown background. Even the story is drably told, 
 as it's conveyed mainly through static dialogue screens with obligatory growling voice acting for 
 the forces of evil and haughty voice acting for the forces of good. This seems like a lost opportunity 
 considering the incredible prerendered movie that opens the game; it's so amazing that you want 
 the designers to stretch it out to a 90-minute movie and put it in theaters.  

  While you don't have much choice in the direction of the campaign, you do have some bit of strategic-decision 
 making in the composition of your army. You can recruit different types of units in towns and cities 
 and then outfit those troops with better weapons, armor, and siege gear, as well as banners and 
 musicians that help boost troops' morale in battle. Or, you can also get your troops blessed at 
 a temple, which grants them various protections. And when you do arrive at a battle, you have to 
 decide which troops to take into the fight, as you usually have more troops than battle slots. 
 This involves deciding what kind of battle you want to fight. Do you want to rely on ranged weapons 
 such as bows, axes, or muskets, or do you go for a heavier force and rely on swords and spears? 
 On top of this, your troops gain veterancy the more they fight, which means you want to preserve 
 as much of your force as possible in each battle. Veteran units are both tougher and much larger 
 than green units. You can replace losses after a fight by purchasing them in your army camp, and 
 there's usually enough gold salvaged from each victory that you can restore your losses and purchase 
 a few upgrades.  

          The campaign gives you the illusion of control, but you really don't have much choice as 
 to where you go next.     

  In addition to army units, you'll manage hero units throughout the campaign. Heroes are just that: 
 powerful individuals who lead your armies and engage in one-on-one duels against enemy heroes. 
 Heroes gain experience over time, and those experience points can then be invested into three areas. 
 You can boost a hero's command ability, which means that if you attach a hero to a regiment, the 
 hero can use special skills to boost the fighting abilities of the regiment. These range from a 
 special magical shield that grants protection to each man in the unit to flaming weapons. You could 
 also invest those points in dueling skills, which make the hero more effective in those one-on-one 
 duels. Or, you can invest those points into fighting skills, which make the hero more powerful 
 in general battle.  

  Heroes can also be equipped with weapons and equipment salvaged from the battlefield, like magical 
 swords, mystical armor, or protective rings. They can also use special one-time potions and scrolls 
 that might restore health or mana (used to power abilities and spells) . However, you can't easily 
 trade any equipment between heroes, which can be annoying. For example, your mage might accidentally 
 pick up the heavy armor that your warrior hero could use, but there's no way to readily transfer 
 the armor from one hero's inventory to another.     

  All of this, of course, builds up to the battles themselves, where the units come to life onscreen 
 and fight. Since it's based mainly on medieval warfare, many of the base tactics remain the same. 
 For instance, spearmen don't do well against swordsmen, but they're handy against cavalry. Archers 
 aren't great in a swordfight, so you stick them in the rear where they can rain their arrows down 
 on the enemy. The Warhammer universe adds to this by introducing lots of really cool and weird 
 units. The Empire has gunpowder units, so you have early riflemen and canons, while the chaos forces 
 have twisted demons and even stranger creatures lumbering around the battlefield. Then there are 
 the aerial units, such as weird harpies, majestic eagles, and more. Mark of Chaos' mix of fantasy 
 and medieval influences makes for a compelling sight.  

          Heroes are your superunits, and they're really useful for slaying enemy heroes in duels. 
     

  It isn't just kill or be killed on these battlefields, either. The game models morale, so if you 
 inflict enough damage on a formation, the survivors will break and flee in terror. You can upgrade 
 and bolster your force with various spells, and you have an active role on the battlefield, giving 
 orders to your units and your heroes. Control is fairly simple, as you simply select units and 
 use the context-sensitive menu to issue movement or attack orders. About the only issue we had 
 in terms of control was trying to put a rein on our siege weapons, such as cannons, as they inflicted 
 as much damage on our own forces as they did the enemy.  

  The battles are certainly the strongest part of Mark of Chaos, and the campaign feels like a tutorial 
 of sorts to the various forces and tactics that you'll use outside of the campaign. You can create 
 skirmish games against the computer (though you have to do so using the multiplayer setup) , but 
 the real meat is in the multiplayer mode, which emulates the setup of the miniatures game. You 
 can create your own army formations and even multiple armies conforming to the different "point 
 sizes" in the game. To keep the games balanced, each side has the same number of points to build 
 their armies. The more powerful a unit, the more expensive it is, but even if one player selects 
 an army consisting of a handful of high-powered units, it all balances out because the other player 
 could go for a larger army of weaker units that cost the same amount of points.  

  Like the miniatures game, Mark of Chaos lets you create and customize armies to your liking. Fans 
 will appreciate that the virtual units in Mark of Chaos are as detailed as the real-world miniatures. 
 And Mark of Chaos avoids the entire "clone" armies that plague some games by giving you a variety 
 of individual looks for each formation. Meanwhile, the army-builder tool will let you customize 
 the colors for all of these units, so you can create your own distinct armies.  

          The army customization options should please most Warhammer veterans.     

  In terms 
 of modes, there's the standard deathmatch-style free-for-all, but more interesting are the siege 
 and reinforcements battles, which feature special capture points on the map that let you generate 
 gold, which can be used to purchase fresh units that arrive on the edge of the battlefield. These 
 battles can go on for much longer than a regular fight, since both sides have to maneuver their 
 units to seize and hold points on the battlefield, and the sudden arrival of reinforcements can 
 turn the tide of battle. Multiplayer battles can be intense, nail-biting affairs. Unfortunately, 
 trying to connect to a multiplayer game is an exercise in futility, thanks to various glitches 
 with the login and account system. We still couldn't log in even after we patched the game, and 
 we tried creating new accounts and using existing ones to no avail. Thankfully, the game does support 
 network play over a LAN.  

  Connection issues will eventually be fixed, but it's disappointing that issues as serious as these 
 made it through development. Once they're addressed, Mark of Chaos should appeal to the sizable 
 Warhammer community, thanks to its battle system and beautiful visuals that capture the essence 
 of the tabletop game. The rest of the game doesn't quite measure up to the quality of the battle 
 systems, but technical issues aside, Mark of Chaos represents a promising first step.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (96 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:38 am PT
Review:  What i like about this game is the way you pick your army before the battle and then you have to 
 win the battle with that army. There is no base to build up or protect and if you make a mistake 
 there is way for you to recover by building a new army up.
  
  This game makes you use what you have.
  
  Also as you gain more gold you are able to upgrade 
 the weapons and armor of each of your units. If you units have leveled up then you can make that 
 unit bigger in number.
  
  Having said that there are not just the normal units to contend with. There are hero units that 
 like a MMO game (WOW) can stand on its own or join up with one of your normal units making it more 
 powerfull. These hero units also level up but in a bigger and better way than when compared to 
 the normal units.
  
  Each hero has three tech trees into which it can put its points into. One tree deals with combat 
 on the field of battle. The other handles abilties in duels and the last covers command and support 
 for units the hero joins. So with the right point spent you could make a hero that is great at 
 leading great at combat or jut great at taking other heros out one vs one.
  
  The main story line is the strugle between the empire and chaos... intermixed are the alies, high 
 elves and dwarfs for the empire and orcs goblins and skaven for chaos. Each side gets four chapters 
 and each chapter is a differant world map in which you control and mover you armys.
  
  On the whole this is a good game, there are a few problems here and there and there are better 
 RTS games out there. Having said that if you are looking for a change and you can find it in the 
 shops then this maybe the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youyou132
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  Warhammer itself has a long history. 
  Although the first video game is Warhammer 40000, the first orginal Warhammer is medieval? age. 
 
  
  Pros:
  -Medieval version of Warhammer 40000
  -Great graphics 
  -New system of mission than other RTS
  -
  
  Cons: 
  -Too same RTS....
  -Glitches... too 
 noticeable
  -
  
  
  Could have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have 
 made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould 
 have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made 
 betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould 
 have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made 
 betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould 
 have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made 
 betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould 
 have made betterCould have made betterCould have made betterCould have made better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umjackdaniels
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  It's easy to compare this game to Total War. In fact, it seemed like a wet dream of "Warhammer 
 Fantasy: Total War."
  
  After all, why not? The complexity of the tabletop battles lended themselves towards the complexity 
 of Total War battles too, along with a terrific lore to base them from. The cinematic trailer just 
 added to the hopes. 
  
  True to form indeed, the units look terrific, detailed and paint-able. 
  
  But the complexity 
 of combat just wasn't there. Much like LOTR: BFME formations were more or less mostly for show, 
 with only statistical effects on performance. There seemed little point to organizing a battle, 
 something Lore-important (particularly for Empire and High Elf factions) , because it would end 
 up with a huge melee with no other divisions than "melee fights, range sit back and shoot."
  
  To add to this is the rather disappointing show of animations. Superbly detailed and rendered 
 models of units repeated lame swings with weapons which just lacked the viciousness you'd expect 
 from a Warhammer game. 
  
  While on the one hand, the plain and drab environments were somewhat true to form to the theme 
 of the world, they were boring, and had virtually no effect on your choices in combat. 
  
  And this is not including the cogent points in Gamespot's review: sad and simplistic linear campaign, 
 lame storytelling, and ridiculous loading times. 
  
  A Warhammer Fantasy game should be terrific to play, with its deep units, selection, and a strong 
 portrayal of the setting and factions. But somehow, Mark of Chaos just gets boring, as everything 
 lacks punch and just can't get exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Few people reviewing here seem to realise that warhammer is not a computer game, warhammer is a 
 uk based table top fantasy war game.
  
  What MOC does and does fairly well is to translate that table top game into a computer game, following 
 in the foot steps of Shadow of the horned rat and dark omen.
  What it does NOT do is cater the latest RTS fix for dawn of war junkies out there. Dawn of war 
 is NOT warhammer, it is a minor spin off computer game, so don't go crying and whining when you 
 find out that MOC is something different.
  
  That said mark of chaos could and should of been much more than it is, the campaign engine could 
 have done with.. an engine, but no its the same scripted linear rubbish we've been getting for 
 the past 8 years or w/e. Also they skimped on the content quite a bit, it really feels like they 
 ran out of budget and pushed the game out of the door without really finishing it. 
  My biggest criticism of MOC is that the army lists are very thin, if they'd fleshed out the army 
 lists to more closely simulate the table top then this game would of be of great value even with 
 its flaws. As it is its a worth diversion for fans of the table top but not much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HufflePuff-TLH
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  Warhammer - Mark of Chaos - RTS game 
  This game must be more for the hardcore fans of the univerce and the tabletop game then the normal 
 RTS PC player. after a GREAT intro that look promising and after watching gameplat movies before 
 getting it, it was not realy what it look to be.
  
  Gameplay - turn based RTS that has a hard time doing the job right, when crotrolling many large 
 groups, they tend to get very clomsig, and the engiene could have used a bit more work, you control 
 groups of melee, range and heros, with can be attaced to the other groups, this works oki, but 
 when moving your "army" into combat the can run around like clomsig and one can think "no no no 
 no not again" it is playable though
  
  Grafiks - Well after the realy buitiful intro it was a total let down, dull colours and grungy 
 texttures at high, is not my cup of tea, if it just had looked more like dawn of war... 
  
  Single player missions and campaign - this was aslo not realy what i whanted, it teands to get 
 quite boring, and doesent realy give you the urge for "just one more mission and i will come to 
 bed ;) fealing" more like gaaahh one more of the same again. 
  
  Overall not the best game in the univerce, playable but not for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odintsaq
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The Warhammer series was ended with the Dark Omen game, one of my favorites all time. I even bought 
 Shadow of the Horned Rat after playing Dark Omen and enjoyed it greatly as well. Hell, I even had 
 to buy a new graphics card in order to play Dark Omen.
  Time flew by in the meantime and more games came, some good, some bad, PCs became more powerful 
 than our imagination with better graphics, better sound, LCD screens and stuff like that. But it 
 seems that the creators of Mark of Chaos can see in the future, since now even a mid-power PC can 
 escape the LOOOOONG loading times of the game.
  This is for me the greatest flaw of the game. I hope it will improve with its upcoming expansion.
 
  On the good side we have a nice story, a bit simple some could say, or representing the games 
 world usual conflicts some others would reply. I think I'll stand in the middle and say that the 
 story IS a bit simple but it brings to life the gloomy world it was meant to represent.
  The graphics are good and solid, perhaps not the best in the world if you play it in my laptop 
 and the music, as with the Dark Omen, it is really good and thrilling.
  The gameplay is simple and easy to learn and the heroes are control easily ad efficiently with 
 a matter of click. Thanks to the creators that besides looking 20 years in the future, they can 
 still look back and maintain the thing that made this series one of my favorites.
  I will heap praise in the intro video. I mean I was astounded and saw it twice in a row. BRAVO 
 to the creators on this one. Maybe they should think of making a movie out of the world. If its 
 like this video, it will be fantastic.
  Many issues the game had have been corrected with the patches (huge like the loading times... alright 
 I said it before, I know) , so lets hope that this many patches wont appear with the expansion.
 
  The game itself is not like Warhammer 40K, Age of Empires, or Warcraft games, since you do not 
 require to built, mine, farm and train your troops. You simply must order them around efficiently, 
 as it was with the older games. This seems easy but you need to be cautious if you don't want your 
 forces decimated in a blink of the eye.
  Heroes are a great addition to the game and their duels are really fun to have. As they progress 
 levels and become more powerful they are a great asset to the game that can turn the tides of a 
 battle.
  A feature kept from the older games is that the units you have gain experience as they battle and 
 can become an even more gore spreading machine. A thing I miss is that they are a bit without personality 
 as it was with the other games (I was always reading the entries in the bestiary and the units' 
 descriptions and stories, as it was making me love the world of Warhammer even more) .
  All in all the game is worth playing it. It is fairly easy, even in the highest difficulty. I give 
 it a ten mainly for sentimental reasons, since I was awaiting a new one for years. The hours spent 
 playing have the loading times incorporated, that why they are so big a number for a short game 
 like this.
  I'd say it was worth waiting for so long and I hope this spell of using Warhammer and Warhammer 
 40K licenses continues on, so that we can enjoy more games like this. For those that are unfamiliar 
 with the real table game, or the world in itself and really like it I recommend reading some of 
 the novels as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  Not to bad. I would say this game reminds me of heroesV and age of empires put together into one 
 big game. lol who knows it might be a big remake lolz. I like the way you can customize your charachter 
 with colors armor and different things like that and the fightign aspect of the game is not to 
 bad i would give it a ok lol. There is bartering with different groups and different kinds of things. 
 You can use legions to guard your army through towns and raids and all the good stuff you look 
 for in these type of games.
  Graphics on this game look amazing but my computer could not always handle it so i would want u 
 to get a good processor or what ever because i had some lag issues. There is a spell book for your 
 leader and it consist of very different kinds of commands some of these are defensive and some 
 of these are attacking. This game is not bad if you would like to have something new and about. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsh4n
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game have potencial to have strong 10, but only if multiplayer mode would be a lot more compound. 
 Only creating army mode is made as it should, But because theres a very few maps ,the whole idea 
 gets boring quite fast.
  So whats good ? the single player mode is very interesting. If you have both campaigns than you 
 can have a lot of fun (I prefer the chaos) . 
  If you already finished the game and you can tell that You've done everything what You could in 
 multiplayer mode, than You can play the singlemode again on higher difficulty mode. Its very diffrent 
 when You must becarefull so much. 
  The whole system of controling your army is done just fine. You can have very good control of everything 
 what are doing your units. but I thing this game need an expansion set very badly , a specialy 
 one with very strong multiplayer ground (MOOOOOOOOORE MAAAAAAAAAAAPS !!!!) . thats from me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elosolipa
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Since the apparition of Dark Omen in the market, we (Warhammer addicts) were waiting for a new 
 edition of this particular and original turn based / RTS game. Although the table game is quite 
 different, a virtual version is always welcome to play anywhere and anytime. This time we received 
 a short and races limited version of the game, but it is quite enough to make us dream in sequential 
 expansions to make it grow. In fact, having Warhammer 40K as example it's supposed to be strongly 
 followed by updates. The game mode doesn't have too much differences with Dark Omen, but improves 
 the old version in all aspects that you may imagine. The army's upgrades, equipment and regiments 
 units are so much customizable and flexible that could be adjusted depending in the combat style 
 of the player. The regiment units and points, including the treasures and money captured in combat, 
 are more than enough to let you finish the campaign without excessive difficulty. If you are bored 
 about the RTS impossible difficulty of new titles, repetitive concepts and enormous hardware requirements, 
 it's the game for you. Surely after playing it you would be anxiously waiting for expansions like 
 us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KALHETMAN
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  For every real Fan's of original Table Games (Like me) must be very strange to find this game in 
 RTS version. Absolutely no working - and this is very sad for true fan who waiting many years 
 for video game.
  The story (Stefan) is Very Interesting. ONLY BECAUSE THE STORY I PLAY All First Chapter - (few 
 very deception in interface battles) . In Map World is O. K. - liked it - and organization of units 
 is more interesting aspect of game. 
  
  First battle of second chapter is pure MYTH II Soul Blighter from 1998 - one from worse game in 
 my collection. I close Mark of Chaos and put in work this game for be sure. The same scenery and 
 effects - incredible bad experience in year 2007/2008 No? I don't back to play Warhammer in RTS 
 version - never more in my life.
  
  Sorry for Story - Writer do good job.
  
  Persons what make a World Map and units organization before battle have very good idea - maybe 
 not very innovative but very good. 
  
  But more important in Warhammer is battle and for me - the worse election: RTS for video game. 
 Incompatibility and Deception.
  
  I recommended PSP version - is genial (only extremely short for me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo333
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  when I first got this game I got hie hopes it looked and sounded good and when I brought it home 
 and watched the opening cinematic my hopes got evan higher! but then I played the tutorial and 
 it slowly whent down hill
  
  well when I did play the tutorial I found out one good thing that the graphics were really good 
 but not perfect and one bad thing there no buildings
  
  at first I thought oh well I can just get straight to the fighting but then when I played the game 
 more I found out that RTS's need buildings
  
  for one it takes away nearly all strategy and the fights just get more and more repetitive 
  
 
  the story is ok but its laking the epic fell that the game promised oh and the good and the evil 
 story are nearly the same and they both have terrible endings espeshilly after all that hard work
 
  
  the voice acting is yet again ok but not special
  
  all in all its a medicore game with a good licence that promised to much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  This was a game that truly promised me as a warhammer fantasy fan the world and then some. It looked 
 great in the gameplay trailers and the previews were nice. The problem came when I realized three 
 things, in multiplayer the army building system works nothing like the board game, the single player 
 mode is pants and the fighting and mode of battle is a joke. If I wanted to shoot pixelated missles 
 at a little green or brown speck I would squint and throw pens at my brother! 
  
  I expected granduer and justly got the rug pulled out from under me. Dont take this the wrong way 
 it is a good game, the story is sound and the multiplayer function though crude is alright but 
 over all I think that what my wife paid to get me the special limited edition box with extras was 
 really more a rip off then an investment.
  
  Ohh it only took me 8 hours to beat the game in both modes on average difficulty so don't expect 
 anything like Spellforce with its projected 300 hours plus of game time to get you anywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothing_curt
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Its a fun game i ll give it that much but with the bug crashes and having to update the game for 
 the patches gets old very fast. 
  
  However the upgrades to purchase and the level ups on all the units for more additional forces 
 is well done rather than buying reinforcements like the other warhammer games. The upgrades you 
 give to your heroes is also a intresting addition you dont see in most hack and slash games like 
 this. There is a lot this games has to offer and you just have to have fun and try not to rip the 
 keyboard apart when your hero dies or your favorite units, the gore is also a given go to put in 
 these types of games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daydestroyer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  If it has the name "Warhammer" then its probably going to be one solid RTS. I mean, how could you 
 ruin that name? Well, Warhammer Mark of Chaos did a great job with the game, but could of done 
 a lot better.
  The gameplay is pretty simple. You choose your race ( 5 to be exact: Humans, Orks, Elves, Chaos, 
 Rats) then you choose whats going to be in your army. You can choose some heroes (powerful single 
 units) and some soldiers and seiges. After you've spent all your $$ on your army you send them 
 off to fight!
  
  The world is beautiful and kind of I should say medium size. Too bad the combat isn't too hot. 
 You have a massive army and you pretty much just move forward and kill the army somewhere in the 
 map. When you find them the units with blades fight pretty bad. All who's up front fight while 
 the others in back just stand there. Waiting to die. It goes like *slash* *dies* "Okay! Human swordsman 
 down! Next!". Sounds stupid but thats how it really works.
  
  There's also a Leader V. S leader battles too. Where a ring forms and 2 hero units fight each other. 
 It requires little strategy seems to be easy to jsut get your whole army to attack him at once. 
 "of course when you make it through the death line"
  
  But there is differengame modes like, one one player gets a huge castle and the other attacks it, 
 and is actually pretty fun. But the same combat problems. By the way there is no destructible Scenery 
 besides castles and soliders. 
  
  Theres also some great customizable armies. Like you can change there heads, there shoes, there 
 helmets etc. which is great but believe me it takes a long time. Since your custimizeing every 
 unit in the squad.
  
  The single player is 'okay'. You can choose the start off as the chaos or the humans. You go through 
 the same battles as the skrimish but in a more.. like.. a more story like approach. Or just smaller 
 scale skirmish . You can upgrade your hero as well as everyone else to become stronger. You can 
 also choose your own path thorugh the world though you'll always end up at the same end spot. And 
 the options are more like continue on with the story or Bonus around THEN go on with the story.
 
  
  The multiplayer is just like skirmish but with a human player... too bad there's not a lot of people 
 on. I usually found about 4-9 people. So not much to say about it. But smarter oppenents. There's 
 also not so much maps.
  
  Well the game is great and all, but how the combat works and bad multiplayer and okay SP, the game 
 just isn't good enough. They could of done better than this. But if you can ignore all the problems 
 and try to enjoy it (I almost did) this game is actually pretty enjoyable. But I still recommend 
 some other game like CoH or maybe WiC. Especially WH40K series if you love warhammer and rts. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kole37
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  Warhammer is a classic unoriginal strategy game. It has nice and complex graphics and sound. Its 
 linear missions are fairly fun to play but pose no real challenge for the advanced strategy game 
 player. The storyline is far from great and the overall feel of the game is poor. The game is very 
 short and the missions are all alike, in every mission you have to kill one faction, attack a castle 
 and duel somebody. It mat be fun in the start but i gets old as you progress. The game is good to 
 pass the time when you are waiting for some better game to play. All in all it is an average game 
 that could of been much more than it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidtheripper
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 20, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Now I can review this game in two ways, One: comparing it to other related genre games. Or, Two: 
 Rate it on a standalone basis.
  
  To compare this game to its other rivals, Mark of Chaos doesnt really hold its own. I mean, the 
 King of this Genre is the Total War series. So if those who have played either Rome or Medieval 
 2 and are thinking of trying out Mark of Chaos, dont bother you will only be disappointed.
  
  For a Standalone basis ill give what props this game does offer. Graphics: I have to admit 
 it does look good enough to be believable. The characters have differnt attire in the groups/formations 
 so they dont look like clones. The spells and upclose action does give some visceral eyecandy from 
 time to time. Sound: This is where I was disappointed, I have a 5.1 system with sound card, but 
 the explosions were weak sounded. The fighting sounded more like a scuffle rather than metal to 
 metal scrusshes. I tried to adjust my settings but I couldnt get excited bout hearing the battles.
 
  
  Gameplay: Hotkeys wouldve been nice to have been issued or remapped to ones likeing! Since you 
 do have alot of simple options to select spells, groups, special abilities and sometimes items. 
 I found i had to do alot of mousing to get what i needed to get done. Also the sluggishness of 
 how the battle unfolded seemed a bit long. Im not sure what it was but it seemed to me that everything 
 seemed like go, stop, fight, go, stop, fight, MoC just didnt seem to capture the intense fighting 
 and known chaos that the WH40K universe is capable of being (Dawn of War)
  
  So who should play this game? DIE HARD Fans of WH40K, the ability to make and paint your own armies 
 is cool, and might appeal to those Miniture Tabletop players. But I say unless you are seriously 
 bored of the Total War Series of games (Rome and Medieval 2) , find this game in the bargin bin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  The presentation of this game is great. It has a fantastic intro and once the actual game starts 
 the visuals continue to remain really good. Sound effects also add a lot of atmosphere to the game 
 as well. It all combines to give a good warhammer feel.
  
  Marching units around the battlefields and generally waging war on the enemy armies is good fun. 
 I love the amount of detail that has gone into every individual little model in the armies. Muskets 
 fire up clouds of gunpowder smoke, bodies litter the battlefield as they die, fireballs singe enemy 
 troops and best of all are the siege weapons. There is nothing more satisfying than landing a perfect 
 hit in the middle of an advancing unit with a catapult or cannon and then watching the ground explode, 
 flinging troops &amp; dirt everywhere and leaving a smoking crater in the ground.
  
  Now here are the bad points. Firstly you will need a very good computer to run this game. This 
 is not a big problem for me but for some this game will be unplayable. Even with my decent setup, 
 loading times were horrendous.
  
  Secondly, I bought this game mainly for the single player aspect. I have yet to try out the multiplayer 
 side of the game so unfortunately I cannot comment on it yet. I have heard that it is bugged to 
 hell. The single player campaign (if thats what you can call it) is extremely limited, very short 
 and ridiculously easy to complete. You do not get to choose your heroes, there are only 3 levels 
 of experience for your troops (of which the choice is also limited) and once they are maxed out 
 they cannot improve in any way. You also get no choice in where to go on the pointless map. You 
 just simply click on the next battle on the linear map. There is no fortifying of cities, no surprise 
 attacks from marauding enemies..... no surprises whatsoever. Its all completely scripted.
  
  So basicly this game is technically very good as the developers have put a lot of effort into making 
 the battle play &amp; look realistic. Unfortunately the single player campaign is rubbish and once 
 I had quickly completed it I was left wanting a LOT more. As you only get to choose from 4 army 
 types when building your own custom armies (empire, elf, skaven &amp; chaos) I fail to see that 
 this game has any lasting appeal.
  
  This game is worth playing but certainly not for the full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbat22
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  i bought the game and i played it for just that one day after that i didnt touch it again. im a 
 big fan of everything to do with warhammer but the story in this sucked, the trailer looked so 
 amazing that i just couldnt believe it and i was really hyped but it wasnt worth it. Mark of choas 
 has many flaws to many to count so i wont count them. DONT BUY THE GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!! if u want 
 a good game buy total war its esseintailly the same game but (im sorry warhammer) its better and 
 has a great story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smp9105
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Ok, here goes:
  Mark of Chaos is fun, and definently worth consideration, but it still has problems. Not too many 
 complaints, though (I got the game brand new for $12 at Target)
  However, the campaigns are too linear, they're too predetermined, even though they try to change 
 it up with optional missions, you end up doin the same thing every time you play it.
  Next, when you first open the game after installation, you see Campaign, then Multiplayer, so if 
 you want to practice with a skirmish, its a little hard to set one up. (Just do it in multiplayer, 
 it works)
  But the gameplay is solid. duels are fun, the squad combat works well, with retreating, squad morale, 
 blah, blah, blah. Though it sorta reminds you of playing the Total War games, they made the genre 
 their own and kept it original with the warhammer characters.
  One of the greatest parts of the game (My personal favorite characteristic) is the siege combat, 
 using cannon, ladders, battering rams, and other siege equipment provides a very original take 
 on the RTS category. The castles are really fun, and they help to spice up the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Space
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Coming off the heels of Dawn of War, there were high expectations for Warhammer: Mark of Chaos. 
 Dawn of War was an excellent RTS that accurately portrayed the Warhammer 40K universe. Naturally, 
 I was excited about the prospect of a Warhammer RTS set in the classic fantasy universe. I had 
 my doubts however, seeing as how the game was being developed by a company I hadn't even heard 
 of before. Unfortunately, my fears proved to be true.
  
  Warhammer: Mark of Chaos has a single player campaign that is fairly adequate. But the meat and 
 potatoes of any good RTS is it's skirmish and multiplayer modes. This provides lasting replay value. 
 Unfortunately, this is where Mark of Chaos falls flat on it's face. The army builder is probably 
 the best thing about the whole game. You are given a set amount of points to build a custom army. 
 You can buy units and items with the points, and the selection is pretty varied. You can even customize 
 the way your individual units look. This part of the game is really fun, so it's a shame the actual 
 gameplay doesn't hold up.
  
  First, to even play single player skirmish, you have to look in the Multiplayer LAN options. This 
 is a very awkward and strange choice, and at first I didn't even think the game HAD a single player 
 skirmish mode until I hit the forums and found out how to access it. Unfortunately, Mark of Chaos 
 doesn't play like your typical RTS. It tried to break the mold by focusing on the battle, and not 
 on building units and buildings. However, the actual combat is fairly boring and dull to watch. 
 You don't build any structures or units. Basically, you build your custom armies, and just sit 
 back and watch them hack away at each other, with very little strategy involved. There is a siege 
 mode where you assault the enemy player's castle, but this is poorly executed as well. The multiplayer 
 and skirmish modes might have sounded nice on paper, but in practice they are extremely boring 
 and mundane. There's really not much going on strategy wise in a game that is labeled Real Time 
 Strategy .
  
  The graphics are very nicely done and accurately portray the Warhammer units. The sounds are serviceable 
 but nothing to write home about. Ultimately, Mark of Chaos feels like an unfinished product. Perhaps 
 if the devs had more time, the game would have been better. It's ambitious to be sure, but fails 
 to realize those ambitions. Maybe with the release of the expansion, Battle March, the game will 
 have more to offer. We can only hope, because Warhammer is an awesome franchise, and it is a shame 
 to have yet another mediocre game with the license slapped on it.
  
  My verdict is to simply avoid this title. If you want Warhammer, just stick with Relic's superb 
 Dawn of War series. If you absolutely must have classic Warhammer as opposed to the 40K series, 
 then I'm afraid you'll have to wait for a product worth your time, because Mark of Chaos isn't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  First, very nice graphics, good sound, user friendly gameplay, good storyline.
  Unfortunately it was too easyyyyyy! The whole idea of the game was brilliant. I'm a fan of the 
 level adjustment on units too, apart from heroes but it was too easy. On the last mission with 
 humans and elves where you have all the units topped up in levels and equipment I can't recall 
 if I missed a unit or not. Piece of cake.
  I will also point out the duelling phases in the game. A very nice touch but it was still easy.
 
  
  Finishing I'll say this. A nice game, get it but only when it comes out on offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskenfan
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm the type of person who likes the Warhammer world, the game (tabletop and PC games) and 
 the idea of the whole thing. And what fascinated me about Dawn of War was clearly 2 things: The 
 games pure simplicity and the brutality. I love when I can watch my soldiers brutaly sawing down 
 the enemy with their chainsaws. It really gave the Dawn of War series the Kick . But when you compare 
 it to MoC, you REALLY REALLY wil get irritated when first starting the game. The first thing I 
 missed when looking on the main menu in MoC was the Skirmish mode, because I wanted to try out 
 the game first before I begin the campain. But I didn't find it. It was later when I read in the 
 manual I found out that you have to select Multiplayer to start a game against the CPU, but the 
 thing dissapointing me with that feature was that you only had 3 maps to choose between in a normal 
 battle! Okay, so because I didn't find the Skirmish mode the first time, I searched for the Tuturial 
 instead. But in the tuturial, you only got to know the basics, that will say camera options, how 
 to move your army and so on, nothing really special to learn about how to win a battle in that 
 game, no help, no hints, nothing!
  
  Okay, so I thought I might learn the game by playing the campain. I was wrong again! It started 
 with a fight from the very beginning! And whats more, I didn't get any hints how to move my army, 
 how to best act on the battlefield and so on! So I ended up loosing the first mission in the campain! 
 The 2nd time i tried, I won with getting 1 of my 2 Heroes killed. So when having cleared the 1st 
 mission, I thought my Hero would be ressurected again. And again, I was wrong...
  I HAD TO FREAKING PAY FOR RESSURECTING MY PRECIOUS HERO!!! And I had to buy new units too, beside 
 the fact of being forced to refresh the killed ones for a large amount of money. Whats really really 
 irritating and frustrating with this game is the fact of not being able to build buildings to create 
 new units. You just have to collect gold on the battlefield hidden at the outskirts of the map 
 and then buying new units when you cleared the mission. So I ditched the game. Then after playing 
 the whole Dawn of War campain again I decided to continue with MoC. I thought, I may just be a 
 matter of getting used to the new style of fighting. But I was wrong again. After ditching and 
 then continuing the game for about 3 times, I finally cleared the 2nd chapter. But every time the 
 game really bores me. There's nothing in the game that would make you wanna continue the campain, 
 no mouthdropping story, no awesome ending films like in WC3 ( the graphic is good, but the characters 
 still look kinda crappy while staring in the air, not even looking at the other person or moving 
 towards them or something.) and the battle animations are of the worst kind I've ever seen in any 
 other game! The of the war bored looking units just swing their weapons slowly in the air and the 
 flowing blood splashes so slow, you don't really believe that would happen in real. But in the 
 end, you dont want to fight anymore because you are afraid of loosing more of your precious newly 
 bought and upgraded units. Really, I wasted all my money on my soldiers who reached level 3 and 
 were upgraded with the best weapons, amour and stuff I could offer. And in the end they died on 
 the battlefield and I invested my money in them in vain. So instead of being able to unleash brutal, 
 bloodstreaming, and insane fights to the death on the warraged battlefield, you will just hold 
 all of your army backwards and wait for the enemy so you can snipe them down with your cannons. 
 THAT ISN'T WHAT WARHAMMER IS MEANT TO BE!!! Especially not Warahammer fantasy, and in any case 
 not a game called The Mark of Chaos , refering to to dark and evil Chaos hounting the Warhammer 
 world. You will not feel anything of the feelings you had when playing Dawn of War, when you watched 
 the awesome trailers and teasers or even heard the name of the title when it was released when 
 playing this game. The only things you will feel or think may be Damn, I lost halve of my army 
 again, and for what? For nothing! One more example is the Skirmish mode I talked about before. 
 After clearing some missions in the campain, I thought it might be time for playing some Multiplayer 
 games against the CPU. I started with having him on easy. I took the mighty Chaos Warrior army 
 against the small Skaven rats. I lost. So I halved his army and fought again. I lost again. And 
 so I continued with several other races. And I lost all the time.
  I began becoming frustrated because I couldn't figure out how to win in this game. And because 
 I didn't find any hints or help anywhere in the game, in the options, main menu, campain or tuturial 
 OR EVEN IN THE FREAKING READ ME-FILE, I decided for the first time in my life to read the manual.
 
  
  Yeah, really! I had no chance to read to manual to get some help, but I only found some few hints 
 how to act on the battlefield, but it didn't help me to understand this game fully.
  
  Summary: You really need to have huge intelligence, the will to learn unnessecary complicated rules, 
 knowlengde of real war scenes (really!) and the patience play the game right to the end to think 
 that this game is fun! It isn't a bad game, but I can't recommend it to other people. It really 
 is a dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  although this game has great graphics and looks very nice when zoomed in the game just isn't that 
 good and is very boring to play. unlike other rts games you can make units from buildings, that 
 was the biggest let down from this game. because you have a limited supply of soldiers there was 
 never any big huge battles where 1 side will loose then you make more troops and do it again, the 
 game had potential to be real good but lazy devs who didnt want to make buildings, upgrades etc. 
 that you see in normal games. you spend you're time sneaking around and shooting the enemy from 
 far away so you done loose any men which isn't fun. warhammer is really about fighting and not 
 sneaking. the main reason this game isnt good is that it was out near the same time as dawn of 
 war which was just like a warhammer game should be. if mark of chaos had of followed the same path 
 as relic then it would be 1 of the best rts games of the year with great online play.
  this game isnt worth the money, it requires a good pc to run well and just isnt fun to play at 
 all it gets boring after a few games. a big problem is that you can loose the game. you always 
 need money to fix youre troops and the only way you get money is playing levels but you cant play 
 levels with hardly any troops so you get caught out. this is awful and what makes me like proper 
 rts games better.
  if youre looking for an rts game and you like warhammer go for dawn of war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droven-mad
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game was a waste of money to buy and a waste of time to play. the manual sates very clearly 
 that there is a skirmish mode but for the life of me i could not find it. I spent about an hour 
 on the campaign and that was trying to get through the first mission. The build your own army feature 
 was not that good ether or very easy to understand. I did not even try to go online with it for 
 2 reasons:
  
  1. The game it's self is uter crap and would probably be no better on-line.
  2. I did not want 
 to waste any more of my time trying to find out HOW to play online.
  
  The only Decent thing in the whole game that i could see was it's graphics which were good there 
 is no doubt there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Mark Of Chaos is the latest installment by namco that is based on the games workshop 
 tabletop war game. This game is a real time strategy game. The usual army battles etc. There are 
 some features in the campaign though where you can go into to towns and buy more troops for your 
 army as well as bless them at the temple or arm them with siege equipment and better weapons and 
 armor. Which brings me to the races or.. well armies in warhammer. There are the empire (humans 
 of course) , the chaos (corrupted humans with extra eyes and tentacles that worship chaos gods) , 
 the high elves (the dandys) , and the skaven (grammatically challenged rat men) . These races have 
 many army choices ranging from basic infantry to war machines. The campaign in this game is extremely 
 linear and there are only two campaign choices. The human and high elf campaign and the chaos and 
 skaven campaign. Each campaign is accompanied with mediocre voice acting and cinematics. You can 
 then go to multi player, which can be very problematic in just making an account. You can play 
 skirmish games though although you have to go online to do it. Which really dosent make sense to 
 me. Now, the mercenary units that you pay for to put in your army. The orcs (warlike brutes that 
 are grammatically challenged as well) , and the dwarfs (Strong midgets with long beards and big 
 hammers) . Overall, this game has some good and bad features like most games but the bad sort of 
 outweigh its strengths. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gowda_13
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 20, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Before mark of Chaos came out I was really looking forward to playing this. I thought the physics 
 looked great and it looked like a game from the Total War series, but with bigger maps. But I was 
 wrong. Not that it's not an ok game, and the physics are there, but there were no really large 
 scale armies or massive maps. Just just went from one map to another and killed the scattered legions. 
 In between maps you got to replenish your men and upgrade your units with the gold and treasures 
 you find. Personally, I like have a base, where you can build up resources like in other RTSs. 
 Yes, when I heard that they were taking out the mining of resources, I thought it was a great idea, 
 but when I played this game, it just doesn't work this way. I think for an RTS to be good you need 
 one of to set ups: either you have a small map where you can build up resources and an army, or 
 you have a set army but a massive map with multiple armies to deal with (and maybe a base or 2) . 
 The way they have it in MoC, small maps, no resource building, and only a small, linear territory 
 to explore, just didn't work for me.
  Over all, you might get a few half-decent hours of game play out of this game, so maybe it's worth 
 it to you, but personally I'm happy I just borrowed my friends version while I lent him WH 40000. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drblood1
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 20, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  This games graphics of units are bad when at a distance but if you zoom in they seem to improve 
 greatly the mouse sensetivity i find too high i like the story but i hate the loading screen time. 
 I love the gameplay its like warcraft III which is my favorite game of all time but overall i find 
 this a decent game but you have to play it to decide. Sound not very good i think but turn off 
 sound replace with music fixes the problem. Learning curve isnt that long to get good. The difficulty 
 of campaign is just right and some levels you might actually have trouble with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttface1
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 6, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  I was expecting something to live up to the DoW... But it didn't not even by a long shot. Instead 
 it followed in the footsteps of many RTS games when it came to combat, and was almost like a wannabe 
 Total War. It was pretty, the graphics were nice, sound, but it really wasn't anything new nor 
 compelling enough to have me finish. Spent 50 on this sucker too, just had alot of faith in it 
 after the DoW series. If you're looking for a good RTS go with Dawn Of War, not this... The game 
 was a little TOO easy for an RTS. I like to spend awhile into a compelling RTS, I guess learning 
 things as I go keeps me into it. But nothing new really happens here, not alot of units, nothing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 1, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  i loved this game it was so different to what i was expecting. it is very similer to turn based 
 stratergy with a bit of heroes of might and magic attached. i really liked it.. it was once again 
 created by one of the masters of rts (thq) so it was all it was cracked up to be an more.
  
  the great story attahced and interesting carchter designs made me hocked for awhile. i am ick 
 of this type of game but i did really enjoy this. and i have it with my keppsy games. i will bound 
 to go back to it one day as it was a really enjoyable game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Argonaut125
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok here I go
  
  Gameplay: Generally, if you played any kind of total war game, or heck even a RTS you should know 
 how to play this. Combat feels a little flunky and interactive compared to the TT version and Dawn 
 of War series. But it has its good stuff too.
  
  Graphics: 1 word, Amazing. If there was one game that nailed the dark look of Warhammer to date 
 it's this game. The only problem is, the violence level should be higher considering it is Warhammer.
 
  
  Sound: Nice background screams but the main music is almost intolerable when compared to classics 
 like Warhammer Shadow of the Horned Rat's theme.
  
  Value: unless you're a fan you might want to skip it for Warhammer Online
  
  Tilt: Big fan 
 of the TT version and admirer of the old game versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infinitywheel
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game will never be worth your money.
  
  Before I bought this game, I made sure I was going to get something worth my money. I checked out 
 it's intro video, the official website and even tons of reviews regarding it. The bottomline was 
 simple. It was good, but it had some technical issues, plus loading time problems. I didn't really 
 mind that. I mean, there's always a way to get a patch and I can always do something while I waited 
 for the game to load. But guess what?
  
  It really was terrible. TERRIBLE.
  
  Even if you download a patch and do dozens of things to entertain you, it just isn't good enough.
 
  
  I have to give credit to Namco for the art, the detailed units and the terrain, PLUS the intro 
 movie whose quality just isn't in the same universe as the game itself, the art is beautiful, one 
 of the most beautiful I have ever seen but really, it just doesn't equalize the flaws.
  
  Let's go into detail why this game is really just plain disappointing.
  
  1) It doesn't take 
 a long time to load, it takes a millenium to load.
  2) The worst bugs ever. Sure you can play it, let's just hope it won't crash right after you finish 
 your game, if you'll even finish it.
  3) The voice dubbing is cheesy. EX: My rage fuels me on just doesn't sound right. The voice dubbing 
 feels TOO forced, not natural.
  4) The animation is one of the worst I have ever seen in my 15 years of gaming. Have you ever seen 
 units fight as dull as this? They're not even hiting each other. I have more fun playing Red Alert 
 1, seeing my units die from an A Bomb. 5) The duels are disappointing and its components are useless. 
 Your character can usually win with or without his so called special moves. Remember the animation 
 problem? Yeah, it carries over here too. 6) Poor animation. Did I say that already?
  7) All flash, no substance is the best way of putting this game into words. The game has a great 
 movie, a great website and everything is beautiful, but when it comes to the game, it's just bad, 
 real bad. We don't pay for the nice movie and the wallpapers and the art, we pay FOR THE GAME. 
 Warhammer: Mark of Chaos is purely disappointing. All the advertisements will never make up for 
 the terrible game itself.
  
  THE BOTTOM POINT.
  
  This game is beautiful, BUT THAT'S JUST IT.
  No action, no thrill, just ART.
  
  You want 
 a beautiful game, buy it. You want a REAL game, don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusReys
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 24, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Wonderful images, terrible animations. Bad gameplay and fair campaign... the tactical map is stupid, 
 you just walk in the line and stop in the points of missions or barracks to adjust your army. It's 
 better NO tactical map. You have little decisions to take, and no matter what you decide... the 
 game is linear
  
  The combat animations are mediocre. The moves are simple and you dont fell the emotion of a warfight. 
 Its so robotic, like bad actors in a bad movie.
  The long range units are terrible. They shot a lot and very fast, and if your meele troops are 
 in the way (engaging) , dont be afraid, they are imune to friendly fire.
  The heroes are interesting. The upgrades and powers to use in the battlefield are nice. But the 
 heroes duel is **** When i saw it first time, i laugh. They fight at a great distance!!! No contact!!! 
 The only good thing is graphic. The graphics are amazing!!! Just it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRork
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  After Dawn of War, I thought Games Workshop had finally managed to get over their issues with computerised 
 versions of their tabletop games.
  
  Oh what a fool was I.
  
  This game is worse than Dark Omen and Shadow of the Horned Rat - both were visually unimpressive 
 but captured the essence of the wars set in the warhammer universe.
  
  MoC is the opposite - it looks fantastic, but has poor and uninspiring gameplay. Losses are easy 
 to replace, special effects seem a bit naff and damningly, the game is repetitive. Each mission 
 seems to be charge forward and win, with very little use for flanking or finer tactics. It tries 
 to mix elements of the total war series with Warcraft 3's hero system and fails abysmally at both.
 
  
  When I played as Chaos and the campaign forces you to suddenly start using a Skaven army, I quit. 
 To arbitrarily switch races was particularly annoying in a campaign which appears to have a character-driven 
 narrative.
  
  It could have been so much more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crush_Project
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game had a great foundation. The graphics were pretty good. It is one of the first games that 
 displays this many units on the field at any given time, but there are problems. Many problems 
 with many things.
  
  The first real problem is that there are alot of bugs in both single and multiplayer. Their not 
 too bad, but you will notice multiple bugs out there. Second is this game has only a handful of 
 maps they've released. I dunno why but theres just an incredable lack here. 3rd problem i have 
 with the game is that there is a record low number of people online. Now given the online system 
 is a little buggy, but if you've played any other gamespy game then you should be used to the straight 
 brutal treatment this joke of a company supplies.
  
  All these problems i would think would be fairly easy to overcome, but Namco/blackhole seems to 
 have abandoned the game altogether. They 'had' been promising a major patch since january, where 
 they would show up every month after and state it had been delayed awhile longer. But now they've 
 stopped all communication with the community whatsoever, and seem to have dropped this game like 
 a bad habit. There is a new record in manufacturer neglect and its this game.
  
  The only thing that will entertain you about this game is the old skool table top like feel to 
 this game, but the only way you can really take advantage of that even is if you like to play against 
 computers or have a friend who can play across a lan with you, because almost everyone that 'has' 
 played this game have already moved on to other things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up for less than fifteen bucks recently and I wondered why such a recently released 
 game was so deeply discounted... well, I found out why; the hard way. Namco is clearly out of their 
 element with this PC game. The coding is so buggy that Mark of chaos doesn't even link to it's 
 own DLL's properly. Simply patching Mark of Chaos is a chore as it's own in game updater doesn't 
 work... Namco knew this and instead of fixing the game they just pasted an separate update exe 
 on the CD without bothering to let the person buying the game in on the joke. That's just crass 
 and very indicative of the quality of the game overall.
  
  The most significant hardware issue with MOC is with soundcard support. To make a long story short; 
 just get an Audigy if you don't already have one because anything other sound solution is a crapshoot. 
 The narrow hardware restrictions of MOC betray it's true status as an aborted XBox game released 
 onto the PC market just to squeeze some money out of their license. It's a lousy way to do business, 
 and unfortunately most professional reviewers go along with the scam by reviewing a restricted 
 release demo and not the full retail product that you and I get stuck playing.
  
  If you do get MOC to run properly then you will be treated to what can best be described as Warhammer: 
 Total War with a choice of Empire or Chaos narrative campaigns linking each battle. The graphics 
 are top notch and, while the gameplay has been done before, it's a proven strategy formula that 
 provides a satisfying Warhammer experience, especially for fans of other Warhammer games. The fun 
 is hampered, however, by crashes and buggy saved games. Considering the fact that the best part 
 of the game is the campaigns and the investment of time that they demand having your saves corrupted 
 is unforgivable. I can't recommend staying away from this mess enough. If you value your money 
 and free time then stay away from MOC and wait for someone else to do Warhammer right because Namco 
 could not be bothered to release a functioning game. You've been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedi_hunter1
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has to many bugs it is like they didnt even play test the game before they put it out. 
 They didnt release enough maps for multiplayer they only have four maps which the online community 
 only has four people online it eliminates the 3v3 maps. Gameplay is choppy wasnt fun to keep playing. 
 The hero vs hero battles doesnt involve any strategy at all all it is a button mashing frenzy. 
 They need to remake this game with another company. This game would have been better if they didnt 
 rush it out and playtested it before they put it out. They need to work out all the glitches a 
 map editor and the bugs in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Primaroo
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  OUCH ! Seriously disappointing ! It's not the graphx... they're ok... nope, not the sound... it's no 
 symphony but it ain't a rock through a window either.. gameplay ? Yep... thar's ya problem, laddy....
 
  
  Basically, ya've got another one of those games happenin' back when men were men and women were 
 glad ! Personally, i didn't even feel a bit of the Warhammer flavor in this one... except for the 
 really nice intro movie ! If the gameplay was half as intense as that i swear this would b on my 
 top ten RTS list ! The modern warhammer series (from dawn of war onwards) have this special, personalized 
 fights, where u might see one robot picking up a soldier and smashing him around or some fancy 
 martial arts killing another soldier.. u know, little bits that add a lot to the game.. none of that 
 in this one ! We've got warcraft motion, baby ! We sit in front of eachother, don't even flinch when 
 we're hit and allllll we do is strike back. And if we die, no problem, we have a hero unit, one either 
 chosen by the emperor himself or by the dark gods.. Now, the enemy has a hero too, so they'll end 
 up fighting in a lil' sumn' called a duel.
  
  All is fine and dandy up til' here. A duel... with all the troops around them, watching... surely they'll 
 spin around in circle until the player decides whether his hero should be more aggressive or perhaps 
 lean towards a defensive approach or 'till u choose one of the special powers, right ? ... crap... 
 wrong. They sit in front of each other, swinging their weapons. They don't actually hit, as their weapons 
 cut the air just in front of their faces, but funny... blood comes out. Use a power ? same thing.
 
  
  Dunnow, guys... you may like this one, but it could have been SO much better... the score i gave it 
 is exactly what i consider this game to be - mediocre.
  
  Cheers ! KP+ 4eva. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blade_Tr4iner
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I actually got it in December already but I'm getting around to the review now as a favour for 
 someone :D
  
  Warhammer: Mark of Chaos (MoC from now on) is a decent, but not excellent game.
  
  It's based 
 in the Warhammer Fantasy universe, with 2 playable campaigns. These campaigns don't follow on each 
 other, but rather present the storyline from the viewpoint of either side.
  
  The two main factions are Empire and Chaos, with other playable factions being the Skaven (ratmen) , 
 the elves and the Orcs/dwarves (as dogs of war under Chaos/the Empire) .
  The problem I have with the factions is that:
  A) A lot of the factions are missing completely, 
 like the lizardmen, or aren't playable as a race, like the undead.
  B) A lot of the units are missing, including several Daemons from the Chaos faction.
  
  The 
 graphics is excellent, but is marred by cheap animation (the units wave their swords in the air 
 and hurt the enemy, or gunners/archers shoot and the projectiles hit the ground 10 metres away 
 from the enemy - while damaging them) .
  
  The sound is also good but with flaws - the voice acting is cheesy (which is acceptable) and repeats 
 far too much (which isn't acceptable) , but the actual sound effects are decent.
  
  Gameplay in itself is thankfully quite faithful to the original Warhammer formula, albeit in realtime, 
 and is quite entertaining.
  
  My last comment is that the game is very resource heavy, with the larger battles causing extremely 
 intense performance drops even on lower details.
  
  All in all, Mark of Chaos is a game that's worth buying, but not as a full price game, wait for 
 it to come out as a budget title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_385
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Strong visuals battles can feel cinematic
  
  The Bad: Technical issues and limited tactical choices generally crap
  
  Like so many other 
 RTs game MoC covers the Bsics pretty well but this game lacks real strategic depth or options so 
 people who like myself have played what are to be considerd excellent RTS games like the Total 
 War games and the pretty good Warhammer 40,000 games will find this game very simple and it is 
 this simplicity that takes the fun out of fighting the battles. The battles themselves could be 
 comparible to that of Medieval 2 Total War but on a smaller scale.
  
  Overall this game is generally poor, so poor that I don't want to get into any further detail because 
 I wouldn't be doing this game any favours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_nine
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Everybody who has played warhammer tabletop game, ranks this game higher than others, thats for 
 sure. I have played and thats why this game gives so much more to me and also other warhammer serie 
 fans. Graphics are so beautiful and gameplay great. Its also good thing that fights are kept short 
 and you cant save when in the middle of fight. There is couple of disadvantages.. some of the voices 
 are really disturbing ( that one evil voice is just aaaaaarrrrgh ) and campaigns are way too short, 
 but still a great experience to warhammer fan. Already waiting that this story continues..
  
  -Thomas Nine- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsword0
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game's release, and bought it the day it came out, and before i knew 
 it i was waist deep in chaos, orcs and all that kind of thing. brilliant.
  
  It's everything Warhammer: Dark omen was back in the day, it's very much like the total war games, 
 too.
  
  the graphics are great, i mean you can zoom out to see things from the dizzying heights, where 
 men look like ants (and giants look like small kids with magnifying glasses, come to ruin their 
 day) , or you can zoom in and see things from the front lines, in such great detail... like i said, 
 great.
  
  the formations and tactical gameplay gives you that feel of the tabletop game, without being bogged 
 down in turn-based rules-laden dice-rolling nonsense.
  
  the trouble comes when, frankly, it's nothing special, it's nothing new. like i said, this is everything 
 dark omen was - and that was a long time ago. now don't get me wrong, it's not an entirely bad 
 thing, it's still a good game. it's just not a great game.
  
  the requirement to setup and deploy an army makes things just like the tabletop game, 2/3 of the 
 battle is won or lost before it's begun - true in both the video game and on the table top. and 
 frankly, it takes too long when it comes to multi-player. the action is slow, and doesn't really 
 live up to what could have been.
  
  all in all, single player is good - good story, good gameplay, if a little slow. Multiplayer however 
 is dissapointing. it's not bad, it's just nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sja30
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I am writing this review from the perspective of a huge Warhammer/Games Workshop fan so my considerations 
 may be a little biased. The campaign element of the game offers two main options either to play 
 as the Empire or the Forces of Chaos. Each option periodically switches between 2 generals a male 
 knight and female elf mage for the Empire or chaos champion and skaven for the Forces of Chaos. 
 The fighting element, being the main focus of the game, is a little clunky and the complexity and 
 intensity of the Warhammer game is only partially achieved. Magic is fun to use and the heroes 
 develop a progressively impressive array of skills and equipment effectively becoming one man/woman 
 armies. As the game progresses more hero characters become available and greater the range of siege 
 equipment and range of units to add to your regiment. I was rather disappointed that units can 
 only achieve level 3 whereas hero characters can progress to level 40, this obviously creates a 
 huge disparity in toughness and a hero can rapidly wipe out a unit which is a little annoying if 
 you get attached to a particular unit. In fairness this applies to heroes on both sides.
  On the negative side the game had a tendency to freeze periodically and twice crashed at critical 
 points in a game. My PC is no slouch! The duel game options in the campaign, whereby you have the 
 choice of using your hero to fight an enemy hero seemed wasted and I won all duels at all levels 
 with all hero characters on the first attempt which isn't particularly challenging.
  Negative points aside I enjoyed the gaming experience and having completed all 4 chapters playing 
 as both the Empire and Forces of Chaos at the normal and difficult levels there should be enough 
 to challenge most aspiring generals. I sincerely hope that some of the more negative experiences 
 of the game are rectified in future releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linux_Donut
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  So, I'm strolling through the local Best Buy, and I see the usaul: WWII rts, WWII shooter, Diablo 
 clone... HEY!!!! SWEET A GAME THAT ACTUALLY HAS SOME INNOVATION! Yes that game was Warhammer: Mark 
 of Chaos I was surprised to no end to see, after the regular installation process, that I was playing 
 an rts that made me feel more like a general than a base-building slave monkey. The level of army 
 customization is truly a breath of fresh air. You recruit troops, rather than the usual process 
 of teching, and you feel like there is always the chance of being ganked by some random raiders 
 hidden over the next hill. This game is a must-have for anyone who is tired of the tread, and re-tread 
 path of the traditional rts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneak_nakata
Rating: 1.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry to say this game is totally not worth to buy ! : ( i'm really frustrated because it's 
 does'nt have real WarHammer features like Dawn of War, the in game has a cinematic when heroes 
 talk, BUT THIS GAME it just a still picture with text. I'm really frustrated because this game 
 use the name of Warhammer. So embracing ! : (
  
  What are the weakness of this game ?
  1) Not very detail in combat, as u can see Warhammer Dawn of war (previous series) are very detail 
 in combat u can see our unit fight like realistic. But this game it just like a dummy ! No interactivity 
 such as when the unit been hit they doesn't show they defend vise versa to the enemy. yucks ! NOT 
 REALISTIC COMBAT! i'm sorry to say this.
  
  2) Doesn't have ingame cinematic. The heroes doesn't have animation, facial expression U JUST IMAGINE 
 this game is so lazy it just use a still picture with text. THIS IS UNACCEPTABLE ! using the name 
 of the great game of WarHammer : (
  
  I think i want to write many other reviews but i'm too tired to tell all the weakness in here. 
 Very well, i'm honest to tell you this is the truth of this game. For the programmer/designer of 
 this game PLEASE DON'T BE LAZY! put a very hard work if you want use the name of WARHAMMER... : ( 
 i said this because i don't want people out there feel frustrated same as me after buying this 
 game. Thanks you. I hope u will put a great and hardwork next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echaldeakis
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  First of all one correction to the official review. Heroes CAN exchange items yet only in strategic 
 view not in battle. You simply drag&amp; drop items from one hero to another. One very unknowing 
 glitch though is that you have to be carefull when choosing to distribute exp points. There is 
 no way of canceling (that I know of at least...) .
  
  Now for the game: It has one of the best battle layouts ever. Units and motion are so vivid you 
 feel the tension of each battle. The zoom send you right in the boots of each unit and performance 
 is very good on a decent system. Story is linear indeed but voice and music makes it more interesting 
 than it really is. The lack of strategic depth and skirmish single player games are on my board 
 the things that could and should be better.
  
  Finally it is a game worth playing and worth the money you spend on it. Unfortunately I haven't 
 played the multiplayer mode so I cannot comment on that aspect of the game.
  
  BRGS
  
  ^SaVaGE^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangIT
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Totally unacceptable load time in between screens. It's the 1st thing I noticed. A load screen 
 followed by a load bar! Really ridiculous. The game play doesn't really stand out like say, Total 
 War. Not enough IMPACT. Decent unit/hero growth though, with the xp, skills, equipment, and special 
 items. Decent looking units. Have not painted my own miniatures, but it seems to capture the feel 
 of the tabletop game. All in all, slightly mix feel for this game. Fans of the books should get 
 it. Tabletop purist should probably avoid it. Oh, don't know which is better, read the book (same 
 title) 1st... or play the game 1st. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1211212112
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  I have been Tracking this game for, like, 7 months, and when the demo was released, I was anxious. 
 But, allas, my computer broke down ( Then )
  and I could not fix it for a week. When i finally fixed it, the torrents were allready downloaded, 
 so it was not worth it. So i sat, and waited.
  In Sebia games usually come out 2 months afterwards. This time it was infinite. I couldn't find 
 this game anywhere. Later I had to pay 30$ extra, because my relatives from Sweden had to import 
 it to me. No matter.
  
  Warhammer Mark of Chaos managed to satisfy me, and I don't regret those extra 30$. I really don't 
 know why do people keep saying ,, Total letdown'' and ,, broken piece of crap'' and such.
  
  The game has one of the best graphics I have ever seen. Even if you put the detail level to LOW, 
 it will still look a lot better than, i don't know, World of Warcraft, or something far more appriciated 
 like that. The game itself is a masterpiece, and at first I was sceptical about Namco Bandai, but, 
 i was wrong. Warhammer MOC is a exellent game. The sound is awesome ( Especially the voice acting 
 ) , the graphics are beautiful, and the game is fun to play as WoW in beta. The people who say that 
 the game sucks ass, are only focusing on the bad things about the game ( very minor ) .
  Ok, there are only 2 campaigns, but if you enjoy tabletop Warhammer, what else could you want? 
 You get to control the Chaos for ****s sake! THE Chaos.
  
  4 Races. So What? The Skaven, High Elves, The Hordes of Chaos, and The Empire. The 4 capital races 
 of the Warhammer world. ( The Skaven and the High Elves are mortal enemies, and so are The Hordes 
 of Chaos and The Empire ) . And 2 more races to assis you. The Orcs and Goblins, and The Dwarfs. 
 The Vampire counts are dragging through 2 missions, but they ARE making an appereance anyway. No, 
 that is not bad at all.
  
  No buildings. So ****ing what? Who needs buildings, when you can blast Demons with your cannon? 
 And anyway, maybe it would be more realistic if it would be like Total War ( Any of them, i don't 
 care ) , but whats wrong with this? The Lord of the Rings - The Battle for Middle Earth series had 
 absolutely no building on the battle map ( not on the actual one ) , and yet that game is getting 
 better ratings than this one? I would say so. And I wouldn't say NO BUILDINGS for Mark of Chaos. 
 I would say, NO BUILDING. And if this game was made as Warcraft, or Empire Earth, i would literaly 
 kill myself. I hate it that in Warcraft and in such games you have an unlimited supply of units, 
 as long as you have wood and gold ( or even just gold if you are building Footmen, Grunts, Ghouls, 
 or Archers - the basics ) . Tha
  
  hmm... what is there else... ah yes
  Too Short. No it is not. Maybe the campaign is short, but that's why you have 2 of them, and that 
 is why you have the multiplayer. It's not THAT expensive to play online. Just buy the original 
 game. And by the way, playing Mark of Chaos with a other players is as fun as jumping into a pool 
 of ,, Mars, Snickers and Twix'' candy bars.
  
  In conclusion, i really don't know what do you people have against this game. The devs worked really 
 hard to complete it, and they have, and they have done a terrific job. And if you are unhappy with 
 this game, then just go play Warcraft or some other very popular, but yet not a masterpiece, game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Git17
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Mark of Chaos can be summed up in one word: Poor. The Graphics are excellent, but just 
 like Black Hole games previous product, Armies of Exigo, thats all thats great about it. The Gameplay 
 gets repetitive quickly, and the battles themselves are very boring to watch, and balance is almost 
 out the window.
  
  Mark of Chaos is similar to the RTT genre in that you dont build buildings, you set up an army 
 before matches even begin, and then duke it out. However the small amount of units you can control 
 makes matches end rapidly, as units have a very short life span. The Gameplay also seems very dull, 
 as the most you are doing is attempting to flank his army with a cavalry unit, or positioning to 
 prepare yourself for the attack.
  
  Heroes can become gods on the battlefield, as combinations of items can render them near invulerable, 
 and capable of taking on armies. Such as the Elector count on gryphon, melee units cant touch him, 
 and all you have to do is kill all the ranged units, then mop up the rest.
  
  The Voice acting is mediocre at best. Some of the actors sound as though they were just reading 
 lines off a book, and others are simply abysmal such as the Marauders of Chaos. Most particularly 
 awful are the Skaven. Click any of their troopers and you will understand the true meaning of awful 
 voice acting. They dont sound like rats at all, just actors desperately attempting to sound good.
 
  
  The Graphics, as i mentioned, are the only highlight of the game. The units look brilliant, and 
 their general animations are excellent. But the combat animations are a completely different story. 
 You would expect at this day and age for RTS games to have a new standard of combat animations, 
 such as Dawn of war, which is a two year old RTS game [And a fantastic one at that] .
  
  Not so in MOC, the units continuesly do the same one or two animations against each other, with 
 the odd splash of blood here and there, until one or the other dies. The Battles themselves are 
 very dull to watch, as slowly but surely the two armies hack each other apart.
  
  The Campaign itself is linear, and the storyline is pretty straightforward. The Missions are boring 
 that you just wish to give up half way through, as they mostly revolve around slaying all the enemies 
 on the map.
  
  This is in truth similar to the previous product released by Black Hole Entertainment,. Visually 
 the game is very impressive, but the gameplay is lacking considerably. It takes some portions from 
 older RTS games such as Wc3, RTW, and Warlords battlecry and tones it down considerably, with the 
 Warhammer look attached to it. It seems to be a trend that Black Hole likes to take the best bits 
 of games, or completely take ideas from other games, add it together to make their own games, and 
 this simply does not work.
  
  There is little to like here bar the fact that the game is Warhammer, but if your looking for a 
 solid RTS Game with good graphics and fun gameplay, dont look here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 28, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Another Total War clone is what this is. A Warhammer RTS had so much potential to be brilliant 
 but something always goes wrong with high potential games.
  
  The main problem is the campaign is way too short. Three quaters of the areas you visit are helpful, 
 jolly Chaos who just want to aid you. Whatever happened to the fight for leadership if another 
 Lord enters your land? While there are two campaigns to try and keep you interested, when you play 
 them they seem similar except you are different armies against different opponents. While the whole 
 heros idea was clever, it too was taken from another good RTS, Battle for Middle Earth. The whole 
 dueling system was a good original idea, it was all about using your special abilities faster than 
 your opponent, you could command your men while doing this but heroes were much better with all 
 their abilities to fall back on.
  
  The fact you can see the morale of your men and their stamina made it right when to judge to take 
 your men out of the action and stop them marching. Another problem is the upgrades you can buy 
 for your men, 1000 gold for a 2% better chance to hit? And armour was basically the same but you 
 gained hit points form it. Your troops seemed to level up too fast, you couldn't take enough of 
 them, there was no point in upgrading rookies when you could use veterans all the time, after each 
 battle you could always bring back your numbers even on a bridge in the middle of nowhere, the 
 seiges didn't have enough scale to them, the maps were too small. The lack of a skirmish mode also 
 was disgusting, and there was so few maps, online would never load or the updates wouldnt update.
 
  
  This game is just Total War but fantasy style, smaller scale and worse. They should of thrown greater 
 daemons, treemen, dragon ogre shaggoths and loads of armies in, made it easier to use online, made 
 it better and bigger scale. Overall this is a bad try of turning a popular table-top game to PC, 
 Dawn of War wasnt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite a catch. Upon playing, you instantly need to know how to use your units to their 
 best advantage, and you need to know their special rules. You need to know how to use tactics, 
 and you need to use these tactics to the fullest. But dont get me wrong, the controls arent difficult 
 to handle, it is just that you need to know what units to use when, and you need to know how to 
 use them to their fullest advantage. The gameplay lacks greatly, because of the obvious lack of 
 skirmish games, but the graphics make up for this a little. The loading times can be ridiculously 
 long at some points, and this is rather of putting when it comes to playing the main game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liamyum
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  seriously this ranks up there with perimter as the worst money i have ever spent. poor graphics, 
 worse gameplay, HUUUUGE loading times, what a disappointment. no wonder it was the last copy in 
 the store, they must have realised how crappy it was and sent back the rest of them. completely 
 surprising after the success of the rest of the warhammer games, this one-dimensional overly complex 
 not fun at all game is one that i literally threw out of my window. a b c d e f g h i j k l m n 
 o p q r s t u v w x y z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raskolnikov_usa
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  Just not enough content for single player. The box makes promises of customization, but never mentions 
 that it is only good for online play. Single player campaigns are decent, not a bad way to unwind 
 after a long day at work especially when you don't have cable tv. . . I played war 40 k for the 
 pc when it came out, and when I compare the two side by side I must admit that the guys who made 
 this one sure did skimp on the effort. Anyhow I'm just filling in words now, frankley I don't care. 
 If I could get my money back I would, all I can say is that I expected more. Wish I had an x box 
 360 and gears of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireyqwerty
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  a great game albiet technically unstable.
  this game is a great buy for any one new to the rts circuit. It has a revolutionary army system 
 and a wonderful rpg feel for your heroe units.
  although the campaigns a claustrophobic and not altogether as good as they could be they still 
 present a fun challenge with a presented revolution of the way war really is.
  Ive heard several people complain that there are no base building systems, i see it as a change 
 from the monotony, and the way it really works. you cant just build a barracks and have soldiers 
 magically file out it! in gameplay you rely on towns and camps to resupply and get new units for 
 your army. I see it as a fresh new way to look at the rts genre. However i must agree there is 
 great room for improvement , remember dawn of war only started with 4 races as well. as an ending 
 note , the voice actors do in fact sound like random drunken hobos from off the street corner... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for Warhammer seeing as the past Warhammer 40k games did so well. Then I noticed 
 that instead of the great RTS developer, Relic, making the game it was Namco. While I usually don't 
 just a game by its cover I knew before it came out it wasn't going to be the gem that the others 
 had been. With that in mind I played MoH nonetheless and enjoyed the RPG elements such as Hero 
 Battles and unit customization/upgrades but the core RTS fun element was not there. In battles 
 it is just point click and watch a small skirmish of choatic warfare. While this is near the same 
 as any other RTS the combat was very cinematic compared to Company of Heroes or Warhammer 40k. 
 MoH isn't the greatest looking RTS out today which hurts the game. In the end the RPG elements 
 of MoH are nice but the overall RTS experience is average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KroutZaGerman
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a fan of warhammer RTS games going back to the original playstation release of shadow 
 of the horned rat (it got panned but I thought it was good) . MOC has been on my wish list ever 
 since I heard of it. Right out of the box the technical problems of the game absolutely butcher 
 any chance that this game has of being entertaining:
  
  Loading times take up to 20 minutes in some places. 20 MINUTES! Who has time for that?
  
  The 
 gameplay is riddled with bugs, making it freeze up every now and then and contributes to overall 
 lag throughout the battles.
  
  When exiting a battle to go back to the menu, the cursor dissapears.
  It requires a ridiculus 
 amount of memory to run correctly.
  
  During loads it sometimes freezes up the entire computer, making me have to resort to pulling the 
 plug on my comps power supply.
  
  The cutscenes are laughable and look like someone put together a puppet show and filmed it with 
 a 1980 home video recorder and slapped it on the screen. The sound is buggy, and the game pretty 
 much has one song that it replays over and over. I could go on and on about how dissapointed I 
 am about this game. DO NOT BUY -the developers dropped the ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  If you've been keeping up with my blogs and reviews you would know that Mark of Chaos is one of 
 the game I have been waiting for since the summer. And even after all the waiting was done.... 
 i was still waiting. The wait I describe here is the load time. Load times... KILLED ME! It drove 
 me insane, made my interest falter, just..... (loading) lost me. Most of all on the smaller duel 
 battles that take all of two minutes to complete and double the time to load and unload. Yeah, 
 okay, the graphics were real nice, but not nice enough to warrant that kind of time. Major downfall 
 of the game, right there.
  
  Now customization, a big thing with me as you all know. In terms of army customization, very very 
 cool. Hero customization? Zip. Upgrades, yes, in terms of skills and whatnot, sure, but they wouldn't 
 let me touch the hero. So it becomes their hero character, not mine. Can't name him, cant pick 
 his armor or weapon, he's just default guy. Bleh.
  
  The story-lines were very identical to one another. Same kind of path to victory and very brief 
 between them. A duel here, a siege here, a skirmish there... blah blah blah. And the load times..... oh 
 dear lord.
  
  I was expecting more.
  
  Now I'm playing Medieval II, Total War. WOW! This is the game I should have started with. Makes 
 Mark of Chaos look worse than it is. Outshines it for sure. I'm way more interested and dedicated 
 to that one. It's even made me put WoW aside. Look for the MII: TW review coming soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgmail
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Errors/Problems:
  
  1) In a fight it's only the people in front that acctually do the fighting, the people in the second 
 line are wainting for the first to die so that they can get to the enemy. Apparently they are not 
 able to move in front of the first line to encounter some enemys.
  
  2) Even Hero's can't always move in front of other heros. Even when attacking for example a house 
 ande a hero is standing behind another, it's imposible to get him to move beside the other hero, 
 so that he can get to the house. So basiclly Ai stinks - cause you have to manually order him to 
 go to a second destination which will bring him beside the other hero, before he can figure out 
 how to go there.
  
  3) Hero's are almost immortal.
  
  3.5) Hero duels are simply to easy. It's imposible to lose. You never encounter an enemy hero that 
 is stronger than you own, even if you don't upgrade him.
  
  4) There are som bugs - my computer crashed 3 times during this game.
  
  5) Apparently you 
 get acces to powers you don't even have upgraded. For example I never did uprade any of my duel 
 powers but had acces to them all, after reaching a certain level.
  
  6) Now I don't know if this is a bug but there was an invisible enemy in the last level. He killed 
 my group af dwarfs so he was fearly strong. There was a flag/banner over him but no enemy to see.
 
  
  7) it's to short and you don't really get to know or really upgrade your heros.
  
  8) To few enemys - now i was looking forward to some giants and massiv slaughter like in Down of 
 war - but all that never came. Encountered only One giant once. What i really liked:
  
  1) the hero vs hero thing is great and duel levels are great too.
  
  2) Graphics is great. 
 Now before the last level I thought that it would certainly be great if there where more enemys 
 on the field - I was wrong, during the last level my computer did frezze for half a second some 
 times, due to the large numbers of enemys. I have a Core 2 Duo 2,4 GhZ, 2 Gb Ram and a Ati x1950 
 :D - i was recording video and listening to itunes while playing but i still think that the game 
 requires a lot.
  
  3) the map is totally nicely made - great graphics.
  
  TiP: Why didn't you use the A. I. from dawn of war - that worked perfectly.
  And put some more 
 strategy into it.
  
  Gamplay: 5 -To easy (played on normal mode)
  Graphics: 9 - it's amazing, but Campanys of hero's is just a bit better
  Sound: 6 - well it was 
 ok
  Value: 3 - To short - and no i am not going to play it again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Well, I had really high hopes for MoC, because I'm a fan of the Warhammer universe, and have played 
 just about every computer game that's come out for it. However, I think whoever holds the license 
 to Warhammer made a mistake here, basically by not picking Creative Assembly to do it right. I 
 mean, if you want to have really an RTS with large battles with lots and lots of units using primitive 
 weapons, wouldn't it make sense to go to someone who's basically spent the last decade making exactly 
 that kind of game? The main reason I bring this up is because after playing the Total War Series, 
 especially the later games such as Rome and Medieval II, you can see what's missing from MoC mechanics: 
 the ability to select several formation, and get them to keep their positions when moving to a 
 new point, instead of reforming the way the computer thinks they should be arranged. And this is 
 without even mentioning the AI, which I think was responsible for having my spearmen break formation 
 to go running off after some baddies, instead of staying in shield wall, which is what they're 
 there for. Don't even get me started on the artillery, which will happily track enemy units in 
 close combat with your troops, and subsequently blow you all to hell. I would usually make it shoot 
 at a distant area, or move somewhere else in order to avoid having my army savaged by my own weapons.
 
  
  Perhaps it would be nice to be able to rotate the camera by moving the mouse to the edge of the 
 screen, instead of using a key-mouse combination. I only raise this point because, having a trackball, 
 it's impossible for me to use the zoom feature in the game (which uses a mouse wheel) . Yeah, sucks 
 to be me, I know. However, as with the Warhammer 40K games, if you're zoomed in, you die. So it's 
 important to stay zoomed out much of the time, which means you're kind of missing out on the graphics. 
 I would have liked the chance, though.
  
  It would also be nice to have a simple, intuitive system (drag and drop, anybody?) for switching 
 items picked up during a battle or bought in towns between units easily, instead of wondering why 
 you've got a banner in your baggage, but can't drag and drop it on a unit. Some of this has been 
 fixed with a patch I believe, but in my experience, not all of it. Speaking of nonintuitive, how 
 about the system where you buy a mount for a character, but the default setting is dismounted. 
 Aside from the idiocy of that default setting, how about explaining somewhere in the manual that 
 when you buy a mount, it's necessary to click on a little button underneath your character's icon 
 in order to actually mount. Which brings up the manual. Aside from it's lacking an explanation 
 for some important features (how to use a mount, how to switch items from a hero to a unit (only 
 on the battlefield, as far as I can see, and the item had to be dropped on the field -- literally -- and 
 the unit had to pick it up in order to use it) , what the effect was of various items you pick up 
 in the game (what's it mean if a weapon ignores armor? More damage? Dunno.) , what defines a relic 
 (I think I had a couple, but wasn't sure; I just know they work in a backpack) , how to get _off_ 
 a castle wall, whether there's a way to open the castle gates, and so on and so forth. I presume 
 they're holding out for a strategy guide in order to make a few more bucks, but this is going a 
 little too far.
  
  I only played the single-player game, so I can't speak for the multiplayer, but I can say that 
 the length was reasonable, but it's completely linear (again, unlike the Total War series) ; you 
 have a map with a little avatar on it that merrily skips along through the forest, but you can't 
 leave the trail except for a few optional battles. You _can_ play as either the Empire or Chaos, 
 but either way, you have to stay on the path.
  
  I guess I thought the game was ok, but I also think there's a lot of flash to this game and not 
 much substance -- certainly not for the single player campaigns. I could see maybe playing it one 
 more time (for the Chaos forces) , but given the built-in linear campaign, I don't see much point 
 in playing again after that, so replay value for a single player is pretty low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDonnovan
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  This is a simple game to learn. There is not real learning curve as you merely select your units 
 and battle. One of the weakest points in the game is the lack of structures. Structures allow for 
 the diversity in games that make strategy truely come into play. Deffensive and Offensive strategy 
 again revolves around deffensive structures or offensive units created from structures. Graphics 
 and Sound wise the games is beautiful and well done. Just about any resolution looks great. The 
 cutscenes could have been better, however the in game graphics more than make up for it. Gameplay 
 in general is fair. There is a little confusion as to when or how rifles and cannons got brought 
 into the era, but this is why I dont make games. The game could have been perfect if there was 
 a little more depth to the story lines as it was pretty one sided and the campaign was created 
 to give you the feel of options but they are few and far apart. Both campaigns really are the same 
 thing just from different angles. Same general battles and hero confrontations. Overal the game 
 was a let down from what it had been made out to be. Coming from the group that made the Dawn of 
 War: Warhammer 40K series, I would have expected a little more to the game all the way around. 
 Graphics and sound do not make the game. Starcraft is the perfect example of this. All I will say 
 for multi-player is that it is severely lacking all the way around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubu_for_king
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  For fans of Warhammer - and fantasy battles in general - this game is definately worth the money, 
 particularly if you like on-line battling. Game play is obvious enough, using the mouse to select 
 units or highlight groups of units by dragging, clicking on your target and watching the massacres 
 unfold... If it aint broke, don't fix it. Heroes and soldier units gain experience and you win 
 money and items on the battlefield to upgrade equipment, armour and weapons, so you have a good 
 touch of role play. Although each battle is a mission your armies don't reset themselves afterwards 
 as most games do (which I hate) . You have to manage them and spend wisely on restoring men to experienced 
 units or investing in raw recruits for tactical purposes. This makes the game more interesting, 
 fun and challenging, giving an added sense of responsibility and enhancing the sense of a continuing 
 saga, not a just the series of battles it is at heart. The campaign also includes optional battles 
 so you can weigh the gain in experience vs the potential loss of manpower required for the compulsory 
 battles. Colour and lighting are reasonably subtle and perhaps this is why my PC struggles with 
 it a bit, and my laptop can't even run it, though it will play Battle for Middle Earth II perfectly 
 well. But it would be a shame to lower the image resolution; the detail you can zoom down to is 
 amazing and your soldiers can have a range of faces and clothes so they don't all look like drones. 
 Despite the lengths taken to enable you to customise the colours, dress and faces of your own army 
 of Chaos or Imperial warriors for some reason you cannot customise the Champions except for colour! 
 Surely your own leader, more than anything else, is what wants to be adapted to your tastes. Also, 
 you cannot play them in the campaign story mode and so would only be able to use them in online 
 battles. Whereas the superb (if slightly less visually splendid) Warhammer 40K Dawn of War (made 
 by a different company) allows the player to play one-off skirmishes against the pc as well as 
 the story campaign and online. Maybe that's my problem for being too cowardly to get wiped out 
 online, but it's a common enough option I'm disappointed was missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMammoth731
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  In reading some of the reviews done by the rest of the community, I decided to drop in my two cents:
 
  
  1. I am sick of hearing people whining about how this game doesn't allow for people to choose the 
 path that the story takes. Suck it up and stop trying to feel like you are big. This game does 
 something I appreciate greatly in doing what makes an RTS interesting. They make a storyline to 
 it, and give you something to look forward to beyond the fight. Some of the greatest RTS games 
 ever did this (STARCRAFT, WARCRAFT) . Overall, well done game in the storyline point of it.
  
  2. I am also tired of listening to people whine and moan that there is no strategy in this 
 game. Just because the game doesnt decide to coddle the retards in the gaming community by TELLING 
 them what counters what, you have to do it yourself. Technically, making it a better RTS. If you 
 are a general and don't know that pikeman will kick the hell out of Cavalry, you deserve to lose. 
 I'll admit that Bandai-Namco could have done a better job in catering to the portion of gamers 
 with a IQ of less than 80, but, that doesnt take away from the game. The countering in the game 
 is at first simple, and ussually you have more forces than the opponent. But, people seem to be 
 judging this game upon the first few fights of the Empire Campaign. The Chaos Campaign is considerably 
 harder, and requires a bit of thinking, rather than brute force (force helps in some situations 
 though) . The morale/stamina/veterancy system is GENIUS. I love it, it adds that little extra kick 
 into the strategy that you cant just send the same force into battle constantly and expect to win, 
 you must use EVERYTHING available.
  
  3. Graphics are amazing. Unbeleivably rendered opening movie gave me much to expect and I was not 
 disappointed. The in game graphics, despite their complexity, do not bog down the minimum required 
 computers. Even at minimum specs you can run the game without it lagging on you by turning off 
 shadows and a few minor things. Overall, VERY well done on the performance part of the game.
  
  4. The voice acting was particularly good. Lip synching was pretty bad, but a good effort on 
 finding actors that dont sound like they just want to be done with it. I beleive that this is a 
 good first step onto the series that Bandai-Namco plans to take this on.
  
  I wouldn't say this is the best RTS out there, but it is a fantastic work for the first shot by 
 Bandai-Namco. Even if you arn't a big Warhammer fan, take a look at this game, and give it a shot, 
 you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elstoneman
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  Ok, so, having enthusiastically welcomed Relic's forays into the Warhammer 40K universe, and being 
 a big fan of the Total War series, I looked forward to someone doing a relic to the original Warhammer, 
 and when I heard it was on a Total War scale, I was even more impressed. I saw the intro video, 
 and it was wonderful. I wanted them to make a movie. Having played the game, I think that would 
 have been a better choice...
  
  Mark Of Chaos is a beautiful game. The movies are brilliant and the detail on the units is fantasic. 
 As someone who plays on tabletop too, I really appreciated the effort that had gone in to making 
 this look so realistic and true to the genre. So far, so good.
  
  However, despite the beauty of this game, the whole thing was ruined by actually playing it. Where 
 as I'm used to the occasional long loading time, this was something completely new. I'm pretty 
 sure I managed to complete most of Call Of Duty 3 whilst waiting for some of the battles to load. 
 The centuries-long loading time isnt the only problem...
  
  1) The units, though detailed, don't really DO anything. One minute, the armies are walking towards 
 each other, then they flail around for a bit, then there's a heap of bodies. There's no real combat, 
 you just point and click.
  
  2) The graphics are laggy. SERIOUSLY laggy. My PC romps through CoH, but here it seemed slow going...
 
  
  3) The sound is WAY out of sync, and what were they thinking when they hired those voice-over actors?
 
  
  4) There's no actual tactical choice in the campaign, it's all one big linear bleah. That, and 
 the campaign map's just one big brown blob...
  
  5) The crashes!! Why the crashes?!! WHY, Bandai-Namco, WHY?!?!?!
  
  6) This might just be me, 
 and it might be petty, but after a battle, my cursor seems to disappear. So what? you might ask, 
 but after a while, this gets seriously, SERIOUSLY annoying...
  
  After all is said and done, the game looks good, and the battles look magestic, even if there's 
 no real blood. It just makes you wish that they'd put the same amount of time into the technical 
 and the gameplay as they did the graphics. It would make a better movie than a game. Would be better 
 value too... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordravensburg
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I don't know about you but this game really just seems more of an update of Dark Omen. (for those 
 of you who remember wax nostalgic, for those that don't look it up) Don't get me wrong this game 
 is great purely from the battle view, but even then the lack of being able to change camera angle 
 kinda hampers when one needs to look behind a hill, but can't, and therefore have to zoom to max 
 and see maybe five or six of the guys you where looking for out of a unit of 43. But my biggest 
 pet peeve is for the cut scenes. You go from an intro movie that makes me want to pick up a hammer 
 and hit something to this grainy, 1/3 screen size, and voice over not matching character animation 
 cut scenes? I mean come on they sold me with movie but left me wondering if I had picked a test 
 copy. Bottom-line, watch the intro movie, fight the battles, get on-line when they fix it, and 
 don't pay attention to anything else in the game. (except maybe to paint the pantaloons on your 
 Great Swords magenta or cyan?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ----HeReTiC ----
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  I love this game. Everyone says... oh the campaign is linear multiplayer sucks buggy I would agree 
 with all of this but... one thing i saw was not enough units . I don't know about you guys but 
 my computer lags more when more units on the screen. My computer is pretty good so correct me if 
 I'm wrong this is a laggy ass game. The loading times are not only long but there is a loading 
 screen to the loading bar and that means there is too much loading . The armies are few in number 
 6 (2 are half armies that BLOW) and my complaint about that is they didn't even make a campaign 
 for all for armies, which leaves you with EMPIRE (good) and CHAOS (evil) .... sounds original doesn't 
 it. The campigns are linear (but so are the Final Fantasy game and no one stopped playing those, 
 reason why i brought up FF is cause i got MoC and step bro go FF12 for Christmas) but each individual 
 scenerio/mission is fun and often is accompanied with the games amazing voice acting. The games 
 plot I found really well done and it will not dissapoint old time Warhammer fans. I say if you 
 like fantasy and RTS then buy this the **** you hear about it's all worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rugged13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I honestly have no idea why people have no idea why people seem to hate this game so much, maybe 
 they do not see the advantages of not having to build bases and building an army, rather having 
 everything you need to face your enemy from the beginning, in a nice even playing field. Both armies 
 start off equal, there is very little that I would change. You both start off at the same so it 
 is actually down to tactics and not who can build resources the fastest like it normally is. Also 
 the models look great, the armies are balanced, the cinematics superb, the game play mind blowing. 
 You can even customise your army down to their wristbands. What more could you want?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Warhammer
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  This game has a corrupted file in it which is install on your video card and will make your computer 
 crash and plus you need a huge CPU just to run it well even on low graphic settings. The campaign 
 is nice though and it is a true RTS game that you need to think were to place your guys and use 
 the hills as advantage etc... Online play need a little modification but then it would be good. 
 So what im thinking is this they should improved it and make sure that the corrupted file is removed 
 from the video card. The music i didn't like because they usally play the same song over and over 
 again. The price of this game is way to high around 65$ US (70$ CND) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbinoDoll
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  I think that all in all Mark Of Chaos is a good game and achieved what it set out to achieve, which 
 was to bring the table top game to life. It wasnt meant to be another dawn of war and I have certainly 
 got the impression from other gamers that they are comparing it to dawn of war and therfore it 
 is getting a bad review. I believe that the market for this game was smaller aswell, mainly tabletop 
 players themselves which would explain various element of the game like why there are no stats 
 or unit types etc, because tabletop players allready know what counter what and which units are 
 more effective against cavalry etc So for what it set out to achieve it has done well. However 
 there is still room for improvement to make it a better all round game, like problems listed before, 
 saving the gam, a better campaign and generall out of battle things. Though i thought the Army 
 painter was brill, and much better than dawn of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigger6
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game suffers from what I can only descibe as console emulation syndrome. The gameplay, regardless 
 of what others are saying, DOES have strategy to it, I think people are missing this because they 
 either havent played it for long enough to realize it, or because there are no obvious upfront 
 in-your-face stats for enemy units and what will kill them like dawn of war does. Dawn of War for 
 example has your infantry and heavy infantry unit and your anti-infantry unit, with those units 
 obviously countering others. In MoC there isnt quite such an obvious unit/counter unit description. 
 That is probably the biggest failing of MoC because most gamers are kind of dumb, they dont really 
 want to figure it out for them selves and MoC has not catered to the lowest common demoninator.
 
  
  However, possibly the worst thing about this game is the amazing lack of save game features. I'm 
 not one to complain about difficulty of a game as long as its engaging and entertaining to play, 
 but this game takes a rediculous amount of time to load games, so reloading is painful, and so 
 when the auto save kicks in at the most stupid and inconvenient time possible on the strategy map 
 (just before you start a battle I think) , it does NOT help me appreciate it. No in battle game 
 save stinks of console, which is just a pointless emulation of something that was only ever the 
 case because of technical limitations. In fact why is there even that lack of saving feature in 
 ANY game now? All consoles have either enough memory for infinite saves, or just a hard drive. 
 Lets kill this stupid console habit now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marko218
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  Mark of Chaos is and large fielded RTS, but it has very little Strategi in it. its mostly just 
 send your troops at the enemy , and the team with largest army wins. one would expect alot of nice 
 blood and gore in this game, but this is where it truely crashes. This is what a basic battle would 
 be like. melee units charge each other and start swining their swords, you see some blood squirt 
 here and there, but it all looks the same, and all the units do the same moves again and again 
 and again. It looks silly since they all stand behind each other, sort of waiting for the man infront 
 to die before they can fight...
  
  The Range combat is a bit nicer, the guns look neat when fired and the axe throwers are cool.
 
  
  If this game would have come out a few years ago I would have given it a much higher rating than 
 this, but to be a game with so nice grafics and so terrible combat vision, it truely doesnt deserve 
 much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morph_sa
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I write this review with mixed feelings. The game will definitely score high with fans and players 
 of the tabletop game but never quite lives up to expectations.
  
  The overall difficulty is quite easy and while the graphics themselves are great, actual combat 
 animations, especially those for duelling, are mediocre. Your character also does not display a 
 graphic representing whatever items you have customised him with. Perhaps the Total War games have 
 spoilt us but I expected a little more. The campaign is totally linear and I felt quite frustrated 
 as I expected alot more. Although other chaos factions are probably being left for an expansion, 
 I was annoyed I could only choose Nurgle or Khorne as my patron when playing chaos and not undivided. 
 Again too linear and not enough choices.
  
  That being said the game was still enjoyable and I particularly liked the hero upgrade and experience 
 system. It's unfortunately one of those games that creates anticipation when you pick it up but 
 never quite lives up to its billing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kadaj108
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game did have alot of Promise and built itself ooff a VERY popular franchise. The name Warhammer 
 alone was enought o look into it. Its a very pretty game but thats about it. Game play is Slow, 
 combat animations are slow, even the warriors move slow. The graphics are just astounding but thats 
 its. Please dont fall victim to more games that just feel pushed out. If you played Dawn of War 
 this game will bore you to death. There is no good combat animations its just swinging swords and 
 very little collision animations. If i kept my recipt id demand my money back in full. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theducky
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  I had installed it and played it for about a half an hour... then went and played Battlefield 2 
 for the rest of the night. The gameplay was not like I was expecting. It reminded me alot of the 
 old warcraft games minus the ability to build things. They were fun and all back in the day, but 
 I am not looking for a pretty version of an old game. At times it seamed kind of cartoonish. But 
 I will admit, the opening movie was pretty good. I was hoping it would last alittle longer than 
 it did. One of my favorite games of all time was the old warhammer: shadow of the horned rat for 
 playstation 1. From what I was reading I was getting excited that this might improve on some of 
 the strong points I loved about SOTHR, and also add some new experiences. But like I said before... I 
 was let down. My advice is that if you are not a hardcore warhammer fan... then you should look 
 at some other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the table-top version of Warhammer, but this game seemed to be a fairly interesting 
 take on the age-old elves, orcs, and dwarf formula that appears in so many games nowadays. I'm 
 a huge fan of Relic's Dawn of War franchise, so I decided to pick this game up. Overall, I'm glad 
 that I got this game; it's a solid product with lots of potential for expansion. However, it also 
 has plenty of room for improvement, and I would suggest that anyone considering this game to play 
 the demo first.
  
  Gameplay: The game is true to the standard real-time strategy (RTS) formula, minus the harvesting 
 and base building. You pick and customize your units before each battle and then fight it out against 
 other armies in open fields or sieges. Some of the battles feel somewhat epic, especially the castle 
 sieges. But there are never more than about 400-500 units on the map at any give time. Hero units 
 play a huge role in the game. They can level up and collect items like heroes in roleplaying games, 
 duel against other heroes, and give bonuses to the troops that they command. The hero system, as 
 it stands now, needs to be refined a bit more so that heroes don't level up too fast (I had one 
 go from 10th to 35th level in less than 5 minutes in one skirmish game!) . However, I generally 
 like what heroes add to gameplay. The game does have some tactical elements to it. Things such 
 as morale, terrain, flanking, charges, and unit-counters do come into play. Units with broken morale 
 will flee, which can end a battle quickly. Cavalry is underpowered and does not nearly justify 
 its cost. There is friendly fire in this game, but only in the case of area-of-effect weapons like 
 cannon. In my opinion, that's good enough. I killed too many of my own soldiers with Hellfire Cannon 
 in the single-player campaign to want any more varieties of friendly fire.
  
  There are two single-player campaigns that come with the game. One for Chaos and one for the Empire. 
 Playing through each (about 20-25 hours all together) will allow you to use all four playable races 
 (Men, Elves, Chaos, and Skaven) , as well as some minor races (Orcs and Dwarves) . There are a variety 
 of missions, from sieges and kill-all-enemies maps to duels and some minor dungeon crawling. The 
 campaigns tell a decent story , though a linear one with very little replay value. The game includes 
 both a single-player skirmish mode and online modes. It's good fun, but my biggest gripe has to 
 do with the very small number of maps. Even with the 1.2 patch that came out at the same time the 
 game was released, there are only 15 skirmish maps. Of that number, only 8 can be played as single-player 
 skirmishes. This is really a shame and inexcusable. As with all other RTS games, the shelf life 
 of this one will depend on whether the developer provides strong support with patches that fix 
 bugs and add new content (like maps) , as well as whether modders kick in.
  
  Graphics: This is an absolute gorgeous game. The terrain and environments are beautifully done, 
 and the models themselves are finely detailed. The only dull spot here is the animations, which 
 are decent but not up to par with the likes of Relic's Dawn of War or EA's Battle for Middle Earth 
 2. The intro movie is phenomenal and the cutscenes are pretty good as well. The graphics go a long 
 way toward setting the atmosphere of the game.
  
  Sounds: Everything is pretty good in this area. Weapons sound appropriate, the music is boisterous 
 and epic, and the voice acting is mostly solid. It actually sounds like some of the Chaos voice 
 actors were imported from Dawn of War, which is fine with me since the voices are so appropriately 
 wicked. Technical issues: I have had no crashes, freezes, stutters, or any other problems with 
 this game with the 1.2 patch installed. I am running it on a fairly good computer (E6600 dual-core 
 processor, 2 gigs of RAM, Geforce 7900GTO video card) . The game comes with a very good manual that 
 explains the gameplay and units, and the in-game tutorial is pretty good. For some reason, it comes 
 on 6 CDs, with no DVD option available. Value: As an RTS gamer, I liked this game very much. It's 
 a good blend of tactical gaming, roleplaying elements, and a fantasy-based storyline. Due to the 
 severe lack of maps, I don't think it's worth $50 (more like $30) . However, if the deveoper steps 
 up to the plate and releases several more skirmish maps and makes some other adjustments with patches, 
 I could recommend it more firmly. Also, a good, meaty, well-thought out expansion could do wonders 
 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  the game is a ok game, i got it at my moms and the graphics were ok. its kind of similar the Age 
 of Empire: Age of mytholagy, sorcers, big creatures and army of men. i like this game because im 
 a fan of warhammer and warhammer 40,000 so i enjoyed it. i think they should improve their sound, 
 other, great. some of the monster look realistic, and some don't, before i got this game, i saw 
 a vedio where the humans and the orks fighting and the battle was bored the crap out of me, they 
 just shoot gun, trow rock, and thats just about it. humans won the boring battle because they have 
 guns!! the warhammer online is good because you get to go online. im used to the future things 
 like bolters, battle cannon and stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinmalothar
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  Many people have already said it but you need to be a fan of the table top game to enjoy this and 
 they are right. When they were developing this game i was hoping it would play like the table top 
 game and it does and im happy, i like it......... just a shame they didnt include Dark elves.......... Damn 
 the capitalist pigs with there expansion pack plots lol and the campaign mode should allow more 
 freedom so you can choose which areas to attack, maybe choose which alliances are forged but other 
 than that it satisfies my need to play warhammer and that cant really be a bad thing! A big thumbs 
 up from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forhekset
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Warhammer: Mark of Chaos isn't a bad game, but it's certainly not as good as 
 it could of been given the illutrious license and the level of quality stratergy games come with 
 these days.
  
  Black Hole obviously made at least one big mistake in the design of this game, and that is in its 
 gameplay. Instead of taking the rich flavour of the Warhammer universe and applying it to a tried 
 and tested format such as a standard RTS, they decided to go a different path and create something 
 more like previous Warhammer titles such as Dark Omen. Linear campaigns with simplified persistant 
 armies engaging in basic, incredibly easy objective based missions bring this game down quite a 
 few notches from the current standards of PC strategy gaming. In occurs to me they would of done 
 better to have used the Battle for Middle Earth engine to create something more standardised instead 
 of attempting to bring this old format up to scratch, as they are obviously out of their depth.
 
  
  Everything about this game seems old. Everything but the lovely graphics that is. But textures 
 and models can only get you so far, as the animations are lacking immensely. There's no visceral 
 quality to the battles you'll be constantly engaged in, as even the lack of strategic value in 
 your random carnage as you 'zerg' all your units on one enemy at a time is not covered up by just 
 kicking back and watching all these wonderful looking characters carve each other up. Even Medieval 
 II has managed to attempt a sort of synchronised cinematic battle animation system, and that has 
 ten times more people on screen along with a myriad of other concerns.
  So, the lack of battle animation is really disappointing (most automatically assume something akin 
 to Dawn of War)
  
  A significant problem, to me, besides all these archaic design flaws, is the fact that they seem 
 to have gotten all the voice actors from the Dawn of War series to play their respective alter-egos 
 in this game. It seems the entire Chaos faction is voiced by the one person, who has done various 
 characters from DoW. The Empire has the Imperial Guard voice actor, the Elves have the Eldar, the 
 Orcs sound like they used the exact same sound-bytes! The Skaven however are original and quite 
 cute, if you ask me (Kill-kill!) . If there was any proof to the popular idea that Namco Bandai 
 were trying to cash in on the rise of the DoW franchise, then this would be it. Despite they use 
 the same people, the voices are generally good. The guy who does Chaos is very talented, but at 
 this point I'm just sick to death of hearing him! It's kind of insulting to hear that obviously 
 one person is trying to voice a variety of characters.
  
  I havn't had a chance to check out the multiplayer yet, but from my skirmishes with the AI it would 
 seem it's pretty unbalanced. An entire army of Chaos warriors can take out any other by sheer force 
 of numbers, proving that combined arms and tactical brillance won't save you.
  
  One of the highlighted features of this title was that you would be able to deeply customise your 
 armies as if they were like the minatures themselves. This feature is practically a joke, considering 
 there's nothing you can change that makes your army really look any different and the only changes 
 that make a difference would be to remove the variety from your units, but even then would be hardly 
 noticeable. Even then you can only edit some units, and heroes, the big focus of your army, are 
 not visually customisable at all.
  
  Despite all these gripes, the game does provide a nice batch of entertainment for afew hours, but 
 not much more. Though you have a choice of different kinds of armies at the beginning of the campaign 
 the only difference is about one extra unit and a barely noticeable statistic shift for your forces.
 
  Woops, I was bagging it again.
  
  All in all it was abit of fun, and I hope the mod community sinks their teeth into this and turns 
 it into something abit more fun. Good luck next time around, Black Hole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevryn
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I forced myself to finish this game because it had received so much hype, even though I was bored 
 after the first 20 minutes. There is very little strategy involved, most of the time I just had 
 my ranged units tear the enemy apart who would just charge full force every time. The pathing is 
 awful, and gameplay is very slow, with long load times, short pointless battles, and very little 
 development. The only positive sides are the army creation and skill progression of heroes, but 
 that only gets you so far. Thankfully, the solo campaign is very short, even if you play both sides, 
 easily less than 15 hrs. Overall, don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sclmltar
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I thought the game would be better, There's only 1 map where you can play against a Computer, the 
 army control is pretty basic ( a little like Empire Earth II ) I thought the game would be more 
 like the usual Campaigns, SinglePlayer and Multyplayer, and that the battles would be a lot more 
 massive. On the other hand, the Graphics are awesome and I love all the Upgrades and the concentration 
 on Heroes. Like my favorite for now is the Pyro Mage, now that guy kicks *** , nice to see another 
 game to use Items with heroes, and Im not talking just the helth potion kind of items, I mean the 
 weapons, helm, armor, shield, talisman, boots, rings and all the other cool stuf you can equipt 
 ( the only other game that I know that has similas features is Warlords Battlecry ) . And the spells 
 are nice too. Despite all the limits, Its a pretty good game. BUT I LIKE WH 40k MORE ! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowAI545
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  So I was awaiting several awesome releases this week including medieval 2 total war and this game 
 and honestly these 2 excited me the most. Both seemed to have similar excellent gameplay with this 
 game being more fantasy and medieval being more realistic. Now, maybe medieval might have raised 
 the bar or maybe that really awesome opening cutscene got my hopes up, but this game, sucks. First, 
 it crashed several times, one bad mark already. Then I actually got to playing it, and I don't 
 get those bone crunching charges of Rome or up close and personal fights with medieval, I get a 
 few soldiers hacking each other so slow you could sip tea. Yes, the spells, and upgrades are somewhat 
 amusing but they're just decorative. The hero duels are boring, nowhere near what I expected, and 
 finally there is no single player save for the boring campaign, which is both linear and not re-playable. 
 Where a skirmish option would have done this game a lot of justice, the developers opted to leave 
 it to multiplayer. C'est la Vie, so another waste of my time.
  
  Warhammer Mark of Chaos get's 5.1 skulls, out 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CannibalSmith
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  The developers got the idea right, but failed to meet the high standards of quality the name Warhammer 
 requires. It's just not awesome enough. A glitch here, a missing feature there, and it all adds 
 up.
  
  When you zoom in to a duel between heroes you see that they just stand there facing each other 
 and waving their swords in the air. No cool combat moves (like in DoW) . Also any gear you give 
 to your heroes does not show up on their models.
  
  Linear campaign (unlike DoW) . No saving mid-battle (unlike DoW) . Cutscenes are crappy.
  
  Spells 
 and artillery fire still look cool, though. Also bonus points for differentiating individual models 
 of units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefury101
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the worst RTS ive played there isnt any building strategy
  all you do is send your troops into the battle. All the animations are the same. The skirmishes 
 are horrible with the 5 maps available which are basicly fields. There is no strategic depth what 
 so ever basicly if u have the larger army you win. Your hero's are the main strength with one of 
 them you could kill almost anything. the units take way to long to kill for example i had two squad 
 of archers and swordsmen attacking another squad it took them 3 min just to klll the last 4 models. 
 My advice just dont buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hooahboy
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Unless you like worn out strategy games from the year 1992, don't buy this game. The multiplayer 
 mode blows, there's no building strategy beyond buying upgrades or a new unit, there units act 
 exactly the same except for the three categories of hero/melee/ranged, and the graphics are ok, 
 but they could have been superb in 2001... the space odyssey, not 5 years ago when they would have 
 been standard. If you liked Warhammer 40k don't bother wasting your money on this game, go out 
 and buy Medieval Total War 2, trust me building an empire and employing a variety of a hundred 
 some DISTINCT unit types is a lot more rewarding this bad WarCraft 2 rip off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astro_Creep
Rating: 4.9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Well, Relic raised the standards in the RTS genre with their fabulous Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War 
 series for the PC. So, naturally, I was excited about yet another Warhammer game, especially one 
 set in the classic fantasy Warhammer universe. However, my hopes for this game were quickly dashed... make 
 no mistake; Black Hole Games is NO Relic.
  
  There are design flaws and quirks that simply make no sense. For starters, single player skirmish 
 mode is hidden tucked away in the Multiplayer LAN section! At first, I didn't even think the game 
 CAME with a Skirmish mode! I only figured it out by posting on forums about this issue. There's 
 something fundamentally wrong with your user interface and game design if you have to literally 
 SEARCH for a standard game mode.... but, that's only the tip of the iceburg.
  
  The graphics are done nicely, and the sound effects are about what you'd expect for an RTS game. 
 The only place where Warhammer: MoC really excels is in the army customization. There is lot of 
 room to play with here. In Dawn of War, you basically just picked your banner and colors. Well 
 in MoC it goes way deeper than that. You pick what units you want your battalion composed of, choosing 
 from heroes, regular units, mercenaries, siege units, etc. Heroes even have skill trees that you 
 are given starting points to put into. You have a set amount of gold to spend on units and can 
 also use that money to outfit your heroes with special items. So, in a nutshell, the army creation 
 tool is a really cool feature, and gives you the feel that you are really playing a Warhammer game. 
 However, the gameplay is lacking.
  
  Basically, you do not construct any structures. The closest thing you get to that is Siege Mode 
 where you get to choose to be the attackers or defenders of a single castle. Some people may like 
 this aspect, others, such as myself, thinks it takes away from the strategy of the game. The gameplay 
 really falls flat on its face in MoC. Pretty much, a typical game in MoC consists of hurling two 
 or more armies at each other and watching to see who wins while you try to micromanage your hero 
 units. There really isn't much strategy going on in what is supposed to be a strategy game. Mark 
 of Chaos combat is well, simply put, chaos.
  
  While the units look nice and are cool, the spell effects however are bland and unimpressive. There's 
 not really much to see. Where are all the beautiful particle effects and whatnot? They could really 
 have polished the game up quite a bit.
  
  Multiplayer is rather sparse. There's not much going on when you log into the Mark of Chaos servers. 
 I found only one game open... a big letdown if you're hoping multiplayer online will relieve some 
 of the design flaws.
  
  I grudgingly have to commend the developers for trying a unique approach to the typical RTS formula, 
 but different isn't necessarily good. MoC proves this. Who knows, perhaps with some more patches, 
 a map editor, and an expansion or two, Mark of Chaos could blossom into something truly great, 
 but as it stands now it is not really worth your time unless you're a die-hard Warhammer fan. And 
 if YOU ARE, you are much better off with Dawn of War unless you are tired of that one already. 
 With games like Dawn of War, Company of Heroes, Medieval 2, Mark of Chaos stands out as a disappointment. 
 It doesn't live up to the Warhammer name.
  
  Overall, Mark of Chaos seems like a rushed product. It's unfortunate that it is acceptable nowadays 
 to ship unfinished games and fix them with expansions. Let's hope that Black Hole finishes what 
 they started with a decent expansion. Otherwise, spend your money elsewhere would be my advice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurendo_kun
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Let's get something straight: I've seen reviews comparing Mark of Chaos to the Total War series, 
 but frankly I'm surprised no one has made the obvious connection to EA/Mindscape's Warhammer: Dark 
 Omen, because that's exactly what Mark of Chaos is, down the the final detail.
  
  This game is clearly an unspoken spiritual and technological successor to Dark Omen. Everything 
 about the game falls back to its predecessor, from the method of selecting and controlling units 
 to the very units themselves. If you've played Dark Omen, you won't find anything new here. If 
 you enjoyed Dark Omen, you should enjoy Mark of Chaos.
  
  On the other hand, if you've never even heard of Dark Omen (or Shadow of the Horned Rat, another 
 Warhammer game created by Mindscape using the same engine) , then shame on you. Comparing Mark of 
 Chaos to Total War simply isn't fair, because Mark of Chaos is an entirely different breed of game. 
 Yes, there are hundreds of units on the battlefield at once. And that's where the comparison ends. 
 The rest of the game is a modern rewrite of Dark Omen. Period.
  
  So, is it a good game? Well, that depends on your perspective. For example, I wasn't quite as impressed 
 with Mark of Chaos as I probably should have been because I'm from the Dark Omen/Horned Rat crowd, 
 and we've already seen this before (only last time it was original and really freakin' sweet) . 
 If you're new to this genre of game, or if you enjoyed Total War and the Battle for Middle Earth, 
 then you may get a kick out of Dark O--- oh, sorry, Mark of Chaos.
  
  It's a simple game to be sure, focusing on pure battlefield combat and doing away with any kind 
 of resource management, other than the notion that you should try to keep your units alive because 
 they follow you between battles. There really isn't much substance to the game beyond that, so 
 if you frown on purely combat-oriented games, you'd better look elsewhere. The hero duels are a 
 change from Dark Omen, and the fact that you can attach hero units to your squads is a nice touch 
 (a feature most likely garnered from Dawn of War) , but it doesn't really add anything refreshing 
 to an age-old formula.
  
  Bottom line: this game is a modernized version of Dark Omen. No more, no less. Give it a try if 
 you liked the original, or if you enjoyed skirmishes in Total War/Middle Earth. Oh, and do watch 
 the opening movie. Its quality rivals feature films.
  
  - Scores -
  Gameplay: 6 (average)
  Graphics: 8 (good, but far from spectacular)
  Sound: 7 (not bad)
  
 Value: 6 (like a dozen other games of its ilk)
  Reviewer's Tilt: 5 (didn't I play this eight years ago?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallstreetplaya
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok i didn't know what to do with this part ,first time reviewing, like i said i am a big fan of 
 warhammer series and love all of then that came out but, this one has more tactical gameplay and 
 slower fight seens with no big guns : ( . this game also doesn't allow to biuld buildings and such 
 and the upgrade things are pretty confusing had to take awhile to get used to it. Well there is 
 also another thing i don't like the gameplay is slow and boring and theres a limit to that amount 
 of men u can take on a batlle??!?!!? WTF is that ? I mean just taking like 4 or 3 grouos of men 
 is boring unless later in the game u can take more but man this game was a very disappointing part 
 of the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: synthexx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  In general the game is beautiful and wonderful. If you like warhammer you will love MoC. Many people 
 complain about the buildings, well yeah for some its bad for some it isnt. But there is a skirmish 
 mode. You must click on the multiplayer, network button and select the easy Ai foe. If you dont 
 like warhammer but you got an interest for the game through the trailers I suppose that you will 
 think the game is boring. If you expect a game like total war but instead of historical units you 
 have fantasy units, you will probarly think you spent your money on **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghosts
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  When i palyed this only a few words came to mind- WHAT THE HELL IS THIS? you click guys and then 
 click on other guys-no building no nothing almost as worse as diablo but at least you get weapons 
 and magic in that one, this is pointless-waste of time money and energy-basicly its clickfest at 
 its finest. Nice graphics horrible game play-sucks baddly. Id give it a 3 to a 4-relic is has way 
 better war hammer games-i say SCREW THIS AND GET DAWN OF WAR! . well i guess you cant expect any 
 thing more all games are becoming like that-high graphics-no gameplay. Total letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyjr
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Gamplay:
  Gameplay is where Warhammer games should be catching at most due to the amazing lore of Warhammer 
 world, however the first thing that you get about MoC is that the story isn't what is should be. 
 While the game has a nice starting cinematic which will make you think wow this game is gonna stick 
 me to my chair for days at the first sight, the story is very dull and boring throughout the game. 
 Unfortunately there are no cinematics in the game. The story is told through a text and someone's 
 reading it, that's all. Other than the story, the gameplay itself is also boring. The campaign 
 is basically you moving through a road and countering different challenges, so there is not much 
 room for improvisation or freedom. Also the game is quite buggy at times. The combat, the duels, 
 the improving hero are extremely dull. While duels sound a fun idea, Namco hasn't managed to make 
 them interesting. The combat animations are also very monotonous and you really skip zooming the 
 battles after getting bored few times. The duels animations aren't any better either. However the 
 combat strategies as a whole are quite interesting, something like Total War strategies. (For example 
 you can't just rush all of your army into the heart of enemy and expect to win. You have to use 
 the ranged first, then as the enemy draws closer, you unleash your melee power._
  
  Graphics:
  I have to admit that the game's best aspect is its visuals. Neatly crafted graphics 
 help you feel you are in the Warhammer world. Also this game runs on older machines, and even setting 
 the graphics on its lowest, the game still looks awesome.
  
  Sound:
  Well, the voice acting isn't great, though some effects implemented on the non-human or chaos voices 
 are well made. The music is warhammer-like and feels epic.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  All in all, I only bought this game since I was a true Warhammer fan, otherwise I'd regret buying 
 it. There are good games with more room for diversity and better multiplayer options, such as Medieval 
 2 Total War. The game visuals are very flashy, it feels so real, but the story and gameplay make 
 this game a letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w817
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Ok where do I start...
  This game is nothing like warhammer, every game of warhammer was exciting, fun, strategic.....
 
  You had all these cool buildings who could train units that were too cool for words. Now we get 
 this campaign, even more stupid than Heroes of might and magic V. I am soooo dissapointed, this 
 game is waste of money, waste of time, and simply the worst game of all the warhammer games...
 
  Dont get me wrong, warhammer is one of the best games in the strategic genre, Dark Crusade is 
 simply the best game i have ever played, and I have played a LOT of strategy games. But this is 
 just... Euhm... Wrong.
  After seeing the preview movies I thought this is it, whole new armies and maps, i can't wait!!! 
 
  After I bought it, then i thought NOOOOO, why!!! how could you do this to all the warhammer fans!!!!!!! 
 
  Somebody else feeling the same way?
  Then agree to my review!!!
  So I know I'm not the only one who feels betrayed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbal782
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Just picked up this game today, and WOW! First off, if you're a fan of Warhammer, you'll really 
 feel at home with MoC. All of your favorite clans and races are here and can be customized. This 
 game has its focus on battes. Resourse gathering is now gone along with base building. You are 
 given a hero by which to lead your army, and you travel on a map similar to LotR: Battle for Middle 
 Earth. The graphics are great! The frame rate drops a little when you've got a big army on screen 
 (I'm on a XPS 3.2 Ghz, GeForce 7 seies) . The opening movie is awesome, but the in game stuff is 
 very sub-par. The game has great sound and music. It has the same composer as Oblivion!
  
  If you liked any of the Total War series, then MoC is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shlepad
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  since i've played Dark Omen, with the excellent storyline, very fine strategy and stellar graphics 
 (at least for that time) , i've hoped that someone will pick up the glove and create another Warhammer 
 strategy game, real time with flash and bang and fireworks. I'm a big Warhammer Dawn of War fan, 
 and i was very hopeful that it's younger brother, Warhammer MoC will be what i was hoping for for 
 all these years since i've led my army of mercs against the undead in Dark Omen.
  
  After a quick installation i've applied patch 1.2 and began playing. Naturally, i went for the 
 Empire campaign first. Impressive introductions, superb voice acting (don't laugh, crappy voice 
 overs can ruin any game) , and amazing, astounding graphics. Zooming in reveals very detailed troops, 
 that actually look different from one another. Zooming in also reveals the grass, the flowers, 
 and unfortunately some unit movement bugs (such as units sliding on the ground instead of walking) . 
 Such bugs are rare and do not hinder gameplay, so they can be overlooked. What cannot be overlooked 
 is the wonderful detail of your units in battle. Reloading and cleaning of the guns, splashes of 
 blood, bodies that stay on the field in pools of blood - they all add to the atmosphere of carnage.
 
  
  True, the game does feel like a simplified version of Total War. The strategy could have been deeper 
 and perhaps more complex. Sometimes you feel like repeating the same  
 formula. but as i've found out, it depends entirely on you. Some nice strategy moves can be executed, 
 and the result of broken enemy morale is satisfying. You get to upgrade your units with time, so 
 you will have some veterans bringing down doom on the heads of your enemies.
  
  Heroes duelling can be confusing at first, until you get idea and start hammering orders. I advise 
 you to play the tutorial to get a better grip on things, or you will get frustrated quite quickly. 
 As soon as you get the hang of it, hero duelling becomes big fun.
  
  So, to sum this up in a way that would befitting the game - i am not disappointed. I had high expectations 
 of the game, and i must say that although there is some room for improvement, this game rocks. 
 You are sucked into the bloody warfare of Warhammer right away, and you will enjoy every minute 
 of it.
  
  One more thing - there is no saving during battles, only on the very well made tolkien style map 
 between missions. I was worried by this at first, but what the hell, you can't save during real 
 wars either. So just plan everything right, improvise, and the most important thing - enjoy this 
 wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmax4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  The game does a nice job of combining elements from different genres. The customization is great 
 - you can mod almost all your units except for Heroes. Multiplayer is a lot of fun with some interesting 
 maps. The siege maps are new to this type of RTS game where you can put units on the walls and 
 blow them open wth cannons. The graphics are beautiful, especially the sky textures. It's similar 
 to BFME but with better graphics and much more tactics like flanking and charges. With a few patches, 
 this game will be really good. Hopefully the dev team is up to supporting the game. There also 
 seems to be a downloadable map editor, but it somewhat complex, so I'll probably wait for some 
 fans to create maps for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  Heck, the visuals in general are very good. All of the unit models are finely crafted pieces of 
 art. The modeling is great and the textures on top are excellent.
  
  Warhammer is all about combat, but the combat is weak.
  
  An example is dueling, where opposing 
 heroes enter a little circle and start wailing on each other , Your level of engagement is to let 
 special abilities rip by tapping buttons on recharge timers. No clever animations, no finishing 
 moves -- just two tanks trading blows - Thanks, but no thanks.
  
  And that goes for every other units in combat, they just stand there and trade blows.
  
  If 
 you are spoiled with awesome and unique combat animations from games like Warhammer 40k or Medieval 
 2: Total War, this game will dissapoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatAtomic999
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Though it doesn't stick to the actual Warhammer tabletop rules, Mark of Chaos captures the spirit 
 of that game very well. Combat is fast-paced and unpredictable, by strategy wargame standards- 
 and the outcome of any given battle can hinge on a moment of good or bad luck.
  
  That's not to say that tactics don't play a role in Mark of Chaos -- they do. All your standard 
 tactical elements are present, from high ground advantages, to flanking bonuses and so forth. But 
 powerful hero units, monsters, and magic are big wild cards in a strategy environment.
  
  Mark of Chaos' graphics are great, with the character models all being pretty much direct translations 
 of Games Workshop models. The settings are all appropriately moody, with a meancing atmosphere- 
 even the little cottages and camps are fun to look at. The sound is well done and the voice acting 
 is solid.
  
  The biggest weak point in Mark of Chaos is, I think, the world map and overall structure of the 
 campaign mode. While the stories are solid and entertaining, the campaign mode is very linear. 
 The structure is much like Dark Omen or Shadow of the Horned Rat. I happened to love those games, 
 so I can overlook the rigid linear quality of the campaign mode and just enjoy the battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Pros: Beautiful, beautiful graphics. They almost make me weep. The unit diversity is great: let's 
 face it, who doesn't get a charge out of ordering around a dragon or a giant? The multiplayer... well, 
 I've found it fun. It does have some faults, i. e. the artificial intelligence, but the patch has 
 helped with that a bit. Playing against other players is an absolute BLAST! The voice acting is 
 good, and the hero advancement system is AMAZING. The customizing the armies is also very, very 
 fun, although they don't let you paint them like in DoW. But the body part switching is cool.
 
  Cons: Few minor complaints here: the campaign might be more fun if it was a bit more like the 
 Total War games, i. e. you could choose take over the map one square at a time. One complaint I've 
 heard people voice is that there are no finishing animations and the armies aren't quite big enough. 
 Well, no, no finishing animations to speak of, but on this scale it would be quite hard. Also, 
 if the armies were as big as people were hoping, the unit customizing might not have worked out 
 so well. The smaller armies also give you more of a tabletop sense.
  Overall Impression: I've quite enjoyed this game so far, and am still enjoying it. I think it's 
 definetly worth the money. Also, I'm always looking for a multiplayer game, so give me a shout. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavoryn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo several times through, and thought the game really had potential.
  
  I got the final release yesterday, and thusfar, am very satisfied. Great mechanics, beautiful graphics. 
 They've done a terrific job so far. I was skeptical about Bandai, but that skepticism was unfounded.
 
  
  Let me talk about what I don't like:
  1.) Races: You get Chaos, Empire, High Elves, and Skaven
  There are a few mercenary units that 
 can be added, but the selection is rather limited. Also, for each of the races, they only took 
 a handful of units from the army books. They did a great job with the units that were included, 
 and the mechanics work great. I am very hopeful that they will eventually fill in a lot of missing 
 units from the table-top game.
  
  2.) The point system
  The game uses gold as a metric for armies, instead of points. In concept it accomplishes the same 
 thing while putting it into a tangible concept that unfamiliar players can grasp. However, I haven't 
 looked too closely, but I'm not entirely sure the point system falls in-line with the table top. 
 Not a bad thing, as this is a PC game, and not the table top, but I also miss some options that 
 are unique to specific units.
  
  3.) The army painter.
  I was expecting more customization options. I like the fact that you can differentiate members 
 of a unit to a high degree, but the army painter in Dawn of War is much better. The army painters 
 of both games leave a little to be desired over some rudimentary tools developed to aid table-top 
 painters. Again, I am trying to compare this game to it's table-top kin, and I know it's not meant 
 to be a replacement. I only mention it because the army painter in W40K: Dawn of War is a much 
 better tool.
  
  4.) Campaigns:
  I was really hoping for a High-Elven and Skaven campaign. Not having completed either of the 2 
 campaigns included, I'm not sure exactly what is in store, but I already get the feeling that not 
 enough attention has been paid to the two non-human races in the game.
  
  5.) Technical Issues:
  Nothing really big here, and it might just be my system. However, I just 
 purchased a $5000 gaming system from Alienware, so if my hardware doesn't live up to the requirements, 
 then this game is really advanced. There are some points, when ordering my units to complete an 
 action, where hte game hangs for a few seconds, and the sounds repeats itself rapidly. Like I said, 
 it's not a major issue, but it does happen rather frequently. At least once per map.
  
  So, with these 5 things I don't like, you may be expecting a low score. However, I think the game 
 is great overall, shows lots of potential for the future, and is fun as heck to play right now. 
 Anticipation was killer, and probably too high, but this one was still worth the money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
