-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War - Dark Crusade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warhammer40000dawnofwarexp2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Features two great new playable factions that fit in well with the five others.
 exciting new strategic campaign offers plenty of lasting value and variety.
 excellent presentation quality makes for some most brutal battles.
 the original game isn't required to play and enjoy this expansion.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A distinct lack of Tyranids.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 5,994 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Relic
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Oct 9, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This terrific update to one of the best sci-fi real-time strategy games in years packs in a great 
 strategic campaign and a grand total of seven different armies. 

  Hot on the heels of its outstanding new real-time strategy game Company of Heroes, experienced 
 developer Relic is back with the second expansion to its excellent 2004 game Warhammer 40,000: 
 Dawn of War, and it's a great update. Dark Crusade introduces two interesting and powerful new 
 factions to Dawn of War, raising the total number of different playable armies to a whopping seven. 
 It also features a new strategic campaign structure that lets you direct any of these seven sides 
 in a massive war for planetary supremacy, with shades of the classic board game Risk. Some new 
 units for the returning factions and plenty of new skirmish maps are also included, and you don't 
 even need to own Dawn of War or its first expansion pack to enjoy most of this (you only need the 
 previous games to unlock the older factions specifically for use in multiplayer matches; you have 
 access to every race when playing solo) . What with all that it has to offer, Dark Crusade comes 
 across as much more than your typical real-time strategy expansion pack. It's one of the best RTS 
 games around strictly on its own merits.  

          Two new factions, the Tau Empire and the Necrons, join a cast of five others, adding even 
 more depth and intrigue to Dawn of War's futuristic battlefields.     

  For the uninitiated, Dark Crusade's gameplay does a great job of putting the focus on vicious front-line 
 combat by forcing you to quickly send out squads of powerful soldiers to claim strategic points 
 spread across each map. Relatively little time is spent building up a base, so you'll wind up focusing 
 your energy and attention on managing the game's exciting, gory battles. You'll command mighty 
 infantry squads as well as deadly vehicles, and though most units do a good job of acting autonomously 
 when engaged, you'll need to carefully use special abilities and keep an eye on your soldiers' 
 morale as they fight. The design concepts introduced in Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War later found 
 their way into Company of Heroes in improved form, but don't expect all those changes in Dark Crusade. 
 For the most part, though, the gameplay still holds up extremely well, as do the game's detailed, 
 imaginative visuals.  

  Dark Crusade takes place on the planet Kronus, a mysterious world that's drawn out all these different 
 unfriendly factions to set up camp all at the same time. This stroke of fortune promises many brutal 
 battles to come. None of the factions intend to share the planet, not even the imperial guard and 
 the space marines, who've arrived with their own separate missions. As relatively implausible as 
 it may seem for seven different alien races to all be fighting over the same one backwater planet, 
 Dark Crusade does a surprisingly good job of putting its new strategic campaign in context.  

 
  You initially choose to command the forces of any of the game's seven factions, as represented 
 by a specific leader character marshaling each of these armies on Kronus. Among the choices are 
 the new additions to Dark Crusade: the Empire of Tau, a high-tech conglomerate of races fighting 
 for what they call the Greater Good; and the Necrons, an ancient and genocidal breed of what can 
 best be described as undead robots. An enthusiastic narrator then explains what your selected race 
 is trying to accomplish on Kronus and what your force's military leader is all about. Also, each 
 time you manage to take out one of the opposing faction's strongholds, you'll get a narrated epilogue 
 that's unique to that combination of races. Then there's an ending sequence for each faction for 
 whenever you finally defeat all six of your opponents, a process that can take a good 10 hours 
 or more, though it'll depend on the difficulty setting you choose. The stories are entertaining 
 and faithful to the spirit of Games Workshop's influential Warhammer 40,000 sci-fi universe, and 
 they make for a compelling reason to play through the campaign multiple times.  

          The concept of a strategic campaign isn't new to real-time strategy games, but it's a great, 
 well-designed addition to Dawn of War.     

  The campaign's turn-based layer is very simple, since you have only one army to manage and you 
 normally just take one turn either to move to a friendly province or attack an adjacent enemy province. 
 However, there are a lot of interesting strategic choices packed into this system, in that each 
 province offers some sort of unique tactical reward for when you take it over. Many provinces will 
 grant your faction's leader an honor guard, a military unit that will be ready for action as soon 
 as you begin the next battle -- as long as you have enough planetary requisition points to afford 
 it. You can also use requisition points, which are earned each turn, to reinforce your provinces 
 with units that can quickly defend your position should one of the enemy commanders attack.  

 
  What's more, some provinces confer unique abilities, such as a space port that lets you attack 
 provinces that aren't adjacent to your commander. Probably the most useful of these is a special 
 ability that lets your commander move twice per turn. Since the Necrons and the Imperial Guard 
 start out closest to the territory containing this power, they seem to have an inherent advantage. 
 However, part of the appeal of playing through this campaign multiple times is having to devise 
 different strategies based on your faction's starting point and closest neighbors, not to mention 
 your faction's inherent strengths. While the campaign map starts out the same way each time, the 
 endgame can wind up varying a great deal depending on the choices you make along the way, especially 
 since those enemies you choose to attack later will only be stronger by the time you get to them. 
 Thankfully, any buildings you've constructed in a province will still be there for you if you later 
 have to defend that province; these types of details help make Dark Crusade's strategic mode even 
 further emphasize combat over base-building and resource management.     

  The best parts of the campaign are those battles in which you take on an opposing faction's stronghold. 
 These set piece battles can be very tough even at the default difficulty setting, as you can expect 
 heavy resistance just moments into the fight, followed by a bitter struggle against a cornered, 
 deeply entrenched foe. The specializations and unique personalities of each of the different races 
 are made readily apparent through these battles, and chances are you'll emerge from each one of 
 them with newfound admiration for the opposing faction. By contrast, the standard missions in the 
 campaign play out like skirmishes, which end abruptly when you destroy the enemy headquarters. 
 Too bad you can never get into situations in which more than two factions are fighting over the 
 same territory at the same time, though some of the stronghold missions do include enemies from 
 more than one side.  

          In the campaign, you'll get to outfit your military's leader with unique war gear that 
 you'll earn from vanquishing opponents.     

  As you win battles, you'll also earn unique war gear for your commander, which bolsters his strength 
 and defenses or grants him new abilities. It's up to you to choose which war gear to take first, 
 and while you won't win or lose whole battles based solely on this special equipment, it's a good 
 addition to the game that makes you grow more attached to your increasingly powerful warlord. Incidentally, 
 if your faction's leader falls in battle, you can predictably just build a new one in most cases, 
 same as any other unit. It's a contrivance that encourages you to send your leader into battle 
 rather than hide him in a corner of the map. Overall, the new campaign mode is well made and a 
 big improvement on the linear campaigns offered by Dawn of War and its first expansion. It breathes 
 new life into the single-player part of the game, thanks in part to a challenging computer opponent 
 that effectively controls each faction and isn't easy to predict.  

  There's a lot to be said for the new strategic campaign, but the highlight of Dawn of War is probably 
 the two new factions, the Tau Empire and the Necrons. One of the best-known Warhammer 40,000 species, 
 the voracious Tyranids, are still nowhere to be found, but the relatively new Tau and Necron factions 
 are each interesting and likable in their own right. The Necrons use a different resource model 
 than all the other sides, in that they don't need requisition points to build new units -- creating 
 new warriors and upgrading abilities is only a matter of time, and the more strategic points you 
 have, the less time you need to build up your army. Also, the Necrons' headquarters may slowly 
 be upgraded to become an extremely powerful, though extremely slow, flying fortress. As for Necron 
 units, they're slow, relentless, and hard to permanently destroy. Their vehicles aren't as imposing 
 as some of the other races, but their lumbering infantry squads can overwhelm the opposition.  
 

  The forces of the Tau Empire seem like a cross between the Eldar and the Space Marines, with their 
 sleek battle suits and long-range energy rifles, and the look of their units is reminiscent of 
 anime mechs. The Tau demand you to use mixed forces more so than most of the other sides, because 
 their troops tend to be highly specialized either for ranged combat or close combat, but not both. 
 Once you've mustered some of the Tau's strongest weapons, it can be a real thrill to lay into the 
 enemy with all their concentrated energy bursts. Notably, the Tau can also deploy invisible units 
 that can safely attack while cloaked. It's something that's been done before in other RTS games, 
 and Dark Crusade handles it about as well by making you be mindful of units or special abilities 
 that can detect cloaked assailants. Meanwhile, returning factions in Dark Crusade each have some 
 sort of powerful new unit and some means to detect invisible foes. The new units, like the Imperial 
 Guard's heavy weapons teams and the Orks' flash gitz, seem powerful and useful.  

          It's hard to decide which of the game's seven factions is the strongest or the coolest, 
 and that's a good thing.     

  As mentioned, if you don't have the original Dawn of War or the Winter Assault expansion, then 
 you'll only be able to use the Tau and the Necrons in multiplayer matches, though you can still 
 take on opponents playing as the other factions. Even just these two factions offer a lot of depth 
 and intricacy, and they enhance the complexity of the game as a whole when you consider all the 
 different match-ups possible, especially in team-based games. Though Dark Crusade doesn't use Company 
 of Heroes' slick Relic Online service for multiplayer sessions, it's still easy enough to get into 
 an online multiplayer match, and since there are so many different maps, factions, and victory 
 conditions for battles, as well as an army-painter mode if you want to customize the look of your 
 forces, there's an awful lot of lasting value in here.  

  Dawn of War was a fantastic real-time strategy game to begin with, but it takes an expansion pack 
 like Dark Crusade to make the original game feel as fresh and interesting as ever two years later. 
 It helps that the game's presentation has held up so well, between the spectacular graphics and 
 all the thunderous weapon effects and lively unit voices, but it's all been built on a foundation 
 of great underlying tactical gameplay. So if you like Dawn of War, best conserve your cognitive 
 ability for the battlefield, because this one's a no-brainer. And even if you haven't played Dawn 
 of War before, this is a great way to get into it, as well as the Warhammer 40,000 universe.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (301 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The original Dawn of War is to-date my favorite RTS game. Actually, it's probably closer to a Real-Time 
 Tactical Game, as there are only two resources to gather: land and power. With that micromanagement 
 out of the way, the road was open for tactics like retreat, cover, suppressing fire, melee combat, 
 and plenty of time to consider each unit's strengths and weaknesses the moment you see them enter 
 the battle.
  
  Two expansions later, Dark Crusade comes out. Tau and the Necrons are the two new factions. While 
 the former offers an aesthetical change, the Necrons require some new schemes to utilize well.
 
  
  The world map (yes, there actually is one now) consists of continental provinces which can be observed, 
 occupied, reinforced and attacked, RISK-style. Just when I thought this would be the only source 
 of evolution, I realized that a few maps were shaken-up by changing the all-too-standard "destroy 
 your enemy" win condition into "find 5 lost servitors," or "destroy x number of your enemy's buildings;" 
 a welcome change indeed.
  
  Lastly, the decision to make this a stand-alone expansion was brilliant. While you couldn't play 
 all of the previous empires unless you owned the original game and first expansion, the new empires 
 and low price are enough to entice new prospectors to pick this gem up.
  
  Well done, Relic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youyou132
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  After Winter Assault, this is just a new game!
  Although it is the expansion for the original Warhammer 40000, the original game is not needed. 
 
  WInter Assault needed the original one installed to be played but this one does not. 
  This version is very different from the original game. A really UPGRADE version. 
  
  Pros:
 
  -Keeps the originality of Warhammer 40000
  -Taking over lands system is very well done. 
  -New types of species fit perfectly.
  -New maps, new missions, just very well done. 
  -Good 
 story 
  -does not need the original Warhammer
  
  Cons: 
  -Necrons seems too strong, little bit unbalanced
  -it's RTS, could be repetative
  -Original 
 version is needed to play multiplay. You cannot choose the original version species if only Dark 
 Crusade is installed. (WTH..)
  
  
  New missions for each species are just amazing. Good story line is also great. Each independent 
 animation keeps the originality and gory of the game, whichi is the best part of game. Although 
 the game is gory, each species' characteristic is very well shown just by looking the battles. 
 
  The game is just amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crush_Project
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  So the game has its flaws, and their are a few balance issues, but even those can be over came 
 fairly easily with some basic skill.
  
  The game is probably the most skill intensive rts to come out since the grand master rts: warcraft3. 
 Warcraft3 had alot more challenge and skill admittedly, but this makes all other rts's look like 
 exercises in noob wars that have come out since then, and has sweet graphics and some really cool 
 units.
  
  It really has a good artillery and tank system as well as several tricks you can pull out of your 
 hat with every army available, and there are alot of armies to choose from and they've all got 
 tricks up their sleeves.
  
  I had always been a 40k table top fan as a kid, so this game might have special appeal to me, but 
 like all the dawn of war series before this one, you can paint and customize your armies in a pretty 
 cool way. Even the emblems and flags they carry onto the field got my personal touch and it took 
 minutes to do so.
  
  If i have one complaint, its that relic used gamespy to host the series, and even since the beginning 
 this left a lot to be desired, and the online community never developed into what it should have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaku_Abumi118
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  Warhammer dawn of war was a very good strategy game when it first came out, winter assault followed 
 its great system but Dark crusade gives the warhammer gamer what they really want. Not a complicated 
 story about friendship and betrayal but more big tanks, guns and blowing stuff up as you wage war 
 across an entire plant.
  The game has a campaign mode which is similar to Rome's you have an army which you can use to capture 
 regions so you can capture Requisition. Requisition allows you to improve your general and bodyguard 
 and allows you to fortify the defences of regions under your control.
  The campaign has 7 playable factions the space marines, Imperial guard (my personal favourites) , 
 the chaos space marines, the Necrons, the Eldar, the Tau and the Orks. each race has it's own strengths 
 and specialties, for example the space marines are strong and well rounded, the Imperial guard 
 are weak but gets lots more troops than anyone else, the Eldar are fast and stealthy and the Tau 
 have extremely powerful weapons and vehicles. The battle's in the campaign revolve around you capturing 
 strategic points which allow you to recruit more men and vehicles, then once your strong enough 
 destroy the enemies base. The only exceptions to this are the enemy strongholds. These give you 
 more specific instructions and are much harder than normal battles; the best one to play is the 
 Tau stronghold as the Imperial guard as its narrow street fighting with snipers round every corner. 
 It's very similar to Stalingrad and is so much fun. 
  Besides from the campaign you can fight skirmishers and the unique Army painter mode allows you 
 to personalise your own army then take it into battle.
  The graphics are very well done there is a wide verity of vehicles and soldiers as well as extras 
 like Orbital barrages and long range scans (Long range scans may seem very boring but when you 
 combine that with the massive artillery pieces the Imperial guard have it enables you to locate 
 your enemy quickly then bombard him into oblivion before he knows what's going on.
  Dawn of War Dark crusade is one of the best games I played in years, It's great fun even if you 
 Don't like warhammer and I would certainly class it as a must have.
  The only downside with this game is the commentator who is so OTT it's unbelievable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tudorr
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game is about the battle for Kronus. The Necrons have risen from their tombs to conquer Kronus. The 
 Tau Empire have been send to defend Kronus. The Space Marines are soldiers sent (as the Tau) to defend 
 Kronus. The Eldar have been prepared for the return of the Necrons. The game is a real time spender. You 
 have a Nice multi player play. the game is much more cool when playing with more armies and on the 
 'insane' difficulty. The campaign is familiar with the Rise of Nations campaign. Its races are very 
 different then the other fantasy RTS games. Its graphics are good. The buildings original, Its a wonder 
 of a game! And even more wonderful in multi player! The online official server has a good connection 
 and nice players! The new maps are cooler then the other maps there like 12 of em. The new campaigns 
 are more hard because you don't have that many territories. But it still rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sennapods
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  I was first introduced to the 40k universe when i downloaded the demo for dark crusade on gamespot. 
 I have since played all Dawn of War games and expansions. I could not be happier with Dark Crusade. 
 The story was immersive, the non-linear gameplay was enhanced by the feeling that each faction 
 recognized the other, and the characters were rich and fairly well-developed. I played each faction 
 in the campaign mode to the end. What makes this expansion stand head and shoulders above Soulstorm 
 is the "gun-talk" between rival factions when one attacks the other's stronghold. Soulstorm defensive 
 factions issued very generic threats and taunts to invading forces; DC defenders crafted their 
 responses to suit the invaders. Also, the campaign intros were specific to the faction in DC. This 
 was a huge disappointment with Soulstorm, which highlighted what I loved most about DC. Also, the 
 subterranean Necron stronghold mission was a very nice touch, as it interrupted the monotony of 
 surface battles (which was another problem with Soulstorm) . 
  The only reason DC gets a mere 9 of 10 is that the graphics could use an overhaul. The story, characters, 
 and brutal melee combat make this expansion pack a definite buy for Sci-Fi geeks, war-buffs, and 
 literatis alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauro311
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Having so many different races in a game can be a difficult task to playtest/balance and have as 
 much depth as possible in a fiction such as Warhammer 40,000 can be a daunting task to follow up 
 on is no easy task...
  
  This being said Dark Crusade makes for one of the most entertaining RTS's (single player) I have 
 played since Starcraft minus the campaign editor and UMS setting gametypes... 
  
  If DoW ever included a campaign editor of any sort this game would knock the competition out no 
 holds barred....
  
  My only complaints are that they races are "unfluffy" compared to what is held as cannon among 
 the Warhammer 40,000 hardcore fans... SM's should not be pumped out as cannon fodder and Chaos is 
 too general...
  
  To sum up Dark Crusade has the highest replayability in it's single player campaign of any RTS 
 I have every played... each race has something to offer up and a unique story arc to follow.... MP 
 follows along the lines of SC's compitetive circuit and if it had at all a campaign editor it would 
 beat Starcraft hands down...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Kantor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade may not have the best graphics or sound quality, or any of that, but 
 it still manages to be a great game that will give you many hours of enjoyment.
  
  Dark Crusade is a standalone expansion to the RTS Dawn of War from 2004.
  It adds two new races 
 to the roster: 
  
  The Necrons: A race of undead souls locked inside metal bodies and
  
  The Tau Empire: An extremely advanced army of robots that fights and conquers for the Greater 
 Good.
  
  While the Tau fit in very well with the other 5 races, the Necrons are a tad overpowered. However, 
 they are still very much beatable.
  
  The campaign goes in a new direction with the first non-linear campaign in the series. You choose 
 one of the seven armies (Space Marine, Ork, Eldar, Chaos, Imperial Guard, Necrons, Tau) and use 
 them to conquer the planet Kronus.
  
  Along the way, you get honor guard units, wargear that empowers your hero and special abilities 
 such as Fury that allows you to attack twice in a turn, and Spaceport which allows you to attack 
 any non-fortress territory on the map.
  
  The objective is to destroy all enemy citadels, which will have different methods of victory like 
 planting an explosive device or assassinating a leader.
  
  Other than these and special ability maps, all battles are Destroy HQ- the first player to lose 
 all his HQ's loses.
  
  
  While I prefer the Winter Assault linear campaign, this one is also good fun, if a little frustrating.
 
  
  The online is the same as before, that is to say very good. There are many more maps, of course, 
 but no real change to the system.
  
  You can also play a skirmish against the computer which is surprisingly enjoyable.
  
  Overall, 
 Dark Crusade is a good expansion to one of the best future-RTS games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HufflePuff-TLH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War - Dark Crusade RTS game
  
  After the original game and the first expansion come the 2nd expansion Dark Crusade and this game 
 purelt rocks it socks out of dawn of war and brings many new exciting things to the table.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay havent changed much, still the good old dawn of war style thatr we 
 all came to love with the original game. it is solid. though with Dark Crusade THQ/RELIC introduces 
 2 new races tau Empire and Necrons, so ofc. the way you play against them is you and requre new 
 skills, but is is the good old style of all out war . and the new fractions are very enjoyable 
 to play ! cool new gamestyle. 
  
  Grafiks - Same as before, there no change realy. (still looks somewhat great )
  
  Singleplayer 
 - the singleplayer part of this dow game has compleatly changed, it is now a turn based campaign 
 to conqure the world with real time combat inbetwean, and it works out very well, and does the 
 job of keeping the player at the screen very good. fun and new. 
  
  Multiplayer - You can still beat out your freinds at Lan or play at the online servers, and ofc 
 with the new races too, and it is all great, the game keeps you at your toes, and doesent let anyone 
 sleep ( if they do the will be defeded for sure, it is fast paced RTS with one of the best gamepley 
 styles on the marked.
  
  Overall - The best thing that could happen to the original game is this expansion, it is solid 
 fun for many many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  After numerous flops in the VG industry, GW has finally found Relic to bring the 41st millennium 
 to life.
  
  -Pros-
  *Awesome Melee Combat
  *Nice Detail on Models
  *Captures visceral nature of 40K
  *Well Balanced Units (Apply patches)
  * Array of different 
 Armies to Master
  *Quick Packed Multiplayer
  *Geared to run on old machines
  *Excellent audio and superb voice acting
  
  -Cons-
  *The idea of Terrain isn't flushed out 
 enough
  *Maps can feel claustrophobic
  *Campaign Missions can feel repetitive
  *Some units act stupidly (They take the long route instead of short route)
  *Base Building
 
  
  The Dawn of War franchise is fantastic. Im a Tabletop player so this game was a dream come true. 
 Its an excellent RTS that will have me playing until the day I die.
  
  The addition of a new campaign theme is a welcomed treat, as is the 2 new races and units for existing 
 armies.
  
  Hardware/Software- Runs fairly easily. Taking Shadows off can help smooth things out, but they 
 add alot of detail to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  WH 40K Dark Crusade is very Impressive. While Winter Assault was a good game they changed and convuluted 
 the fast gameplay which made the original WH 40K Dawn of War so great, but Dark Crusade goes back 
 to having that Dawn of War feeling while adding more depth to gameplay.
  
  In Dark Crusade once again units are built very quickly and the action is very fast paced. In campaign 
 the big difference to gameplay is before each mission you and the other sides take turns trying 
 to maneuver through the map choose which territory to attack which will be your next mission. It 
 can become very strategic as capturing the starport will allow you to travel anywhere you want 
 and you can attack territories with weaker resistance (before you attack a territory info on the 
 level of enemy resistance in the area is provided) You can attack their stronghold and if you are 
 victorious it will eliminate that side from the game (although sometimes an enemy stronghold will 
 have other territories before it you need to capture that can have 2 bases and a very aggresive 
 and smart CPU) . After you capture an enemy stronghold even though you eliminate them from the game 
 they will still possess the territories they had beforehand but will not try to capture any more 
 territories.
  
  You can capture certain territories that increase the extra units you start each mission with (fully 
 upgraded) and increase your requisition acquiring rate.
  
  There will be times you also have to defend your territories that are being attacked (for an element 
 of luck you can choose to auto resolve the situation) And it also adds realism that after you capture 
 a territory you are not guaranteed to hold it afterwards.
  
  The CPU is now much smarter and will keep trying to build new bases and will keep up a great rate 
 of attacking your base (even on the easy level)
  
  Most of the missions are like skirmishes, you and the CPU start from scratch and have to move through 
 the tech tree and it adds the strategy of attacking the other side when they are weaker earlier 
 on in the tech tree, or holding on until you've progressed through the tech tree and your units 
 will be able to annihilate the enemy.
  
  You can take a risk and send reinforcements to a mission and go for an all out attack right at 
 the start to try to win quickly. Sometimes the CPU starts off with 2 bases and you need to be very 
 efficient with your tactics as the CPU will keep trying to build new bases and multiple unit producing 
 structures. And each side has a commander type unit.
  
  At strongholds the CPU already has many bases, the toughest defenses to penetrate and full tech 
 tree available.
  
  The story is about 7 armies/5 difference races who are fighting for control of a planet called 
 Kronus. The story is set in the 41st millenium (year 40 000) And the sides don't want to share the 
 planet with one another, not even the Imperium Guard and the Space Marines who are from the same 
 army, except the Space Marines are just the elite versions of the Imperium Guard.
  
  The races and armies are very interesting.
  
  The Imperium and space marines represent humanity 
 and worship the same emporer and want to conquer planets in his name. The space marines have more 
 firepower and are better armored but the Imperium have more soldiers.
  
  The other races/armies include-
  
  Orks-A race of alien Orks who the humans have encountered 
 many times before. They are not too advanced technologically but reproduce at an incredibly fast 
 rate and fight in huge numbers and very savegly.
  
  Eldar-A mysterious, highly advanced race of aliens. The Eldar have been around for hundreds of millions 
 of years. Little is known about the Eldars motives, they occasionally turn up, do a job such as destroying 
 an army's base (probably because they don't want that army to gain too much of a foothold on a planet 
 or in the galaxy) and they will disappear again for a while. One thing that is known about the Eldar 
 is they want to stop the Necrons (who I will explain about soon) and the Eldar have been around long 
 enough to see how deadly the Necron threat is when it last surfaced hundreds of millions of years 
 ago. The Eldar have powerful energy weapons, anti-gravity vehicles that can maneuver through the 
 air, cloak their bases to make them only detectable to radar and use web gates to teleport between 
 worlds easily.
  
  Necrons-An army of robots who's only purpose is to destroy all life in the galaxy and eventually 
 the universe. They have awoken after hundreds of millions of years and they have giant mobile bases 
 called monoliths which can transport entire populations of Necrons and they can build new robots 
 very quickly and their monoliths have powerful energy weapons (only rivaled by the Eldar) and can 
 wipe out enemy bases very quickly.
  
  Tau Empire-An elegant civlization made of many different races of aliens who Kronus is their homeworld 
 and it is being invaded by all these armies. They have high powered energy weapons and powerful 
 infantry in robotic/mech suits. Their infantry and vehicles can fire the high powered energy weapons 
 a long distance but have weak armor, so the Tau's units (and their strategies) are primarily set up 
 for defense. The Tau use cloaked snipers and sometimes cloak their infantry.
  
  Chaos-Another break away sect of humanity who summon demons and like to summon a giant demon that 
 is very difficult to kill and can wipe out entire bases. The Chaos are gothic in appearance and 
 also use lesser advanced space marines technology and space marines who have defected.
  
  The gameplay could be a little more balanced, but the sides are balanced well. The Eldar are the 
 most powerful, but are weak early on and they take a while to move through the tech tree. The space 
 marines start off powerful but will eventually be overtaken by the Eldar on the tech tree. The Orks 
 can build a lot more infantry under the cap limit and build infantry groups in bigger numbers.
 
  
  The variety of races all with their own unique ideology and not knowing who will come out on top 
 or who will confront eachother makes the story so unpredictable and fascinating. The Necrons always 
 send a chill down my spine after they destroy all life on a planet (even the vegetation and microscopic 
 life) so the atmosphere on a planet becomes unbreathable. And you're shown a story element after 
 you eliminate a side from the game and the final victory scenario after you've defeated all the 
 other sides.
  
  There is now RPG elements in the game, such as customizing your commander by adding new weapons 
 or armor. The type of weapons you choose affect how much damage they can do, but you can also select 
 between ranged or close combat weapons (close combat weapons do more damage but have less range 
 in their attacks) And you can decide whether to go for a better weapon, more armor or more health 
 points. You can even play dress up and make fancy modifications to clothing which doesn't affect 
 their stats but it's fun.
  
  The game has the same full motion video presentation of the humans fighting the orks right at the 
 start. It still looks great but they could have added something new.
  
  The cut scenes show the story elements well and look very smooth and clean and detailed.
  
 
  Kronus itself has great diversity of rocky, snow  
 environments, and the Tau Empire city that's heavily fortified.
  
  The music is good and suits the theme of the game well, but my favorite music from the original 
 DOW isn't there, which is the music that sounded like a monestary/church hymn. But the music is still 
 good nonetheless.
  
  The voice acting of the characters and units is excellent, they all say their memorable philosophical, religious 
 or evil quotes. However Gabriels voice doesn't sound quite as good as in the original DOW, I loved 
 his accent in the original DOW when he said the memorable quotes such as ''beware the alien, the 
 mutant, the heretic'' ''while all enemies of the emporer still draw breath there can be no peace'' 
 ''hope is only a road to disappointment'' ''there is no such thing as innocence, only degrees of 
 guilt'' but when he says them now it doesn't sound quite as good.
  
  But otherwise a terrific Dawn of War game and should be played by everyone who loved the original 
 Dawn of War and in every RTS game fans collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallydog63
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry I just can't give this game the glorious reviews I see others giving it. Most of what 
 everyone else is saying is true. It can be alot of fun, just there's one thing that absolutely 
 kills it for me. They limit your defences considerably as well as your powerfull offences. Me, 
 I like to build a very defenceable base before I do much. There new setup kills this, giving you 
 only a few bolters before saying sorry no more, or only one big tank. Imagine in a real war, our 
 goverments telling the troops sorry, we don't feel right about letting you build more then four 
 bunkers and one tank, other than that, good luck and have a great war. Sorry but thats just major 
 BS to the Nth degree. They've desided to control how we play the game. In real life, anyone who 
 tries to pull this bs on me regrets it. In the game, I regret it because now I won't play the game. 
 They didn't pull this on us in the original game, why are they doing it now? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratroe
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best RTS I've ever played. When role playing it this game ROCKS! Online/LAN 
 is real O-mega if you role play it. The "Army Painter" is pretty fun. Reinforcing in battle is 
 loot unless your near your Troop Center, Which are : Necrons [Monolith] Tau Empire [Cadre Head 
 Quarters/Tau Barracks/ Kroot Baracks and Vehicle Beacon] Space  
 and Machine Cult] Chaos Space Marines [Desecrated Stronghold/Temple/Machine Pit/Sacrificial Circle 
 and Daemon Pit] Orks [Settlement/Da Boyz Hut and Da Mek Shop] Eldar [Webway Assembly/Aspect Portal/Webway 
 Gate and Support Portal] . Well... That was long. Each team is unique. You can't use: Space Marines, 
 Chaos Space Marines, Orks, Eldar or Imperial Guard in online/LAN play unless you have the Dawn 
 of War or Dawn of War: Winter Assault game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is one of the best RTS games you are likely to ever play. The game is, as you know, 
 based on the warhammer 40,000 universe and adds 2 new races to the game. The death hungry Necrons 
 and the Tau.
  
  The games story mode is excellent in the fact that it gives you the freedom of choice to attack 
 anywhere at any time. Attacking and conquering locations accross the planet of Kronus earns you 
 Planet Req Points to spend on defending your already conquered areas and of corse, buying more 
 "Honor Guard" units to attack the enemy with.
  
  I love RTS games where you need to build a base and an army and then kill everything that moves. 
 This game allows you to do exactly that, base building is easy and very fun, building units also 
 is easy and fun and of corse killing the enemy is very fun. 
  
  Upgrading your troops on the field is expencive but well worth it in the end. 
  
  Visuals are 
 very good as well in this game and I have never found 1 bug in it which is very impressive from 
 relic who are really starting to make a name for themeselfs.
  
  There is but one think about this game that I hate, yes I really do hate this and thats the building 
 limits, there really annoying and well... I just hate them but... this does not affect the game 
 as there are a lot of mods out there right now that will remove all the limits for you, so I am 
 not including the build limits in my final score.
  
  Dark Crusade is how an RTS game should be in the future and with its fantastic armies, story mode 
 and visuals this is a game you must own before you die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  "Tell the boyz there's some killin' to do!"
  
  The third game in a holy foursome that is Dawn of War proves to be its second best, and while that's 
 an accomplishment by itself, Dark Crusade isn't without fault. Nay, much can be said against it; 
 namely I conquered all of Kronus in around eight hours, or the move to a Risk-style format detracts 
 greatly from any of the lush story elements found in its duo of predecessors. Nonetheless, Dark 
 Crusade brandishes two sparkling new races and some delectable new units for the old five. It may 
 not be perfect, but it's damn fun.
  
  
  "Da bomb ya git, da bomb!"
  
  The pair of new races in Dark Crusade is by far the high point, and they do anything but disappoint. 
 First are the machino-flesh Necrons; machines curiously intelligent and hell-bent on pillaging 
 and ridding Kronus from all red-blooded infidels. Gameplay with Necrons is so vastly different 
 it yields a much-needed spark to fuel the monotony that is the "campaign." Requisition is eliminated, 
 and the only need for strategic points is to raise the population cap -instead, energy is the only 
 resource harvested by the Necrons, which is both good and incredibly laborious. Constructing a 
 sufficient number of energy cores early-on is crucial, especially if a marauding army is cut down 
 and a new force must be assembled; without vast reserves of power, expect to lose. The Necron Lord 
 of Kronus is without any shred of doubt the most entertaining commander units of any of the nine 
 races. He charges into a group of foes, slashing with his staff. He'll impale enemies on the blade, 
 smash them into the ground in a beautiful shower of blood then hurl the corpse over his shoulder. 
 He can be upgraded with stealth, and the ability to cloak nearby allies which is a sadistic trick 
 to overtake a turtle online, and can even transform into a ten-story, scythe-toting ghoul. As for 
 the remainder of the Necron repertoire, many games can be won simply with the basic Necron Warrior, 
 who while frustratingly slow has powerful ranged and hand-to-hand abilities. If they aren't rushed 
 early on and defeated, expect to be overwhelmed by the arduous behemoth that is the Necrons.
  
  Tau on the other hand play more traditionally, albeit with two vastly-differing branches of 
 units. One path is conventional, consisting of the Tau Fire Warrior from the famed Fire Caste, 
 whose brutal ranged attacks are the most powerful in the game. Of course this is at a great sacrifice, 
 since they will be swiftly slaughtered in close-quarters combat. XV8 Crisis Battlesuits are the 
 Tau equal of Dreadnoughts, and a host of aerial vehicles round out the Mont'Ka (traditional) path 
 of the Tau. Opposite the machine realm is the Kauyon branch, which sports vicious beasts which 
 excel at limb-wrenching combat. Kroot Carnivores are the heart and soul of the Kauyon, and when 
 upgraded can pounce a hundred feet to their enemies and ravage them with blade-equipped rifles. 
 But the center point of all the Tau arsenal is without a doubt the Greater Knarloc. With a lumbering 
 pace, the dinosaur-esque creature stomps into battle, literally ripping infantry in half with its 
 jaws and reducing turrets and tanks alike to scrap metal.
  
  Forgoing any customary campaign, Dark Crusade offers a battle map with 25 provinces to squabble 
 over with the other six races. While a change-up from the legendary Dawn of War campaign, it subsequently 
 lacks any plot to delve into. There is no heart and soul to the game excepting the drive to conquer 
 Kronus and drive all others from its soil. Each of the six enemies has a stronghold, which along 
 with a Tau spaceport mission provide seven truly fascinating missions and eighteen mundane, grinding, 
 wasteful others. I won't say the eighteen are awful, but they are merely diversions -even speed 
 bumps- that uselessly protract gameplay. Perhaps throwing in another half-dozen stronghold provinces 
 would have spiced things up. No matter, I enjoyed the game to completion, even with annoying provinces 
 side-tracking my subjugation.
  
  
  "A small mind is easily filled with faith."
  
  Besides the two spectacular races and a new style of campaign (which I will go on the record of 
 saying now, is a very annoying trend being picked up by far too many real-time strategy games: 
 give us a campaign and take away these annoying and unnecessary side tracks! Put more effort into 
 your products that I'm forking over forty or fifty bucks for!) , Dark Crusade is the same tried-and-true 
 formula of Dawn of War. Not much is changed, but when a product is as impeccable as this, not much 
 is needed. Of note, I have two nits to pick. First, pathfinding remains atrocious, and the inability 
 to skip past the intro movies on the first time is insanely and mind-bogglingly annoying. Because 
 on my setup, when I exit the game, it crashes, meaning every time I begin my dark crusade again, 
 it believes I have not played before, meaning five minutes of the same videos. That aside, Dark 
 Crusade is an excellent expansion pack to a spectacular game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobomoua
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  THQ has done it again should we say. Another revolutionary RTS game for RTS Fans. I do not think 
 there is anything wrong that I can say about DC but to say -- WOW!!! Now, let's play again shall 
 we!!! 
  
  The In game Graphics looks amazing under the right Graphics Card and even with a low end GC, one 
 can still receive amazing textures. Of course if you are an Ubber Modder, well the sky is the limit 
 really.
  
  The Races look grand and powerful in their own little ways. However, I do not think many people 
 play the Orks much... Unless if the Orks possessed a mighty weapon ... mmm ... Then we might just 
 turn around and say -- "Hold on, what of the ORKS?"
  
  The story is well developed if of course one has played all previous Dawn of Wars. But as is with 
 every games created, every stories can always be better and told in more epic ways than your norm 
 as to create that feeling of "WOW". I tell ya, there would not be any more pleasure than a great 
 war RTS game with an epic story told by the heroes in such ways that would make you fall off your 
 seat.
  
  The fighting between the races look amazing and bloody fun to play. It does not really matter which 
 race you decide to embark your journey with because it will be a bloody journey as well as satisfying.
 
  
  I only have little bummer thought ... Scaling!!!! It would had been an even greater experience 
 if everything was scaled properly. Yes I know, it would had taken a lot more but then that is why 
 we have our modders out there for I guess.
  
  Over all, I would only say that if you love RTS games then the epic of DAWN OF WAR is one you must 
 collect. You will truly never get tired of playing it, no really, never get tired ... No, I'm serious 
 ... 
  
  Well done THQ, well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 10, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40K, deserves honor by many aspects. 
  
  1. - Their "Graphics" are exceptional, a good computer does not require itself and when you approach 
 the camera you can see until the languages of the Orcos in this case, very detailed. 
  
  2. - The Sound is very, very good, the voices well are recorded and the person really feels in 
 war. 
  
  3. - Another very important point, is that it is a game RTS that seems to have combinations of 
 other games, as he is to capture bases of Battlefield or SW Battlefront, the races are very similar 
 to those of Starcraft, and the general movement of the soldiers and vehicles is very similar to 
 Warcraft III, The campaing type of Rise of Nations; without mentioning the good effects that it 
 has. Really, I recommend it for lovers of Real Time Strategy.
  
  So if you are searching about RTS games, and don't find great games or doesn't have Powerfull PC's, 
 this game is for you...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddli
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade has to be the closest game to Starcraft. While every other strategy game failed to 
 accomplish what Starcraft had, Dark Crusade is a game that matches up Starcraft point for point.
 
  
  Pros: The game has 7 different races to choose from. Each race has it's own campaign with a strong 
 and interesting storyline. Each race has their own unique units such as Heroes and spellcasters. 
 The game is like an improved Starcraft.
  
  Cons: Graphics is a little funky considering that this game came out recently.
  Some units in 
 the game are way too powerful which causes the game to be unbalanced in someway.
  
  Bottom line, if you love strategy, this game is a must have. 
  
  omg 100 words, 800 characters 
 must be fullfilled. omg omg omg omg
  omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  When Dawn of War came out, I really found much potential in this series, and now I'm glad to see 
 it grows in such a memorable RTS. I can only think of one game in this genre has an equal quality 
 expansion: The Frozen Throne. While maintaining the solid core game play, its two new races are 
 truly much more impressive and quite different from the existing ones. No other race in Dawn of 
 War shows such a resilience like Necron and it seems a rush strategy is the best idea against them. 
 The Tau Empire is very elegantly designed and proves themselves as the most balanced races of the 
 game. More creative is the turn-based theme found in single player campaign that offers a lot of 
 replay value. The game now seems more combat oriented since the amount of time spent on resource 
 management and base building is reduced. Besides, you now have to make strategic decisions to choose 
 one of several types of highest tier troops in your armies, depending on maps and on your opponent's 
 characteristic. This feature will prove very important in Multiplayer games, since it may also 
 decide the ending result. And of course, more maps adding to the map pool, each have their own 
 potential strategic advantage to exploit, which make you feel the game totally renewed. Even if 
 you are not veteran of Dawn of war, you still can easily make decision to buy this one, since it's 
 a stand alone pack allowing you to play without the original disks, which is also such a nice feature. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Just when you think that all you can hope for is a few extra races in an expansion to Dawn of War, 
 Dark Crusade gets released.
  
  I will start with the new races: The Necrons and The Tau. Both hold true to the background lore 
 behind them admirably, and successfully maintain balance withing the game (although a lot of people 
 will say otherwise) . I'm not here to talk about tactics, I'm here to talk about merit. 
  
  The Necrons themselves are a variation to the standard Dawn of War formula. They do not accumulate 
 Requisition, and only use the secondary resource, Power. However, they do still need to capture 
 Strategic Points and such. Why you ask? Doing so, and building obelisks on them, increases your 
 population, and a Necron specific variable, efficiency. The Necron army starts of with 1% efficiency, 
 meaning all builing and research is very slow. For every obelisk you build, you gain 20% efficiency, 
 up to 100%, by which time, all your buildings and research occurs a lot faster.
  
  As for the Necron troops themselves all are produced by the main HQ building, the Monolith, which 
 also functions as their Relic unit, when it becomes a super powered floating fortress, with 5 powerful 
 guns, high regeneration, the ability to teleport, and the automatic ability to warp back to its 
 foundations when it gets low on health, all the while still able to produce ground forces. The 
 troops themselves are fairly balanced. They may seem powerful but if you get enough firepower on 
 them they go down easily. Everything in DoW can be countered, all you need to do is work out how.
 
  
  The Tau are probably the closest race to their lore added so far. The general incredible power 
 at long range at expence to close combat ability, only remedied by the inclusion of Kroot and Vespid, 
 morale destruction at the death of an Ethereal, and a near complete lack of structured defences, 
 all tie in with the Tau way of fighting, and can be drawn almost directly from the tabletop codex 
 itself.
  
  Now for the part that "revolutionised a revolutionary game". The campaign in Dark Crusade was, 
 due to lack of any other words, a REAL campaign. It cosists of a world map, with a central fortress 
 to each of the 7 races in the game. You can play as any of the 7 races. Each race has its own general 
 who, as you make certain achievements (eg taking over 5 territories or having a 3:1 kill ratio 
 in a battle) , gains new wargear, which you get to choose. Basically, this means your general gets 
 more powerful the more successful they are.
  
  Another addition within this campaign style, is the inclusion of base permanance. Basically what 
 this means is that when you attack a territory, and you build your base and capture Strategic Points 
 and so on, if you win that battle, all of that remains there, and if you are pushed back into this 
 territory by enemy forces, you can make use of all the fascilities you have constructed there in 
 the past. This not only adds realism to the game, but also makes it much easier to defend then 
 it is to attack, which is how it should be.
  
  A further addition to the campaign is Retinue and Garrison features. Along with extra wargear and 
 Planetary Requisition (used to buy retinue and garrison forces) , capturing territories grants you 
 use of retinue units, which accompany your general into combat. This means that isntead of hitting 
 the battle with no more than a HQ, a builder and your general, you can hit ground with enough forces 
 (by the end of the game) to topple a moderately defended base, and early game to defend against 
 any garrison forces and early assaults the enemy may send.
  
  Garrison forces are basically just troops that can be purchased with Planetary Requisition to stay 
 put in a territory to defend it in case of attack. Coupled with the Base Permamance feature, this 
 further adds to the realism factor in the game.
  
  Finally about the campaign, I have to talk about the fortresses. These basically act as the "traditional" 
 campaign levels, with primary and secondary objectives, the enemy already situated, etc. These 
 not only present the greatest challenge, but are also the most fun, and generally had either insightful 
 or witty dialogue between your general, and the one you intended to slaughter, adding to the enjoyment, 
 and often satisfaction, upon your success.
  
  Dark Crusade made a great franchise even better, which is something that doesn't happen very often. 
 Expansions that improve on the original concept are few and far between, but this one is a definate 
 winner in that department. I have no downsides to this game, and have no problem giving it 9.5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssuttles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  The new setup is a great throwback to Risk, which started it all. All, but one race is included 
 in the game and the Sisters of Battle are not cut-out to contribute much to the storyline. Regardless, 
 the bonuses of conquering certain territories are great. The learning curve is only about twenty 
 minutes and the cut scenes are entertaining. The only problem I have with the game is the deep 
 voiced narrator that makes the game sound more epic than it is. I would much prefer to have him 
 narrate one of my games on the tabletop than the RTS. The addition of the Necrons has been long 
 awaited and most of us are thrilled about it. The Tao is, also, entertaining. These are the only 
 real good guys in the Warhammer 40K universe and will give newbies an army to have fun with. I 
 still have not tried any of the multiplayer games with this expansion but will be soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Dawn of war was a ok game but not a great game. I say only ok because it has several flaws. Firstly, 
 the campaign... repititive skirmish maps strung together with a hint of storyline that, to be honest, 
 fails to thrill. That said the skirmishes are damn fun and there needs to be some kind of skill 
 in order to win.
  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade takes place on a planet called "Kronus" which is in the outer-reaches 
 of the Imperium and has been slowly falling to alien oppression from the alien T'au empire and 
 the human population has been slowly dwindling due to their reluctance to fall from their faith 
 in the immortal god Emperor. 
  The best thing about this game is the mods for it, there are so many to choose from and all of 
 them make the game a tad more interesting in skirmish. It's fun to try all the different armies 
 and choose there paints which is really fun.
  There are 7 ( !!! ) factions to choose from but it's quite dissapointing that each faction is not 
 that much different from each oher except the graphical department. Against 6 other races, you 
 build up your armies and one by one cnoquer the provinces of the planet. Each race is playable, 
 and they all have different reasons for being on Kronus. 
  gameplay is routine and similar to another rts games but in this game you cannot create and conquer 
 a 'huge' army of robots/alians/men to overrun your enemys. graphics and sounds are good but not 
 amazing.
  Overall the core gameplay is good but it lacks the substance or variety to make it a long lasting 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbersss101
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  Well, I haven't receive my copy of soulstorm might be next month or middle of the year. I basicly 
 will just tell you what dark crusade is.....
  
  You choose 7 different faction/ race. 
  If you played the last two, you know who is who. Anyway,
  1: Space marines, they are slightly 
 overpowering...... their Dreadnoughts are killers. You just orbital strike them and send the remaining 
 on foot and the whole army and basicly you can win the whole game using this tactics. And that 
 is just what I did.
  2: Elders, well I play this guys and I think they suck! Dunno why maybe cause I just can't use 
 them well.
  3: Imperial Guardsman, they are quite good actually. Even though they have a low morale and everything, 
 they got these guys called the commisars i think. Anyway, these guys are like the Russian red army 
 officers. If you have a low morale, you can execute a soldier but be careful! You might execute 
 the last soldier and you are force to build another one or you execute a soldier with upgrades. 
 And I really love they ultimate tank!
  4: Necrons, I fond them just like the elders but they don't suck. Just I'm not used to them
  
 5: Orks, they basicly almost like the space marines but with different unit and morale and damage. 
 Mainly they have half of the morale but twice the amount of units.
  6: Tau, if you play the Fire warrior, you will notice most of the soldiers. The fireteam needs 
 time to deploy but they are quite powerful in range combat. If you ask me, they are good for defending 
 and if you manage to not let them into a CQC then they are one of the best units in the game.
 
  7: Chaos, ahhhhh chaos they are basicly the same the same as space marines but different units. 
 What I mean by the same is that both of them came from the same thing. Chaos are guys who love 
 chaos and space marines are religous...... TAKE THIS AS AN EXAMPLE I DON'T REALLY KNOW BOUT THE 
 BETRAYAL STUFF AND ALL!!!!!! Anyway, I fond them as powerful as space marines if you know how to 
 use them well.
  
  Battles can be chaotic at times so you better have a good comp or low your settings. I'm currently 
 playing the imperial guardsman and I was defending this junction in the Necron home world and it 
 was chaotic. THERES MORE THAN A THOUSAND DEAD NECRON BODY ON THE FLOOR! My comp went like from 
 30 to 16 somewhere like that. Great game but I suggestt you get soulstorm cause its new. Theres 
 not much of a story here anyway.
  
  Pro
  -Fun chaotic battles
  -Fun chaotic battles and makes you play over again
  
  Cons
  -not much story
  -no air units
 
  -Dreadnoughts are over powering XD (1.0 btw not sure bout 1.2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homeyc
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I first started playing Warhammer a couple of years ago after enjoying similar titles such as warcraft 
 and starcraft. What drew me to Warhammer were the similar graphics as warcraft but an easier gaming 
 interface. I also enjoyed learning about the new races and options. Then came Winter Assault which 
 I thought was a decent expansion with new races as well. However, Dark Crusade is an expansion 
 unto itself that surpasses any of the previous titles in this series. Not only is there an unprecedented 
 number of races that you can control, there is also the strategic need to outplay your opponent (s) 
 or the computer on campaign (much easier task) . This game in many ways reminds me of the boardgame 
 Risk. You can either spread out quickly and thin out your forces or slowly expand and consolidate 
 your armies each turn. No matter which race you play or how you play it, this game has a lot going 
 on. There are additional bonuses that players can gain for defeating certain spaces as well as 
 additional forces. Players play differently when defending as opposed to attacking. Overall, I 
 must commend the programmers for doing an outstanding job on this title. I'm excited to check out 
 the new stand alone expansion of Warhammer as well as seeing the new Warhammer 2 title coming out 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MATSIMUS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  
  
  The one bonus that i believe the dawn of war series has had over other rts games is its variety. 
 each faction has all different units to the others there own strengths and weaknessess. For instance 
 the orkz are all out attack with vast populations of forces whereas the tau are more long distance 
 elite troops. the two new races are the necrons and the tau both completely fresh and new and with 
 added bonuses.
  
  Dark crusade has changed the usuall story based campign to a conquest campaign where you pick a 
 faction and try and take over Kronus. However this campaign is limited as there are few territories 
 and conflicts are long winded and dragged out. A nice feature though is upgrading your commander 
 through different milestones, and in the case of the tau create and unstoppable killing machine.
 
  
  Another added bonus of the dawn of war series is the brutal kill sequences that units perform, 
 dreadnoughts can pick people in the air and spin them round while flaming them, its so awesome 
 watching these especially when its an enemy general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliblabla2007
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade is set in the Warhammer 40000 Universe. It does not represent the fluff 
 very well, being that practically everything is gimped and underpowered. However, the visual design 
 of the units is spot-on.
  
  There are 7 races in the game. Space Marines, Imperial Guard, Orks, Tau, Eldar, Necrons and Chaos.
 
  
  The player starts with a single HQ building and a few basic units, usually just one building unit. 
 The whole idea is to use the said building unit to establish a small base, then expand your territory 
 while building up some more. 
  
  Building in this game requires a 'Control Field' that is expanded by 1) Building a Command Center, 
 2) Fortifying Strategic points or Relics with Listening Posts or 3) Building on the edge of your 
 control field.
  
  In Dawn of War: Dark Crusade, there are two types of resources. The first: Requisition. You can 
 'harvest' requisition by capturing and controlling strategic points, critical locations and relics. 
 You can increase your resource rate by building listening posts or through research. 
  
  Strategic points are the most common points for increasing your requisition rate. They usually 
 dot the map in the way that freckles dot a face, and you can fortify them using Listening Posts. 
 The blue points on a map are most probably strategic points.
  
  Critical Locations are tricky to defend. They cannot be fortified, and have a large radius in which 
 you cannot build anything.... meaning that you have to build defenses on the edge of that radius. 
 Critical Locations are very rare, and slow to capture. Critical Locations are orange on the map.
 
  
  Relics are like strategic points, but allow you to bring Relic units onto the field. Relic Units 
 are the most powerful units of their respective factions and are generally capable of fighting 
 entire armies on their own. However, they are very valuable, and it is not a good idea to send 
 them into combat without support. Relics on the map are yellow.
  
  The Necron race do not use requisition - Said strategic points, critical locations and Relics serve 
 to increase the production rate of units.
  
  The second type of resource is power. There are two points for collecting power - One is building 
 Power Generators, and the other is building Thermo Power Generators on special purple-colored locations 
 on the map. Such locations are rare. You can build 6 Power Generators per HQ, with the exception 
 of the Necrons who can build 10.
  
  The original 5 sides have three different production buildings for Infantry, Vehicles and Relic 
 Units. The two new factions deviate from this - The Tau have two production facilities for infantry, 
 and they build their Relic Units from the vehicle production facility. The Necrons build all their 
 infantry at their HQ, and gain their Relic Unit by upgrading their HQ... into the Relic Unit itself.
 
  
  There are two types of population. Squad Cap and Vehicle Cap. Each race, with the exception of 
 Orks, can have 20 Squad and 20 Vehicle. Usually, there is a "unit limit" on most non-basic units 
 to keep you from spamming the enemy with them.
  
  Building and Training is pretty quick.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
  
  Infantry in Dawn of War are usually in squads - except for commander units. Vehicles and Relic 
 Units are single units. Infantry and Commanders take up Squad cap, while Vehicles and Relic Units 
 take up vehicle cap.
  
  Combat wise, Dawn of War is visceral and bloody. There are two ways for infantry to do combat - 
 Ranged and Melee. 
  
  Ranged combat involves accuracy, and units on the move are unlikely to hit anything. Therefore, 
 it is recommended you keep them stationary. Artillery combat tends to involve a lot of units being 
 knocked around and temporarily stunned, or with weak infantry, killed.
  
  Cover is involved. There are a few different types, like Heavy and Light - which reduce the amount 
 of damage your units take in different levels. There is negative cover, which actually increases 
 it.
  
  Melee combat brings in the visceral and bloody part. When two squads get into close combat, the 
 winner is determined by who gets more hits, who has more health and who deals higher damage. It 
 should be noted that it is a very bad idea to solo several melee units at once - unis in melee 
 have to block attacks, meaning they can't attack. When getting attacked by many melee units at 
 once from different sides, your unit will never get a hit. You'll be lucky though, if he is one 
 of those types that can throw around many enemies with one hit.
  
  Also, in melee combat, the winner may send is opponent in to a special death animation, such as 
 the winner impaling the defeated on his sword and then headshotting him.
  
  There is an unit upgrade system in Dawn of War - You can equip most infantry squads with special 
 / heavy weapons, leaders, .etc. Such things will boost the combat efficiency of the squad.
  
  It is far rarer on vehicles and commanders though. And Relic Units don't have any upgrades 
 at all.
  
  Vehicles combat generally occurs in small numbers. Tank combat is even rarer - Due to unit limits, 
 you can have 2 from each race at most. A few vehicles can do melee combat, such as the Dreadnought, 
 but vehicles in general are range-only.
  
  Defensive structures are available to all of the original races. The Tau lack any, however.
  
 
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - -
  
  In terms of game balance, Dark Crusade isn't particularly good. Races like the Space Marines and 
 Necrons are more powerful overall than the other factions, and races like the Tau are severely 
 underpowered.
  
  Faction Variety is fairly good, easily above, say, Age of Empires. However, Starcraft and Earth 
 2160 outdo it easily.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - -
  
  The Singleplayer campaign consists of a single meta-map, with about 20-30 territories. Turn-based 
 gameplay is used on the metamap, with one movement per turn.
  
  Each race has an original base, which upon attacking you will find that the bases are well defended 
 and hard to take. These maps are heavily scripted compared to normal maps.
  
  There is a wargear system - You need to get special achievements like 15+ conquered territories 
 to purchase more wargear.
  
  Most of the territories give you Honor Guard - special units that are more powerful than their 
 bog-standard counterparts in the case of infantry. Vehicle-wise, Honor Guard are simply normal 
 units.
  
  Some territories give you special abilities - like attacking twice in a single turn. Such maps 
 are also scripted.
  
  In Skirmish, you get for the most part pretty standard gametypes, as well as original ones such 
 as Assassination, where taking out your enemy's commander is the name of the day.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - -
  
  Why I rate it a 9.0 however..... 
  
  I do mention that it's very bloody in combat. Also, the great sound contributes to the atmosphere 
 of the game. I send my men into combat, hear their screams while they get slaughtered. You might 
 say that every RTS has a 'death scream' - That's not what I mean. For example, when a squad of 
 Imperial Guardsmen rushes an enemy in melee combat, they will yell "Charge!". They will also yell 
 something along the lines of "Where is that artillery" if they get bombarded with anythng.
  
  That's not the only example of where the units voicing their situation happens - units in combat 
 will generally let you know of victory, or defeat. Meaning that macromanagement is less important 
 - you don't have to be looking everywhere constantly, because your units will let you know. Therefore, 
 you won't be mad frustrated and you can enjoy your game more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is the second expansion for Dawn of War, and boy is it an expansion but i doesn't 
 need the first game to play it.
  
  Dark Crusade features an all new turn based territorial campaign, which is not only fun - but addictive. 
 During the campaign you can unlock new war gear for your commander. This can include new weapons, 
 boots, helmets etc. This brings an RPG like element to the already fun Dark Crusade campaign. The 
 campaign also has excellent replay value because you can play through it from each of the 7 different 
 factions perspective. Yes, you heard me: 7. Dark Crusade offers 2 new factions, the Necrons and 
 the Tau Empire. Both of these are completely unique and have a very different play style to the 
 existing 5 factions which add to the already expansive Warhammer experience.
  
  Owners of lower end machines will be happy to know that Dark Crusade has low system requirements. 
 256MB RAM in fact. But it still looks great! You don't even need Dawn of War to run Dark Crusade 
 on your computer! Provided you don't mind missing out on playing the 4 original factions online.
 
  
  If you're a Dawn of War or Warhammer 40k fan - Dark Crusade is a must buy! If you're not - get 
 it anyway ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boredkid95
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  dark crusade is an awesome game that you will waste away hours without realizing it especially 
 considering that the campaign is a lot more strategic in a way that there are'nt objectives but 
 just provinces that you need to control in order to beat it. the visuals are amazing especially 
 if you have a high end computer and you've scrolled the camera down to ground level its like watching 
 futuristic 300. you'll see bodys go flying, grenades, lazers zooming past and the very awesome 
 sync kill which is a varying combo of hits and slashes that your troops do when they finish off 
 someone in melle combat. one of the major things in it is beeing able to paint your armies whatever 
 you like. you can choose what thier banners look like, the colour of thier helmet and pretty much 
 everthing. the different factions are very cool there are the orks who live for war, the eldar 
 who are nearly an extinct race. the imperial guard who are made up of ordinary men, the tau a young 
 but incredibly advanced race, the space marines who are massive men who were genetically altered 
 to be killing machines who serve the imperium alongside the imperial guard, the traitorous chaos 
 space marines who betrayed the space marines and the metal zombies that are the necrons. this is 
 well worth the buy considering you get to use all the races in everything except multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantm23
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is the second expansion for Dawn of War, and boy is it an expansion.
  
  Dark Crusade features an all new turn based territorial campaign, which is not only fun - but addictive. 
 During the campaign you can unlock new war gear for your commander. This can include new weapons, 
 boots, helmets etc. This brings an RPG like element to the already fun Dark Crusade campaign. The 
 campaign also has excellent replay value because you can play through it from each of the 7 different 
 factions perspective. Yes, you heard me: 7. Dark Crusade offers 2 new factions, the Necrons and 
 the Tau Empire. Both of these are completely unique and have a very different play style to the 
 existing 5 factions which add to the already expansive Warhammer experience.
  
  Owners of lower end machines will be happy to know that Dark Crusade has low system requirements. 
 256MB RAM in fact. But it still looks great! You don't even need Dawn of War to run Dark Crusade 
 on your computer! Provided you don't mind missing out on playing the 4 original factions online.
 
  
  If you're a Dawn of War or Warhammer fan - Dark Crusade is a must buy! If you're not - get it anyway! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Fallen_Hero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Sencillmente genial, no es un RTS normal, no se trata de reunir recursos, construir unidades y 
 simplemente enviarlas a atacar al enemigo, realmente tienes que prestar atencion a los pequeos 
 detalles en el combate, ademas, el modo mapa hace que cada juego sea bastante diferente del anterior, 
 dispones de nada mas y nada menos que 7 razas, y todas estan muy bien balanceadas, con sus pros 
 y contras, realmente se lo recomiendo a cualquier fan de la estrategia.
  Just great, its not a normal RTS, its not about gatthering resourses, building units and simply 
 send them to attack the enemy, you really have to pay attention to the small details of combat, 
 besides, the map mode makes every game really different from the previous one, you have 7 races 
 available, and everyone is well balanced, with their pros and cons, i really recommend it to any 
 strategy fan.
  im sorry if my english isn't 100% correct. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpawnStang
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  The DOW series continues with this next installment. The first two games went together as main 
 and mission pack. But this third is a stand-alone. But if you want to really enjoy the title, go 
 ahead and get the first two so that you can enjoy all the "sides" / races.
  
  The DOW and Winter Assault brought: Space Marines, Eldar, Imperial Guard, Space Ork, and Chaos.
 
  Dark Crusade adds: Tau and Necron
  
  Not to mention that "Soul Storm" is coming out soon with two new races. And it's going to be a 
 stand-alone game as well. 
  
  This title was different from the first two because it introduced a radically new type of campaign/story. 
 Before the story was driven by a set path. You had to complete certain objectives and use a certain 
 race whenever the game changed the parameters. 
  
  In this installment, you pick your race to start with and try to take over the planet. You earn 
 WarGear and advance your hold over the different territory. Much like a game of risk, except that 
 each battle -- whether it be attacking or defending -- decides the fate of that territory.
  
  The units have changed a little since last, so that does take some getting used to. There are additional 
 units that you can add, which is advantageous.
  
  Overall, it's a lot of fun to play. I find myself setting up skirmishes from time to time, just 
 to play around with different units.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owner34
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Dawn of war: dark crusade is an O. K game. When I think of Warhammer I think of an epic 
 battle full of lots of action and fighting, which this has, but it seems that there is very little 
 balance between the different armies; but who knows it might just be me. There is lots of action, 
 units smashing and shooting each other (a glorious display of gore) , and you think your winning. 
 Then 5 seconds later a whole army of eldar will have teleported behind you or a ton of demons have 
 summoned around you. It seems like the enemy is always popping up out of no where, but that's because 
 most online players have played for a very long time and know what to do. I have played for a while 
 and I still can't quite grasp the rains of my army, taking control of the battlefield. Even in 
 the tutorial, while the guy tells you what to do, the AI team just comes over and kills you! I 
 was likewhat the hell, I thought I was going to learn how to play not get slaughtered".
  
  I am very disappointed with this game though it can be fun sometimes and it's worth a try. 
 It's fun to try all the different armies and chose there paints which is really fun. If you play 
 online (like most people) you will have to be very patient. It seems to take almost longer then 
 the battle to get a game; and for some odd reason it seems to take ridiculously long time for the 
 game to load. It's enough to make you yawn.
  
  If you play offline against the computer to see what army you like and to get used to it; you're 
 wasting your time. You will most likely pick another army once you have started playing online. 
 When I play the computer I am good as necrons, but when I play online I suck as them and play as 
 orks.
  
  Hope this review was helpful.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank138
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  People always say that expansion packs are never as good as the first game but this expansion just 
 expands on already a great game. The game then has a unprecedented 7 races from 5 to play and on 
 most games this is just a dream not a reality especially in the depths in which these races are. 
 
  The Campaign mode is excellent as each races has a territory and those who have ever played a newer 
 total war will know how good the campaign mode is on that the map is a bit like that. Slightly 
 worse but still great, defeating each of the factions and what is also great is some of the places 
 on the map have specials, like a teleport to anywhere on the map. These extras enhance the campaign 
 mode.
  The skirmish is another exceptional part, there are plethora of maps ranging in size and number 
 of enemies. Many ways of winning each, e. g. Annihilate. Each game can be individual and this allows 
 for the great replay value, as there are so many choices. The online multiplayer is basically the 
 same as the skirmish and so they are easy to locate everything.
  With the supreme replay value with the amount of variations and the number of playable races, this 
 game is first rate. Everything else only improves upon this. The campaign mode and skirmish are 
 well thought out and really couldn't be much better. I really can't find any major faults in the 
 game and i believe it is one of those great games. So go out and buy it and enjoy it as much as 
 i do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagrofess
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade's best feature over it's predecessors is the planet-wide meta map that allows you 
 to pick and choose which areas you seize control of and in what order. The two new races the Tau 
 Empire and the Necrons are interesting to play with as the first of the two has many structures 
 that can be built and makes use of mechanized infantry in high tech battlesuits. The Necrons are 
 unique in that their headquarters produces all units, both infantry and vehicles, and that it's 
 builder unit is the only unit that can capture strategic locations, relics and critical points 
 on the map. This can be useful as you can start construction of a fortification for the newly acquired 
 position immediately.
  
  The multiplayer is well put together and definitely adds to the game as a whole.
  
  The reason 
 why I said it was suitable for new players of the genre in the review deck is that the tech trees, 
 while very balanced between the 7 races, are also very basic in comparison to other rts games such 
 as Supreme Commander and the Command and Conquer series. After a while you will find yourself using 
 the same base template and building the same structures in every level. This kind of micro management 
 is easy to understand and use but not very exciting due to the relatively small variety of units 
 you will be using.
  
  Overall the core gameplay is good but it lacks the substance or variety to make it a long lasting 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ron1988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  The second extension of warhammer 40k dawn of war with 2 new races Tau and Necrons with many game 
 play hours. Great game nice to play because of the 7 playable races. With some challenging single 
 player
  There is only 1 thing i don't like. Necrons making the game a little unbalance with there strange 
 power based income and their insane commander (experience players know what i'm talking about) . 
 That's why i didn't give the game a 10. Nice single player campaign, good for ad least 20 hours 
 game play and can be hard because of the map level growing trough the game, i also fun to plat 
 it twice with another race. Good online function with many good online maps. I hope that the next 
 expension is on the same level as Dark Crusade named Soulstorm with the Dark eldar and Sisters 
 of battle. I've played the demo with Dark eldar it was funny to play but not a real strong race 
 for online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanSniper1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of war: dark crusade sets the example for any game designer looking make an RTS. The graphics 
 are great and the online play better than ever. I have spent countless days playing with my clan, 
 playing games all day and all night. The games last from 15 minutes to and hour and rarely longer, 
 but when they are about an hour long they are usually very intense, strategic GG's. Although there 
 are so many unexperianced players online, its worth it playing a bunch of games to find that 1/15 
 is an amazing match.. A true RTS game works like this... You hit eachother with t1 units, the pressure 
 is intense and both sides are relatively even, very small mistakes change the cource of the battle 
 and one opponent gains the chance to tech up a little. Game may be a tie and both players will 
 advance to T2, and as such advance to t3, turning into a more intense battlewith much customization. 
 Each player pushes his advantages and gains the upper hand with a gutrenching blow, annihilating 
 the enemy forces over many advantages that have been pushed throughout the game. That is what is 
 waiting for you in Dawn of war... The questin is... will you seek it out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of war dark crsade is proberly the best dawn of war out yet. If your thinking of buying a 
 stratergy game i advise this. ( get the dawn of war mithology pack its got better value) 
  
  This game contains the best alian and human races ever seen in a statergy or army bulding game. 
 Although it dosnt manage to overrule other stratergies like command and conquer it is still a decent 
 game.
  
  The biggest problem with this game sadly is a part of the gameplay. Unlike other stratergy games 
 you cannot create and conquer a 'huge' army of robots/alians/men to overrun your enemys. In other 
 game its an invation of people rushing for their lives but in dark crusade you just make a couple 
 of veichals and teams then rush of to capture different points. In the end your base may look big 
 but it is nothing compared to other stratergy games.
  
  Another downside to this game is the difficulty on certain levels and objectives. For starting 
 or average players like myslef at one point the game becomes extra hard to keep up with. You start 
 of with a build bot, a base and usually your camandor ( varies in which race you choose) . But when 
 you are up againest 10 or more armies near the start of the game and only 4 or less are on your 
 team, it becomes complicated. Since your an average player you proberly wont have the time to build 
 enough men to survive or move out and defend your base aswell. Floods of enemys just keep pouring 
 in until you cant keep up which is the most fustrating this about this game. Once you get used 
 to using the hotkeys and acually understand what things do in gameplay it become fun.
  
  Overall, this game is worth buying but only if your up for a bit of a challenge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonmichael14
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k Dawn of War Dark Crusade is just a lot of fun to play. Of all the rts games I've 
 played, I've had more fun with this. I can't really put my finger on the reason though, I've been 
 playing World in Conflict and it too is an amazing game, but there's something about watching a 
 group of space marines tear through a massive army of orks. The combat just simply a joy to watch 
 and the orks are hysterical to listen to. Simply put, this game is a blast to play and if you're 
 a fan of Warhammer you should really get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pipinowns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I got Dawn of War with Winter Assault. I had fun and beat the campaign, but I knew Dark Crusade 
 was out and it wasn't complete without it. So I got Dark Crusade. The whole game changed. I loved 
 it so much more. These 2 factions make all the other factions even better. How? These factions 
 are amazing. The Tau and Necrons are such interesting races and your dieing to learn more about 
 them. The campaign is alright for a strategy game but multi player is were its at. Multi Player 
 starts out hard. Soon you will be owning those noobs and conquering the galaxy! This game is extremely 
 fun. All Sci-Fi and RTS fans will look at the Dawn of War Series as a bench mark for RTS history. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyMrAdrian
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  First of all, im going to get the bad points out of the way
  
  Meta-Map Campaign - Personally I think its just Relic being lazy, I can't blame them for not wanting 
 to write a decent plot involving 7 different races, 2 of whom are allied to each other. At the 
 same time this type of campaign really doesn't feel rewarding and you probably won't want to play 
 through as all 7 races.
  
  Graphics - Well, they arn't bad but its not something you'd tell your friends about. While they 
 may have been good 4 odd years ago they really don't stand out today, hell even my cheap-o piece 
 of **** computer can play this with little trouble.
  
  Hard Caps - The original and Winter Assault may have had people complaining about 'spamming' issues 
 with advanced units late in the game so the developers went and slapped on hard caps on strong 
 infantry and almost all the vehicles meaning you'll be fielding the same armies over and over again. 
 Great for multiplayer I suppose but for those of us who don't play online much or prefer Campaigns/Skirmish 
 its a pain in the ass.
  
  Necron Voice Acting - What the ****?! When I click on a squad I don't want a ****ing beeping noise 
 followed by a siren or wooosh sound, and the only time one of them talks is for 30 odd seconds 
 in the campaign
  
  Aside from those bad points it is infact a very good game, the controls are very easy to learn, 
 the races nicely balanced, the voice acting is excellent (apart from the Necrons) and the music 
 is wonderfully suited to the frim 40k futuristic setting. Overall this makes for a surprisingly 
 average game.
  
  But thats where mods come in! Using some very well made mods (which you can discover for yourselves) 
 you can double or triple the amount of gameplay on offer! The best thing about this is you can 
 add new races to this game, new maps, and remove those nasty hardcaps. In fact i'd score the game 
 in the the 9's if the mods came with the game but alas they don't.
  
  Heres hoping Dawn of War: Soulstorm is much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuellarfear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade comes along right after Dawn of War bursts into peoples computers and then Winter 
 Assault slides in as an expansion pack. Dark Crusade acts like an expansion pack but does not requier 
 the other games to actually be installed into your pc. Although you do need the CD keys.
  
  Dark Crusade brings more factions into the Real Time Strategy than any other game and expansion 
 has ever. 7 Diffrent races with little to NO similarity, and completley diffrent storylines behind 
 each, including hero units which during campeign, grow stronger as you earn points to give them 
 better wepons and armor.
  
  Campeign is set up to be a conquest kinda thing where every turn you get, you try and take a territory, 
 and when one of the other forces come onto your territory, you can choose to defend or let the 
 computer try and do it for you, either way, every territory you take, you save your base and get 
 to use the same one to defend against other attackers.
  
  All in all, Dark Crusade is everything you got in the first two Dawn of War's PLUS some, infact, 
 plus alot, its a very very rewarding game to own and it will keep you enthralled in the story mode 
 and campeign for a very very long time. Enjoy hopping online and painting up all your new units!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k has been around for many years and has drawn in many fans. For those of you who don't 
 know what it is, it was a tabletop game that became popular in the 80's. You would use little plastic 
 models to create battle scenarios against others. They finally decided to make it into a game in 
 the past couple years, and they succeeded at doing so. Not only will you see many familiar races 
 in this game, but you will be able to see them in beautiful 3D action.
  
  The gameplay is superb. It feels cohesive and the way combat works is rich. Instead of building 
 up a base like you have seen in many past RTS games, this game is all about frontline combat. You 
 have to go outside your base and capture nodes in order to acquire resources, which therefore you 
 can build more buildings and make more powerful units. This along with a very balanced selection 
 of races make for a wild experience. In this standalone expansion, you get access to two races: 
 the Tau and the Necrons. One is good and one is evil. Both are balanced well and both are stunning 
 to watch in combat.
  
  The graphics in this game were some of the best seen in any RTS at their time. It was the first 
 RTS to incorporate a much close camera angle. With this is the option to zoom in and look at the 
 battlefield from a 3rd-person like perspective. This creates for some real fun when you watch your 
 army of men charge into your enemies base while zoomed in. Also, the audio is quite good. The music 
 score is epic and will leave you wanting to play the game when you hear it. Voice-acting and sound 
 effects are also superb. However, I did find a lack of variety with sound effects.
  
  This game has quite a lot of bang for your buck. The single-player campaign pits you against all 
 of the other races in previous and current Warhammer 40k games as you try to wipe them clean off 
 of the planet. The multi-player is where the bulk of the experience is at. The lobby room looks 
 great and there is little to no lag. It is a blast to try to perfect your knowledge of the game 
 and different weaknesses and strengths of other races.
  
  The only big problem I found with the game is you may become bored rather quickly. It's not a pick-up 
 and play game by any means. You might not be in the mood to play it a lot of the time but however, 
 when you do, you will have fun. The experience overall is very good and can be considered a very 
 fun and different experience from others of it's genre. If you like RTS but prefer the combat rather 
 than the building, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArCHAN6EL
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade the third standalone expansion in Relic's ongoing dawn of war Saga is predictable, 
 linear. But despite this, still as much fun as the original. Whether it be defending and defiling 
 the planet Kronus in singleplayer, or wreaking havoc online, Dark Crusade is a straighforward study 
 in 'more of a good thing.'
  
  SINGLEPLAYER
  
  True to the 40K universe, Dark crusade has you (the commander of your chosen force) duking it out 
 in a blood-frenzied Battle Royale across the entire surface of the planet Kronus. Against 6 other 
 races, you build up your armies and one by one cnoquer the provinces of the planet. Each race is 
 playable, and they all have different reasons for being on Kronus. In order to achieve success 
 in the campaign, the player has to wipe out the enemy by taking their stronghold province. Acting 
 much like the capital of the chosen race, the stronghold province is a heavily fortified headquarters 
 that is the command point for its designated race. By conquering this province, bot only are you 
 able to drive the opponent from the planet but also render his/her forces defeated. Once this occurs 
 the race will be cut from the campaign, wihle you move on to your next target. 
  However due to the open-end campaign in Dark crusade, the player can choose which provinces to 
 take over. Some make money faster, others elminate races from the game, yet some offer special 
 benefits to the occupying race. Greater population cap, and overall increased requisition rate 
 are just some of the benefits conferred to certain much sought-after provinces. However since you 
 can only attack with one given army at any time this wipes out any startegic value other than a 
 pretext to the real battles: in real time. 
  Much like Winter Assault, and the original Dawn of War, the battles revolve around gaining requisition 
 points and relics to bolster your economy. However while you generally spend most of your time 
 'killing' your opponents HQ's, there are certain benefits. High kill ratios, map supremacy, and 
 control of a certain number of relics nets you 'wargear' points for your race's Commander. These 
 wargear points can be used to 'buy' wargear from your commander screen, allowing you to equip your 
 race's hero with better melee weapons, better armour or certain abilities. 
  Most of these upgrades serve to augment your Commander's stlye of combat so whichever order you 
 purchase your gear in is not terribly important, as all pieces would be purchased by the time the 
 campaign comes to a close. With a decent story, backdrop and some new mechanics Dawn of War Dark 
 Crusade also throws in two completely new races: The hi-tech Tau Empire and the lumbering undying 
 Necrons. While these races bear similarities to the remaining five, they have enough differences 
 between them to suit a specific player's style of strategy. 
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  Dark Crusade multiplayer uses the Relic provider service and makes it quite easy to find a game 
 suiting your skill level and needs. Clans abound, and the lobby is reguarly updated so if you're 
 a multiplayer strategist you should be abound in combat in no time. 
  While multiplayer doesn't offer some of the options from singleplayer, basic matches remain the 
 same with base-builidng, point capture and bloody squad based combats raging all over the map. 
 With several players this can become a bloody and engaging experience. However to use the total 
 7 races in the Dawn of War series, a player is required to purchase all three games in the series 
 to access these races. From the get go, players who bought Dark Crusade as a standalone package 
 will find themselves with Necrons and Tau, and nothing else. However considering the price of the 
 game that is completely understandable, if still a little frustrating.
  
  VERDICT
  
  While Dark crusade is presented in a well organised and exciting form, there nothing that warrants 
 complete and utter awe. Much like its two brothre games before it, Dark Crusade is more of the 
 same bloody, graphic and squad based combat from Relic Entertainment. The singleplayer should keep 
 you engaged for up to 30 hours, while multiplayer gives you a chance to hone your online skills. 
 And while it may not be innovative or shock inspiring in the graphics department (COH recently 
 topped it) it is still a worthy addition to the Dawn of War fanchise, and as good an expansion 
 as any for the PC strategy fan.....8.0/10 marks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k-bar2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  General Overview -
  
  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade is a continuation of the game series "Dawn of War" which was crafted 
 by the developers Relic. Dark Crusade closely follows the events of the previous expansion pack 
 (Winter Assault) with two of the commanders of the previous armies returning for a second shot 
 at the game. The Eldar Farseer Taldeer and the Ork War-Boss Gorgutz.
  
  Story - 9/10
  
  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade takes place on a planet called "Kronus" which is in the outer-reaches 
 of the Imperium and has been slowly falling to alien oppression from the alien T'au empire and 
 the human population has been slowly dwindling due to their reluctance to fall from their faith 
 in the immortal god Emperor. 
  
  Something much more sinister lies under the sands of Kronus - The Necrons. 
  
  The Necrons 
 are an ancient alien race who were enslaved by the C'tan in the false hope of saving themselves 
 from an exploding star. Once the Necrons were enslaved in their forever metal skeletons; their 
 mind and soul were dulled so that they had no real control over what they were doing and were controlled 
 by the C'tan. They became deadly machines that were hell-bent on exterminating all life in the 
 galaxy.
  
  The Necrons are awaking from their slumber (I'm not telling the whole story; buy the game if you 
 want to know the rest)
  
  To combat these threats, all seven races send a strike force to take back what they believe is 
 rightfully theirs.
  
  The Space Marines, Imperial Guard, Orks, Eldar, Chaos, T'au Empire and Necrons all believe that 
 they are in the right.
  
  The story is very compelling with many twists and turns that keep you interested.
  
  Well I'm 
 a good page in and I haven't really started talking about the game yet; so let's go.
  
  Graphics - 7/10
  
  Dark Crusade runs on the ageing Impossible Creatures engine (which is showing 
 its age!) which still manages to provide impressive close-up visuals of characters and special 
 effects, it manages to render large battles from afar with many projectiles flying everywhere and 
 visceral close combat kills happening all of the time.
  
  They are going to be using this in Soul-Storm, with some upgrades; of course. 
  
  Game Play 
 - 9/10
  
  The Gameplay was kicked up a notch in Dark Crusade with the introduction of a meta-map style campaign 
 where your race can freely pillage any province that is near their stronghold province and move 
 along from there; and all you pretty much have to do is blow your way up to the enemy stronghold 
 and blow it to pieces and that race will be booted from the campaign and will no longer trouble 
 you through the rest of the campaign (attacking you; that is. You'll still have to mop-up their 
 controlled provinces) the rule is simple; destroy all six races and you will win the game; and 
 you get a fancy ending movie for your chosen race.
  
  My only criticism is; all of the maps you will play on (bar stronghold maps) are skirmish multi-player 
 maps, a little variety could have been added there; as you're just getting a straight copy & pasted 
 map from the MP aspect.
  
  Sound - 8/10
  
  As-per-usual Relic deliver good sound effects and character voices. Some of the units in Dark Crusade 
 have been given new voices and lines (mainly the new units and commanders; some existing have been 
 given some too) 
  
  Final Thoughts -
  
  Relic have crafted a brilliant game for any Dawn of War fan to enjoy; it delivers a compelling 
 (sometimes repetitive) story which delivers twists and turns which will keep you coming back for 
 some while to come. 
  
  But if you're new to the Warhammer 40K universe; I suggest you read up on some of the texts first 
 or you'll be wondering what some of the terms that the game will throw at you mean (It does give 
 a good idea; however) .
  
  After you've finished the single-player aspect; you will be wanting to go and compete on-line for 
 ultimate glory in the on-line ladders.
  
  Overall - This game is great fun and will keep you entertained for quite some time.
  
  8/10
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechwarrior_bob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This Game is simply... amazing... packed w/ a slew of new units (and they r seriously different from 
 any others) . I just love this game multiplayer is fast, intense and action packed as each persons 
 unique fighting style stands apart. Combining End game units is still the best part and watching 
 2 avatars walk into your enemies base is a joy unparralel in other games. There is also a (HUGE) 
 singleplayer campaign that lets you use all the factions. The only downside is if you don't have 
 the other games then you can only play the 2 new factions in Multiplayer. Though by now u mine 
 as well pick up the Golden Edition so u have the full set but this is really good for people who 
 haven't played the Original and need to kinda try it out. This is also great because it won't be 
 long till soulstorm will be knocking on your doors and you will have been sad at what u missed 
 in this great installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the Warhammer 40k games, (especially Dawn of War) I had to get this game. This expansion 
 is more like its own game, mainly being that the other DOW games are not needed to play, unless 
 for their armies in multiplayer. But I was mainly excited about the new campaign. The turn-based 
 strategy feels right at home with Dawn of War, given it's similarity to the table-top game. Basically, 
 you fight over provinces like you would in any other turn-based game. Some provinces give you special 
 abilities, such as the ability to move twice in one turn. 
  
  Once you attack an enemy province, or one of your provinces is attacked, the game plays just like 
 a skirmish. But that doesn't mean its always the same battle, for you can spend requisition on 
 forces to already be present when you appear on the map. When defending one of your own provinces, 
 whatever structures you had already built in previous battles will still be there, which makes 
 the game feel real. You can also earn points to spend on your commander who ends up being one of 
 the most powerful units you have the further you get into the game.
  
  The addition of the Necrons and the Tau Empire is pretty awesome too. My favorite would have to 
 be the Tau due to their cool battlesuits. So anyone looking for more Dawn of War fun, or another 
 RTS/turn based strategy game should definitely check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammojo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Great games do not occur often. Some games are visually amazing, but lack game-play or depth. Some 
 have the right idea, but don't quite deliver what you would expect. Some games however, are just 
 plain good, and one such game is Dark Crusade. 
  
  The new expansion to Dawn of War not only adds in new armies and content, but balances and refines 
 the game-play perfectly. Each race has it's own unique abilities and requires a particular strategy 
 to beat another. There is always a way to beat the enemy no matter which army you play as. There 
 are so many possibilities of game-play making multi-player the best RTS experience money can buy, 
 and yes, I am a Frozen Throne owner. The graphics would not be considered the best, although for 
 an RTS, the 3D world is quite visually pleasing. In a full assault, each projectile can be seen 
 shot from the barrel of a gun, and exploding upon contact with it's target. Dark Crusade has a 
 huge number of diverse and unique units, which enables the player to use many different strategies 
 and army combinations. Customization is also a nifty add-on, with the ability to create your own 
 colour schemes and add your own content into the game, like badges and banners which display on 
 your in-game units. There is a vast modding community which continues to pump out quality race 
 mods and fun maps. A set of mod tools are also available which means that you can easily create 
 your own map. 
  
  Dark Crusade is an enjoyable game which is deep and intelligent. The game-play allows for so many 
 strategies and results, and the structure of the game from the squads to the unit abilities, makes 
 this game the best in it's genre, allowing for extensive replay value and a memorable experience. 
 This game is not perfect, although nothing is, but it sure comes frighteningly close. 9.0/10 for 
 a game which I consider to be the best Multiplayer RTS of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogators4life
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Relic just keeps getting better and better, it started with Homeworld, then Dawn of war, then COH, 
 and now DOW's 2nd expansion pack called Dark crusade. Dark Crusade offers a new camp featuring 
 2 new factions, Tau and the Necrons. Older factions also got new units like Flash Gitz for the 
 Orks, Deamon Prince for Chaos, Grey Knights for Space Marines and so on. Dark Crusade's A. I is 
 wicked, hard and pain in the a$$. The new camp is Meta-map camp, there's also wargear for the camp, 
 which is very cool. The game is much more balanced than Winter Assult, it's less spammy and forces 
 you to build different units to build. The graphics is still top notch, the gameplay is fast and 
 intense. Overall, Darkcrusade is the amazing expansion pack for Dawn of war. Not to mention, Darkcrusade 
 won expansion pack of the year from IGN, Gamespy and Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauron901
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent rts, the graphics might be a little low but at least a game that we can 
 all run, the explosions are mind blowing. The campanign is pretty fun with the war gears, but the 
 game should have a story...... The campanign to me is just waging war against nations for no reason, 
 and capturing islands for no reason.... but still very fun, races are lots and have a variety of 
 strengths... but it can be very un balcaned at times and necrons are like the best race... ITS 
 A PRETTY SICK GAME THAT YOU Should buy for about $30 no more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riseofnations36
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  First of all , let me say that this game is a Stand Alone expansion.... that means , Single player 
 , you get all races , Multiplayer , you need the other 2 games in the series.
  
  GRAPHICS - 8.5/10
  Granted , i'm a bit of a graphics ***** , so maybe i'm a bit harsh here but 
 whatever , it gets the point accross . Explosions look great , units look real good and overall 
 everything looks awesome..... though i wish some more detail was added to the weapons .
  
  SOUND - 10/10
  Explosions are loud enough to convey the OMG , vehicle blew up ! or the i shot 
 a missile sound . Then theres the music , considering the 40k universe is just plain war war war 
 war dark and moody , the music fits 100% . Great job.
  
  DIALOUGE (sp ?) - 1000000000000/10
  This is where the sounds really shine . The voice is G. R. E. A. T. 
 !.!.!.!.!.!.!. Theres nothing better then hearing a space marine tac. squad yell FOR THE EMPEROR 
 !! while killing xeno scum . While in general ,all the races have absolutely wonderful voicing 
 and lines , special notice goes to the Imperial Guard and the Space Marines .
  
  GAMEPLAY - 100000000/10
  None of that , 'gather 10000 of XXX reasource , mass uber unit = win 
 crap .No , in this game , all the units have a role , all the way till the end , your basic infantry 
 is extreamly handy . Then theres the fact that theres no turtleing in the game ,
  Since 1 of the 2 reasources (IMO the more important one) is gathered by capturing points scattered 
 across the map , its very handy to have some rushing experience . Also , great is that , while 
 the races may not be balanced (necrons , i'm looking at you) , they all play different .
  
  OVEALL - 9/10
  I subtracted a point since , like i said , i'm a graphics ***** + some may find 
 the 'all rush no turtle' focus of the game a bit..... awkward at first .
  
  DO I RECOMMEND IT ???? -
  Absolutely !!! Get the Platinum edition for all 3 games in teh series 
 and wait till 2008 for the next (Absoultey amazing , i hope) Expansion . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APic
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  First off, this is an expansion pack. Of course, you should already know that if you read my little 
 description. It's a stand alone expansion as well, so you can play it without the original game. 
 But without the original or the first expansion, you can only use the 2 races introduced in this 
 expansion while in mulitiplay. In singleplay you can use them all.
  The campaign is non linear, and you choose where to attack next. It takes place on a Risk-esque 
 map. You can play as any of the 7 races in the campaign. The 2 new races are the Tau and Necron. 
 Both of which are really good.
  
  Bottom line, BUY THIS GAME. Even if you don't have the original. This is much better than the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxpharaonxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Adding 2 new and different armies with the Conquer - all - and - take - the - planet was a brilliant 
 idea.. however.. adding the Tau Empire and the Necrons.. hurted to game balance badly..
  In 1.0 of Dark Crusade.. Tau and Necrons were what we call IMBA.. this is because of the way they 
 upgrade their forces, and gathered the resources needed for that.. as a result.. when u go online 
 to play .. u will always find people playing with either armies..
  Warhammer Dark Crusade introduced new units.. and abilities to existing units.. which added to the 
 replay value of the game.. u can create many schemes and strategies for every army to play with
 
  You can easily admire the visual design of Tau and Necron Units.. it's awesome!!
  The voice is very very good... with a beautiful musical score..
  Things went better with the 2 
 patches.. more balance.. more maps..
  Fans of the Warhammer World are waiting for an official expansion that gets the Tyranid to action 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rejected777
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  The third installment in the Dawn of War series, Dark Crusade did not disappoint. From start to 
 finish, it was everything that was expected of it. Fast paced action, easy to learn and even though 
 the graphics are a few years old, it still looks awesome, even when zooming in very close to the 
 action.
  
  The voice acting wasn't as good as the first Dawn of War, at least not when considering the Space 
 Marines. Brother-Captain Devian Thule is just not as convincing when he delivers the lines as the 
 original Brother-Captain Gabriel Angelos. He delivers the lines, sure. But he lacks that fanatic 
 blood-rage that Gabriel had. If you haven't played the first Dawn of War, you will probably think 
 it's ok/good voice acting on his part. All the other races though, deliver their lines perfect. 
 I love the cockney of the orks.
  
  Graphics wise, you really can't tell the game engine is over 2 years old. Even when you zoom in, 
 the level of details is good for a RTS, and the graphics almost looks up to date.
  
  The gameplay is everything that could be expected. Your squads are just that, squads. They are 
 produced as a squad, and move and fight as a squad. No single unit micro managing here. And to 
 kill a squad you actually have to kill every single unit in it. If one, just one, survives, you 
 can rebuild the entire squad.
  
  Dark Crusade added 2 new playable factions: the Tau and the Necrons.
  The Tau are long range 
 specialists. They have a one very good close combat model, which also is one of their super troops. 
 Tau actually get to choose between two super troops, depending on which way they choose to go when 
 advancing in the tech tree. They can either go high tech, or go feral. The Tau consists of a number 
 of alien species, with the Tau as primary leaders. Their speciality however, is ranged weaponry 
 at which they excel. Their leader is the only leader of all factions that cannot engage in close 
 combat. The Tau cannot build any sentry towers, which is their major flaw.
  
  The Necrons are the undead of the Warhammer 40,000 universe. When you kill a necron, there's a 
 slight chance that he will reanimate on his own. The necrons are very slow moving, and they only 
 use power as a resource. The strategic points only allow them to build faster, and boy do they 
 need it. Everything the Necrons do is slow, until they get 5 strategic points and build their towers 
 on it, increasing their build speed by 100%, bringing to about average. The necrons are the only 
 ones who can exceed the squad cap too, thanks to their leader unit, the Necron Lord. In research, 
 the Necrons can choose to bestow upon their lord a resurrection orb. Say there was a big battle, 
 and the necrons were defeated. You rebuild your army, and then you move your necron lord to the 
 site of the battle, and use the resurrection orb (which is rechargeable) and voil&aacute;, you 
 have many more units than you should be able to have. Other than the Necrons and the Tau, all the 
 other races make a come back. The Space Marines, the Eldar, The Orks and Chaos.
  
  The story setting is a bloody fight, a dark crusade, for the planet Kronus. You choose one faction 
 and try to throw everyone else off the planet. The cutscenes are good, explaining what happened 
 to every race after you defeated them. You get a map to move your army on, and you can choose where 
 to go, there is no linear story here as there was in the previous two installments in the series.
 
  
  I highly recommend this game to everyone who enjoys a good RTS. Both newcomers and old timers of 
 the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekKwok1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game totally amazed me of what was possible in a RTS game. The factions you use each have 
 their own strengths and weaknesses and the gameplay animations for many of the kill animations 
 are amazing. The most interesting aspect of the game is the campeign. You get to go around a planet 
 called Kronus and take control of twenty-five provinces each yielding many needed resources. You 
 can attack enemy bases which will wipe their commander off the map and make one less faction to 
 worry about. This game is more of a free for all game and does not make you follow a story mode 
 like the first to games did. This is more as plot your plans and put them into action type game. 
 I personally love the Necrons because of their sense of being unbeatable. Overall, this game is 
 my favorite RTS now and I totally want to play some of you online. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War was one of my favorite RTS games. This succeed's and beats it.
  
  Dawn of War Dark Crusade is not an expansion. It plays as a standalone game and add's 2 races on 
 to the original equalling 7 races in total that can all be played in solo missions.. But you would 
 need the other Dawn of War game's to access all the race's online. Both new race's are balanced 
 enough so none are too overpowered
  
  The game's storyline set's off as a introduction for 2 new races. The Necron's, a zombie like metal 
 junk race that can regenerate has slow moving but strong units and the Tau, which is a balanced 
 faction but primarily focus's on ranged attacks. The Planet Kronus originally occupied by the Tau 
 Empire is up for grabs by all the 7 races. The Necron's laying dormant in the undergrounds of Kronus 
 have awakened to slaughter the living. The campaign is done in a simple Risk like turn based scenario. 
 You have an army you attack other territories and you zoom in for Tactical RTS battles which haven't 
 been changed from the original. You capture control point's for Requisition and build generator's 
 the generate power. There's no resource gathering here. the game inspire's quick and early conflicts. 
 The main objective is to be the last man standing so you may rule Kronus. There's alot of territories 
 that have no major storyline and some that have thick lore filled cnimatic's. There are some new 
 unit's for the original races and new race's that have new units.
  
  The graphic's in the game haven't changed a bit. They still look polished clean and dark for the 
 inspiring War mood. The new battle animations for the unit's are still spectacular in there bloody 
 setting's. Kraut cannibal's rip Space Marine's to piece's and eat there corpses while the Necron's 
 beat there dead enemie's relentlessly.
  
  The sound in the game is still fantastic. Battle voice over cries depend on the situation. If your 
 unit's are fighting in an obviously losing fight they will give remark's regarding the situation. 
 Gun's and the voice acting is still epic sounding and perfect for the environments
  
  Multiplayer is great online but one of the thing's I found annoying is that the Tau are still hard 
 to control a bit as they can lose easily to rush tactics.
  
  All in all Dark Crusade is a great successor to the original Dawn of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodthirster1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  I have bought all three of the dawn of war dark crusade games and this one is by far the best. 
 With lots of nice maps and two incredibly awesome new races added to the game, you wouldnt think 
 it could get any better. But the campaign has been dramatically improved with a Shogun Total war 
 type gameplay. Also the idea of customizeing your heroes is another great feature, as welll as 
 adding honour guard. From gamespot you can add the tyranid race to the game which is looking to 
 be good with a few minor flaws which can be fixed. A problem is two of the races Chaos and Orks. 
 They are just so rubbish compared to the rest of the races. But it is still a game worth playing 
 whether you have played DoW or DoW winter assault or not have a go. You just might fall in love 
 with this bolter shooting, greater daemon summoning RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbat22
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  the campaign is really good but a little on the long side. the new races are soo awesome especially 
 the TAU. necrons are great also but so much more differnet than any other race with there resurection 
 ability. all races have made a comeback with the space marines bad ass grey knight and others. 
 the diffuculty depends on how speciallized u r at the race ur useing like the marine against choas 
 at insane is very hard to win and the tau versus the marines is almost impossible. to me in my 
 views the imperial guard are the ass grabbin losers that always lose no matter what and agaisnt 
 anything, which saddens me because in the books and the tabletop i hold the gaurd dear to me. So 
 in short GET THIS GAME but donts use the guard!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainBlaze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Never played any of the Warhammer franchise before, thought it would suck...... man was i wrong, 
 this game became one of my favs in less then an hour!
  
  Graphics are great and gameplay is highly addictive.
  
  You will quickly emerse yourself in 
 your chosen faction, and all factions are unique and exiting to play.
  
  all units have unique attacks, my favs are the hero melee attacks - they kick ass!
  
  you can 
 choose which region you want to attack (think Risk) and when you do so (same goes for a defence) 
 you will enter the region and fight it out stratagy style, and the coolset thing is whatever the 
 WINNING faction has built on that stage.... stays there when you might need to play it again.
  
  your Hero can also amass a huge army with which he or she can move around the world map with 
 - taking them into new battles and allowing you a small or (depending on the size of this army 
 - known as honor guard) a massive advantage.
  
  these are just a few features of this great game. get it, play it, own it, NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  The dawn of war series has always been a great game. Dark Crusade has added a great mix into an 
 already awesome game. The 2 new races of Tau and Necrons givess the players more choices when picking 
 a race. The gameplay is pretty much the same. The campaign mode is new and innovative and gives 
 the audience many hrs of intense fun. Playing Lan and online is the same as the previous version. 
 Graphics aren't too bad either. Some of the characters are quite detailed but some are very dull 
 and fuzzy. Sound is great in this game, but it might get annoying hearing the same line over and 
 over again during battle from your troops. High replay value as expected and great fun playing 
 online with strangers and friends. Overall this the dawn of war series is great and i hope they 
 make a new one soon with new races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade is the latest expansion for Relic's highly acclaimed Dawn of War series. 
 Unlike the previous expansion, Winter Assault, Dark Crusade adds much more content: 2 new races, 
 a brand new map-based campaign, and new units for each faction. That- and its stand-alone... Bonus! 
 This fact alone makes this game perfect for both veterans of the series and newcomers.
  
  The story of Dark Crusade centers around the planet Kronus. Basically, all it does is give excuses 
 for why all 7 factions in the game are fighting over this one planet. But that's all we need. So 
 in the new single player campaign, you can play as any of the 7 factions, and attempt to conquer 
 the entire planet by destroying the strongholds of your enemies, while protecting your own.
  
  It is tempting to go straight for those enemy strongholds, but its nearly impossible without 
 the benefits of having at least a few territories under your belt so you can raise an Honor guard 
 which you can start with at the beginning of each mission, along with other bonuses, such as a 
 forward base. Making enough conquests also allows you to upgrade your commander, making him/her 
 more powerful.
  
  The single player campaign will take you quite some time- as it isn't easy fighting off all 6 of 
 the other factions! Fortunately, you will probably enjoy yourself with it on your first run through- 
 and beyond. For each campaign will rarely play the same. The only complaints against the campaign 
 are the fact that every battle, with the exception of a few of the enemy strongholds, is always 
 1v1. That, and the enemy AI on the main map tends to be quite slow to do anything at times.
  
  The actual skirmish gameplay of the game is identical to what it was since the original game- 
 but now there are the 2 new factions to take into consideration. The Tau are kind of like the Eldar 
 in that they require effective use of combined arms to be successful, but they don't use the quick 
 hit tactics of the eldar. So their tactics are more similar to those of the Space marines. Then 
 there are the Necrons, who have all sorts of differences from all the other races. Unlike the others- 
 the Necrons don't need requisition, they only need power. They only take strategic points to speed 
 up the pace of training new units, increasing their own pop cap, and to keep them out of the enemy's 
 hands. Some of their units also have a chance to raise back up after being killed (The infamous 
 We'll be back special rule strikes again!) . Even with these 2 new factions, the balance is mostly 
 kept intact, although the Necrons are a little bit overpowered in the early game since they have 
 the strongest basic infantry. But that's the only major fault here.
  
  The only really big gripe I have against the expansion is its multiplayer. Unless you already have 
 the previous 2 games, you are only allowed to be the 2 new factions in multiplayer. This doesn't 
 apply to single player however, where you can be whoever you want. So Relic is trying to get as 
 much money out of Dawn of War as they can eh? Hmph, well that's business. Other than that, Dark 
 Crusade shows how expansions should be made, as it is perfect for both veterans and newcomers to 
 the Dawn of War series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Dow was released on September 2004 and a few years on THQ decided to release this. After a rather 
 good first exspaion called Winter Assault this one is even better. Adding two new army's and maps 
 and just making everything better. But Considering the age of the game can it still keep up with 
 others like Age of empires 3 and CNC3?
  
  Ok so gameplay gameplay has changed a bit. The first big change is the addition of The Tau and 
 necron army's. Both have there strength and weakness. While most army's are either fairly good 
 with range and such. The Tau have some of the most powerful range units in the game and can be 
 a very dangerous foe if u go range to range. But heres there biggest weakness what they have in 
 range they lack in amour and melee Infact if not in range And if being attacked by melee your units 
 will be down with in seconds. Still if u have a unit of kroot and some fire warriors u shouldn't 
 have much problems laying waste to anything in your way. One final weakness which Tau has is the 
 fact they have no turrets which can be a problem is trying to defend your base of a location on 
 the map.
  
  The next army is the powerful Necron's. Although they have an overall powerful army they lack one 
 thing which is need to bring there army up, Time!. The Necon's will take the longest to build a 
 strong army but the rewards form waiting are great from the destroyer units to the all mighty Monolith 
 people quake in fear at the Necrons, or call u noob because u can own with them. -_-
  
  But just because they new Races don't think your old favs like the Eldar and Orks are getting left 
 out. Each race gets one new unit some more useful then others like the Daemon Prince and Grey Knights 
 while others arejust ok. There's Also a new campaign to. Going away from telling a story they gone 
 for a now try take over every place you can see. and take out the otherArmy's before they take 
 you out. This Kind of gameplay has been do in other game as well like Lord of the ring and Rome 
 total war, But is still done very well here.
  
  The final part of DC is its online play. While there's been no big change in online Because of 
 the Tau and Necon race there has been a bit of balancing issues. While some of these have been 
 sorted there still some work that does need to be done. Also if u don't own DOW or Winter Assault 
 then you will not be able to play as any other race apart from Tau or Necon Which to me would be 
 a problem but i have all games so its not :D.
  
  The graphics are starting to look a little dated it has to be said but It does still look great 
 and can hold on most systems pretty well. Even thought the graphics are starting to look a little 
 old there still some really good looking effects taking place with in the battle. And the fact 
 u can move the camera to anyposition is great for taking them close up screenshots or vids.
  
  The sound in this game is just great, even thought there no voice acting because there is no 
 story. They still some great sound effects like the screams of units being shot or just riped toshreds.
 
  
  So is there a lot to keep u happy here but if you want the full value then i would get all the 
 games. The great new is you can get the DOW Anthology pretty cheap and if u want the best that 
 dow has to offer then you need this.
  
  So i highly recommend this game but this one major problem i have with it. Now most people who 
 have routers have some problems joining games. Now to sort this problem out you need to open ports 
 on your router which can be a problem because it allows hijackers to enter your computer few this 
 ports so i can be a risk to play this gameonline so one that one bad note i answer the question 
 i said at the start can this keep up with other games and the fact is it can and infact is better 
 still then a lot of the newer game coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephanime
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade is one of those games that are hard to put down once you played them. 
 Its just plain awesome. The gameplay, the graphics, the sound, the value. Dawn of War: Dark Crusade 
 has it all. The gameplay in Dark Crusade is great. If you like to see blood and guts all over the 
 battlefield, then this game is just for you. It has a lot of weapons, from lasers to axes and even 
 flying vehicles that can drop huge missles and make everything around it explode. A lot of action 
 is in Dark Crusade, so it will keep you entertained while you blow things up.
  
  You can also choose many ways of winning. Either by assassination of the commander, destroying 
 headquarters, annihilating the enemy and many more. Each race has their own specialized technology, 
 weapons and strengths. They also have many weaknesses which can be dangerous if you do not be careful. 
 Be sure to take as many strategy points and destroy enemy bases to take victory!
  
  If you are unfamiliar with some of the controls to this game, its best to go to practice mode so 
 you can get used to what's ahead. The campaign mode is extremely great! You can unlock new weapons 
 there and get more resources than you already have. The sound is good although it could have been 
 better since most of the time the same music plays throughout the game. Its still great and you 
 won't pay as much attention to it since you would be more focused on ensuring your victory than 
 hearing the music.
  
  Before I bought this game, I wasn't a big Dawn of War fan. It all changed as soon as I got out 
 of the store with this game. It was totally worth it! Dark Crusade is worth the money for any RTS 
 and PC fan. Its a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-queen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  THQ and Relic Entertainment have once again brought out a great game to grace our PCs, a stand-alone 
 expansion to the successful Dawn of War series called Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War: Dark Crusade.
 
  
  Unlike the first Dawn of War and Winter Assualt which had storyline you followed, Dark Crusade 
 allows you choose where you battle. The game is set on Planet Kronus and seven are fighting for 
 it's control. You get to play the races from the two other Dawn of War, the Space Marines, the 
 Eldar, the Chaos Space Marines, the Orks and the Imperial Guard, and two new races; the Tau Empire 
 and the Necrons.
  
  A new feature is you can choose where to fight next, a battle shows different controlled areas 
 that you can fight for. Another great new feature is customising your leader. You can give him 
 different wargear but you have to earn it like letter you leader fight in battles, let him kill 
 and defend and you can award him wargear that'll make him have more health, more speed, can detect 
 infiltrated units. Also each of the existing races get a new unit; for the Space Marines they get 
 the Grey Knights, they are very powerful. the Imperial Guard get the Heavy Weapons team which can 
 pack/unpack anywhere and have a choice of three heavy weapons. the Chaos get the Daemon prince, 
 a very demonic monster which can sap morale and the is part of the Chaos leader's wargear. The 
 Orks get elite ranged units called Flash Gitz and the Eldar get powerful melee units called Harlequins
 
  
  When you conquer the planet, a cinematic explains the story at the end and there is indication 
 to another Dawn of War where it says at the end other planets and fades with the year 2007.
  
  Dark Crusade is a breath of fresh of air for the series and brings more life to the RTS genre 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy667
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Awsome. No doubt. The RTS that blends melee, guns, vehicles, and importantly, gore. Any RTS can 
 have melee, any RTS can pull shooting. And far too many do vehicles. This game blends it all into 
 one great gory package. Even certian vehicles have melee. This game is topped off with supurb sound, 
 great graphics, and 7 (countem) 7 teams. You dont even need DOW or WA to play this, though online 
 you can only be necrons or tau. The characters are beliveable, space marines chargeing in, screaming 
 FOR THE EMPEROR!!!!! while chaos are going insane and seem to like it. In melee, sometimes, when 
 someone has low health a finishing move will be performed. This is pretty much a fatality, but 
 its amazing to see five happening, while blood pours everywhere. Fix a few balance issues (SM are 
 overpowered, necrons way too slow, eldar cut through chaos with no issues) and you have the best 
 RTS game in existance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furiousxr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 14, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  This is a great expansion pack to an allready a great game .
  The graphics , sound and gameplay are exellent .
  
  I also love the idea that if you dont have 
 the first two Dawn of War titles you can still play this as a stand alone . But on multi player 
 games your choice of race is limited to the Tau or Necrons .
  
  The two new races are great and fit in well with the other races . Each races strengths and weakness 
 work well . The new strategy turn based land conqure sytem of game play it is great ads a whole 
 new dimension to campagians .
  
  This is a great expanision pack to the Dawn of War series and add 2 new races for multiplayer games 
 if you allready own the other two title s.
  
  This is a must game for any RTS game lover . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pauldominic1014
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade is one of the best RTS games I had played know it has added 2 new races 
 the Tau and the Necron. This game is soooo awesome when your soldiers get hit by a bomb they get 
 blown away on the air and they also have animated finishing moves. Dead body's everywhere and blood, 
 this game is really a hardcore RTS game and this game also has many available mods or you can even 
 download custom made maps made by fans .
  Also in the campaign mode whenever you win a battle you are awarded a war gear that can be equipped 
 to your commander to boost stats. Also new commanders are replaced by new ones. This game is so well 
 made you can even make a movie with it. The terrain are well made the sounds are realistic and surely 
 is sci-fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _In_Flames_666_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  You'll have to forgive me this is my first review so it may be not as good as some others but you 
 must continue reading this, it will help. The first time you play this game it is the best game 
 in its series hands down. The campaign is the highlight of the game. Im pretty sure everybody has 
 played risk and the campain is exactly like it. You pick an army of your choice, any army at all 
 (which hasn't happened in the past two Dawn of War games) and you try to conquer a planet called 
 Kronus by taking every piece of land possible and destroying any race that stands in your path 
 to victory. Some areas on the planet Kronus can give you extra requisition for upcoming battles, 
 some give you a honor guard which give you a special force like an upgraded unit that can start 
 a battle right away when attacked or when your attacking. This game also has two new races which 
 really fulfills the expansion title but I would have liked if they had also added the Tyranids. 
 The one major problem I have with this game is that if you play it for to long that it does tend 
 to get a little boring and you have to stop playing it, unless you play online. I think overall 
 this game is amazing just wished I never got so bored from time to time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sridanu
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  One of the 1st things you notice in Dawn of war: Dark Crusade is that theres no campaign. At least 
 theres no Campaign story which makes this game a little dull and less exciting.
  
  The game is a bit repetitive at times which bores the living hell out of you. In all most all the 
 levels the only objective is to destroy the enemy so the game makes you feel as if you're engaged 
 in some online multilayer skirmish tournament.
  
  Another low point in this game is that the tech tree is completely open. From the 1st battle onwards 
 you can access all the available technologies and units in the game. Which means that theres very 
 little to look forward to as the game goes on.
  
  Apart from the above mentioned low points Dark Crusade still manages to be a good game purely because 
 of the addition of a few more races .And the fact that it still is a Dawn of war game should be 
 worth something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandras
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game takes all the fun and interest of the table top game and puts it into a computer game. 
 Even though they added a few things that werent in the TT (i. e. bases and training) they pulled 
 it off excellently. I still play the game regularly and have used each of the races ins and outs 
 and they are very well balanced. The models and sound effects are also very nice. IMHO this game 
 would have been about 8X better if it had the physics/tactics/ and qualities that company cf heroes 
 had i doubt there would be any RTS that could challenge it for years to come. This doesnt keep 
 the game from being awesome though. Oh and BTW keep the expansions coming boys iva wanted to have 
 a good ole fashioned space marines and tyranid fight forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary_Guard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  When Dawn of War arrived in stores, I was one of the first ones to buy it. I was an avid fan of 
 the tabletop version of Warhammer 40000 having a 2,000 point Ultramarine army 12-7, wasnt very 
 good. Dawn of War brought a nice change to the feel of the Warhammer universe and found me playing 
 hours on end both on campaign and multiplayer. However, the game got dry, fast. It had only 4 races 
 and it quickly fell behind to Halo: PC. Two years later, Dark Crusade arrived in stores and it 
 was amazing.
  
  Dark Crusade offers great variety and an introduction to the Warhammer universe. The gameplay was 
 well balanced and smooth, not running into any bugs or issues  maybe except for the fact that 
 a team of Necrons will annihilate anything, ANYTHING!!! The graphics are truly revolutionary for 
 its time. The ability to 360 pan the battlefield and the well designed, animated figures often 
 had me gazing at its beauty rather than concentrating on the game. Buy Dark Crusade, a must-have 
 for Warhammer 40000 fans and avid RTS gamers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Space
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40K: Dark Crusade is the latest, and second, expansion for Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War. 
 Made by Relic, who have proven to be one of THE top RTS developers on the scene, WH40K is simply 
 a masterpiece to play and watch.
  
  The basic gameplay of WH40K revolves around you capturing beacons or waypoints across the map to 
 earn requisition points to be spend on units, upgrades, and buildings. The more territory you dominate 
 on the map, the more you can produce. So expect to witness large scale battles in an effort to 
 squash the opposition. The battles are breathtaking and really capture the atmosphere of the Warhammer 
 40K universe quite well.
  
  Two new races are offered in Dark Crusade; the Necrons and the Tau. This is in addition to Orks, 
 Space Marines, Eldar, Imperial, and Chaos. That's a whopping total of seven playable races that 
 are fairly unique in play style.
  
  The sound is really done well, and the units have some great voice overs.
  
  If you're looking 
 for a newer RTS to play, you really can't go wrong with the Dawn of War series. Especially considering 
 you can get the Gold Edition, which includes Dawn of War + Winter Assault, for fairly cheap. It's 
 a great way to get into the game.
  
  Dark Crusade is actually a stand alone product. All races are playable in single player, however, 
 if you want to go online, only Necrons and Tau are available unless you own Dawn of War and Winter 
 Assault. The game is easy to recommmend and if you enjoy Dark Crusade, you'll certainly want to 
 extend your game with the first to entries in the series.
  
  Online play is a blast. You can play ranked and unranked games so you can get some practice before 
 you try ladder play.
  
  Relic is a hot RTS developer to keep an eye on. They did fantastic job on the Homeworld series, 
 and their latest project, Company of Heroes (a WW2 themed RTS) is also stellar. You really can't 
 go wrong with ANY game made by Relic to be honest.
  
  I really hope they make a sequel to the Dawn of War series. And maybe this time around, they'll 
 remember to pack in the Tyranids ;)
  
  What are you waiting for? Go out and buy this game already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leozt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War is a Tour de Force. Play with all races is very fun and inmersive... all the series 
 is a &iexcl; Classic! The single player campaign is not innovative, but is attractive and very balanced 
 in its history. The only deficiency is the aerial units, with the exception of the Land Speeder 
 but that not it reduces it in the depth of the strategic component.
  
  My favourite race is the Imperial Guard. The Spaces Marines is incredible, without letting mention 
 to the Necrons and the vulgar humor of the Orks.
  
  &iquest; We waited for the continuation of this classic one?
  
  &iquest; That happened in the 
 2007?
  
  Or.... 2008
  
  A serious contender for Starcraft 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't graphically so enchanting that it stands out as a graphically superior RTS, but 
 RTS's don't really need insanely detailed graphics. Most of the sound effects were taken from the 
 old sound effects in the first Dawn of War (the new races have new sounds) . Symphonic scores are 
 never tacky (especially when you have epic battles) . Plus the symphonic score doesn't seem to grow 
 old. But I digress.
  
  The true selling point of this game is the curve ball battle strategy tactics it can throw at you. 
 What sold me was how one of the races (the Necron) introduced to me a whole new way of playing 
 RTS with the element of resurrection. Dark Crusade, much like it's predecessor still leans toward 
 squad (reinforcable) versus single unit tactics (some races more than others) . Be prepared to learn 
 new tactics for this game because, this isn't a simple C&amp; C click fest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RED_X_ROBIN
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Holy Crap! Those were my first words when I began to play this game at a friends house. If you 
 have played the other Warhammer 40,000 games then this is quite the treat. If you are new to the 
 series, then hold on to your hat, there is plenty of RTS heading your way and fast. Dark Crusade, 
 comes with the standard single player campaign, online Multiplayer, Skirmish and other various 
 modes that you would find in a regular RTS. The game really shines in its Single player. Imagine 
 a game of RISK, where every battle is literally fought in real time, instead of a roll of dice. 
 The main objective is to conquer all the territories on the planet Kronus and wipe out the other 
 7 races off the planet. That's right, 7 races! The game play is a key ingredient, with a variety 
 of different territories that either give you requisition to reinforce your already secured grounds 
 or add to powered up units to join your commander in the beginning of battle. Some even give you 
 special abilities like moving twice per turn, earning more planetary requisition or even gaining 
 more squad cap than the standard. A new set of units and two new races really fullfills the expansion 
 title, even though you can play without having the previous two games installed and personally, 
 I think it could stand on its own. Graphically its not that much better looking thank those prior, 
 unless you have updated your video card on your pc. The sound is just as good as the rest, not 
 much improvement. But the replay is almost limitless, with the new maps for multiplayer and the 
 7 different campaigns. SEVEN! Its definately a treat for fans and a challenge for those new to 
 the series, not that its not difficult on its own. Absolutely a good buy. It should hold you over 
 until Starcraft 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbykook
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade, the second expansion to Warhammer 40k Dawn of War, makes a rare move for PC games: 
 it's a standalone expansion. In single player all races are available, but in multiplayer you only 
 get the new races (Tau and Necrons) unless DoW (Space Marines, Eldar, Orks, Chaos) and Winter Assault 
 (Imperial Guard) are installed.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Very user-friendly, with a small learning curve. It's a little tedious to micromanage your squads 
 to make sure they're at full strength or use special abilities
  
  Music: 8
  The background music does an excellent job at setting the mood, but it's not really noticeable 
 unless you're trying to listen to it
  
  Sound effects: 7
  It really makes each race seem unique, yet the constant Witness your DOOM! and We work for the 
 Greater Good! will make you want to mute the game at least once
  
  Replay value: 10
  The campaign is different every time, being non-linear like the previous two, and skirmish mode 
 will keep you playing for hours at a time
  
  Graphics: 8
  A good dark feel, but the blood is exaggerated, and its not without a bug or two
  
  Anyone 
 who has played the tabletop game or likes sci-fi or rts games must buy this! If only it had Tyranids... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55assin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I was not a fan of the previous warhammer games... but this one 
 changed everything. In short, it's hard finding actual faults in the game... everywhere you looks 
 you see perfection and creativity. Except for the length... but with so many races... the campaign 
 is actually longer than most other RTSs. Sound: I never really paid attention to sound... but the 
 creators have really gone out of their way to provide the most realistic and extraordinary sounds 
 to date. Graphics: It still looks good.... it's only been an year. For an RTS... it might look a 
 bit dated... but from the artistic point of view... it couldn't be any better. Gameplay: This is 
 where it's all at. It's flawless... there is nothing I would change about it.... nothing at all and 
 I've played my share of games. It solves many problems that RTSs like warcraft or starcraft had... and 
 much, much more.
  
  Replay Value: After you've beaten the campaign with one race.... you'll be thirsty for more with 
 another race.... and every single one gives you a different experience. The difference between them 
 is truly something other games of it's kind should consider. With all that... let me just say that 
 this game takes what's good from many games, mixes it all together, and doubles the fun, quality, 
 and creativity by 17. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  As many people know this is the second expansion in the the dawn of war series based on the table 
 top game from games workshop War Hammer 40,000. This game adds alot of new content to an already 
 great series. This game adds two new armies to the already 5 armies in the other games. Here are 
 the complete set of armies: the space marines, the chaos space marines, the imperial guard, the 
 eldar, the orks, and the two new armies the tau empire and the necrons. The two new races really 
 add new color to the game. The new tau race is best at ranged combat but does have an allied race 
 called the kroot that are specialized for melee so the tau aren't defenseless in melee. The necrons 
 are zombie robots that are best in their infantry that can sometimes come back from the dead. This 
 best part of this game though, is it is a stand alone expansion pack. Therefore, you don't need 
 the original games to play it. The only downside to this is that online you can only play with 
 the two new races. Which brings me to the single player campaign. The campaign is like a risk game 
 where you have to capture provinces. The provinces you capture will grant you new powers. Beating 
 the enemy's stronghold will eliminate the race from the game. The single player skirmish mode is 
 quite cruel in the AI though. Once you set the games difficulty to normal prepare for a brutal 
 battle as the computer's AI gets super hard even on normal. Overall, dawn of war veterans and new 
 recruits to the series both should look into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattisgod01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Warhammer: 40,000: Dawn of War: Dark Crusade is one of the best RTS games ever made. After playing 
 Warhammer 40k Dawn of War and the first expansion Winter Assault for so long I couldn't wait to 
 get my hands on Dark Crusade and when i finally did it was worth the wait. this is one of the few 
 expansion packs you see that could have easily been sold as a new game (eg. Warhammer 40K Dawn 
 of War 2) with the 2 new races ( Necron and Tao) and a completely different campaign mode i was 
 surprised they released it as an expansion.
  
  Everything in this game is great form the graphics to the sound you here when you kill the enemy 
 this is a great game that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulofdragon
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I 
 likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey 
 I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me 
 likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey 
 me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I 
 likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey 
 I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me 
 likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey 
 me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I 
 likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey 
 I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey me likey I likey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grihn
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is truly a great game. It takes absolutely everything good from the origional Dawn 
 of War and improves it. The campaign is the real meat of this game. Instead of a story that only 
 follows one or two races, the story here is simple. The world is at it's end... there is one final 
 war to be fought, and it's every man for himself. The factions you can play as are (as long as 
 you have Dawn of War and the Winter Assault Exp.) : Tau, Necron, Space Marines, Chaos, Imperial 
 Guard, and the Orcs. I've played through the game at least twice with each race. As you progress, 
 your hero gains what are called War Gear... items that make him stronger and more able to withstand 
 combat, or simply upgrade his combat abilities.
  
  The campaign plays across a strategy map, very similar to Battle for Middle Earth II's War of the 
 Ring mode or the Total War series. You must innhilate the opposing races, while still defending 
 your own territory from attack. You also gain territory bonuses, such as the space port which allows 
 you to pretty much attack anywhere on the map instead of only adjacent territories, or the fury, 
 which allows you to move twice instead of just once.
  
  Graphically, this game isn't a huge upgrade from the first Dawn of War, although the physics are 
 quite a bit nicer. But the game is chaotic. You must start building your base as soon as you enter 
 a new territory. Building a strong and diverse army is a necessity. The objective is nearly always 
 going to be to destroy the enemy headquarters, but sometimes they start with two, and other times 
 they build more during the battle, so you must destroy them all. Basically, Dark Crusade is by 
 far the best in the series. You don't have to have the first Dawn of War to play, but if you don't 
 have it I strongly recommend you get it as well as Winter Assault, not only because they add extra 
 content ot Dark Crusade, but they are fun games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade adds a new singleplayer campaign, as well as two new races, into the game. The game 
 itself is available separately, but you can enter you DoW CD Keys in to get all the races in multiplayer 
 unlocked.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  With SEVEN distinct races, nothing can hold a candle to Dark Crusade.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
 
  Looks great as always, and the new Tau and Necron races look nice too!
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The Tau pulse rifles and the Necrons monolith blasting away at the already-awesome sounding current 
 units of the Space Marines, Chaos, Imperial Guard, Eldar, and Orks just makes it sound better.
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  When it came out, it was already $30. Look around, you might find it cheaper.
  
  Simply put, 
 if you have DoW, it just adds bliss to an already blissful game! Just pure RTS heaven! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash_rulerz
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  warhammer rts game is one of the best of its kind. when ur a hardcore strategy player and that 
 the universe of the game counts as much as AI level , you tend to get picky on ur game. Now i know 
 i chose the right one. The futuristic universe (gory and full of anti hero) is realy appealing. 
 As for gameplay the units are well varied and customisable. u can choose from bolters, sniper rifles 
 to missile launchers. Perhaps wat bothers me is that during battle u tend to concentrate on reinforcing 
 ur army and then upgrading with weapon for one squad and another and so on that you dont even have 
 time to watch the gory fighting going on. All the races are realy fun to play with each one having 
 its strength and weekness and the ultimate versatile race, the space marines. This is Realy a Superb 
 game and i would recommend it to anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bess94
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 17, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  dawn of war is the game of the future.
  
  if you liked dawn of war/winter assault you will die over this game, in dark crusade you have two 
 new races Necrons, now necrons are ancient aliens who have died and have been underground and has 
 risen from the dead to take the planet for themselves and the other new race is tau the little 
 guys have the technology they are aliens covered in armour some in robotic armour Tau have pretty 
 much every thing they can clone and go invisible, if you have fire warrior game you will know a 
 bit more about Tau.
  
  The game has many good features such as the army painter, in the army painter you can choose a race 
 eg. space marine, Tau, necrons ect. and then you can paint your own army, unfortunately you can only 
 use your painted army in skirmish mode not campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izshou
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 15, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I don't know Why it's not be accept by WCG.
  Let me have bad feeling about WCG and EA.
  And Now...
  I want to know why game-spot assigned 9.0 to C&amp; C3
  than 8.8 to DC
  
  Both 
 two I have played
  and C&amp; C3 is S**K. It's unit-desisn and tech-tree are terrible.
  
  DoW series is the first RTS need to keep changeing your strategy at the game started and keep firing 
 with your enemy
  
  Even than WC3 will played like scout all the game and wait a chance to done a death blow instead 
 of Strategy ,
  and that make replay more borning, coz player will rout to avoid WAR . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  Dawn of War has since its release a few years back, added one by one a new and fantastic expansion 
 to its out standing games list. Using squadrons and the fabled Warhammer world as its basis, the 
 Dawn of War games have become hugely popular amongst Warhammer and RTS fans alike, and Drak Crusade 
 is their best addition to the title yet.
  
  Storyline
  After the events of Winter Assault and the original Dawn of War, the great races and their respective 
 armies have no all gathered on one planet, a crucial planet; Kronos. Deep within this massive, 
 pivotal planet sleeps the mechanical Necron, and ancient and malevolent race, hellbent on scouring 
 the galaxy of all life, and now they are awakening to purify the galaxy once more, and it starts 
 on Kronos. However a new race has also joined the already warring 5 factions of Space Marines, 
 Orks, Chaos Marines, Eldar and Imperial Guard - this new race is called the T'au Empire, a technilogically, 
 and spiritually united race that wish to bring everyone under the Greater Good.
  Now with seven powerful and individually unique races gathering on one planet, all hell is about 
 to break loose and each race fights for the ultimate prize; Domination.
  
  Gameplay
  DoW is most recognizable for its squadron based unit creation, every basic unit within your army 
 is deployed in squads rather than single units, and these squads can reinforced as stand alone 
 forces, so if any one of your units die and you have the resources, you can strengthen the group 
 once more by adding to a new unit in the fallen one (s) place. This system does apply to all the 
 units in the game however, special or unique units can only be deployed as singular battlefield 
 units or you are limted to a certain amount of them. As you would expect tanks and their ilk are 
 limited to one per deployment, but over and above that your vehicle and sqaudron caps decide just 
 how many units you can have in total, and the caps are pretty well balanced. Now that games starts 
 with you selecting your chosen race and your are taken through and Intro to your choice, once that 
 is done, you are presented with a global map, on this map is the seven races and the various regions 
 that they currently control, including your own. The game allows you to chose where you will strike 
 first, and on the map is exactly what kind of resistance you will face in that region and if there 
 is any special stipulations to take control. The map also shows you the central base of each race 
 (a region you must take control of to wipe out any given race from the war) and the races Vanguard 
 (special units that have higher stats than that of any other unit of the same type) . Once you chose 
 a region to attack you can use requisition points to send advance forces to that location or strengthen 
 the regions you already control. These RP are acquired with each move circuit of all seven races, 
 and increase based on your regions and any bonuses they may grant. As you chose various regions 
 and wipe out opposing forces you move forward in the game, and destroying an enemy base starts 
 a story for that region, and the game is won when you wipe out all the opposing bases or control 
 all of the map. Sounds easy doesnt it? Well it isnt, simply because the computers AI is fantastic, 
 and I dont just mean that the computer overwhelms you, it thinks in retrospect to the race it is 
 controlling, and makes even the smallest skirmishes challenging, and can stretch the length of 
 the main campaign out dramatically, especially when its not just a simple case of wiping an enemy 
 out.
  Actual in game combat is out standing, as each unit really does have its own unique talents and 
 uses, no one unit is ever obsolete, from the Vindicare Assasin to a single Necron Lord, each unit 
 finds a place on the battlefield and if your of the intelligent ilk, you will find yourself in 
 your element as tactics and war strategy really do make a difference. Graphics
  Its not enough to say that Dark Crusade looks great, Dark Crusade looks amazing even on a computer 
 that can barely run it. Each unit has such a high level of detail that you find yourself playing 
 around with the army painter a lot just so an army genuinely feels like your own. Weapons fire, 
 muzzle flash, attacks, defense and anything else that happens on screen is animated well and looks 
 fantastic when you chose to zoom in on perhaps two heroes fighting while a squadron of troops skirmish 
 around them. There is no greater feeling than watching a Dreadnought crush and toss away a single 
 troop with great ease.
  
  Sound
  Dark Crusade sounds like you would expect it to, like an over the top military game. Voices are 
 gruff and aggressive and surpsingly well done, each race sounds and feels like it should, from 
 the slang English accents of the Orks to the pompous Eldar, the voice talent really does bring 
 each race to life so they feel ever more unique. The ingame sounds are well placed and never sound 
 dull, one sound worth mentioning is the cacophonous boom of the Imperial Guard Basilisk as it launches 
 a shell across the battle zone. Dark Crusades music also mixes strong battle music with some calm, 
 yet eerie music, again all of which are well placed within the game itself. The sound really does 
 compliment the fantastic game itself.
  
  Value
  Dark Crusade will amuse you for months to come after you first buy it, as the main campaign can 
 be complete by all seven races and on various difficulties, and if completing it once is sufficient, 
 then the multiplayer mode has endless possibilities as each skirmish you take part in strengthens 
 your mental ability to play the game, and every battle really does feel different. The Dawn of 
 War series has really capped itself off well with this superlative RTS.
  
  Misc
  Whether a fan of the RTS genre or a Warhammer 40k fan, you will find a great addtion to your collection 
 right here with THQs masterpiece series, no RTS I have played since has even closely came up to 
 scratch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubermoe
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I've played quite a RTS games and all of them are the same old same old kind of junk. Dawn Of War 
 series is the most fun, I think, RTS game someone could play if they're tired of the plain snappy 
 cheap rifle sounds and effect or the boring cumbersome tanks that just roll about. You can get 
 a certain satisfaction of just the fantasy shooting effects and style. You just can't go wrong 
 with this game. Game isn't that hard either (if you don't want it to be) . the leveling up of the 
 battalions get a momentum going.
  
  I was playing this game for hours at a time without even knowing it. It sucks you in with it's 
 sickness of good programing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deano-1111
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War Dark Crusade is an awesome game thats all there is to it (not really) . if you liked 
 the first Dawn of War and/or Winter Assault you'll fall in love with Dark Crusade.
  
  You have two new races the Necrons (my favorite race) and the Tau.
  THQ has made the best expansion 
 pack EVER. not only is it good but it has a different starting movie (which is awesome) but you 
 don't need the original game to play it. It's well worth its money with hours worth no days worths 
 of gaming then you start on the multiplayer and have more days worth of good gaming.
  
  I would recommend this to anyone who like Warhammer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WallaceW
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 2, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  The game is very addictive. There are 7 races in the game which you can choose to play with (2 
 new races were added... plus some new units were also added from the previous version) . Each race 
 has almost entirely different tech/unit/building tree. For example a corresponding unit may not 
 be found in one race at all... but of course it will have other benefits to compensate. Graphics 
 is good... but most of the time you will find yourself playing from the default (almost isometric 
 perspective) so I guess that won't matter much. Sound is excellent. Each race speak in a different 
 and very impressive/immersing voice. Even though my domain is RPG, I liked the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 1, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  If i had to chose beetween Warhammer fantasy &amp; 40k i whould surly pick 40k because it combines 
 fantasy with SF &amp; its more brutal with more well made races that fight for their survival . 
 Relic 1one of the best RTS developers out there ( for me its 1st) made this great RTS with 7 races 
 from the 40k universe ... each of them is very different from the other &amp; you will especially 
 notice their goods &amp; bads in skirmish or lan play . The story is very well made put &amp; it 
 depends on the race you chose ... the graphics are great &amp; work on all systems evan dose with 
 not so powerfull graphic cards ... &amp; the most interesting thig about the engine are the animations 
 starting with the buildings &amp; to the fight animations its just to eye candywhen you see a demon 
 playing with the little guys .The A. I. is quite chalenging &amp; well put so i think its perfect 
 for both expierencied &amp; unexpierenced players ! Just play it because it is a must for all Warhammer 
 fans !!! ENJOY !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 29, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War was a great RTS from Relic who also made the critically acclaimed, Company of Heroes. 
 Now the 2nd standalone expansion pack is out for DoW. The first being Winter Assault which need 
 DoW itself. This being standalone could be its own game due to its large amount of hours that can 
 be had.
  
  With 7 armies to choose from, The Tao, Bloodangels, Chaos, Orcs, Imperial Guard, and the Eldar. 
 You can play each of them and try to conquer the planet. You do this by whipping out the other 
 armies territories and claiming for them for your army. Each army's conquest will take around 10-20 
 hours depending on how thorough you are with taking out your enemies. If you add that up it will 
 be around 100+ RTS gaming hours.
  
  With that in mind Dark Crusade can get tedious at times and if you don't switch up your strategy 
 you can feel the repeatitivness in the gameplay. It is mostly the same game as DoW but with more 
 features for the different armies.
  
  The new maps and RPG feel of conquering, reinforcing, and hold land is a new touch. Your main hero/leader 
 can also be equipped with add-ons that include missile launchers, upgraded swords, and other special 
 items depending on the background of your hero.
  
  Overall Dark Crusade is a great expansion that is what an expansion is meant for, to expand the 
 current game, even if it is for countless hours. Now you won't need the original Dawn of War to 
 play and enjoy this RTS gem from the makers of Company of Heroes.
  
  Pros+ Lots and Lots of Killing, 7 armies, Countless hours of fun, Low Req, High Quality gfx, Hero 
 RPG Elements, Like a virtual Risk game
  
  Cons- Tedious at times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Decius
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of war was an excellent and immersive real time strategy. It was followed by an impressive 
 expansion that added a raft of new features. Following this however is Dark Crusade, the latest 
 expansion for the dawn of war series, and it is easily the best release to date.
  First off, it should be noted that it is not necessary to own the original Dawn of War game in 
 order to play Dark Crusade. It will work fine as a standalone game. If this is the case you will 
 have access to all of the races from the original game and the expansion, winter assault for single 
 player portion of the game. For multiplayer online only the new races: Tau and the Necrons, will 
 be accessible.
  As well as the addition of the two new races mentioned above there is a plethora of new content 
 brought by this latest expansion. A brand new conquest style campaign is the biggest new feature 
 and is a welcome addition that brings replay ability to the single player portion of the game. 
 Each of the old races is also gifted with a unique new unit, such as the Chaos demon prince, and 
 the Imperial Guards heavy weapons teams. When added to this a host of new Skirmish maps to play, 
 Dark Crusade is a game that can be recommended to both hardened Dawn of war veterans and newcomers 
 alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: probester
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War: Dark Crusade is an expansion to the original Dawn Of War Game. Dark 
 Crusade is the third expansion pack in the Dawn of War line. This game is unqiue in being both 
 an expansion pack for the original game, and a game itself? What does that mean? Well, Dark Crusade 
 adds onto the original Dawn of War game... but can also be played without Dawn Of War already installed 
 on your computer. That means that if you don't have the original Dawn Of War, you can still enjoy 
 the goodness for Dark Crusade without buying DoW.
  
  Gameplay
  -------------
  This is the same as all RTS games. You build a base, build attacking units, upgrade their weapons 
 and abilities, and fight the other players for victory. The game has each race taking over land. 
 There are certain strategic points that each race can capture, then build structures upon to claim 
 as their own. This expands the commanding player's line of territory, as well as increases resource 
 gathering speed. The more land you have around your command base, the more room you have to build. 
 You win when you defeat all the enemy players in the game. Each race has their own special abilities 
 and hero units that you can learn to master to defeat your enemies with different tactics. With 
 standalone Dark Crusade, you can play as the Tau and the Necrons, in multiplayer, but you can access 
 all the races in Singe Player. As Warhammer was originally a tabletop game where players could 
 paint their units, the creators of the game decided to bring this over to the PC game. You can 
 use the Army Painter to decide your army's colors. You can save these schemes for use with different 
 races in multiplayer. Video
  ----------
  The graphics in this game are amazing for an RTS game. You can use the mouse wheel on your mouse 
 to zoom all the way into the landscape, and see the fine details on your units. The colors applied 
 in the army painter appear flawless, and the details in the units will shock you. The game has 
 an animated style to it, though this is to match with the style of the units in the game.
  
  Audio
  --------
  This music in the game is extremely subtle. Though you will hear it during 
 quiet segments, it is very soft. Most of the time, your ears will be filled with the noise of battle 
 of the racket of a building being erected. The sounds effects are amazing. When a hero unit performs 
 a special attack, you will hear every detailed noise, from the swinging of a blade, to the gush 
 of blood spilling onto the soil beneath.
  
  Replayablity
  ----------------
  With good update and patch support, as well as the mulitplayer and army painter, this game excels 
 in replayablity. Again, Dark Crusade is just an expansion pack, and you can add even more gameplay 
 if you choose to purchase the other Dawn Of War games, though this game alone can satisfy any RTS 
 fan for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z3ro_limit
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  i was blown away by the graphics first time i played this game, i thought DAWN of WAR was your 
 typical build a base - harvest resources - destroy the enemy type RTS but its not... as i finished 
 the game using one of the race (tau) and started playing another race, it became a totally different 
 game yet again... and i was hooked to it once more!!! i played all seven races and it amazed me 
 how much work and thinking was made to make this game as unique as it is... blasting enemy bases 
 never felt this good even with C&amp; C3 around...
  
  definitely still the best RTS in the market today... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worting
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  BUY THE GAME! YOU CANNOT MISS THIS! Graphics -areNot the best, but good enough. It is detailed 
 enough so that you can zoom in and see the details, but not too much to make your computer lag. 
 Terrain is detailed, but the grass seems kinda blocky. Sound - There are different things each 
 unit says, even if some units have the same voices. All of the voices are very well done, and match 
 the WH40k universe well. i especially like the Daemon Prince the only beef i have with tis game 
 is that the cap max is still only 20.. but thats why the good people made Lights of the Warp :D 
 and especially like the *SPOILERS* teaser at the end 2007 huh?... must get new video card lol the 
 game overall has agnificent replay value like ive played about 100 matches already! lol just facing 
 against the computor but for some reason y online dosent work it something like the connections 
 going to the wrongfile or soething it isnt the games fault i just need to reconnect the connection 
 which i duno how to do can anyone help? The campaign is awesome and much better than other RTS
 
  I thought it lacked some things that would make it supurb like loading times on multiplayer and 
 skirmish, sound is rather poor and the terrain has a few glitches but mainly great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soferu
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
 YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES YES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogeer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  i feel very surprise because the game is different than other strategy game that i had play before. the 
 different are in this game you don't need to gather resource to build up your base but you have 
 to capture a strategic point, relic, critical point and slag deposit to gather your resourse. this 
 make the game style different then before because in most of the strategy game, you have to gather 
 resource by commanding some unit of worker to gather it. other special thing in this game are the 
 soldier are count in 1 squad and 1 unit. each squad have a leader inside and 5 of the squad member 
 can carry different heavy weapon like flamethrower, plasma gun, bolter n missiles launcher. this make 
 the game more like the real war when a few squad of soldier are command by an commander to the 
 front line. different of weapon type effective against of unit type, like infratry in afraid of flame 
 and bolter, missiles effective against building and tank and plasma gun are very effective against 
 heavy infratry. so in this game, all unit type have their weakness and no unit that can not be defeated. the 
 game become balance when all races have their own special abilities. in this game, there are 2 new 
 races added in, necrons and tau empire. one is the undead robot and the other one is a high tech 
 alien. this make the game now have 7 races to play and the player can chosen their favorite races 
 to play for. to any RTS fans out there, if u not yet try this game before then you should try it 
 now because it give you a new type of game play other than the strategy gane that u had played 
 before. so try it now if not you will regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 20, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  Relic rules!!!!!!! After the wonderfull Impossible Creatures &amp; Homeworld, they came with Warhammer 
 40000 Dawn of War &amp; Winter Asault, the best RTS at those times. Now they amazed the whole world 
 with the perfect Company of Heroes. Now, Dark Crusade. The graphics are much better than in Winter 
 Assault. Superb effects, the blood &amp; persistant bodies, which, as a friend says, gives the impression 
 : Look mom, they're piling!!! .Greatly done! The sound is even more better realised,&amp; the music 
 is perfect for that apocalypthic atmosphere. At the new stuff chapter,2 new factions, the Necrons 
 &amp; the Tau, a strategic map as in Rise of Nations (or Total War, if you prefer) , new units for every 
 race,&amp; 7 campaigns with each faction. The Necrons, worshipers of the C'tan deity, are metal skeletons 
 &amp; represent the supreme evil (eaviller than the Chaos Marines) . After some upgrades that make 
 them faster &amp; when they have a Restored Monolith, they are invincible. Their best unit is the 
 Nightbringer, a death. They do not have requisition resource! The Tau are technologised faction, based 
 on long ranged attacks &amp; not melee tactics, even though they have the Kroot Mercenaries as bait. 
 There are territories controled by factions,&amp; one stronghold, as in Robin Hood-Defender of the 
 Crown, for each faction. Some territories hape special bonuses for the one who controls them. An 
 other great thing is the possibility to customize your commander's look, skills &amp; bodyguards. my 
 necron commander was almost impossible to kill, after some upgrades. But one bad thing: the lack 
 of a real storyline, as in Dawn of War &amp; Winter Assault, is felt. But, no worry, it doesen't break 
 the whole game. So, Dark Crusade is 2nd pace best strategy ever after Company of Heroes.
  Relic is the best!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclean2988
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who's played the previous Dawn of War titles, you don't need me to tell you how cool 
 the story and single player of these games are. They perfectly capture the dark, gritty, and grim 
 world of the Warhammer 40k universe; which, I might add, has the coolest backstory I have ever 
 heard. The gameplay mechanic used in this game is different from the others, in that you concour 
 provinces, which are usually played out via mini skirmish battles, rather than linear missions. 
 This is a cool change, as it gives you more freedom in deciding how you want to concour the world. 
 But where this game really wins is in the multiplayer. The accesability of the command functions 
 and gameplay allows even the greenest of RTSer to become competent at it in just a few games. Each 
 race has such varied strategies, it's nearly impossible not to find one that matches your combat 
 style (I play Space Marines, for those wondering) . All these factors equal an awesome RTS series 
 that gets better with each incarnation. Can't wait for the next one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achus93
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  How did I say that this game is worth 10.0 at my point of view?
  
  Well, Gameplay, Graphics, Sound are just PERFECT!!!
  
  Gameplay.
  It is the best one yet, 
 and I'm sure that there will be a new one soon with better improved Gameplay. You have squads of 
 units in your army, with robots or mechs and tanks backing them up, you will be able to win your 
 battle for sure. Learning how to play the game isn't so hard, I (not meaning to brag) learnt how 
 to play the game in less then 10 minutes.
  
  Graphics.
  My computer may not be a Next Generation PC, but i put everything on Max and my computer is doing 
 just fine. The graphics of the game is both Max and cheap, if you know what i mean.
  
  Sound.
  The sound is just plain AWESOME!!! I have never played the Table-Top version, but i think 
 everyone can agree that the sound effect6s and stuff are all suited for the game, even though the 
 sound of the Chaos Cultist and Heretic certainly downed my mood.
  
  Why is this worth playing???
  Because it can make people interested in buying the Table-Top version 
 of this, or will just plain make you interested in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arondor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  This game fits in bueatiffuly with the rest of the series. The 2 new races fit perfectly with the 
 races already in place, all of which gain some form of addition, such as the new flash gitz for 
 the orks, or the super-cool grey-knights of the ordo malleus, who aid the space marines in the 
 name of the emporor. The best addirion to this game is definately the new campaign mode. The first 
 DOW simply followed the Blood Ravens over 12 missions. DOW: WA allowed the choice betwenn good and 
 evil, and allowed some change of armies during the campaign. However, DAW: DC allows you to choose 
 which of the 7 races you wich to use. This is done by choosing a commander. As you go throughn 
 the game you can update your commander with new powers or weapons, adding an element of RPG. The 
 campaign works as a big map, and this allows you to choose where to attack, reinforce, defend or 
 build new buildings etc.
  
  The other feature of the game are still present, such as the army painter and the abbility for 
 alot of mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BEHKO
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  This is the best game which i have played since StarCraft. Warhammer is fantastic, dynamic and 
 brutal. I really love this game and I will look forward for the next release. I hope the next StarCraft 
 look like this game and have new great features.
  
  Absolute tactic and brutal game.
  
  When i ran this game for the first time i thought Oh, another strategy **** but when i played 10-15 
 minutes it was great and i love it This game rock, i have never play such game after StarCraft', 
 cool.
  
  I recommended this game to everyone especially strategy fans.
  
  Thank you.
  
  Regards,
  Master Killer [BEHKO]
  
  This is the best game which i have played since StarCraft. 
 Warhammer is fantastic, dynamic and brutal. I really love this game and I will look forward for 
 the next release. I hope the next StarCraft look like this game and have new great features.
  
  Absolute tactic and brutal game.
  
  When i ran this game for the first time i thought Oh, 
 another strategy **** but when i played 10-15 minutes it was great and i love it This game rock, 
 i have never play such game after StarCraft', cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woozienebunu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k games have been good since they appeared and now they continue to conquer new PC's.
 
  But this game has something new and that is the Necron and Tau races plus a good and newly structured 
 campaign.
  
  The story consists of a simple CONQUER THE PLANET objective. You take turns on attacking and by 
 capturing new territories you can get bonuses. The in-game objectives are interesting varying from 
 classic destroy HQ to kill ##### of enemy units or collect ##### power .
  The in-game movies are good enough but the best part of it is one race.
  The Necrons are robots 
 who worshp the C'tan deities and have huge power. They have a new economy and are slow at the beggining 
 but when you restore power to the monolith your enemies are as good as dead. The Wargear is a possibility 
 to upgrade your hero and make him stronger. Stronger is better.
  
  The graphics are better and the corpses remain on the battlefield (pure necronic pleasure to see 
 them) and the battlefield gets scarred after battles. The sound is the same but it fades off when 
 you feel the glory of the Necron conquering.
  
  So Relic is Relic and makes the best RTS games. Keep going on and Necrons rule!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Vector
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Are you a fan of RTS games? If so, you have got to try this one out. I saw the game official trailer 
 when it came out and I didn't think twice. I ran to the store and bought it right away, and it 
 was worth it.
  
  The game-play is very addictive, the AI is great. Also if you don't have a high-end machine, don't 
 worry, the game will run smoothly just lower the graphics a bit if you feel you want more performance 
 (don't worry, the graphics are also great if you do so) . The camera views are great... Just press 
 ALT and move your mouse... You can see from whichever angle you like. There are many different 
 kinds of units each one can learn it's special ability. The strategic points are also great in 
 strategic ways.
  
  In conclusion this is the best RTS I've ever played. I like it in all aspects and i'm sure i'm 
 not the only one, if you know what i mean ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etrouy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Let me say this now. Dawn of War: Dark Crusade is the best RTS game ever released. One of the best 
 games ever released actually.
  
  Now, I never played the original table-top game, Warhammer 40,000, so I don't have a clue what 
 Tyranids are.
  
  On to the scoring system.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Dark Crusade is one of the most enjoyable games ever. it's got the amzing RTS thing, with a whole 
 bunch of twists to make it much more realistic. The morale system is incredible. If a squad's morale 
 goes to zero, then the squad breaks . It does a whole lot less damage, and is about 50% less accurate. 
 GRAPHICS
  Dark Crusade is one of the best looking games EVER! The olny flaw with the graphics is the water. 
 It is terrible. But other tan that, it looks great. SOUND
  The sounds of Boltguns, swords, and explosions are JUST right. Everybody says very intersting things 
 too. I often find myself quoting every line Space Marines say. Especially my favorite line by their 
 Force Commander. While the enemies of the Emperor still draw breath, there can be no peace. 
  
  VALUE
  Um... I don't know what value is..
  
  TILT
  I don't know what that is either....
 
  
  CAMPAIGN
  The campaign is very immersive, and unlike most RTS games, does not follow a spcific story line. 
 That is what bored me about some RTS games was the storyline. But the Dark Crusade campaign is 
 very fun, and allows you to be all seven races.
  
  I was very impressed with Dark Crusade. All in all, Dark Crusade is a very interesting game. Even 
 the loading screens give you something interesting to look at. LAND RAIDER IS FTW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  Well, I've done it again. In the past several days I've been playing a lot and checking out a lot. 
 For what ever reason I thought it a good idea to DL the demo. What a smart idea! This game is simply 
 awesome. Its like a cross between Star Craft and Dune. I love the graphics and the sound is beautiful. 
 This is simply the best RTS game I've played in years. Yes, better than Tiberium. Yes Yes Yes. 
 There is more to do. The plot is deeper and more involved. If you want a RTS game with a little 
 more depth in single player, this is it. Its extremely challenging. I was through 5 levels on C&amp; C 
 in the time it took me to beat one on this. I am extremely impressed. Thanks THQ, I suppose I can 
 let Stalker slide. This makes up for that piece of junk 100 fold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wooly_mamoth
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  This is my first Dawn of War game and I thought it was great!!
  The campaign is awesome and much better than other RTS
  I thought it lacked some things that 
 would make it supurb like loading times on multiplayer and skirmish, sound is rather poor and the 
 terrain has a few glitches but mainly great.
  The best thing about this game is the mods for it, there are so many to chose from and all of them 
 make the game a tad more interesting in skirmish
  The races in this are diverse with many strength and weaknesses which makes them possible to defeat. 
 When the next one is released, I will get it for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruski3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  damn, well what have i gotta say here, well
  
  Graphics - Pretty Sweet, Not the best, but good for an RTS 7/10
  
  Gameplay - Pure Sweetness, 
 Only Problem is the necrons are overpowerd, Other than that, Pure sweetness! 9/10
  
  Sound - Damn Cant flaw the sound, All units have 5-6 Diffrent sayinga for each command. 10/10
 
  
  Value - Hurr. Kickass
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - Hurr, before this i wasnt interested in RTS'S, now im hooked!
  10/10
  
 
  OH SNAP! OVERALL RATING - 9.3 :D
  
  Hurr. buy tthe game, if you dont i will have to be forced to come round your house and down you 
 in a sink :P
  
  BUY THE GAME! YOU CANNOT MISS THIS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anaris117
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War - Dark Crusade is the third installment in the Dawn of War series. 
 Relic and THQ come together to bring this popular tabletop game to the frontlines.
  
  Gameplay - Quite innovative. Instead of single units, you use squads that act as one. Morale is 
 useful, and gives meaning to breaking the enemy . Squads are useful, and each units is skilled 
 in destroying a certain unit type. Resources are collected differently, but it allows you to focus 
 more on the enemy instead of resource collecting. The army painter is great, allowing you to create 
 your own custom painted armies, just like how you paint them in the original tabletop game. Heavy 
 Cover and Light Cover allow your troops to get the advantage they need in combat.
  
  Graphics - Not the best, but good enough. It is detailed enough so that you can zoom in and see 
 the details, but not too much to make your computer lag. Terrain is detailed, but the grass seems 
 kinda blocky. Sound - There are different things each unit says, even if some units have the same 
 voices. All of the voices are very well done, and match the WH40k universe well.
  
  Value - For maximum multiplayer, you need to buy the other two games to play as them online, but 
 you dont have to. This game is great for WH40k fans, and any soul out there willing to serve the 
 Emperor or give over to the Chaos gods. If you are hesitant about trying this, i suggest you buy 
 this. It is one of the better RTS games out there, and is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronmullan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  ok to start off NEcrons rule lol this game makes the Origional Dawn of War 5x better the graphics 
 are slightly improved ive noticed that... and the new troops for the origional races are awesome 
 i especially like the Daemon Prince the only beef i have with tis game is that the cap max is still 
 only 20.. but thats why the good people made Lights of the Warp :D and especially like the *SPOILERS* 
 teaser at the end 2007 huh?... must get new video card lol the game overall has agnificent replay 
 value like ive played about 100 matches already! lol just facing against the computor but for some 
 reason y online dosent work it something like the connections going to the wrongfile or soething 
 it isnt the games fault i just need to reconnect the connection which i duno how to do can anyone 
 help? well all in all this games is worth play especially since it was at butchet price around 
 my town which rules awesomely the DOW series has to be the best RTS since Age of empires which 
 is also a reletlesly awesome series. if you havent got this game yet go out and buy NOW! if you 
 havent got the money download the demo! its worht it too lol see yall later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puff_Tart_3000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  So... yeah if you really like wanton violence and destruction seconded by excellent strategic gameplay 
 this is for you, oh the wonderous things you realize while watching a Necron wraith tear the insides 
 out of some stupid Marine, or the awe inspiring, not at all to mention utterly powerful C'tan Nightbringer 
 unit. Though it was a really great game I cant help but to feel a bit cheated due to the obvious 
 lack of Tyranids, and Dark Eldar, though that did not affect gameplay much. Comprable to real warfare 
 the graphical extent of this was complete with the visage of the daunting Necron lord, and the 
 exotic weaponry of any of the races.
  another interesting factor was the Risk style map in the campaign adding a strategic importance 
 to holding territory.
  But the ultimate plus for this game was... battlegear, as it is quite useful to be able to raise 
 your fallen at any time you wish, in short this game is an easy 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigglebutt32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  The Dark Crusade is the best in the Warhammer Dawn of War in the series. Very bloody and violent, 
 but its a good violent and you can zoom in right into the battle. Sometimes the people almost look 
 real. There are two new teams in this game the Tau and the Necrons. There is still the old teams 
 Space Marines, Orks, Eldar, Chaos Space Marines, and the Imperial Guard. All the old teams get 
 a few new stuff to trick out your armies. Although some teams have greater advantages than others 
 the game is great. Campaign is also amazing. You can choose your team to be and try to wipe out 
 everyone else and take over the planet Kronus. Each team has a capital and when its been taken 
 that team loses. One problem with Campaign is that there isn't much of a storyline to the game. 
 There is some when you attack a team's capitals though. Overall I give this game two thumbs way 
 way up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega0718
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  I must say I am relieved that THQ has released an expansion pack that will please everyone. You 
 all remember Winter assault right? The expansion pack that only featured so little? Well the memory 
 will be gone once you fire up this puppy. Trust me when I say to you that it will be worth every 
 penny, this expansion pack literally is packed. It gives you two new races to play straight out 
 of warhammer 40,000 lore; the metallic undead Necrons and the high-tech Tau. This bring the total 
 of playable races to an incredible 7, even more than Warcraft III. And did i forget to mention 
 that the campaign mode is freaking cool? You get to conquer an entire planet using any race you 
 want. However it could be longer though, its not exactly an entire world its more like an entire 
 continent. But overall it is worth your money.
  
  The good:
  Seven playable races, faithful to Warhammer 40,000 lore, and the Imperial Guard Baneblade is just 
 too cool (I know it has been introduced in Winter assault but what the heck) .
  
  The bad
  The 'conquer a world' campaign may seem more like 'conquer a continent' campaign.
  
  The ugly
 
  People may find that some races are completely identical in terms of how to play them only that 
 they have different skins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigjp24
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  I normally don't play RTS games. I'm more of an RPG man. The last RTS game I played was Age of 
 Empires 2, and I loved that game. Dark Crusade has made me fall in love with the RTS genre again. 
 My favorite part of the game is the campaign. My only complaint is that I wish the campaign received 
 more attention in development. Other than that this game is perfect. The races all seem balanced, 
 save one - the Necrons. The resource collection system is perfect. The battles are great, and having 
 a commander per squad is genius. Make no mistake this game is challenging, but there are many options 
 so even a beginner will be able to succeed. You will have to spend a great deal of time fighting 
 the computer to max out on difficulty, then and only then are you ready to take on players. Its 
 a great ride getting there, and will test your patience and ability to adapt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJosh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade third in the trilogy in the DOW40k series and the first one to have a 
 'Real Time Strategy' style of play. The game starts of with all the main races such as Orks, Imperial 
 Guard, ect. plus with the addition of two new playable races the Tau Empire, and the Necrons, all 
 fighting for control over the planet Cronous.
  
  The game takes a little like most the other games of the same genre as you wage war on neighbouring 
 territories to expand your empire and gain control over the planet. The game come with a few differences 
 to other games. Such has limited build capacity in territories as it is really more solely and 
 offensive style of play. Each race starts with a certain amount of controlled territories and then 
 a stronghold in which must be taken to remove that race from the game. Each race has its own agenda 
 and come with a new and different story if completed or defeated by different races, give the game 
 several different endings.
  
  The game offers and strong multi player where there are 7 different races to choose from. And with 
 the army painter where you can custom each race to your own liking.
  
  The game is in no great way different from the other two in sense of gameplay or graphics but offerers 
 a new RTS style of play and with two new races and some new units to control. The game is very 
 addictive as you want ot complete the game with all the races to see the different endings and 
 see how that race plays out. This is yet again another THQ success in he DOW40k series and a series 
 that is no way over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr17x
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  While there are many difficulty levels in the game the medium difficulty can be a little hard for 
 new players. I started playing this game in the demo which I suggest people do before they buy, 
 the demo is pretty good and can help you choose if the game is a good buy. I learned how to play 
 through the demo, but have found that I'm only efficient with one race. This is my first RTS and 
 it's been the only one I liked. I played the demo for Supreme Comamder, Command and Conquer 3 and 
 Company of Heroes but have found the all bland in comparison. I like this game because the little 
 fights can be exiting and the animations are fun to watch. Sometimes the game is not to exiting 
 specially when you are getting killed or when you get overwhelmed by all the things you have to 
 do, all the micro management. But I guess that's the nature of RTSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightgamet
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Its an RTS game with full length action and gore. Like Dawn of War and Winter Assault, 
 it's pretty difficult at first, but with practice, you'll find yourself expanding and killing in 
 no time. Also with 7 races in total, you have a great variety of races to choose from Story: There 
 is a command and conquer kind of quest where you are a general of an army (any race you choose) 
 and have to conquer the other races and their territory. Also the new campaign gives you great 
 insight on the 2 new races: Tau Empire and the Necrons. Graphics: Its hard to tell if any huge 
 graphical upgrades were made to Dark Crusade, however its still good. Oh and the intro is amazing 
 as usual
  
  Sound: There's no musical greatness and the some of the Chaos Space Marine units will still always 
 sound... uh weird, but once your in the heat of battle, the battle sounds falls into place quite 
 nicely.
  
  Value: Great value, but if you don't have the original Dawn of War, your limited to the Tau Empire 
 and the Necrons in multiplayer.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Loved the other two games, why not this one? You'll not find a better Sci-Fi RTS 
 than this one.
  
  The Complaints: -Its odd, but some of the missions can be unclear and half the time you can there 
 thinking WTF did I do wrong? 
  -Turret Cap sucks
  
  The Good:
  -The best damn races you'll ever see in an expansion
  -On harder difficulties, the computer A. I 
 is actually challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalroth
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War, from the start of the first game to Winter Assult, to now Dark Crusade, have all impressed 
 me. If someone is looking for a really good RTS I always recommend DoW: Dark Crusade. Relic and 
 THQ did such a good job at capturing the grim and epic warfare of the Warhammer 40,000 universe 
 in these games. There is something different about Dark Crusade that differs from the first two. 
 Here in the campaign, which I always suggest people play before they play online, has a nice story 
 to it. You choose your race (Space Marines being my favorite (god how I love the Grey Knights) 
 and you go on a crusade (hence the name Dark Crusade) to conquer Kronus. The gameplay is great. 
 I love how the all the races have very different tech trees. However, Necrons are a bit imbalanced. 
 Flayed ones are terrible to deal with, they are just this quick cheap instant spawn that kills 
 quickly. Learning how to use the UI, and the layout of the game does take a little getting used 
 to, but it grows on you. In the campaign mode, when you are playing on hard settings, I will tell 
 you it can get really hard. Defeats come and go because you will sometimes be rushed instantly 
 as soon as you start an attack on a territory. Tech trees do take a bit of getting used to as well.
 
  
  Gathering resources in this game is achieved by capturing critical locations, relics, and the most 
 relevant, strategic points. You then build listening posts and fortify Relics and strategic points 
 with sentry guns and the upgrades generate more requisition - the currency equivalent to money 
 in the game. Then there is also gathering power resource which is achieved by building generators, 
 the more you build the more power you generate. What is really good about the resource system is 
 that you don't have to dedicate specific and special units to gather the resources, its all done 
 with game play.
  
  Overall I love this game and I still play it. The sound and graphics are good too, in fact I love 
 the detail they put into the units in the races. My favorite units being the Grey Knights from 
 the Space Marines were captured wonderfully. The war-cries that most of the races have are pretty 
 awesome. The Space Marines charge into battle to uphold their honor and give their lives to the 
 oaths they held to the Emperor of Mankind while the Chaos are storming into a maelstrom of death 
 and war while they are swearing their allegiance to the Blood God.
  
  I would recommending you buy this game, as well as the very first one and Winter Assault, this 
 will enable you to play all the races online. Dark Crusade has the advantage though that you don't 
 need the previous two to play it, its a stand alone install and you can play all the races offline, 
 but with DC only you can only play Tau and Necrons online.
  
  http://www. dawnofwargame. com/homepage. php 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeJack
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War and its first expansion, Winter Assault, have been fixtures on my hard drive and playing 
 time ever since they came out. The mix of great gameplay and awesome Warhammer 40,000 setting made 
 the Dawn of War series my favorite RTS franchise of all time. This is only improved upon with the 
 newest expansion, Dark Crusade, which adds a suite of new content for players to mess around with.
 
  
  The biggest additions to the gameplay of Dawn of War and Winter Assault are, without a doubt, the 
 two new races. The Tau Empire, the most conventional of the pair, focus on pinning and killing 
 their enemies with powerful long-range weaponry. While they do field close combat troopers in the 
 Kroot, their alien allies, the true strength of the Tau lies in their ability to wipe out enemies 
 of the Greater Good from afar with the help of quick units and screens of Kroot warriors. The second 
 race, the Necrons, are a race of Terminator-esque robots whose resilient warriors have a chance 
 of pulling themselves back together on the battlefield. This race is unique in that it relies almost 
 exclusively on Power resource to produce its units, making power generator buildings their principal 
 economic structure. Perhaps the greatest weapon in the Necron arsenal is the activated Monolith 
 structure, which can take most of the game to activate but is a nearly unstoppable force once the 
 process is finished, forcing players to make the choice between activating their Monolith or producing 
 an army of smaller units.
  
  In addition to the new factions, Dark Crusades adds a new unit to each existing side. The Space 
 Marines get the Grey Knights, a squad of ultra-powerful close combat psyker infantry. The Eldar 
 get the Harlequin, a hero unit that uses acrobatic moves to kill groups of enemies. The Orks get 
 the Flash Gitz, squads of Ork boyz armed with high-powered kustom shootas. The Chaos Space Marines 
 get the Daemon Prince, an ability added to the Chaos Lord unit that allows him to turn into a powerful 
 daemon with potent close combat skills. Finally, the Imperial Guard receives the Heavy Weapons 
 Team, a pair of soldiers who can set up a fortification to fire either a Heavy Bolter, Autocannon 
 or Lascannon. Each of these units serves to plug up holes in their respective faction's arsenal 
 or further emphasize its strengths.
  
  The last major addition is the singleplayer campaign. The developers took a radically different 
 approach with this campaign. Instead of having a linear progression of story-driven missions, the 
 Dark Crusade campaign presents players with a meta-map of the planet Kronus to fight each of the 
 other factions over. Players can go through the campaign as any faction in the game, and each faction 
 has a different story and reason to be on Kronus. Attacking different provinces usually instigates 
 a sort of modified skirmish battle in which the player goes up against one or two AI opponents. 
 A few specific provinces toy with this formula -- for example, one requires players to locate a number 
 of Servitor units and deliver them back to their base before the enemy does, and another simply 
 gives the player a set amount of units and orders to kill every enemy on the map. Each race's stronghold 
 province presents attackers with specific scripted scenarios. Winning these battles results in 
 different benefits, such as powerful Honor Guard units (essentially normal units with beefed-up 
 attributes) , special abilities to use on the meta-map, elimination of a race from the meta-map 
 (in the case of strongholds) or wargear. Each side has a commander that can be outfitted with pieces 
 of wargear over the course of the campaign. Wargear can confer new abilities, such as cloaking 
 or teleportation, or increase a commander's attributes in terms of damage or hitpoints. Each individual 
 race's campaign takes several hours to complete (more if every province is conquered) , and completists 
 who want to beat the campaign for every race will find themselves busy for quite a long time.
 
  
  Dark Crusade is packed with content that for the most part was pulled off quite well. The new races 
 are powerful and complex and the new units add further variety to keep the old races from growing 
 stale. Unfortunately, balance is an issue with all these new additions. The Tau and Necrons tend 
 to be overpowered, and there are also bugs with some of the units -- specifically, the Tau Broadside 
 Battlesuit and the Imperial Guard Heavy Weapons Team, both of which cannot be used to target specific 
 units when deployed.
  
  Despite a few minor faults, Dark Crusade is an excellent value and a huge content addition to the 
 base game and its first expansion. Anybody who liked Dawn of War should pick up Dark Crusade -- hell, 
 anybody who likes RTS games should pick it up, since it doesn't require the original. A must-have 
 for RTS and Warhammer 40,000 fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  It is hard to describe a game that is so good. No good isn't a enough to describe it. IThis is 
 a must buy. With the previouse expansions u can get 7 races, 7 RACES!!. And all 7 r cool and unique!!!!!. 
 There is a lack of tyranids but who cares the other races r more than enough. The squads r cool 
 cause u can upgrade them to have special weapons and the close combat + ranged combat fits together 
 perfectly. Capturing points to get resources is also great giving it a uniqque gameplay compared 
 to other RTS. Pop limit is pretty bad but with mods u can easily raise the pop cap. Have been playing 
 Tau for almost a month and still not bored. Not even tried the other races, that is how unique 
 and cool each race is! Sometimes u have to force urself to play but once u kill ur first couple 
 squads u'll be glued to the seat for hours until u feel satisfied that u have killed enough orks 
 or watever. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsword0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Having played the plot driven Dawn of War, and the tree-campaign of Winter Assault, the ability 
 to play a risk-like game in Dark crusade made for a nice change, do things at your own pace, let 
 the AI beat eachother in the face for a while if that's how you want to play it.
  
  The new units for existing races are good, honestly though, none of them really stand out in my 
 mind, what does stand out are the new races. the Tau are orientally themed, and done extremely 
 well in my mind, their shooting abilities are good, as they should be, but they lack power in melee 
 - as it should be, and they're not TOO powerful.
  
  The Necrons are also well done, they're slow to start off, and play in a manner totally different 
 to the other races, but once they get going, they can be a real steam-roller.
  
  single player allows for a persistent army, in the form of a bodyguard, and territory you control 
 has persistent bases as well as armies you can garrison to aid defense.
  
  New limits on unit and building caps mean that multi player is a little more dynamic, there's less 
 of this building 4 land raiders and a million heavy bolter turrets and watching your foes hurl 
 themselves uselessly at a solid mass of structures, you have to be more mobile, hold units in reserve 
 for defense, build more than just one unit type - well, usually.
  
  this is the best addition to the Dawn of War series, and it's a shame that it's likely the last, 
 at least for a while. though there are new units, races, maps and goodies being added in the form 
 of mods created by the fans.
  
  this game is an excelent multi player game, and will be a favorite of mine for quite some time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I hadn't played a RTS game since Warcraft III, and I never actually had the ambition to beat it. 
 Dawn of War is different. Instead of setting up a strong story like Warcraft did, DoW makes more 
 of a board game out of RTS.
  
  Set up sort of like Risk, the world is split up into about 20 sections, which you will need to 
 take over from other forces in order to win the game. When you attempt to take a section, you have 
 to fight a RTS war against the other forces.
  
  The actual gameplay is solid, and each playable force has their own strengths and weaknesses. It 
 all balances out well, and allows the player to pick a team that best suits their particular style 
 of playing. Even better, most of the teams are flat out bad-ass. The game has some awesome visuals. 
 All of the units are designed well, and their animations are violent and satisfying.
  
  One of my most favorite computer games in years. I recommend this to anyone who loved Starcraft 
 or Warcraft back in the day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venomblack
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  In a sea of RTS games, it can be difficult for developers to differentiate themselves from other 
 games on the shelf. But once in a while, a truly great game comes along to dethrone the current 
 king of the hill. That is exactly what Relic has done with Warhammer 40K: Dark Crusade.
  
  Dark Crusade takes place in the Warhammer 40,000 universe created by Games Workshop for their table-top 
 miniatures game. It is a very robust and creative sci fi atmosphere, mixing such fantasy things 
 as Orcs with technology. It's a unique blend that makes for some diverse gaming experiences and 
 is excellent source material for just about any game. Thankfully the folks at Relic took this great 
 source material and created a game worthy of the Warhammer 40,000 name.
  
  The basic game boils down to control of waypoints on the map in an effort to gain Requisition Points 
 that can be spent on units, structures and upgrades. The game tosses out the old peon gather and 
 harvest structure for resource management. Pretty much, Dark Crusade pits you in the Battlefield 
 from the get go and straight into the action. This is a welcome change of pace as it eliminates 
 a lot of the tedious grunt work associated with some RTS games of the past. Expect to witness full 
 scale battles over waypoints in an effort to control or stimey your opponents.
  
  Dark Crusade features a good mix of races, though it doesn't present all of the Warhammer 40,000 
 races in the game. But what is in the game is good. The races at your command are Ork, Chaos, Space 
 Marine, Imperial, Eldar, Necron, and Tau. However, it should be noted that while Dark Crusade is 
 a stand-alone product not requiring the original game plus the Winter Assault expansion, without 
 those you can only play as Necrons and Tau in multiplayer using Dark Crusade by itself. You can 
 use all the races in single player with Dark Crusade though. But with the Gold edition bundle, 
 Dawn of War and Winter Assault are easily affordable and you'll most definitely want them after 
 playing Dark Crusade.
  
  The graphics are very detailed and the battles are spectacular, really bringing the 40,000 universe 
 to life. Sounds effects and music are on par with the rest of the game. All in all, this is a very 
 solid RTS package. If you haven't played Dark Crusade, and are in the market for a new RTS, this 
 should be the FIRST game you get. It's just simply that good of a game.
  
  Relic has proven they are a top-notch developer with their work on Homeworld and now Dark Crusade 
 (as well as Company of Heroes which is another spectacular RTS by Relic) . Don't miss out on a masterpiece 
 such as Dark Crusade! I for one will be eagerly awaiting the sequel to Dawn of War: Dark Crusade. 
 Relic really knows how to do justice to the Warhammer name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemisis517
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  The hype for the latest installment of DoW was incredible. The game itself has not totally lived 
 up to those expectations (the big disapointment for me was the badly done wargear system, which 
 I expected more from) but is still an amazing game for most players, with good graphics and great 
 gameplay. The new patches have not yet balanced the number of races that are over or under-powered, 
 but a new patch is expected soon. The two new races are very fun to play and the new campaign system 
 is a colossal improvement over the old linear one (though again didn't quite live up to the hype) . 
 Many were expecting improved and revamped multiplayer, but this was not to be, but even so the 
 two new races make multiplayer a lot more interesting. We can only hope the next game will build 
 more on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewilyranger
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  After playing the first Dawn of War and its expansion Winter Assault I thought the series could 
 not get any better, then I bought Dark Crusade and was proven wrong. One of the first amazing features 
 of the game is that it is stand alone, meaning that is does not need the original Dawn of War to 
 play it, it is good for those who do not have a lot of disk space or want to give the game a try 
 with all of the 7 races the game has. The only catch is if you want to play with all the races 
 in multiplayer you will need the original Dawn of War and Winter assault otherwise you will only 
 be able to play as the Necrons and Tau online. Speaking of the Necrons and Tau, these are the two 
 new races that have been added into the game making the amount of races in the game 7. The Tau 
 and Necrons balance well with the other races in the game. The Tau use stealth tactics with the 
 help of the Kroot and Vespids to defeat their foes in battle. The Necrons play differently then 
 the other races in the game, instead of using the requisition resource they only run off the power 
 resource, they use strategic points and critical locations to prevent enemies from capturing them 
 and allowing the Necrons to produce units and research technologies faster. The Necron lord plays 
 a huge role in the Necron army with being allowed to be upgraded with a certain amount of artifacts 
 that improves the stats of the Necron lord or gives him different abilities such as the resurrection 
 orb which allows the Necron lord to bring any fallen Necrons near the Necron lord back to life, 
 also certain Necron units have the ability to reassemble themselves after being killed. Another 
 ability the Necrons have is the ability to use one of their units, the Tomb Spyder, has the ability 
 to gather defeated foes off the battlefield and use them to make squads of different Necron soldiers.
 
  
  Other than adding new races, each of the previous races gets a new unit, the Imperial Guard the 
 heavy weapons squad which starts out as a heavy bolter placement and can be upgraded to either 
 an Auto Cannon or a Lascannon, the Space Marines get the Grey Knights squad which are good against 
 Chaos daemons they also have superior close combat capabilities, the Eldar get the Harlequin which 
 is good in close combat, has the ability to disrupt enemy squads and can kill an enemy unit with 
 the Harlequin's kiss, Chaos gets the Daemon prince which is an enormous Daemon that slaughters 
 units with its amazing close combat abilities, and the Orks get the Flash Gitz which gives the 
 Orks a well needed boost in far ranged capabilities. With addition to new units there are new technologies 
 and unit restrictions for example the Space Marines can only build one terminator squad, while 
 the Orks get a technology that gives them the ability to bring out Slugga Boyz for free. Also something 
 else worth mentioning is how the infiltration system has been redone, before the technology to 
 research infiltration was cheap and all one had to do was click the squad which had infiltration 
 abilities and click on the icon and the unit would be undetectable by enemy units, the infiltration 
 went away if the squad was detected by a turret or an enemy Sergeant or higher ranking officer 
 which made the ability fairly useless, now the way infiltration works is that the initial research 
 of the ability is increased significantly but when the research is completed the squads with the 
 infiltrated abilities are already infiltrated and only certain units and buildings can detect infiltrated 
 units. Also as a side note the graphics engine has been cleaned up, the effects of explosions and 
 guns firing looks a lot better. It does not take a huge rig to get this game looking and playing 
 nice.
  
  The best feature about the game is the campaign, instead of the campaign being linear and doing 
 a bunch of missions for the race you choose, when you choose a race for the campaign you are shown 
 an intro movie for the race you have chosen and a map that resembles a risk board. The battle for 
 the campaign takes place on the battle Kronus and all 7 races of the game want Kronus for its own 
 needs. It is turn based, you can attack once with your commander or move your commander once. You 
 start off with a couple of territories and your stronghold, the stronghold is the main territory 
 for each race and if it falls that race is removed from the campaign also each stronghold has a 
 different condition for taking the stronghold such as killing a commander, to win the campaign 
 for the race you must defeat all the other races strongholds.. Each territory has a number on it 
 which represents the strength of the territory. You start off with a commander and as you conquer 
 more territories you will get units to add to his honor guard, when you hire an honor guard unit 
 it will start the battle with you commander. At the beginning of each turn you are given planetary 
 requisition equal to the value of each territory you own, you can use this to hire units on your 
 territory to defend it if anyone attacks it. The gameplay for each battle is just like a skirmish 
 map except the condition is to destroy your enemies command center, if you are victorious whatever 
 building you built on the planet is already placed there so you can start building units if you 
 are attacked. Dawn of War Dark Crusade is easily one of the best expansion packs ever released 
 for an RTS in quite some time, with the amount of content on it the game never seems to get boring 
 and will entertain gamers for long amounts of time. If you are a fan of Warhammer 40k, a fan of 
 RTS games, or want to try something different I recommend buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  In 2004 I bought DOW on an impulse, as i was searching for a new RTS. I was pleasantly surprised 
 by the original, but the story, lack of a good campaign, and the original races bored me quickly. 
 Enter 2006, and I was bored again, and i purchased this new version. Incredible! It's so much harder, 
 so much more immersive, and so varied that the game is a million times different. The designers 
 tweaked a few things, bulked up on some of the visuals and sounds, threw in a couple races, added 
 Risk to the campaign, and this game is the **** The gameplay alone makes this game one of a kind. 
 If you have played Company of Heroes, made by THQ as well, its no wonder these guys are on top 
 of the gaming industry (not mentioning that Supreme Commander looks and plays frickin incredible 
 in the demo i look forward to good things) . These guys know how to make games and make them different. 
 The new races in Tau and Necron are completely new styles of gameplay to the game, and the RIsk 
 campaign is fun and really frickin hard if you man up and play on normal or hard. Skirmishes are 
 fun as always, and multiplayer is fantastic.
  
  The visuals and sound are a bit dated, but they are still amazing, especially considering the original 
 platform for the game is three years old. You still need to have a decent setup (I have a 7950 
 GT running and its about perfect) to keep this game flowing when the battles start getting intense. 
 The game is a winner, and a must own if you enjoy RTS's, because THQ makes the best. Dawn of War, 
 Company fo Heroes, and Supreme Commander..... I dont think you need to know anything else, BUY THIS 
 GAME, and then buy Company and Supreme. And go! oh and its only $30! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PG213
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  I've been fond of Dawn of War from the fist minutes I started playing the first game, and with 
 Dark Crusade this affinity has grown even stronger. Though I miss a bit of the story mode that 
 both previous releases offered, even if the cut-scene graphics where not hat brilliant, the new 
 approach of gameplay in this chapter is definitely very cool. For me Dark Crusade brings a nice 
 mixture of Dawn of War meets Risk. The new races are again very cool, and allow for lots of fun 
 in multi player gaming. I also liked the micro management a lot, and how the role of the Race leaders 
 are brought up to the front of the game play. Thanks to the multiple Races taking part in the battle 
 of Dark crusade, the game also offers a lot of replay ability, and allows you to test your skills 
 with each race.
  
  Relic has done another great job with this, and make me look forward to their future releases. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KHOG
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Excellent story telling from all perspectives in the Warhammer 40k universe, teaches strategy for 
 each race's features. An excellent addition to the warhammer 40k game series and shows great ambition 
 for more expansion/sequels. All RTS games should take note of Dark Crusade's format not requiring 
 previous versions. The campaign style reflects the classic game of risk conquering territory one 
 at a time... but each territory has its various challenges from the terrain. There could be a little 
 more diversity in the vehicles of Chaos Space Marines and the Necrons since they certainly have 
 the fewest. Despite there being seven different races each with thier own unique characteristics, 
 units, vehicles, and powers they are all amazingly balanced for competition among one another on 
 the given battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reevesy314
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  No wonder Relic are picking up awards left right and centre.
  The Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War franchise has been awesome from the begining, This Newest expansion/Stand 
 alone (whilst being a stand alone game and being able to play online you can only play online as 
 the races in the games you own eg. DOW SM, CSM, O or E. WInter assult IG.) game 'Dark Crusade' 
 has injected yet more life into an already teeming universe.
  Firstly they have not tried to change too much just a few fixes from the first two games and a 
 couple of new units and death shots for good measure.
  The online experience has been improved with various Rooms for players around the world..
  Two 
 new races to play with Necrons and Tau both real additions to the gaming experience offerind both 
 new challenges and pleasure to the gaming experience. (though at the time of writing this the necrons 
 do seem a bit too hard for their own good hopefully the balance will be restored in a future patch) .
 
  The campaign itself is no longer a one track story mode you can play as any one of the seven races 
 included from the start of the game so everyone can play as their own personnal favourite race (sorry 
 nid and DE fans hopefully soon ;-p) . With the new non-linear set up to the camaign you can choose 
 who you fight and when you want to fight them (unless you are attacked that is) . All of the races 
 present on the planet have their own motives and reasons for beig there which you find out as you 
 plat each of them (or destroy them in the campaign mode) .
  over all this is a brilliant game for noobs to the 40k universe or for seaoned veterans who enjoy 
 a good bit of back story and are familliar with the table top game and its mythology.
  Awesome 'buy it now' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishheads111
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  As a DoW fan I have greatly enjoyed this game and I will address the positives and negatives accordingly.
 
  
  Positives:
  Great graphics and special effects: All the characters have special close combat moves, improvements 
 in gore effects and movements enhanced the gaming experiance.
  Great sound: All characters have a wealth of sayings, although sometimes they tend to repeat certain 
 ones... All weapons and impacts have their own unique sounds creating an indepth visceral experience.
 
  Fast paced Strategy: Although not the same type of epic empire builder with large troops manuevers 
 and micromanaging, its all about the fight itself.
  Easy to get into, but difficult to fully master: You can learn the game quite quickly, but to get 
 amazing at it you HAVE to practice.
  Campaign: Is definently improved over the previous ones, allowing for more repayability and freedom.
 
  7 RACES!: Finally, more races:) allowing for EVEN MORE depth and replayability.
  
  But with every good game, there are flaws....
  Negatives: The campaign isn't all that mazing, 
 somewhat shallow story itself.
  Repetition of sayings: Ive had squads say the same line upwards of 30 times in a row. (glitch?)
 
  Physics system is somewhat lacking, shoot piles of rockets en masse at a tank and watch it do 
 some crazy hovering.
  Graphics are BEGINNING to be dated, still nice tho.
  Overall depth of gameplay is somewhat lacking in the strategic depth, little or no micromangement, 
 alot of attrition based strategy.
  
  Overall here is a break down of DoW strategy.
  
  1/3 is numbers, often times its VERY difficult to win against a numercially superior enemy.
  
 1/3 is strategy: You need to keep moving, need to coordinate attacks, flank, use of special abilities, 
 cover system, and morale system.
  1/3 is speed: You need to be fast, or you WILL die... unless your playing against a new player (notice 
 I didn't say n00b) , who has a special thing against the all powerful RUSH!!!!
  
  In conclusion, a great game, that can be considered something between a quick fix, and a fast game. 
 Overall really enjoyable, but it has its flaws. Also, it is still missing tyranids.: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game is based on the tried and tested formula of rts strategy which offers nothing new in 
 terms of playability. It is amazing that there are 7 different races in this game yet none seem 
 to offer anything new of different in terms of play. This is yet another win by numbers game where 
 the choice of untis have limited impact and winning is all about who can build up their forces 
 first. After the rave reviews i thought i'd give this game a go, and the look of it and polished 
 interface certainly helped make this quite enjoyable.
  
  For a beginner into rts this would be a good choice due to its arcade style of play. However there 
 have been better titiles out there in my opinion that offer more strategy although with less eye 
 candy. It has a moderate amount of replay value and the campaign is quite entertaining. Yet in 
 light of recent releases, such as company of hereos, this game is probably going to be the last 
 great win by numbers game. This style of play will soon be obsolete as real strategists hunger 
 for more involved play.
  
  In conclusion, pretty to look at and a good quick fix casual rts fans, but lacks any substance 
 and is only a test of attrition rather than war skills. The races are pretty much the same but 
 with different faces, and it can rapidly become a yawn fest for more seasoned rts gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincrazydj
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is a brilliant game and is easy to pick up, I've got both the predecossors and it 
 took me just 5 minutes to get. They've neatened up the edges a lot, and now it is awesome. My favourite 
 race would have to be the necrons, the first campaign I did I annhilated everyone. This is brilliant, 
 highly addictive and easy to learn game worth playing. The campaign is brillaint and pushes a lot 
 more stragedy into the game, rather then having a few missions with cutscenes they are entire strongholds, 
 territorys and bonuses and it's your choice waht to invade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumpao
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  Since Winter Assault, I was waiting a new expansion for my dear one Warhammer 40K.
  And I have the pleasure to say that Worth the Wait.
  
  What is bring back from previous w40K?
 
  
  The fast gameplay
  The learning curve (you must be dedicated to one race if you want to win in the multiplayer) .
 
  See that your miniature from warhammer has been digitalized in great stile (just look to Space 
 Marine checking they equipament) .
  The main attraction THE GREAT MULTIPLAYER (versus human or CPU)
  And the thing that translate 
 perfectly the emotion on the game , the voices.
  -CHARGE!!!
  -OHH , HEYA BOSS!
  -TO THE RALLY POINT!
  
  What is NOT in the backage anymore ( I mean the bad things) ?
  
 
  The Story creepy mode. The unfair and unbalanced system (die space marines) .
  
  What is new?
  
  Two new races TAU EMPIRE and THE NECRONS.
  New units and some new skins for 
 generals to all the races.
  New maps (a entire planet ,lol) .
  Cut down the Bad story , to a new story that freaky out a entire planet.
  New balance system 
 that now is pretty fair for all the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alien-Child
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  If you played the first Dawn of war and winder assault you know what to expect. But the variety 
 in the game is what you really come back for. Its not just because its a great game and it relies 
 on being quick and there's always action happening. or give it 5 min tops and your bound to get 
 a battle going. The two new teams are fresh new style fit right in with the other five races. The 
 necrons are slow but powerful terminator look alike race and only rely on power. The Tau are evened 
 out between there ranged and close combat units. So you have to play around with them a bit to 
 figure it out. A few changes have been made to different teams some new special units are thrown 
 in which makes it pretty enjoyable to see them ripping through the enemy. the campaign is now setup 
 like a risk map and the more tracts of land you hold the more requisition you gain each turn. The 
 AI doesn't seem to have changed very much they just become more efficient every time you raise 
 the difficulty. But the heart of the game is when you go online the interface isn't to hard to 
 figure out. The patches pretty much even everything you can think of. You start to develop new 
 strategies that you don't learn from the AI. Saving replays are a must if you want to learn. The 
 voice acting for all the units are still topnotch. They toned down some of the units so they wouldn't 
 be as annoying. Its definitely a smart buy. If you enjoy rts games you're bound to enjoy this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a keeper. It has the same amazing gameplay as the first one, where the greater risk 
 you take, the greater the reward. But it incorporates into it a whole new level of fun. The ability 
 to give your commanders equipment. Your commander can now be even harder to kill than before, so 
 this bonus did not go unappreciated. The new campaign is a good idea. The idea of a turn based 
 map campaign might not have been the most original, but it works great when connected with Dawn 
 of War. The honour guard idea is well thought of, considering when they grow to the right size, 
 you can claim any map practically within a few minutes, if that! The two new races are great, Tau 
 and Necrons. The Tau have some amazing shooting troops, and the veteran Fire Warriors squads have 
 a longer range than Broadside Battlesuits do when they are entrenched. The Necrons have some brilliant 
 troops, if they can be bothered to move fast enough to get into a good position. Honestly, the 
 only thing I have seen slower moving is a dead rabbit with no legs, and it was still moving almost 
 as quickly as them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  Warhammer, warhammer... from tabletop to 3D RTS .. when it came out a while ago, it was a massive 
 hit, then came it's first expansion, alright not that bad... now comes Dark Crusade... and by god 
 it combines everything in the series that's great and adds to it tenfold!
  
  So lets break it up into categories as we should.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Warhammer Dark Crusade 
 is allll about just massive, carnage and slaughter with lots of guts and gore ... and it does it 
 perfectly, from the various fatality animations, such as stabbing a massive sword through someone, 
 or smacking them like a baseball with a bat, ripping their guts off, or just squeezing the last 
 breath out of them until they bleed or scream for mercy.
  
  And all this with mountains of units and races, including the 2 new ones, the TAU and Necrons. 
 Now the only thing I gotta admit is a bit of a downer, is you can only play as those 2 races online 
 if you don't own the previous games, but provided you own the first games you'll be able to play 
 as everyone.
  
  Now it's pretty standard stuff, I like to call it (no offense meant to anyone) the new Starcraft, 
 simply because it just feels like starcraft without the alien bugs. No offense meant to hardcore 
 fans of either of the games that would beg to disagree with me, it's just my opinion.
  
  So'yeah whats there to say, build a base, capture points on the map for resources, and relics for 
 your factions special unit (s) and yadayada.
  
  Now one of the new features in Dark Crusade is persistent - bodies, namely, CORPSES stay in the 
 gameworld for as long as there is a match going on, and it just adds to the game by a mile. Gotta 
 love watching body piles stack up over time with guts and blood about. Watching a chaingun rip 
 some fellas up and block out the ground beneath with corpses. Lovely.
  
  The games main attraction is it's gritty, gory and intensely overdone combat, when you get some 
 armies clashing it's all out hell with dirt flying, bullets spitting around, grenades, screams, 
 guts, stabbing kicking shooting and merciless slaughter. That's just the best way to sum it up. 
 Theres the good'ol morale system, men break and flee, or just lose their will to fight and get 
 slaughtered.
  
  Customizing your armies by choosing their color schemes, badges and banners is just as fun as before 
 as well.
  
  It's great fun online and in singleplayer with it's long campaign with a nice worth of cutscenes 
 to lighten the mood.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Now the graphics are no oscar worthy triumph, or maybe they are considering the games art style, 
 either way they do just fine, firstly, almost anyone can run the game at some graphical level. 
 And it's low ender friendly... and with some new graphical features such as actual shadows, which 
 were missing from the original, add some subtle slow detail, only problem being the shadows only 
 seem to work on on certain units and of course buildings.
  
  So I say, bravo.
  
  Sound:
  
  Now this is one of the games stronger points ... the game has some amazing orchestral 
 work when the themes kick in during a battle, and slicing shooting and chaingun rattling bullet 
 spitting sounds oh so juicy. Another triumph on that part, the only thing I'd say I'm not happy 
 with is, that there's not enough battle cry variations, the usual FOR THE EMPEROR and CHARGE get 
 boring after they loop 40x ... but that's no big deal.
  
  Value:
  
  Value!? It's Warhammer, it's one of the greatest sci-fi universes ever created as many would say. 
 And a great and well done game worthy of the title.
  
  Tilt: 10 of 10 Final words, if you have any appreciation for RTS gaming and need something that 
 is the very essence of good'oll carnage in RTS with an old fashion arcade style to it... then what 
 are you waiting for!
  
  FOR THE EMPEROR! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekingoffoxes
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is the latest expansion from THQ, it adds two new races, the Tau and the Necrons. 
 And a new campaign mode which is alot like Risk.
  The Necrons are a bit overpowerd and the Tau are very good late-game.
  The Game will have all 
 the races in single-player but in Multi-player you can only go as the Tau or Necrons, but you can 
 play against the other races if that person has Dawn of War, and Winter Assult, respectivly. It 
 also comes with a demo of Call of Duty (1 or 2, not sure)
  The graphics are ok and theres lots of bloud, lasers and stuff to see.
  The music is sometimes 
 not there and is completly random and un scripted,
  the UI is a bit complicted at first but isn't any diffrent from DoW and WA.
  The Necrons get 
 to get back up again and have a few super units, which makes them a bit to good for my tastes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  After having played the original Dawn of War, and giving this game about 20 hours of play time, 
 I think that I can happily put away the RTS genre completely until something big and new happens 
 that revives it. As gamespot has said in another of their articles, the RTS genre remains mired 
 in micromanagement issues , and this is very true. A couple of new factions and a RISK style global 
 map (a la LOTR II) is merely a minor add-on to what is, essentially, the exact same type of game 
 as every other RTS out there.
  
  Aside from minor additions and improvements, just about every RTS out there is working on the exact 
 same format as Warcraft II. There just haven't been any real breakthroughs in the genre. Sure, 
 the graphics have gotten much better, an there's more options, but it amazes me that a lot of the 
 issues that were present with a game like Warcraft II are still plaguing the genre now. Excessive 
 need to micromanage every aspect of both battles and resource management is not much better. Also, 
 the AI strategy of build FAST and BUM RUSH IMMEDIATELY , ALWAYS engage every opponent every time 
 as soon as possible , and mysteriously, computer's lone squad of basic infantry completely wipes 
 out multiple squads of my advanced armored mele fighters with command support has also remained 
 unchanged. The only real development in RTS over the last 10 years has been the Spellforce games, 
 which are vastly underrated and underappreciated. Maybe supreme commander will offer something 
 new, but until someone does something other than take the Warcraft II engine and rework it with 
 different characters, I'm done with the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is a perfect example of what an expansion pack should do for the original game. Most 
 expansions are content to throw you a few maps and a handful of new units, slap together a new 
 story to give you some narrative and charge you thirty bucks for the priviledge of playing the 
 same game you already have. Dark Crusade adds new elements to the gameplay such as customizing 
 your faction's leader as you progress, a campaign map that gives you an idea of what your fighting 
 over, and allows you to play as all of the Warhammer 40K factions available through THQ at this 
 point. The two new sides available in Dark Crusade give a whole new sense of depth and replayability 
 to the Dawn of War franchise. The Tau are essentially space Marxists who fight for the greater 
 good , and the Necron are Warhammer 40K's version of an undead fantasy army. On the surface Commies 
 and skeletons might not sound like compelling new foes for an RTS, in Warhammer's anachronistic 
 space dystopia they fit in quite nicely and provide a much needed diversion from Orks, Eldar and 
 the Imperium of Man. The presentation is superb. The excellent graphics from Dawn of War are slightly 
 enhanced, but not so much that you need to upgrade any hardware to enjoy Dark Crusade. The story 
 and the layout of the single player campaign is greatly improved over Dawn of War. Your not just 
 stuck with the Space Marines and one story line, you get more of an impression of how many factions 
 are fighting over the planet Kronus (the plot of Dark Crusade) and their motivations for doing 
 so. Overall dark Crusade is a more complete single-player RTS than Dawn of War in every way. The 
 new factions also add some balance to multiplayer games as Dawn of War felt unbalanced toward the 
 Marines.
  
  Dark Crusade is a must-have for any Warhammer 40K fan, and for any RTS gamer as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hub0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  The 2004 RTS game Warhammer 40k Dawn of War is such a great game with its great gameplay, beautiful 
 graphics, and some nice and brutal animations. There was an expansion pack that added the Imperial 
 Guard race where they tried to sort of give the aggressive DOW gameplay a twist by making IG a 
 more defensive race, but I didn't care much about that one. Never the less, turtling is quite often 
 a suicidal thing to do in DOW.
  
  But now Dark Crusade, the second expansion pack has come. And with two more brand new and unique 
 races, now a total of 7 races, you can fight the grim and bloody wars of the 41st millenium like 
 never before.
  
  The game made a significant change to the single-player campaign, while the first two DOW games' 
 campaign was short and quite disapointing, this one is gonna blow you away. The story is about 
 a planet Kronus that brought all 7 races into direct conflict with each other, they are all trying 
 to wipe the other races out from the planet, each with their own aim. While the Tau empire is just 
 defending themselves, the Necrons are planning to simply wipe the entire planet of all life, down 
 to the last inch of grass. The campaign begins Total War style, with the map and all. You'll know 
 all about it in the other players reviews and the official review. Now what I like best is the 
 amount of story telling and scripted scenarios there are for each race, and that's really great. 
 You'll want play every race just to see how differently they'll react to their enemies and what 
 they'll do after the conquest of Krones, all nicely presented in lengthy cutscenes. But I guess 
 I bought this game mainly for the new races, I play the tabletop game and I love the Necrons, those 
 metallic, skeletal, horrific, lifeless monstrosities amazes me... serious! The 7 races are unique 
 in their own right and can develop a large varieties of strategies, they all have a great look 
 to them. I was never able to have a Nightbringer miniature, but now I see him rampaging the battlefield, 
 bringing death as he goes. I love that feeling.
  
  The sound is great, voice acting sounds satisfying, and the narrator's voice is deep and grim. 
 They could have improved the sound of some weapons cause they're sort weak. It's a shame the Necrons 
 don't really have much voice cause they can't talk.
  
  The graphics are a bit dated but are still good to see, my pc's pretty crappy so I don't mind, 
 now flesh can be blown out of infantries when they die, good feature and adds the brutality to 
 the game.
  
  So overall DC is just an extraodinary game, if you're a Warhammer 40k fan, you will play the game 
 just to see your favourite unit annihlate your enemy, if you're a RTS fan, you'll play for its 
 unique races, stunning visuals, great challenges, and depth.
  
  Probably my only complaint is actually the main menu! Yes, if you are gonna put a commander there, 
 you might as well make it look good! It should NOT look like an in-game model and the main menu 
 music is not as good as the original one. So I prefer the original menu please.
  
  I highly recommend this game to all RTS and 40k fans, but almost everyone should give it a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Git17
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is the second expansion to the series of Warhammer 40k: Dawn of war. Unlike the previous 
 expansion, this one adds an incredible amount of content, which includes two new races and an excellent 
 campaign.
  
  The Story for the campaign is very straightforward, and yet very interesting at the same time. 
 The original five races alongside the Tau and Necrons are fighting on the planet Kronus in the 
 hopes of gaining control of it and wiping out the other opposing factions.
  
  The Campaign is played through a meta map system, but is done very well unlike some other RTS games. 
 You can choose to be one out of the seven races, and start slowly taking over the planet bit by 
 bit. All the Races start off in the same locations, however the end game can be very very different 
 each time, as the longer you give an Enemy faction to gather up, it will be more difficult to take 
 the territories which they hold.
  
  There is also a few fun features added to the campaign, such as purchasing honour guard as you 
 progress through the campaign, and purchasing Wargear for your hero which adds a little bit of 
 a RPG feel.
  
  The Two new races are an excellent addition to the game, the first being the Tau, who are a new 
 emerging race in the Warhammer 40k world, and the Necrons who are bassicly unstoppable killer robots 
 .
  
  The Tau race is possibly the most versatile, allowing a player to either choose between melee units, 
 or powerful ranged combatants or a mix of both. Their armies are actually a mix of three Races, 
 the Tau and the KRoot and Vespid.
  
  The Second race are the Necrons, who can be bassicly described as unstoppable killing machines. 
 They are an ancient race of killer robots, whom have woken up under the command of their Gods to 
 purge all of the races in the Warhammer 40k galaxy.
  
  At the moment, they are considered the most powerful race, their only drawback being their slow 
 movement. Their basic trooper unit is incredibly ressilient, and their ranged damage with their 
 guns is immensely powerful, to the point of being able to severely damage tanks in large numbers.
 
  
  The Other five races have once more gained an additional unit to compensate for the two new races 
 being added. The Orks get Flash gitz, Orks who are tooled up with incredibly big and powerful guns. 
 While being very fragile, and terrible in melee, their firepower more than makes up for it.
  
  The Chaos get the Daemon prince, whom could be considered a mini uber unit. While considerably 
 weaker than the Bloodthirster, it can still pack quite a punch against infantry when summoned.
 
  
  The Eldar get the Harlequin, to add that little bit needed melee power, who are excellent at disrupting 
 and crippling infantry units.
  
  The Imperial guard get Heavy weapon teams, which are bassicly mobile turrets, which adds to their 
 turtling capabilities.
  
  And the last race, the Space marines, gets an extremely powerful melee unit in the form of the 
 Grey knights, elite Space marines who are incredibly good at killing daemons and anything else 
 which stands in their way.
  
  Overall Dark Crusade adds a huge amount of content, more so than any other Expansion pack, and 
 is a must buy if your a fan of the Warhammer game, or if your looking for a good RTS game. Highly 
 reccomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade is a second expansion pack for the award-winning Dawn of War series (this 
 time it's stand-alone so you don't need to install Winter Assault and DoW) set in the realm of 
 Warhammer 40,000. There are two new playable races -- the Necrons and the Tau Empire -- that complete 
 the whole pantheon of five others.
  
  The story of Dark Crusade is simple: Each of seven races (Space Marines, Forces of Chaos, Eldars, 
 Orks, the Imperial Guard, Necrons and Tau) are trying to liberate the resourceful planet of Kronus. 
 Each of them was sure they do it for good, and as such, it resulted in Dark Crusade.
  The total victory of one race was ensured with total defeat of all others.
  
  The game begins 
 in a pretty intro, that shows the arrival of the seven races to Kronus, unfortunately at the same 
 time. And this is promising only one thing: a long and brutal war. After you choose your faction, 
 the narrator tells you why do they want to conquer Kronus and who is your leader (in other words: 
 you) and what he's capable of. Then there goes a quick tutorial to the new strategy campaign mode.
 
  
  That new campaign mode is very similar to the one in Total War series. There is a political map 
 of the planet divided into about forty provinces. The province that holds the players main base 
 is called stronghold . You must conquer all six strongholds to win the game.
  You take command of only one army which is good instead of fussing with tons of little units and 
 getting lost and confused in all the mess.
  
  Your hero can have his own band of bodyguards that is comprised of warriors of all types (the land 
 troops and vehicles) and a frontline base (with a set of all major buildings in the game) . Your 
 personal guard as well as set of special abilities are gained through conquest of more and more 
 provinces. Your leader can be also awarded with equipment when certain parameters are met (like 
 5 Conquests etc.) . The equipment is various and it's greatly made. Some parts improve your armor 
 and overall health and some can improve your fighting skill in both melee and ranged combat. There 
 are also ones that improve the abilities of your whole army like Teleporter.
  
  The battles are fast-paced but they can be a bit boring when conquering only minor provinces. You 
 must build only a few defensive cannons and towers on the strategic points along with the barracks 
 and you're ready to move. The stronghold fights (or some other provinces) , however, has special 
 primary and secondary objectives which you must complete to win the scenario.
  
  Graphics are just the same as they were these 2 years ago and that's both good and bad thing. Good 
 because you can run DC even on low-end computers and bad because the engine is getting a bit old.
 
  
  Sound is as good as ever -- the sounds of never-ending war are underappreciated as well as good 
 music.
  
  Gameplay is one of the best aspects of Dark Crusade. Now you can play as all seven factions without 
 the need to install DoW and Winter Assault. The new campaign mode is innovative in Dawn of War 
 series and it's easy to learn and play with. Even after you finish the game with one faction you 
 still feel the need of completing it with another faction and that's a cool thing.
  
  Summing up Dark Crusade is a well-made game and fantastic addition to Dawn of War series. I strongly 
 recommend you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  It's great, it's fun, it's starting to get annoying. The original DoW was fantastic strategic fun, 
 especially online against other players of matched skill. It redefined RTS stopping the dull sit 
 in base and grab resources, going out was the only way to stand a chance, a Risk vs Reward system 
 if you happened to come along a point held by an enemy. Winter Assualt was good as an expansion 
 pack, but with only one new race which started off with bad troops until you got the immense Kasrkin, 
 it didn't last as long as it could of although the campaign let you play as more than one race 
 which was good.
  
  And now we have a second expansion pack for this great series, I personnally can't remember any 
 games with two expansion packs. While it offers up two completly unique races, the evil and resurecting 
 Necrons, and the young and extremely powerfully ranged Tau. While these are popular races to add 
 to the game there only one race we all want: Tyranids. Where are those evil, merciless aliens, 
 ready to rip the Imperium to shreds? The new campaign system is like Shogun Total War, you move 
 across spaces on a map, although it is way too small, but does make up for the other two short 
 campaigns and finally you can play as everything. They also made this one based more on your normal 
 troops, then vehicles and all the great stuff like Terminators. If you loved full Terminator, Kasrkin, 
 Possessed or Warp Spider armies then this will dissapoint you, only one of each unit can now be 
 taken, except for the Spiders which can have three. You will also notice that Predators, Leman 
 Russes and Fire Prisms have gone up to FIVE slots on the vehicle cap! While Land Raiders, Squigoths 
 and Baneblades are only three.
  
  Luckily the graphcis haven't suffured again, although now the gameplay has become more tactical, 
 you cant just rush all your big stuff in and hope to win, now its more like the tabletop game in 
 that you must choose the correct targets to eliminate. This does help it become extremly important 
 you choose the right guns and units for the battles, and Chaos marines get Plasma guns back. Of 
 course there is a new unit for each army: Marines get the zealous Grey Knights, Chaos Lords may 
 become Deamon Princes, Orks get the mad Flash Gits, Eldar get the elequent Harlequins and Imperial 
 Guard are joined by Heavy Weapon teams. Although I dont like Orks too much, I find that the new 
 units for them are excellent, they will gut anything they shoot. The Deamon Prince is good but 
 he draws a hell of alot of firepower and so doesnt last long although with the Bloodthrister they 
 are a great team. The Harlequins need to be used properly otherwise they are useless, but have 
 great special moves. Grey Knights are good once in combat but otherwise they are picked off too 
 easily, I prefer Terminators. The Hevay Weapon teams are good for defending Points, but if you 
 pick the wrong gun they are screwed. The fact that each unit has good and bad points is always 
 brilliant, it works really well here.
  
  The two new races fit in really well. Each must be used well otherwise they get deafeated easily, 
 just like the others. The Necrons work differently to all the others in the fact they dont get 
 requistion, instead they get a time bonus for all strategic points they control. All the good units 
 you can only have once including the Pariahs, the equal of Possessed. The Tau on the other hand 
 are based on long range with their normal troops, although they get some close combat specialists, 
 who like the Eldar dont work well at range. Also new to this one is the fact that sometimes whe 
 your enimies die, you can see the organs come out of their bodies, but occasionally what happens 
 is the pool of blood under their feet is floating.
  
  Overall this is fantastic for the series, although what they need to do is just make a game next 
 time with Dark Eldar, Forces of the Inquistion and Tyranids, plus ten player multiplayer and a 
 load of maps. Space battles would also be cool. There is just so much they could add you couldnt 
 write it all down. Did I metion they need bikes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  i like the ta and necrons they both make up for the imperial guard who were a joke but the campain 
 is only good for a while because there is only about 6 or 7 maps that have objectives other than 
 destroy the other race which is just like playing aloadof skirmish's which i dont find too much 
 fun. once you are used to a new race or an old 1 then online playing is just great its what made 
 me like the game. another great feature is the amount of mods being made for it there is loads 
 that will let you add loads of fully working new races with new units and buildings. although the 
 game is good its not as good as dawn of war its missing somthing that the old game had 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played Warhammer 40,000 : Dawn of War from Relic Entertainment then chances are 
 you aren't into PC games or have little care for quality RTS games. Or maybe you've been hibernating 
 in a cave somewhere or living under a rock. The second expansion based on Game Workshops multifaceted 
 and equally controversial religious themed concept entitled Warhammer 40,000, Dark Crusade is another 
 solid entry and expands and exceeds all expectation as far as what an expansion should be. Dark 
 Crusade not only adds more units to every side, it adds 2 whole races to the Dawn of War series 
 thereby making the game so much funner and unpredictable to play. Plus the new single player campaign 
 is so overhauled and reworked you hardly recognize you are playing Dawn of War. Now you get a huge 
 world to wage war on where you can take over terrirtories bit by bit until you finally conquer 
 the planet and learn about the Mysterious Militaristic Tau or the Unrelenting unstoppable Neocrons. 
 If that weren; t enough, also new to the series is the addition of letting you level up your hero 
 characters and outfit them with powerful armor during this single player campaign thereby adding 
 an RPG aspect to this top notch RTS game. Let me also add that the only reason I am still playing 
 this is because of a mod called Total War. This mod lets me set the vehicle and squad cap so high 
 that my games really seem more like war as hundreds of soldiers take to the field. Yup, I wouldn't 
 be playing this otherwise because for some reason Relic has felt that nerfing squad and vehicle 
 caps was a wise choice rather than letting players be able to control that option. My hats off 
 to The Legacy at the Relic forums http://forums. relicnews. com/ . Because of him I have been able 
 to play this game as long as I have and had so much fun doing it. I have also been drawn into the 
 whole story because of it. Bonus points to Relic for releasing such a fine RTS series to begin 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordLeckie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade offers an excellent variety of races, units, abilites, maps and storylines which blend 
 seamlessly to create an RTS that dosent fail to impress.
  
  The two new races the Tau and the Necrons provide even more new and exciting way to blow things 
 up and rampage over the top of enemies, each with unique and appealing units that just look plain 
 cool with zoomed in even with the graphics on low!
  
  The campaign thankfully has a viewpoint from all races and not the irritating blended campaigns 
 of Winter Assault, with each provding interesting insights into each race, their attributes, philosphies 
 and the commander making you feel like youve acheived something at the end of each campaign.
  
  Unfortunately the online mode could have been better as it is hard to have a private conversation 
 with a friend in the main chatroom and does not gie you many options to play with such as news 
 and downloads.
  
  however all in all a solid game that delivers hours of enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treytakahashi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  great game from the relic who gave us the original dawn of war and commpany of heros. if you loved 
 company of heros you will love this its almost the same base but a few changes for one its sci-fi 
 based from the board game warhammer 40k. it uses the same charicters from 40k but there are a few 
 changes the game includes 7 playable races (you need the first 2 games to get the other 5 on multi-player) 
 the races include the Necrons, Tau, space marines, the imperial guard, chaos, eladar,&amp; the 
 orks. great game and has a nice campain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  If you are a strategy lover and a battle lover this game is for you. With new better campaign more 
 races and maps this game is a blast to play. Oh ya in the campaign you get to upgrade your heroes 
 war gear when you win a batttle. The army painter is very funny, for example I name a mean looking 
 ork's army nice orks plus color him pink. LOL!! Also you can scrol so deep into the heat of action 
 that it looks that you are fighting in Guild Wars but in the future. The BAD part is that you have 
 to buy the old Dawn of War games if you want to play for all the races in multi player.
  
  The GOOD is you don't have to buy the old DOW games to play this one.
  
  
  VERY GOOD, GAME 
 IT IS MY FAVORITE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neozander227
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  A truely spectacular game. And a great way to add onto the series. True story here. I saw the game 
 and it was on sale for some reason at my local Game stop. I stop and think a minute though that 
 I will need the DoW: Winter assault add on and they didnt have it. I fumed a bit but baught DoW: 
 DC anyway since it was on sale. And Im glad I did. Found out that you dont need the DoW: WA expansion 
 to play the game, you even get to use the Imperial Guard in the main Campagin, you just dont get 
 to use them online (Still have a reason to go get Winter Assault then) While the Campagin isnt 
 as immersive as DoW or DoW: WA, its understandable since you get to play as one of seven differnt 
 races. And I think the Wargear that you can ear is a excellent option to the gameing experience. 
 I mean, haveing my Tau Commander with a Flamer, Plasma Rifle and missle pods while he is cloaked 
 and jumping around with his jump jets... priceless hit and runs against the Orks. Just priceless.
 
  
  And the two new Races are the Tau and Necrons. I was a bit skeptical about the Necrons but I have 
 to admit their way of resourceing is great. You only need power but captureing and holding strategic 
 points is still crucial for your squad and vehicle caps, and for speeding up research and squad 
 deployment.
  
  Overall a great, but not perfect game. I had a few issues with the targeting. It was odd, my space 
 marines are fireing in one direction at thin air but the bullets are magically hitting what I told 
 them to attack. Not a big issue but it seems to happen alot and kinda flaws the immersive experience 
 you get otherwise.
  
  Pros: + dont need winterassault to play the imperial guard! Woo!
  + Great Cut scenes for each race. And awesome voice work for all of them.
  + Shut is ya sqig 
 lovea! The orks have all the best lines
  + Visuals are fantastic! Detail for all the troops is awesome
  + Army painter is good tool.
 
  
  Cons:
  - Wish the army painter to add bitz to troops.
  - Magic bullets fired one way and still hit the enemy
  - Music was mediocre, would have been 
 great for the immersion factor
  
  Huh?:
  ? Why can the Eldar make ever thing invisible? Thats just annoying. Especially when you are play 
 Orks or Marines.
  ? What is the 'Greater Good?'
  ? What is a grot and squig? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santamin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is fairly amazing. Gets a bit old sometimes, but modding fixes that. Fortress attacks 
 get frusterating, and sometimes wargear can be less than attractive. It is overall a great game. 
 It deserves the rts of the year award.
  
   1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 
 14 15 16  
 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. . 
 . .. . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . .. . . 
 . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_Healer
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Summary: Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War - Dark Crusade is a big title to swallow and a huge RTS indeed 
 with many changes to the core gameplay and engine to make this expansion seem like a whole new 
 game. Easy to pick up and fun to play Dark Crusade is something you should absolutely try.
  
  Graphic: Simply gorgeous. Relic has seriously made improvements to the DOW engine and it can 
 be seen in this latest installment. Everything from the detail on the units to the explosions and 
 particle effects makes me just want ot cry with joy.
  
  Sound: Epic, from the simple infantryman's charge to the weapons fire of tanks from the beautiful 
 music score it makes this game a true piece of art.
  
  Gameplay: Smooth, fluid, and simple. All the elements I feel that are a must of an RTS. Improving 
 on the already proven formula that Relic has used and putting it to great use in another great 
 game from them.
  
  All in all, you must not ignore this one. The Emperor commands you to buy it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smudge_Smill
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot rated this game an 8.8/10, but I think GameVortex was more accurate, rating it an extra-impressive 
 9.6/10.
  
  The Good: Great replay value for single-player campaign. Well-thought-out storyline. Beautiful-looking 
 graphics. Well-thought-out unit strengths, weaknesses and looks. Ingenious race balancing. Appropriate 
 sounds. No annoying requirements to have the CD in the drive. Great fun human vs. human or human 
 vs. AI. Great fun 1v1 or 4v4. Good gameplay, well structured maps, user-friendly customizeability.
 
  
  The Bad: ummmm, there's the.... well i really don't like.... the bad thing is....
  
  An avid lover of the Warhammer 40K series, I was not disappointed by Dark Crusade. The addition 
 of two very unique and interesting races, as well as new unit possibilities such as resurrection 
 and cannibalism, affirmed Dawn of War as the best game ever created, in my opinion. Not just the 
 best RTS game... I mean the best game of any genre... and better than any console game by leagues.
 
  
  The new races, the Necrons and the Tau Empire, are the two most unique races to date, and with 
 a game boasting 5 unique races beforehand, that's quite an impressive feat. DC holds the title 
 as the most aggressive-style RTS game... not one for turtlers.
  
  Another addition to DC not present in the Winter Assault expansion is permanent unit infiltration. 
 There are a number of units that are capable of running, capturing and shooting while invisible. 
 Some races use this ability more effectively than others, though all races have some method of 
 detection.
  
  The fluidity of this game is like no other RTS before it. Graphically, DC is amazing. In terms 
 of gameplay, DC is fathoms above the rest. This is a game that any self-respecting RTS- or Strategy-lover 
 would be nuts to miss.
  
  A THQ and Relic game, this has all the substance that it claims to have, and more. Relic, who is 
 responsible for Company of Heroes, the Homeworld series and Impossible Creatures, they have proven 
 time and again that they know what they're doing with RTS games. THQ are responsible for some of 
 the most well-known, beloved and ingenious games of recent times, including Supreme Commander, 
 Saints Row, Destroy All Humans 1 and 2, Company of Heroes and S. T. A. L. K. E. R., all of which have 
 affirmed their status as one of the leading game producers. You gotta love 'em! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukevsLuffy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  A great addition to the series, Dawn of War: Dark Crusade adds a fair amount of content to add 
 to the series. With twwo new races, The robotic Tau and the eerie mechanic Necrons, the series 
 keeps going strong. The new, non-linear campaign, very similar to risk, has great replay value. 
 You can chose from all 7 races to duke it out on multiple maps, moving closer every turn to the 
 opponents bases, trying to overwhelm their forces and take their home base. Every victory you obtain, 
 you get new equipment for your Commander, like new guns, armor or other stuff, and new veterans 
 and heroes to come into the next battle. Also, you can get accomplishments for every special victory 
 or feat you get. For example, there's an award for a 3-1 kill ratio, or other things.
  One great feature is the ability to chose your armies colors in multiplayer. You can design their 
 logos, colors, weapon colors, and other things.
  Overall this game was great, and I cannot wait for the next expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPumbliQ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Two new playable factions and a some new guys for the old factions.
  
  Chaos: My personal fav. They are strong and have strong tanks and infantry of both melee and ranged 
 so i like this faction greatly.
  
  Eldar: Havent played them much cause i consider them the weakest faction but their ranged weapons 
 are a plus.
  
  Imperial Guard: Those guys are probably the weirdest faction in this game their infantry is both 
 very lame and very good plus they got great tanks. Necrons: There are two new factions in this 
 expansion pack and this is one of them. They have great melee infantry but when it comes to ranged 
 the are pretty slow with weak guns.
  
  Orks: Really annoying when against cause they use number insted of stragedy but when you play them 
 they can sometimes be a lot of fun.
  
  Space Marines: These guys are the coolest faction in my opinion every thing is strong with them 
 and their costumes are cool maby they lack a little melee but the new grey knights take care of 
 that.
  
  Tau Empire: A new faction for this game. They have good infantry, both melee and ranged but their 
 tanks could be a little better and their hero is really cool, he got a huge arsenal of weapons.
 
  
  So all to all this game is great and the best of these three i think, Great campaign, great graphics 
 the only thing that bothers me is the sound i think the songs that are played are terrible but 
 i will not lower the sound much for that cause the voices are great. So if you like Dawn of War 
 40,000 and have gotten tierd of the same factions and campaign buy this game it is really worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of war 40k: Dark crusade is an awesome real time war strategy game developed by relic. Dawn 
 of war introduces two totally new and unique races; one being the Necrons, which are evil (but 
 not nearly as evil as the Chaos marines) zombie like robots, and the Tao which are highly advanced 
 humans but they also have a variety of different creatures you wouldent expect themto have. Dawn 
 of war also introduces a totally new non-linear campaign that works kind of like that of the Total 
 war games. You can play all seven of the different races in the campaign too and theres tons of 
 lasting value since pretty much every province you attack will take you at least 1 hour, and you 
 don't need the original dawn of ware or winter assualt to play it. The graphics arent as good as 
 relics Company of heroes but they still look fantastic and are definitly satisfying enough. Overall 
 if you like real time strategy games and you liked the previous gamesyou'll love this, and even 
 if you havent played the others this is a perfect one to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robg3176
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Fun being able to play 7 races with the original, Winter Assault, and Dark Crusade. Beat the game 
 with Necrons, and have tried the Taus, Chaos so far.
  
  Some races are a little unbalanced, but that just makes for a better challenge. Though I liked 
 the story based campaigns of the first two, the turned based world map on this expansion brought 
 a different, and enjoyable element to the game. Of course online battles are great.
  
  Too bad we couldn't use a bigger cap for immense battles this time, but again it brings balance 
 and strategy. And equipping faction leaders with wargear is awesome.
  
  I love it, and can't wait for the next Relic games in the Warhammer Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephirothrulez9
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a must have for a DoW player!!
  
  Gameplay: DoW gameplay is revived in this 3rd expansion ( DoW is not required to play this game, 
 so it technically is like an optional expansion) . The two new races are very fun to test out, but 
 if you played DoW before, id stick to the ones your good with. The Campaign mode is very intersting 
 but takes a lot of time. It is similar to Rise oF nations ( if you havent played it, give it a 
 try ) . But the campaign can be done ( for one race ) in a day. So not REALLY long. But if you plan 
 on completing all of each races campaigns, get your dorritos and propel fitness water ready! Graphics: 
 The graphics are better than they ever have. The innovative design for the new races ( and some 
 new units for the original races ) are amazing. Very creative. No apparent change in terrain ( 
 not expected since its an expansion ) And the execution sequences ( the automatic sequence it takes 
 when a soldier kills another soldier ) are awsome to watch in the heat of battle!
  
  Sound: The sound is awsome, you hear everything on the battlefield. And when i say everything... i 
 mean everything. Every last bullet, every last blade penetrating there bodies, every last scream 
 for mercy. =)
  
  Value: This game can keep you entertained for a pretty long time, since you can go on www. dowfiles. com 
 and get mods for the game ( single player suggested, but some are played online ) .
  
  Tilt: I love the series. And i recrommend it to any RTS player... in fact i reccrommend it to anyone! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoosTrax
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  The addition of a turn-based element in Dark Crusade really lends some strategic depth and a highly 
 flexible campaign mode that lets players decide their own moves, instead of a playing the same 
 progressive campaign each time as in Dawn of War and Winter Assault. The addition of two more races 
 and additional MP maps adds even more replay value.
  
  Now for the bad...
  
  Winter Assault tweaked and changed many of the races from DoW, and the same has happened here with 
 Dark Crusade. Some of the changes, such as Basilisks being able to fire more autonomously without 
 players have to designate a target, as well as the less stringent HQ upgrade requirements, are 
 much welcomed. Other changes, however, seem far less useful.
  
  The Imperial Guard, in particular, seem to have been crippled. Previously, the Guard were woefully 
 poor offensively at the beginning of matches, but players could look forward to calling up fast-moving 
 offensive powerhouse Kasrkin squads later on. Now, the Guard is limited to building a single Kasrkin 
 squad...
  
  The other races have also received caps on the number of certain units they can build. Examples 
 include caps of 2 on Leman Russes, 2 on Predators, and 1 (!) on Whirlwinds.
  
  These new changes may have been implemented for balance reasons, but they seem unnecessarily restrictive 
 and allow the player less leeway as far as customizing the make-up of their army. I really would 
 like to see a patch at some point that will let the players play without these restrictions, at 
 least in offline matches.
  
  Even with the dubious new changes, Dark Crusade still has so much to offer that veterans of the 
 series will be able to look past those tweaks to enjoy this excellent standalone expansion to the 
 Dawn of War series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triplat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game is like an updated version of others games ( Winter assault . . . ) But you can play 
 it without other dawn of wars. They say that this game is only worth 8.8 points, but i say that 
 is at lease 9.0 points. And i hope that you are the same thoughts. The sound is very good but the 
 Necrons are too quite. Also the game is not so cheap for a lot of people. But the other thing are 
 rely good. So play the game it is worth of money and time. And joust one thing vote more then 9.0 
 because it is worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidyx2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  Dawn Of War Dark Crusade increases it's game play with the new playable race, The Necrons. The game 
 play still retain ' capture the strategic points' gameplay. But with the new necrons, dawn of war 
 has increase its gamming experience. Like the rest oft he race, build, capture, and send units, 
 necrons offer better experience in Dawn Of War. From my point of view, when i use necrons, it seems 
 that they were UNSTOPPABLE. the resources needed are not very high if you like to end a base quickly. 
 their most basic troops which does not consume any resources is able to take out base quickly. 
 Like the marines, they are able to teleport to their strategic points if they are under attack. 
 and with their weapones being upgrade, they are best fitted for both melee and range attack. the 
 population is the same with the other race. BUT if the heroe is available and with the resurrection, 
 population of the necrons increases and could even be over the limited population. The only weakness 
 that the necrons have is that their range is limitted and small. with the long range attack from 
 the imperial guards, they will be dead before they reach them, plus the moving speed of necrons 
 is very slow, so they will be taken out before they reach. additional units were created for other 
 races. But the terrain and gameplay is still intact as not to spoilt the game play. Try the new 
 race and see if my words are true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neothelid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  It's aging, alright. When compared to blockbusters like Star Wars: Empire at War or Battle for 
 Middle-Earth, Relic's Dawn of War was beginning to look dated. While the Winter Assault expansion 
 was a breath of fresh air, it was received with very mild disappointment because of the faction 
 that joined the fray back then -the Imperial Guard-, a rather uncharismatic and plain choice if 
 compared with other races of the Warhammer 40,000 universe - the Dark Eldar, Necrons, Tau and Tyranids, 
 to name a few.
  
  But if anything can be said about the Tau and the Necrons -the newcomers in Dark Crusade-, is that 
 they are anything but dull. The Tau are a race of high-tech troopers sporting badass energy rifles 
 and arrayed in power armors seemingly taken straight out of some anime, who are bent on bringing 
 the Greater Good to the universe - inviting other races to join their Empire and ruthlessly crushing 
 those who defy them. While mediocre meleers even in the best case scenario, Tau are the best ranged 
 combatants in the game - not in vain one of the game's trailers is entitled 'Tau Meat Grinder.'
 
  
  On the other corner, surrounded by an aura of mystery and dread, stand the Necrons. An ancient 
 army of metallic, skeletal warriors that has lain dormant for 65 million years, they are slowly 
 awakening from their long slumber and readying the harvest of fresh bodies to feed to their hungry, 
 genocidal gods. The drool-inspiring intro does them justice: they are the most resilient and durable 
 of all factions, not only on a unit-per-unit basis but also as a whole as well - some of them have 
 the ability to teleport to any Necron structure, a power that allows them to excel both on offense 
 and defense. Such powerful newcomers prompts for enhancing the other factions as well -- and boy, 
 do they get boosted. Grey Knights, Heavy Weapons teams, Flash Gitz, Daemon Princes and Harlequins 
 are much welcome additions to the game as each one addresses weaknesses of their respective armies; 
 an extensive scrubbing of tech trees and unit statistics further enhances each faction's capabilities 
 while preserving their distinct ways of waging war - as well as preventing players from fielding 
 entire armies composed by a single unit. Still, some further refinement is in order, especially 
 with the Necrons - for example, the Wraiths are next to useless since their 'squads' are comprised 
 by only one member, with limited hit points and morale and mediocre damage, while Necron Warriors 
 are ridiculously tough, deadly, and free. Yes, free.
  
  It is worth noting that, while more difficult, it still pays off to rush, since allowing the enemy 
 to build up a large infrastructure with which to quickly replace its losses will result into an 
 almost endless war of attrition -- a morass most players will want to avoid. This is evident even 
 in the single player campaign, especially when assailing territories -other than strongholds- where 
 the enemy is heavily entrenched. While all the juicy additions automatically guarantee many hours 
 of mayhem, one of the coolest features of Dark Crusade is its campaign model, which is based on 
 a world map divided into territories, each one granting different bonuses to their controllers -- some 
 of them allow their owner to train 'honor guard' units, small cadres of elite troops that are ready 
 to wage war the moment a new battle begins, while others confer special abilities, such as being 
 able to attack twice in a turn or to strike at any territory in the map save enemy strongholds. 
 This provides for a very dynamic single-player experience, because the player dictates the course 
 of the campaign; while it has some notorious shortfalls (it is not possible to fight more than 
 one faction in the same territory, nor to play the campaign in multiplayer mode, and the skirmish-like 
 invasions and defences get repetitive and dull later on) , it is very good nonetheless, and reminiscent 
 to old gamers of classics such as Westwood's Dune 2 and Command &amp; Conquer.
  
  Graphics-wise, other than the new units, factions, and scenarios, Dark Crusade does not pack a 
 great deal of new stuff. Not that it needs to, anyway. All units have been scrupulously polished 
 so as to look less angular when fully zoomed in; it is as exhilaratingly addictive as always to 
 send your cam right into the fray and watch the bloodfest. Sound effects remain the weakness of 
 the game; many weapon blasts sound underpowered, with a few notable exceptions - the dreaded Monolith 
 and the awesome humming of the Hammerhead's heavy railgun among them. Voice acting is excellent, 
 with many memorable lines; Necrons have nothing in the way of speech, though, uttering only electronic 
 sounds or guttural hisses when given orders. In the end, Dark Crusade is a welcome addition that 
 breathes new life into a classic; one can only excitedly think what surprises are in store for 
 us for the moment when the two factions from the tabletop game that have not yet entered Dawn of 
 War finally do join the fray - namely, the abhorrent and thoroughly cruel and evil Dark Eldar, 
 and the alien, emotionless, living engine of war that are the Tyranids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blade_Tr4iner
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is an excellent game, and although it doesn't quite do what Lord of Destruction does 
 to Diablo 2, it still adds an impressive amount to Dawn of War and Winter assault.
  
  The graphics, though dated, is still good, with explosions, nice particle effects and even semi-permanent 
 corpses, and is also extremely flexible.
  Gameplay is also enjoyable but tends to follow a set formula and sound is nice with plenty of voice 
 bits and nice music and sound effects.
  
  The things added since Winter Assault are a new campaign mode (sort of a Conquer the World mode 
 ala Rise of Nations) and two new races (the Tau are an alien race sort of like the protoss in visual 
 feel and atmosphere while the necrons are machines that are bent on destruction) , all of which 
 is extremely cool.
  
  Overall, as I said, an excellent game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DasFlesh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade, even alone, is a game that will keep you interested for hours. Rarely do expansions 
 add more then one race if any at all and here you get 2, totally unique (and quite interesting) 
 races. The SP campaign may lack a direct storyline but it lets you play any race you want and get 
 familiar with them even if you don't have the previous versions of the game.
  
  The new changes to balance the races is mostly good and I've definitely had more fun with this 
 game then any other strategy for years.
  
  The graphics are pretty cool for the engine and with the details all turned up, the battlefield 
 can get quite interesting. There is a lack of cover from the other games though. It doesn't show 
 up as much.
  
  The sounds are good as well from chainsaws going to the sound of a dreadnought crushing an enemy.
 
  
  If your willing to take the time to learn a race or a few races, you'll get a lot of fun here and 
 online. Id recommend at least getting the original though if you want to play online. The more 
 races, the more choices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akios
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is power incarnate. You will comand the greatest armies to be created in the Warhammer 
 universe and you will love it. The 2 new factions will ad new strategies and suprises and the new 
 rebalance of unit numbers and power is an excellent step. This game's single and multiplayer is 
 of a quality that has not been equalled by any other RTS since Comand and Conqeur: Red Alert 2
 
  
  The Graphics in this game must have it's own paragraph. The quality is so high you can see the 
 individual rivets on heavy machinery or scars on the face of your men. The Music urgers you on 
 and makes each battle into a cinematic spectacle.
  
  The Campaighn battle are rewarding and the upgrade system for your comander unit is superd.
  
 
  I love this game and I hope all members of Gamespot realise this is a game that all should become 
 apart of.
  
  it is so good I spent 16 hours playing it on the first day I got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alibushell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  I was almost completely ignorant of the Warhammer 40K universe until I played Dawn of War, and 
 I've been getting into the mythos and lore of it ever since (it's an extremely interesting and 
 - especially at the moment - thought provoking alternative view of our futuer) . DOW was great although 
 like most I found the relatively short single campaign a bit limiting, and I don't really play 
 multi-player so the replayability of the game wasn't as good as it could have been for me.
  
  Dark Crusade I believe is a step in the right direction for every aspect of the game. The story, 
 races, game mechanics and general bits and pieces (new units, improved sound/graphics) are all 
 brilliant and the map-based campaign gives the game a vast amount of replayability for solo gamers. 
 Like GS's main review my only gripe is that the AI doesn't present the great tactical challenge 
 at the map level (which is why it gets a 9 and not a 10 for gameplay) , but it's as tough as ever 
 within individual battles to I think this makes up for it.
  
  For the Emperor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steinberger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most addictive RTS I've played since Age of Empires II. I never played the original 
 tabletop but a friend of mine did and bought the video game. I tried it once on his computer and 
 I've been hooked ever since.
  
  The one thing I really like about the game is, the huge diversity between all the races. In most 
 rts games the only differences between the races/civs are slight stat changes and different graphics 
 but, on DoW 40k the races are completely different from each other. Some, like the Necrons, don't 
 even use the same resources. So while you might have great strategy with one race it requires a 
 completely new direction of thinking when you switch to a new race.
  
  The races are fairly well balanced as well. This probably has a lot to do with the fact that this 
 games has had a lot of trial and error worked out through the tabletop version but, whatever works.
 
  
  The good:
  -Tons of re-playability
  -Interesting units
  -Dynamic game-play that doesn't get old too quickly
  -Decent graphics
  -A good scale of difficulties 
 for different levels of players
  
  The Bad:
  -A Level/scenario editor would be nice
  
  -Seeing all the units in the color scheme editor (fixed in 3rd party mods)
  
  -I would like 
 to see some some intermediate levels between the existing difficulties. The gaps between going 
 from easy, standard, hard, and insane are quite large. It goes from mind numbingly easy to extremely 
 hard very quickly. It would be great to see AI units that create more epic units like Relic units 
 on a standard difficulty level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexdarvell
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a fan of 40K for a long time now so the whole Dawn of War series has been right up my 
 street. However, you dont have to be a fan of Warhammer 40,000 to enjoy this game.
  
  Dark Crusade is a standalone game and does not require the preceeding two dawn of War titles in 
 order to play it. However, if you do play it on its own, you only have access to play as the two 
 races it comes with: Necrons and Tau. You will require the first and second games to be able to 
 play as Space Marines, Chaos, Orks, Eldar and Imperial Guard. Personally, I enjoying playing as 
 all of these other races, so getting Dark Crusade on its own was not an option. Playing the game 
 and mastering the basics does not take too long at all. But to become really good and know your 
 race inside out, it requires a little more dedication. Pick up and play though would take about 
 30 mins.
  
  Playing the game on a top spec PC makes for an incrediable experience, the graphics are just amazing. 
 With the full 360 angle and close zoom functions you can really get down into the battle in the 
 truest sense of the term. The noise of battle also increases as you get amongst the action.
  
  The game focuses more on squad based combat rather than individual units. In the respect squads 
 are built rather than single troops and much of the research for the squad are done at the squads 
 own menu and not back at the base. Although buildings and research from them do feature, Dawn of 
 War: Dark Crusade as with the other two titles focuses on the battles rather than the raising of 
 the armies.
  
  There are hero units in game and these are vital if you want to stand any chance of defeating your 
 enemies in the field.
  
  The single player campaign differs from the previous two games in that it follows the example of 
 games like Total War, where there is a world map and you can choose where and who to attack. Hero 
 and Army customisation is also added into the single player campaign whereby you improve and reinforce 
 your army as the campaign progresses. If you have all three games you can play the campaign from 
 the perspective of all the races. A feature that gives the game a lot of replay value.
  
  Multiplayer is where Dawn of War and especially Dark Crusade comes into its own and it is one of 
 the best RTSs out at the moment in this regard. Anything from 1v1 to 8 player skirmishes can be 
 played and it really does live up to the term hours of endless fun . In single player skirmish 
 you can set the difficulty to what you like so it suits all types of players. For the true veterans 
 of the game however, Insane difficulty isnt insane enough!
  
  The downsides to the game are that not all the units from the Table Top game have been included 
 but to be fair that would be very difficult to do and hard to balance the game as a result. Hero 
 customisation in the single player mode is decent ut ultimately not very elaborate and it is fair 
 to say that the choices you can make are fairly linear with everyone arriving at the same conclusion 
 by the end of their campaign.
  
  It gets a 9.3 in my opinion because its graphics are amazing, the sound is great and the gameplay 
 is really very well done indeed. It captures the spirit of 40K extremely well as a result. The 
 only downsides being the lack of more units and the somewhat linear character development in the 
 campaign mode. However, the world map idea really makes playing the single player mode over and 
 over again a real option.
  
  An excellent game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidfull
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  if you played Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War and/or Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War Winter Assault dont 
 miss it Goods : very better and optimized graphic engine (v1.1) that give you better Frame-per-second 
 and better image quality and you can enable higher AA and AF, game balanced and tweaks from previous 
 versions ,added two new nations ,you can play with every nation like orks eldar space marines and 
 etc ,its not expansion its stand-alone game
  
  Bads : orks still powerful than other nations ,it dont have role scenario like previous versions 
 and scenario replaced by turn base futures
  
  Dont forget! : before play it you should end Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War and Warhammer 40,000 
 Dawn of War Winter Assault to better understand scenario and better Enjoyment
  
  Good Luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darko_wolf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  The games graphics are top notch, a not so powerful PC can run this game, well enuff, but ya will 
 enjoy it more visually if ya have a good comp.
  The playability factor is huge, as you can play thru as all seven races for seven different stories.
 
  The online Multiplayer function has endless use.
  The games difficulty is higher than your avergae RTS, but any veteran can work around that if your 
 tactically minded.
  
  Stil no Tyranids tho...... maybe next expansion..... meh.
  
  The most exciting new feature is the ability to upgrade your Command Unit, making them more and 
 more formidable, and a correctly used Commader can turn the tide of batlles or make defense even 
 easier. Use them wisely....
  
  The Campaign mode provides you with a plethora of fantastic Requisition abilities and various Honour 
 Guards won from each region, the game has went much farther than the previous two games with its 
 depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsunami_pt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The universe of Warhammer 40k was always something that didn't attract me. I think that, being 
 on the 40th millenium, the technology doesn't seems that advanced (after all, we're living on the 
 3rd millenium and the technology of the game doesn't seem THAT far from us...) , and the presence 
 of orcs (Orks in this universe) seemed to me like a big mix of parallel univeres. Until now.
  
  When the first Dawn of War was launched, I let it pass. I was too immersed on other games by 
 then to take notice of this one. The critics were nice, but I didn't have the time to play it, 
 so I let it pass.
  
  When the first expansion came out, I didn't even noticed it.
  
  But when Dark Crusade was launched, I read a review about it. Since I was on the mood of buying 
 a new game, I downloaded the demos of Dark Crusade and Medieval 2. Since my computer has a weak 
 graphic card, Medieval sucks on it. But then I played the demo of DC...
  
  What a surprise!
  
  Since Starcraft I haven't seen such a cool RTS (besides Warcraft 3, but 
 that's on a different level) . If you've read reviews about this game so far, you probably know 
 everything about it. You, and your enemy, gather resources by taking control of critical spots 
 on the map. Just that. And to do so, you got to take control of them with your armies. That means 
 that you got to be fast at controling and securing them, witch makes this a fast-paced RTS.
  
  On the single player campaign, the game takes place on a Risk-like map. You're on this planet, 
 Kronus, on witch a new race, the Necrons (kinda terminator-like robot zombies) has emerged after 
 6 million years of hibernation. You control an army (and one alone) and have to conquer provinces 
 (on a total of 25) one after another to take control of the entire planet, or just to defeat the 
 other factions. All the provinces provide you with Planetary Resources (the money used to buy reinforcements 
 for your provinces, witch makes them harder to conquer) and a special bonus (like the chance to 
 buy an elite troop, 2 atacks per turn, etc) .
  
  When you move to attack a province, the game changes to its RTS part. The battles look amazing, 
 even for a game with an old graphics engine. The troops have an ranged and melee atack power and 
 weapons, and the 7 playable factions are very diferent from eachother, witch means that if you're 
 controling the orks, you have to get to melee range fast, with the Imperial Guard you want to fight 
 at ranged distance, etc..
  
  Another cool thing about this game is the RPG factor in it. By achieving certain targets (like 
 taking control of another province for the first time, killing 2000 enemies, etc) you can have 
 a new weapon or piece of armor as a reward for your comander (witch acts like heroes in post-warcraft 
 3 RTS) , that actually are shown on the character.
  
  Veredict: What I really like about this game is how well it is made and how cool it is to play 
 it. I havent played on multiplayer mode so far, but on the single player mode, the game is consuming 
 most of my free time at the moment. Besides, this is a stand-alone expansion. That means that it's 
 cheaper then most games (39.99 on launch) and that you dont need the original game to play it. 
 The only thing that you cant do is to play this game on multiplayer with the previous 5 factions. 
 Besides that, if you buy this one, you get one of the best strategy games on the market, extremely 
 fun to play.
  
  One of the best games I've played this year. I'm loving it and I'm just sorry I've been missing 
 this series since 2004.
  
  (P. S.: I gave it a 9 on the graphics because the game runs very, very good on older computers, 
 like mine) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehador
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  Very good level design and a thrilling solo-campaign, the new rp mode is nice as well and makes 
 it feel more like the huge-intense battle it really is.
  The only really negative thing worth mentioning is the buggy AI when you control a larger army, 
 tanks and infantery blocks eachothers way and becomes a cludge so the army sometimes comes to a 
 complete stop and it takes some time to solve it out and sometimes when you hit attack with a large 
 army only the regiments who got there first attack and stuff.
  But i got used to it and controlled them in a better working way instead that worked better.
 
  
  I say &gt; GG&lt; , i havnt found a solo-campaign this fun in a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GHANZ979
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  What makes Dawn of War Dark Crusade different and/or better?
  I would have to say that Dawn of War Dark Crusade is a great addition to the series, but if you 
 compare it to the Greatness of the original then it trades certain aspects of the game for other 
 qualities. The game is essentially a large skirmish campaign that adds 2 new races and more improvements 
 and units for the various races. This is actually kind of a bummer for people who love storylines 
 because although playing each race does give a different storyline-there is less involvement with 
 story than before.
  
  I feel as though the only negative in the game was how you could spend almost too much time in 
 one races campaign-for instance due to the enemies A. I and the fact that you keep the buildings 
 that you build on each territory, you as a player can be pretty invincible in small maps. Larger 
 maps are actually way harder because the enemy does take advantage of every single resource node 
 and will build secondary bases-making them almost invincible because of the computers ability of 
 multitasking so well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  Before I heard of this expansion pack, whenever I was playing a DOW skirmish game, I found myself 
 wondering,'Wouldnt it be sweet if all these awesome battles MEANT something!'
  I always wanted a strategic (big picture) layer in DOW and now I got it! I was actually more excited 
 about this than either the Tau or the Necrons! I am not going to waste text space and talk about 
 all the new features that everyone has talked about many times before. I will say that if you are 
 a fan of the series, then this X-pack is an absolute MUST-BUY! Ive beaten the campaign as both 
 the Tau and the Necrons. Both races are awesome and very distinct. The Necrons in particular are 
 the most inertesting to play in my opinion. Like many other players, I think that they are a little 
 overpowered, but that sort of fits in with all the background fluff (I am sure they will be nerfed 
 with a patch) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheater
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Simply one of the best games out there on the PC to date. This add-on adds so much new content 
 that it will keep you entertained for months on end. With the addition of the 2 new races (Tau 
 and Necrons) this game is truly great and with the all new Champaign system this game is a force 
 to be reckoned with in the RTS genre.
  
  The one and only thing about this game that I did not like was the unit caps. This was done for 
 balance issues and I cannot blame relic for this as the game itself is simply amazing, however 
 there are a lot of mods out there right now that will remove these caps and so forth so really, 
 at the end of the day this capping issue really isnt a problem.
  
  Overall this game is great and I will recommend it to anyone that enjoys RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soniczero1993
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This game was the best out of the entire DoW saga! Graphics improved greatly, the shadows actually 
 look real! All the old races are in the game, the mighty Space Marines, the warp tainted forces 
 of Chaos, the ancient Eldar, the strong Imperial Guard, and the hilarious Orks. But two new races 
 where included, the Tau Empire, and the evil Necrons. Tau are an alien race there to protect Kronos, 
 trusting in something they call the Greater Good destroying any enemy who defys them. The Necrons 
 got me the most. They are machines buried in Krono's tomb worlds, awakend for the sole purpose 
 to ravage all life. What was new was the fact that Necrons could come back to life, so instead 
 of them just dying and thats it, you can actually revive them which is pretty cool! The way Relic 
 balanced all the units is amazing, people would think once you get the Bloodthirster out you win, 
 well that ain't true, Relic found a way to beat even daemon gods! Plus it has a new campaing map 
 which you can jump around Kronos attacking little sections working your way to the enemy stronghold 
 to send them off the planet for good! The only two things that bugged me was the online lag, pretty 
 annoying, and if you didn't have DoW or Winter Assult you where stuck with Tau and Necrons. But 
 all in all this was a very great game, Relic, keep going at it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetrider69er
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  If you played Dawn of War and its expansion, Winter Assault, you might have been, like me, massivly 
 underwhelmed by the pretty great gameplay and level design. This time round Relic have totally 
 overhauled the game mechanic for Dark Crusade, its now more like Risk than a RTS. The main things 
 that stood out for me were the new races (especially the Tau who have some awesome units) , the 
 dazzling audio, the superb interface, and the overall sharp presentation by Relic and the first 
 dow and WA its sequel, both games you should check out if you have time for another RTS. It will 
 also give you a boost in mulitplayer because you get the old races and the new ones.
  
  A claim i hear a lot in gaming these days is 'every time you play you have a different experience'. 
 Well, its true with this game. You have the choice of stomping your army around the world in whichever 
 direction you like. Its good because traditionally RTSs have been quite restrictive in what you 
 can do outside the battle. Also when preparing in campain you add honor guard to your comander so 
 he goes into battle along side the finest for that race.
  
  Another thing to mention is the sheer size of the game. You have 7 different races to play, and 
 all have their own reasons for being on the planet Kronus (it belongs to the Tau originally though) . 
 This means that there are 7 different endings and 7 very different strategies that can be employed, 
 as the races are very different, they all have weaknesses and strengths. But really because its 
 a meta map your playing will never be the same in campaign.
  
  but if you decide that compeleting campain once is enough for you then there is always scirmish 
 where you can control the forces by the game that you own (eg i have DOW WA and DC so i can play 
 as all 7 races BUT if you only have DC you can only play as tau + necrons and WA adds imperial 
 guard to the mess)
  
  I would recommend this one if you liked the first DoWs and even more if you like Risk-type war 
 games. Its good that game makers are starting to branch out into different areas and get away from 
 the usual story-line-based RTS. This one is lot more strategic even though when you look at it, 
 not that much has been innovated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brinstarr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  If you played Dawn of War and its expansion, Winter Assault, you might have been, like me, slightly 
 underwhelmed by the pretty standard gameplay and level design. This time round Relic have totally 
 overhauled the game mechanic for Dark Crusade, its now more like Risk than a RTS. The main things 
 that stood out for me were the new races (especially the Tau who have some awesome units) , the 
 dazzling audio, the superb interface, and the overall sharp presentation by Relic, who also made 
 the excellent Homeworld and its sequel, both games you should check out if you have time for another 
 RTS.
  
  A claim i hear a lot in gaming these days is 'every time you play you have a different experience'. 
 Well, its true with this game. You have the choice of stomping your army around the world in whichever 
 direction you like. Its good because traditionally RTSs have been quite restrictive in what you 
 can do outside the battle.
  
  Another thing to mention is the sheer size of the game. You have 7 different races to play, and 
 all have their own reasons for being on the planet Kronus (it belongs to the Tau originally though) . 
 This means that there are 7 different endings and 7 very different strategies that can be employed, 
 as the races are very different, they all have weaknesses and strengths.
  
  I would recommend this one if you liked the first DoWs and even more if you like Risk-type war 
 games. Its good that game makers are starting to branch out into different areas and get away from 
 the usual story-line-based RTS. This one is lot more strategic even though when you look at it, 
 not that much has been innovated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skaven_King
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  Well what needs to be said about Warhammer 40K: Dark Crusade? It's the latest and SECOND expansion 
 for WH40K: Dawn of War. In this expansion we see a new campaign mode as well as the addition of 
 two new races, the Tau and the Necrons. The races are done well and are a great addition to the 
 game.
  
  The gameplay in Dawn of War rids you of the tedious gathering resources task of older RTS games. 
 Instead, you send your army out to capture points on the map by raising a flag. The more points 
 you capture, the more requisiton points you accumulate which can then be spent on more units, upgrades, 
 etc. So, the focus is more on the battlefield and controlling the battlefield instead of running 
 around gathering stuff. Which is a nice change of pace.
  
  Dark Crusade by itself is a standalone game that does NOT require the original games to play. However, 
 you can only play as Tau or Necrons online if you only have Dark Crusade (all races are available 
 in single player though) . But if you like Dark Crusade, do yourself a favor and pick up the WH40K: 
 Dawn of War Gold Edition. It contains the original game plus the first expansion, Winter Assault 
 . This will unlock all races for you to use in multiplayer.
  
  Dark Crusade is quite possibly one of the best RTS games you can own, and a MUST BUY if you are 
 even remotely a Warhammer fan. Everything in the game is just topnotch, from the graphics, sounds, 
 to the gameplay. I highly recommend this game to any RTS fans. I found it to be highly enjoyable 
 and well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soni-Street
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  This one is a good one actually, I thought Warhammer were pretty bad conversions of dice game to 
 PC game genre... but well, I was wrong. This game has a lot of possibilities, starting from the 
 number of races you can pick from and the great way the campaign works with the conquer-all style. 
 The engine make this game run smoothly even on older machines, the interface is great, nice, clean 
 and easy to use and figure out (everything has an explanation cloud) overall great. The graphics 
 are not state of the art... but heck, the fun of the game makes you forget about what computer 
 graphics can do this days. The blood and gore is a good addition to the game, unlike some other 
 strategies where they take that away (blaming all crime on games, which I personally hate this statements) . 
 In the end... this game shouldn't be missed even if you are not a big RTS (Real-Time Strategy) fan. 
 Good work RELIC keep it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  So there I was in March, playing Dawn of War. And there I appeared in Hong Kong again, buying my 
 American version of Winter Assault. I had desperately hoped that Dark Crusade would change my life. 
 But- I was wrong.
  
  Gameplay- I can't tell you how ( simply because I can't) it disappointed me but it just did. The 
 Tau was a nice race, I thought, but a small invasion of melee combatants could ruin me. No problem, 
 I thought, I could just kill them before they get the best of me. And I was right. Or, a could 
 use the kroot. But the vehicles couldn't take much punishment and the Greater Gnarloc was weak, 
 small, puny. The necron were truly terrifying. Powerful in close combat and ranged combat, strong 
 in every way, you name it. And you don't have to use requisition. You only use power. And playing 
 a QS game online or offline gives you a big bonus, bigger than other races. But the tech tree advances 
 slowly. Otherwise, I loved the harlequins so much that they were like my best friends, maybe even 
 my first true loves. The other races didn't change much except for the limits which are alot stricter, 
 but balance the game more. Vehicles had more hp, more than a not-upgraded squiggoth, about 13,000 
 hp. But it still left me depressed, and the AI was better. But, even in normal or easy mode in 
 campaign, defending ur province is annoying. The AI build about (in some cases even on easy mode) 
 more than 5 bases.
  
  Graphics- Still the same, now a shame. It's 2006, and the requirements aren't high, so you can 
 guess what it's like.
  
  Sound- Nice sound blasters.
  
  But overall, the gameplay left me hanging, partially because it disappointed me. And partly because...... why 
 were all the leaders/ commanders replaced? Where's Gabriel???!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  having beat the campain 3 times so far from both loyalist, chaotic and necron, i have to say the 
 campain is really great and well planned. with not only the lords upgrades that take a good deal 
 of thinking and planing to the plans for which map to invade first.
  
  depending on your ideal strat you could max out your lords health and then invade every honor gaurd 
 map to max that out as well or jump them inplace of planet bonuses, so its really quite the enjoyable 
 elemant that winter assault was missing and its replayable which makes it even better.
  
  only draw backs i could find with dark crusade was that some of the lord upgrades dont carry over 
 in to the multiplayer. the chaos lords demon status does but not on the lord him self you have 
 to pay out rec to research it and the greater demon.
  
  as well in the camp. the bloodravens lord is able to equip a teleport generator on his back but 
 not in the multi player. same with the necron lord he doesnt get the decloaking mask. he has the 
 mesh/texture but not the ablitly.
  
  but besides that its still a great addon or stand alone depending on how long you have played DoW. 
 it does service to the table top which is really all that matters. great game and great clone of 
 a greater table top game.
  
  only thing left is to wait for relic and thq to bring out the next addon. hopefully it will have 
 dark eldar and maybe dare i say the hive mind if they can get the game coding to support the nids 
 good enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piemister
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  i have always known dawn of war lacks strategical value and so does the world dont get me wrong 
 i love dawn of war but it is just get an army an attak them head on, sometimes a bit of drop poding 
 and such but it doesn't allow true strategy like being able to take an army massises the size of 
 you army the maps are to small to do a strategical movement like that no1 get me wrong i love dawn 
 of war and it is a great game but it is very limited with the squad cap, squad cap is good but 
 the squad cap is too small on dawn of war and the size of the maps just finishes it off. the campaign 
 was easy just attak the strongholds and i thing makeing one in 2007 is impossible because the game 
 will be SO dated by then it wont be brought like company of heros now is so advanced and strategiacal 
 it is and advanced great game, dawn of war should take 2-3 years and make dawn of war 2, and make 
 it so advanced your head will spin. in conclusion dawn of war is a fun game but is limmited! thank 
 you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saergas
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40.000: Dark Crusade is a great expansion to Warhammer 40.000: Dawn Of War and Warhammer 
 40.000: Winter Assault. I already had the 2 other games, which is a recommendation if you want 
 Dark Crusade, to get even more choice in races. Still, even if you only get Dark Crusade, you are 
 going to love it.
  
  Gameplay is like a RTS should be. Being able to build your base and massive armies, without getting 
 too frustrated about your resources, and actually having to think about what combinations in your 
 army you should make. The new world-map-campaign is great too, a hugh improvement on the mediocre 
 campaign of Winter Assault. Whent it comes to graphics, it might look less realistic than Age of 
 Empires III at first sight, but then again, it is a sci-fi game, and it's better comparable to 
 Starcraft than to AoE. And that, to my mind, is a good thing, because I was long searching for 
 a good Starcraft-like game. All the action of this game looks great, fights are great, and all 
 your slain foes can actually stay there instead of dissapearing or sinking through the ground.
 
  
  The sound of this game is good too, the music doesn't bore soon, like in some other games (rise 
 of nations) . All the sounds of units, weapons etc. are good too, especially if you want to compare 
 this game to rise of legends (oh my god, horrible sounds) .
  
  In all, this game will keep you busy for hours, with, including the 2 previous games, 7 races to 
 choose from, great gameplay, good looks, good sound and, also important, it's highly addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  In DoW : DC, its not the graphics that will keep you coming back, but its the trully unforgettable 
 gameplay. The simple fact that you have to balance between melee untis and ranged units is already 
 an important strategic component.
  
  In Dark Crusade, the gameplay is pretty much like the one in Dawn of War, but now you can play 
 every race in the single player campaign, with the addition of the Necrons and the Tau.
  
  The animations in Dark Crusade are simply beautiful to watch, especially the melee combat. Just 
 watching your NEcron Lord thrust his spear into ones stomach, and throw him 10 feet in the air, 
 with all the blood splashing around... is just satisfying.
  
  The battles are the most memorable parts of DC, especially in Multiplayer. When you are sending 
 hundreds of units against the enemy, and they are doing the same, the battles become very ferocious, 
 and most importantly, fun. It's always fun to watch the aftermath of battles (i. e. the uncountable 
 bodies lying there) .
  
  In conclusion, if you are a person who has at least a minor interest in RTS games, play this. You 
 won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiers_jimbo
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong - I LOVE the 40K. At a time when kids should nowadays be on sugar rushes, defacing 
 public property and breaking various different parts of their anatomy, I was indoors, carefully 
 laying on a coat of starburn yellow (they always seemed to have names something like that, didn't 
 they?) and looking over my painted army, readying for the next game, decided by the roll of the 
 dice.
  
  And so, many years on, I returned to play Dawn of War. And boy, was I impressed. Easy to pick up 
 and play, it gave you all the fun of sending your own army into battle without all the rulers and 
 dice and point scores and whatnot. The campaign, although good, was a little Marine abundant for 
 my tastes, and so the main lure was in the multiplayer. I was at home again, making my little army, 
 flying my flag against some poor sod in Texas who knew this wouldn't last long as soon as my Avatar 
 stormed the gates.
  
  But there were always strengths and weaknesses to every team, and that was the part I loved. You 
 had to work out other's weaknesses in such a way that it would utilise your selected army's strengths. 
 Well, unfortunately, the tactics have now been fully removed. Welcome to Dawn of War multiplayer 
 - the walkover add-on.
  
  And that's what it is. The Necrons are by far the most overpowered race in the game (and I'm assuming 
 the actual board game on which it was based) . No more do you have to throw everything you can muster 
 against the onslaught of a bloodthirster - you can just send in two normal units, and it's bye 
 bye to the demon from the fire of hell. In my opinion, it was GW wanting too much from one board 
 game - the Necrons have become the only race to be, otherwise there is no point in participating. 
 It's a one horse race now - the other armies just fight for second place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta290
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  Ok, Dawn of war was a great game, alright it was easy but it was a hell of a lot of fun. Winter 
 assault was entertaining... you've just got to love sacrificing your own gaurdsmen for the good 
 of morale... Dark crusade takes on the role and it does an ok job, I say only ok because it has 
 several flaws. Firstly, the campaign... repititive skirmish maps strung together with a hint of 
 storyline that, to be honest, fails to thrill. That said the skirmishes are damn fun and there 
 needs to be some kind of skill in order to win. Unless you're playing as the Necrons... in which 
 case no skill is required... just that sense of being that, exploiting, cheating scum that all 
 gamers love to hate. As a race of mechanical, genicidal, near un-stopable beings they're simply 
 too damn hard for the game, ok in 40K they were nigh-on impossible to beat but surely that should 
 hint and possible balancing issues in a PC game! I managed to wipe out an entire chaos base with 
 two units of basic Necron infantry... this should not be possible. It's like playing Battle for 
 Middle Earth as Mordor (near unstopable trolls and free re-spawning of Nazgul... very handy...) 
 it's just not fair on other players... and none of that They should of got there first crap or 
 the age old arguement of It's in the game so I'll play it 'cus I'll be unbeatable mwahahahahaha! 
 ok so maybe some of my on crazyness creeping in there but you get the idea. Don't get me wrong, 
 it's a good game, it's a lot of fun and who could possibly turn down the chance to storm a base 
 with Terminators and Preditors. If it weren't for the balancing issues and problems with a repititve 
 campaign, this game would deserve at least a 9 as it is it's an 8 at best. Fun, entertaining... 
 but not deep... kinda like a Kebab, you know you shouldn't but you do anyway... often... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w817
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  This is no ordinary game, I am a big fan of real-time strategy games. And Warhammer is by far the 
 best game ever!!! Its even better than C&amp; C, and that means a lot!!! The buildings are cool, 
 have a role in the game (for example, the buildings of the orcs is full of gattling guns wich an 
 orc controls, so the buildings can defend themselfs) All the cool upgrades for your heroes, units, 
 recourse points and buildings are just astonishing.
  There is not a single bug or anything that makes the game less interesting.
  And 7 completely 
 different factions?? The dream of every real-time strategy fan!!!!!!!
  And its not like most games, that the new faction (s) that come with an expansion pack, are created 
 too fast so it doesn't feel like a new army, but just some units that were made up, mixed together 
 and there you go, we have an army!
  The necros and the Tau empire are very well ballanced, the units and buildings match perfectly, 
 all the army's are equal and equally stong, and that is not a simple thing to do.
  To sum up: Perfect game, wonderfull factions, cool buildings, astonishing upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlessky
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent... a great expansion pack!!!! Although i didn't play the previous Warhammer 
 games, this game already make me real excited!!!! The graphic are real good and u can zoom in to 
 see the battle closely. The sound are good too and u can feel it wen u bring dozen of ur army to 
 attack the enemy!!! My favourite is the Tau Empire, they are cool especially the commander. This is 
 the best RTS game i played since Frozen Throne. So, go and get this game..... If u dont own this game...... u 
 will not feel the excitement of a great WARHAMMER GAME!!! And also, the campaign is real good so 
 go try it out and i don't have the news of online play, so thats all!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marekv
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Most importantly it runs like a champion on my laptop (GeForce 7900) on 1620x1080 on highest details!! 
 Game looks pretty much like two previous games, but they obviously rewrote the game engine, it 
 runs GREAT. Graphics are fantastic. Game play is EXCELLENT. Computer opponents are SMART. It all 
 came off very very well. I'm old school RTS gamer (dune 2, C&amp; C, Starcraft) . This title is as 
 groundbreaking as previous titles I mentioned. Don't wait, go get this game and you won't stop 
 playing it. I've been playing DOW and then DOW: Winter Assault for 2 years straight DOW and then 
 DOW: Winter Assault, and I see that this will be my next addition ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benwng
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade is an excellent game. I live in the UK and its retail price was only 
 &pound;19.99 relative to &pound;29.99/34.99 of other new releases so not being a huge fan of Dawn 
 of War but having played the original games, i decided to purchase this new title instantly.
  
  Pros:
  
  1. 2 new races that work well inaddition to the others- all are balanced
  2. 
 Turn based map conquering with bonuses per conquer works well and is very fun.
  3. Conquering strategic points for resources makes this game a great offensive focused strategy 
 game.
  4. Multiplayer is excellent.
  5. Cheap bargain only &pound;19.99 for me on day of release :D
  6. Good graphics for an RTS that 
 dosen't need the latest computer or GPU to run (unlike NVN 2/ Splinter Cell Double Agent .... um 
 um suckass reasonable graphics that require the latest hardware.)
  
  Cons:
  
  1. I played through the campaign on Hard mode but gave up half way through conquering cause it 
 just got so tough. I never managed to conquer one factions base cause when your faction is just 
 setting up the enemy rushes you with a small army that includes armoured vehicles. Then again, 
 when i tried the campaign on normal mode, it was just too easy. 2. Gets a bit repetitive, but after 
 a few days playign something else you will want to go back to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  The joys of of the Dawn of War series who would've thought a game with more blood being thrown 
 around than at a event for a middle-aged man's circumcision. Also, a game glorifying painting one's 
 vehicle red so it will go faster. Who would've thunk it!
  
  Well, to the matter at hand. The two new armies being brought in are pretty good, ( I still want 
 the Tyranids) , The Necrons and the Tau.
  
  Each army has their own strengths, and weaknesses. The Necrons are slow, but very robust, and hard 
 to kill. For that matter harder to keep down.
  The Tau are faster, but leave something to be desired for defense, but you got to love the rockets, 
 and railguns.
  
  This game offered no issues when playing with others, can be installed without the other two games 
 you just wont have the luxury of playing as the other armies online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micheal_safian
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  this expansion is the best in series with unique chracters and different stories
  and the game engine is awsome i really spend not less than 5 hours per time playing
  Note: the 
 game writers have a lot of Imagination.
  Races: the best race is Tau i guess the nicron is very tough ... the empire is normal because it's 
 men race... the chaos is good too the weaskest one is the elv i think and the most good thing about 
 that series is that it needs minimum requirements to work fine but you have to get a fast processor 
 and not less than 256MB if you want smooth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edot0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Yet another amazing game from relic. I mean there isnt much bad to say about this game at all. 
 The graphics are perfect, gameplay is good, sound is great. What more could you want in a game. 
 there are just a few things that I would change though, sqad and vehical cap is kinda anoying, 
 a. i is horrible. The music is great but there are some areas where there could be some improvement. 
 But thats all. Everything else is just perfect. In the future i think there will, just maybe, some 
 tyranids. Please!!! If your have never played a RTS game befor this is the game that you must have. 
 Period. End of Topic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deth_cow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  let me state this the following text is an opinion don't think what i say is 100% what you think 
 okay? but anyway to start it off the two new races are *drum roll* The Tau and the Necrons let 
 me start with the Tau easy to kill in melee so very vulnerable to assault marines and khorne beserkers.
 
  The necrons basicly the overpowered race can revive fallen troops with the resrection orb and 
 can gun down a space marin squad no problem. Difficulty is just right they hit the sweet spot on 
 the difficulty improved from winter assault. the graphics are changed just a little over the games 
 but it still great the sound is just awesome. but here is some of the downsides nobody uses automatch 
 the campaign can get annoying at times and the engine is starting to show its age but just barely.
 
  The campign mode is one of my favorite changes in this instead of going on these set events that 
 are exactly the same and make the campaign boring eventually, is gone. The campign is kind of like 
 a risk bord if you aren't one of those people who sit on their computer all day you'll know what 
 i'm talking about. you choose where you want to attack next and there is a shield indicating how 
 tough the defender is. You go turn by turn it will cycle through each of the races as the turn 
 s go by basicly showing where they attacked and wether or not they one etc. but when you capture 
 an enemy stronghold or starting location than that army is instanly kicked from the campaign so 
 if you know what happens if you lose your king in chess than the results are the same you lose. 
 but their is still some storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_big_fat_clown
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Ok here's the thing this game was in my opinion a pretty damn good game but I do not like how they 
 have taken some things out and have set a limit on certain buildings and units. So here is a basic 
 overview of what they have done for those of you out there who are still wondering wether you should 
 buy this game or not.
  
  Space Marines
  Set a limit to 6 turrets PER HQ
  Set a limit to 1 Assualt Terminator squad
  Set a limit to 1 Terminator squad
  Set a limit to 
 2 Predator tanks but have raised their health by a large margin
  Set a limit to 1 Whirlwind artillery tank
  Raised population requirment of Predator and Whirlwind 
 to 5
  Lowered population requirment to Land Speeders to 1
  Lowered population requirment of Rhino transport tank to 0 but have a limit of 3
  Turrets can 
 be build OUTSIDE of building area
  Both Dreadnoughts population requirment have been raised to 3
  
  Imperial Guard
  Set Karsikin 
 squad limit to 1
  Set Ogryn's squad limit to 1
  Set Leman Russ tank limit to 2
  Raised population requirment of Basilisks to 3 per Basilisk and a limit of 3
  Leman Russ Tank 
 population requirment is raised to 5
  Leman Russ Tanks have had a health increase
  Can have 3 or 4 more guardsmen in a squad once you get the first HQ upgrade done
  Set a limit 
 of 6 turrets Per HQ
  
  Eldar
  Set a limit to 6 turrets Per HQ
  Set a limit of 3 Warp spider squads
  Raised population requirment of wraithlord to 3
  
  I 
 haven't played the Eldar much so this is all I got so far
  
  Chaos Space Marines
  Set a limit to 6 turrets per HQ
  Raised Beserkers of Khorne's population requirment to 3
  Set 
 a limit to 1 Possesed Marine squad
  Population requirment of the Chaos walker (forgot its name at the moment) to 3
  Raised Population 
 requirment of Chaos predators to 5
  Set a limit to 2 Predators
  Set a limit to 1 Obliterator squadron (I think)
  
  I think i got all of the Chaos space marines 
 but i haven't played them much
  
  Orks
  Raised population requirment of Looted Leman Russ tank to 3
  Raised population requirment of 
 the ork walkers to 3
  Set a limit to 2 Leman Russ tanks
  
  I haven't played the orks much so I do not know what else they have done to them
  
  This is 
 a basic overview of what they have done to the 5 races that went on to Dark Crusade. I know I didn't 
 get all of the things they did to the Orks, Chaos Space Marines, and Eldar. And I think i got all 
 of what they did to the Space Marines and the Imperial Guard.
  
  The 2 new Races they added Necron and Tau are pretty fun to play heres an overview of what their 
 abilities are.
  
  Necron
  
  A nasty race to face if you are facing a player who knows how to use them the overall abilities 
 of the Necron make them very hard to face at times. Offensively the Necrons are very powerful you 
 can build a horde of Necro Warriors and have them just tottally decimate everything in their path 
 because of the numbers of them and the sheer power of the Necron warriors once you get them upgraded, 
 Combined with the Necron lords ability to resurect and ability to go over the squad caps through 
 using resurection is a very big asset.
  
  In infantry Necron are without a doubt have some of the best infantry there are some quite nasty 
 cominations you can come up with to screw your oppenent right over.
  
  In vehicle I think the Necron are pretty weak in that area and I view Their vehicles as just tweaked 
 heavy infantry. But when we're talking about a Monolith that is a diffrent story. The Monolith 
 is a giant movable base with some very nasty fire power advantadges and the ability to train troops 
 while moving towards your enemy make it a very nast vehicle to face. Also the monolith regenerates 
 at quite a rate and has 20,000 Health so it is a very nasty vehicle to face
  
  Defensively the Necron are pretty good iy is nice for the Necron Warriors to have the abililty 
 to warp to any of your buildings on the map so, defensively the Necron are very very capable
  
  Tau
  
  Tau are a strong race they have a nice selection of units and upgrades. The Tau 
 ranged units have quite a long ranger which makes them very deadly but Tau do not have turrets 
 which kind of sucks but that does not mean they weak in defense. The Tau have 2 choices later on 
 in the game between 2 buldings, the Mont'Ka (Killing Blow) Command Post and the Kayoun (Patient 
 Hunter) Command post, each gives their own speical advantages and disadvantages. The Mont'Ka command 
 post focuses more on the ranged units and vehicles, and it gives access to the mighty Hammerhead 
 Gun ship and Crisis suits both of which are very powerful units. The Kauyon Command post focuses 
 on infantry Melee and Ranged alike, the Kayoun command post gives access to upgrades to increase 
 the fighting capability of the FIre Teams which are quote nast if I say so myself, and it gives 
 powerful upgrades to the melee units as well and it gives acess to the Kroot hounds which I do 
 not know much about for I have not used them myself.
  
  Offensively the Tau are powerful, if you are facing a player who knows how to use the Tau's strengths 
 you had best watch yourself.
  
  The Tau Infantry are very powerful the ranged units having an awesome range is quite an asset. 
 The Tau melee units are quite powerful as well though I think they lack a little in that area but 
 I haven't used the Tau melee units that much.
  
  In deffence the Tau are very powerful with the long sight range of the Pathfinders squadron and 
 the superior tange of the Tau infantry and vehicles it makes it very difficult to destroy the Tau 
 defence once they get entrenched.
  
  So overall it's pretty fun it was worth the $30 that is spent on it thought I do not like how they 
 have put limits on certain things like melee units and some of the artillery, but just because 
 they put a limit on certain units doesn't make Dark Crusade a crappy game you can still be a defensive 
 player even with out hordes and hordes of turrets it just forces you to adapt to the current setting, 
 and if you don't like what they have done to the 5 older races then just play the previous 2 Dawn 
 of Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Nemesis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This game must be the best game of the dawn of war, series a game that have a great story and the 
 animation is damn cool like the demon prince cruse his enemy's under his blade it just look great 
 but the graphics is not the best but the original game is 2 years old so you can not expect the 
 best.
  But anyway the game is a great game and story and the gameplay is awesome and if you are done with 
 the campaign you can always go online with the game and there the game scores alot it is cool and 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vuvussi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game is really brutal but fun and its big gun fights, huge fire fights and its 
 very nice looking graphics . The thing i don't like whit warhammer 4000 Dow DC that it can get 
 a little boring at the time but holds for a good wile.
  You got many maps to chose among and quite many raises to pick.
  To play Dow Dc you don't need 
 the other two expansions (Dow, Dow winter assault) to have a great time to play the game but you 
 will not get the other raises from the previous games but still you will have a good time playing 
 this game. Thats everything i got to say about this game so i will make the final words quick, 
 Warhammer 4000 Dow DC is awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  This expansion definatly addresses a few of the this game involves only rushing and no real strategic 
 or tactical value that the originals seemed to relish yet it still relies heavily on rushing in 
 order to win. The maps are smallish compared to other rts's (though this promotes wanton destruction 
 of forces) and a good deal of the strategy lies in pummeling the other guy with cheap t1 vanilla 
 units faster than he can do it to you. (Now again, I see that rushing is a valid strat but at least 
 in this it's not the ONLY strat that works.) The forces seem to build slower and the numerous caps 
 on highpowered units have definetly helped. Really the only problem I see with this is that as 
 of release the necron factions is severely overpowered. Honestly the only real way to win against 
 them is to rush them. They are the equivalent of old BFME I mordor except in reverse. They have 
 free tier1 units that are easily the most powerful tier1 units (better than most other factions 
 upgraded units) and if allowed 2-3 sets will pummel anyone who isn't at least 2-3 times the skill 
 of the necrons player. Oh all the little necron players will tell you that they aren't op (they're 
 slow, they build slow) which is complete bs of course. When you program a built in counter to the 
 single necron downfall (they can teleport around the map AND can be mass ressurected after death 
 resulting in an army that is twice as large as any other faction possibility) for the necrons it 
 results in perma-win. Moving on.
  
  The ability to play 7 factions is nice and each faction does feel unique. The visceral combat is 
 everpresent and the range of units for each faction is very broad and well done allowing for some 
 actual thought to be put into what you want to do. Graphics are ok but are becoming dated with 
 titles like Company of Heroes out.
  
  The sound is still pretty good and definetly fits the factions.
  
  Overall a better installment 
 of the wh40k but still has room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S0mEGuY12
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is one of the best additions to dawn of war!!! gameplay is increased because 
 of a few small additions to other races as well as 2 full powerful cool races! gameplay is not perfect... the 
 game is totally awesome its just that... some things in the game isnt very good... like necrons... they 
 are a great race but they just feel incomplete... the Tau although feel very complete... if you know 
 what i mean...
  
  Graphics: (i think) have been added an extra layer of perfection! in Winter assault and the original 
 the graphics close up when you roll the mouse wheel.... feels... blurry... the badge on the space 
 marine squad shoulders... dont look very detailed.. (maybe its just my graphic card..) and the flag 
 on stragetic points in the listening post sometimes look ripped in half and the badge isnt shown 
 sometimes.. in Dark crusade though... its another thing! close up the necrons tau and other races 
 arent blurry! the badge is shown clearly, and explosions look awesome! they look just like from 
 far away just cooler! although... still some units in a few races need some more work... like the 
 scouts for example... their faces are just a bit messed up and they have no expression on their 
 faces... cultists in fact do.. and some other units that i prolly dont know but im guessing need 
 work.. Army Painter is still here! and it still lets you paint the looks of your race... and this 
 if you do not know was gotten from the table top since you have to paint in the table top... and 
 i must say that making your own colots brings out your personality a bit and you don't have to 
 use the same old colors like in other RTS!! you can choose your color in a few RTS like Warcraft 
 but you cannot set up the looks of all your units!.
  
  Sound: The sound is also great! The looks of the necrons weapons that wierd laser sound fits its 
 looks! the voices of the tau and other races also fit them! like the fire warrior squad! since 
 the sound of the other races are already well known, the sound is still superior!
  
  Value: Im not sure if im a hardcore fan of the series ( since i dont play the tabletop) i just played 
 the orignal's demo was satisfied since it does not provide you with multiplayer but two maps one 
 is fair and Biffy's Peril a favorite of mine is there too! only one mission in the demo but it fits 
 the demo since its one long mission! so i value this game a whole lot!
  
  Tilt: RTS fans, and people who played the previous dawn of war games, and Warhammer 40k fans, get this 
 game!
  
  The Good: Fun, great game with dramatic improvements to several races.2 New Races are a powerful 
 addition to the whole game.. Each race has been added a better and greater layer of good graphics. Army 
 Painter is still here, and still addicting.. Campaign is Addicting and fun.
  
  The Bad: Multiplayer tends to get a bit laggy sometimes.. resulting in you be lagged out sometimes 
 even though your not the person lagging.. Some people online take advantage of Infiltration attacks 
 espically with stealth suits and attack right away to defeat enemies.. Relic still needs to work 
 on the graphics of a few of the races from the past games..... since graphics are bland in a few 
 areas, Necrons feel slightly incomplete, and Tau lacks gun turrets so they lack the ability to defend 
 their base easily.. There are still a few bugs from the previous games that relic could still work 
 on... like when a unit finishes off with a fatality like move the unit finishing it off gets hit 
 by a bomb chucka.. and the unit being killed falls down over, and over, and over again till it disappears.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus8303
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Having played Warhammer - Dawn Of War and Winter Assault expansion pack I should say that Dark 
 Crusade was a big surprise. By adding two more playable factions and changing the whole campaign 
 system THQ actually give new life in Dawn Of War. I liked the brutallity, the blood, the action 
 and -of course- the strategy of the game from Dawn Of War but now with the Necrons and the Tau 
 Empire included the game has reached a new level. The campaign's difficulty has been increased 
 leading to even greater bloodbaths and the AI has significally improved. The computer now plays 
 more aggressively, it actually attacks you within the very first minutes of your mission making 
 it hard from the beginning. But the absolute battles were when you assaulting an enemy capital 
 where the AI actually swarms making the game extramely difficult.
  I liked the ala Rise Of Legends system where you conquer territories on the Necron's planet where 
 there are areas that give you advantages over the other factions (e. g. one area gives you the possibility 
 to attack any territiry except of capitals) adding some to the strategy one might follow. This 
 system added alot to the replayability of the game (having 7 factions means 7different paths to 
 victory) .
  The only thing that I disliked in Dark Crusade was the repetitive style of assaults in any territory 
 (reminded more than playing a series of skirmishes than playing campaign) and the fact that the 
 new factions - I think- are a bit better than the previous five corrupting the balance of the game.
 
  Moreover I must mention that each army has one commander and for every faction's commander there 
 is a different set of artifacts that enhance their power. Quite cool I must say as it makes your 
 commander very powerful even able to fight hordes alone.
  Dark Crusade is an exceptional expansion glorious example of how expansion packs should be. I recommend 
 it to all RTS players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ants_pants
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  Having played WH40K on the table top for some years, I was delighted when the original DOW brought 
 the universe to life, in my opinion to perfection. The detailed graphics, sound and gameplay really 
 drew you in right into the game. And the differences bewteen the races was enough to make each 
 one require a different approach to tactics, without having to re-learn the game.
  
  Now with DOW: DC you get a two more races, making it a wopping 7, each one unique with their own 
 talents, weaknesses and prefered tactics. The graphics and sound haven't really improved on the 
 previous releases, but is there any real need??? They were already superb and brought the game 
 to life.
  
  The new single-player campaign vastly improves on the rather weak linear stories of previous. The 
 open-play, turn based, conquer the planet campaign has enough substance to give you the control 
 and freedom you would want, however it doesn't go in too deep, so it which keeps you focused on 
 the main point of the game... mass carnage and WAR!!!
  
  Each race has a commander which can be customised with wargear, abilities and honor guards. Which 
 really helps to bring them to life.
  
  The two new races are a good compliment to the existing ones, although I feel they maybe a little 
 over powered. The Tau for example, get 3-5 full squads of fire warriors (with all upgrades available) 
 and when used en-mass they make VERY short work of enemy infantry. They are also not that bad at 
 taking out heavy infantry and vehicles either. Although if you are foolish enough to let them get 
 into meele combat, expect them to disappear... quickly. The Necrons on the other hand just generally 
 seem to be stubborn old so and so's. Reasonable fire power, and not bad in close combat, They are 
 just a pain to take out and you once you have finally poundered a squad of them into the dirt, 
 rest assured a few will get back up and come at you for some more!!! Annoying... yes, but a good 
 challenge. Overall this expansion / game brings a some good fresh treats and changes to the exisitng 
 DOW and WA. But doesn't affect the already superb gameplay, graphics and sound, if only to add 
 to them.
  
  This is a definate must for any DOW fans out there and for anyone that enjoys fats paced RTS's 
 that focus on getting into battled straight away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  I will be rating this game on it's own... I own all the others but I feel that if you own this than 
 you probably own at least one of the others... if not... you need to. The Dawn of war franchise really 
 nails the table top in feel... granted the table top version is turn based and alot slower... but 
 this game captures that feel really well. Dawn of war takes RTS's back to roots with almost pure 
 tactical combat with little to no actual worries about resources. The graphics... This game is 
 not the best looking but it is still one of the best looking RTS's that just about anyone can run... it 
 has very scalable graphics settings and even then it seems to be coded well enough that you can 
 jack up some of the settings without much of a hit to the framerate. The models and textures are 
 fantastic and get better with every expansion they release... all the units look great from a distance 
 and zoomed all the way in... the effects and lighting are great... the textures for the maps are 
 very organic and very seldom feel like tilesets made with a generic map editor. My only gripe is 
 that some parts of the models have great textures and some parts don't... the Space marine bolter 
 looks okay from a distance but just becomes a blurry mess close up... maybe it is just my crappy 
 computer... but the rest of the unit looks great.... but overall this is a great looking game. The 
 Sound.... the explosions and sound effects really capture what you would think the world would 
 sound like... the voices get a little redundant after a time but they tend to release new lines 
 with every expansion.. so I am not worried about that. The music is pretty good... not as epic as 
 I would have hoped but I still like it. I wish that every side had more distince scores though... it 
 would have been great to have some sweeping 'patton' like feel for the IG and something akin to 
 the imperial march for the Space Marines... etc etc... but that is just my personal opinion. The 
 gameplay. While other RTS's favor hero's and powers, this game takes it back to fighting with units 
 and mixing them to maximum effect... unlike LOTR battle for middle earth 2, this game actually feels 
 balanced and anyone can win if they know how to use the units... no uber powers in this game! The 
 units themselves are good because they match the table top source material so well... a leman russ 
 does just what you would expect and a Eldar avatar is just as fearsome as it is on the table top 
 in the basement. Old school RTS players will really get into this game because it really scales 
 down the use of powers and magic to win a battle... your hero's add to the army but never feel like 
 a army themselves. since the economy system is so stripped down, it is pretty easy to build up 
 a army and you will seldom feel like you have to pinch the pennies to get a army built up. My gripe 
 with the gameplay is that with every release of a expansion they change the unit caps for armor... the 
 Imperial guard relies on units like the Leman Russ and if you can only build two than something 
 is wrong. but other than that I really like how this game plays. Overall conclusion. Every time 
 I played a game on the tabletop with my freinds years ago I wanted a good PC game that reflected 
 the true essence of the world... this game really gives you that wow factor when you finally see 
 the armies moving and firing... I just wish they had raelly kept closer to the source story... they 
 did not need to make up a new chapter of Space Marines and they did not need to invent a new conflict... they 
 could have based it on Armageddon or something like that. Overall I think that anyone who likes 
 to play RTS's that feel just right and like the WH40k world will adore this game... it feels great 
 and plays great. Get it right now... but get all of them and play them in order... you will really 
 see how the game progressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilzemag
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War DC is an awesome game. I enjoy the AI INSANE setting, and I even enjoy the new troops 
 too. I never did get Dawn of War WA, but who gives a hoot. This game makes up for that loss big 
 time. You will not be dissappointed with this game. I kid you not. You are going to have a hell 
 of a ride with this baby. I always play on INSANE mode because that is where the action is baby. 
 You have to be quick on your feet making the right tactical moves to beat the computer, and you 
 know that the computer cheats BIG TIME, but who cares. I love it! You will will not regret buying 
 this game, heck no baby. BUY IT, and enjoy a good azz whooping but take as many ORKS, CHAOS MARINES, 
 ELDARS, AND TAUS down with you as well. -------It's better to die for the Emperor than to live 
 for thy self. LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gozalo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This expansion, with enough fresh content to be dawn of war 2, is just great!
  
  The Warhammer 40k universe is represented perfectly in this RTS, gritty battlefields, lots of blood 
 and the since that there is just no real good guys 
  they all fight for what they think is right, thats really cool in my opinion.
  
  the game play 
 is fast paced and lots of fun, with lots of units and upgrades, each race has its own playing style, 
 necrons slow but power-full, imperial guard weak but numerous and fast with lots of vehicles, space 
 marines witch can adapt to any situation, and so on, a truly balanced set of SEVEN races, well 
 there are some complaints that the necrons are overpowered but ill let you decide, they have advantages 
 but also have clear weaknesses.
  
  A standard campaign (witch i found was the weak spot in the original game) is substituted with 
 a risk style map of the planet kronus, split into several territories, you choose a race and try 
 to eliminate every other race on the planet, there are some territories that have specific objectives 
 to win, while most are just to eliminate the enemy forces, this works very well, we don't really 
 need an involving story in a truly fun RTS, each race has its own endgame, its own animation for 
 when you defeat a foe.
  
  Each time you conquer a territory you get what is called an Honor guard unit, witch is supply very 
 very power-full regular units, it adds to you feeling you are controlling the planet and grow stronger.
 
  
  The two new races the necrons and tau are welcome editions to the cast, the tau especially are 
 very fun and very colorfully to play as
  
  the music is OK, not memorable but the sounds of the battlefield are top notch and the voice acting 
 is great.
  
  multimplayer is a very strong point, one of THE most fun RTS to play online fast and fun!
  
 
  In the end its a very solid game, i recommend it to any RTS veteran or rookie, its just an all 
 around great game... what will relic and thq have for us in 2007? only time will tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is the second expansion pack to 'Warhammer 40k Dawn of War' which was a good RTS game 
 set in the dark, hi tech future warhammer 40k universe.
  
  This time the campaign is set on 'Kronos' a planet that was originally in the hands of the Imperium 
 of Man but fell to the Tau and now is contested by all seven of the games races, these being Orks, 
 Space Marines, Chaos, Eldar, Imperial Guard (added with winter assault expansion pack) , Tau Empire 
 and the Necrons.
  
  The singleplayer campaign is the main improvement I believe, you select a faction and its introduced 
 with some backstory, then on a map of the planet you move your army around attacking various provinces, 
 which when conquered either add more requisition resource, a special bonus such as 'space port' 
 or 'forward base' and maybe even an 'honour guard'.
  
  This is a step forward in the singleplayer campaign, the usual thing to do is a step by step mission 
 structure which is fine for alot of games but offers only so much replay value, wereas everything 
 is usually different with each play, as other races make there moves on provinces get bonuses attack 
 others and so on so the conquest of Kronos is different each time through.
  
  However there are a few annoying problems with Dark Crusades campaign mode, every province which 
 isnt special in some way (bonus or enemies HQ) is a standard skirmish map with the objective of 
 destroying the enemies HQ., sometimes this can be fun but othertimes very very boring due to the 
 enemy having numerous HQ's and so starts as a 2vs1 skirmish mode with a fairly ferocious AI (especially 
 with Eldar I find) which can make even early expansion difficult, and whilst attacking might be 
 fun, if you then in turn get attacked in the same province its a repeat scenario which can be boring 
 to slog through again.
  
  Some missions are extremely fun, these being mainly the HQ's which ill get onto in a moment and 
 the 'bonus' structures on the map, for example on the campaign there might be the 'space port' 
 which allows you to move across the planet instead of one province at a time , this map requires 
 you to find servitors to reactivate the space port instead of being another destroy the HQ skirmish 
 map, also there might be the 'fury' bonus which requires you to appease a chaos god by killing 
 a certain number of the enemy before they reach that kill limit first.
  
  Undoubtedly though the best singleplayer missions are the HQ missions, if you attack an enemies 
 HQ and win, they are eliminated from the singleplayer campaign. Each mission has its own introduction 
 sequence, then all hell usually breaks loose with a quick rush, then a sustained attack until you're 
 able to advance. And as you advance through the map more events unfold , be it a surprise attack 
 , artillery barrage or even an imperator titan cannon be activated, and you're also given a few 
 ways to go about destroying the enemy, for example with the imperator cannon you can actually gain 
 control of it.
  
  You can also achieve bonuses and improve your commanders 'wargear' such as say getting better armour, 
 a pack which enables your comander to teleport and so on, by reaching certain goals such as 2 thousand 
 kills in the campaign, a successful defence of a province and so on, however there isnt really 
 much customisation (for me this would be like focusing a character in a RPG being customised into 
 being a ranged fighter/melee etc) but rather a sequential improvement to your commanders gear.
 
  
  Another improvement to the singleplayer campaign was the introduction of 'honour guards' , if you 
 capture a province usually you can train a special 'honour guard' unit, these will be standard 
 units but with huge bonuses to health and so on which can be very useful on the harder provinces 
 and HQ's especially in the beginning minutes when you get rushed. Sure you have the option to 'autoresolve 
 battles but these are so overwhelmingly against you that you're compelled to just fight each and 
 every battle.
  
  The two new races introduced are certinaly varied from each other, although the Tau are similar 
 to the other games races. The Necrons are a truly ancient race of what are now machines of regenerative 
 metal that eons ago sold their souls to their gods the powerful C'tan. In the warhammer 40k universe 
 theyre slowly arising from their millions of years slumber to kill the living for their C'tan god 
 - the nightbringer.
  They certainly have a different economy than the other races, they rely solely on power instead 
 of requisition and only their builder unit and capture strategic points, and even then that is 
 only to deny that requisition to the enemy.
  Another unique aspect to the Necrons is that their infantry can regenerate over time and be summoned 
 back to their monolith HQ, which can also become fully 'awoken' and hover around the map (even 
 teleport) and build units firing powerful guass cannons at the enemy.
  However the necrons main weakness is that they have a relatively slow start, their builder units 
 build slowly, their necron warriors move slowly and they have limited vehicles, saying that, theyre 
 still a very very powerful race.
  
  The other new race is the T'au Empire' which is a relatively new comer to the Warhammer 40k universe, 
 although quite a small empire the Tau are highly advanced, not as advanced as the Imperium but 
 able to stand up to it and made stronger with the belief in the 'Greater good' were they actually 
 tolerate other alien races to an extent (maybe cutting their population down and limiting reproduction) 
 even allowing them into their armies, certainly unusual in the dark warhammer 40k universe to be 
 even *that* tolerant..
  Their main strengths are in long range firepower which can usually cut down the foe before making 
 melee contact, however the Tau are quite weak on the melee front, even with the Kroot mercenaries 
 which are made for melee combat.
  Also the Tau infantry is fragile and can be cut to pieces, which is why they rely on superior firepower.
 
  The Tau vehicles are quite powerful with various functions but they look very 'samey' .
  
  Their main weakness is their costly units, their inability to produce turrets for defence (this 
 makes revealing enemy infiltrators at the beginning difficult, or rather expensive - buying vespids) 
 and overall, slight weakness to close combat even with Kroot help.
  
  Ontop of all this, their are now new units to each race, the space marines have the grey nights 
 which are fantastic anti infantry/demon units, the imperial guard have heavy weapons team which 
 are good in packs (especially with auto cannons) however a rather bizare set up animation were 
 one guardsmen becomes 2..., the chaos have a new late champion style unit in the form of a Daemon 
 Prince which is a weaker blood thirster although available slighty earlier than the former, the 
 eldar have the Harlequins which is a single unit suited for melee and is very quick, however its 
 probably the least effective of the new units due to it being only 1 member in squad size and charging 
 ahead of the other eldar means it usually gets shot to pieces before it can reach close quarters, 
 and finally the Orks have the Flash Gitz which are a rather good ranged shooter unit but weak melee.
 
  
  Other noticeable changes with the expansion pack include, a new infiltration system, units when 
 infiltration is researched automatically go invisible and can only be revealed by certain other 
 units and thier turrets which allows for new gameplay strategies (also favours rushing certain 
 races) . Also the new AI is quite vicious even on standard difficulty in the singleplayer campaign 
 at least, which makes for a good challenge but can sometimes seem to much.
  The voiceovers have changed for some units, in my opinion not all of these were for the better, 
 especially the force commander unit for the Space Marines.
  Squad limits have been imposed to stop people spamming the elite units over and over for example 
 only 1 of each terminator squad, 1 possessed space marine squad, this is a good way to go and requires 
 the player to adopt a better tactic than spamming elite units over and over.
  And finally the graphics seemed to have been improved ever so slightly which is always nice to 
 see.
  
  Overall a good expansion pack:
  Pros:
  Vastly improved idea for singleplayer campaign
  Lots of replay value in the campaign
  Some 
 very fun missions in the campaign.
  Improved AI
  New gameplay strategies
  2 new races adds even more variety to the dawn of war series
  Extra units for existing factions
 
  Slight improvement in graphics
  
  Cons:
  Ai can go from feeling a standard opponent to almost insane due to 2HQ's.
  As a result some very 
 boring rematches in the campaign.
  Sometimes the early rushes can just destroy the fun.
  Auto resolve is flawed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nirvana471
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  Dawn of war has come a long way with their first one to were they came now. They had Winter Assualt 
 tht was ok but now they haave this Dark crusade whichgives u more freedom of gameplay, more opinions 
 to use and just allot more fun really simple as that. I like the way ever time a new Dawn of war 
 comes out all the armys get a boost and i think thts fair and classic. The new campaign bit is 
 just execellent get to deside wat u wanna do and how to do it and alos get to do ur hero up how 
 goods tht *WELL DONE* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaAndy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total and bloody Si-Fi RTS there is around. Its new factions are good the campingn 
 is great and the changes to the amount of units makes it easier for new comers a like. Multiplayer 
 is harder for me because when i play the necrons people keep giving me a unfair advantage so if 
 you are reading this then plz don't do it again. ( Im AndyMZonePort on their by the way) Overall 
 this is a great game to end the first game of Warhammer Dawn of War hope to see the sequle next 
 year. Now time for WWWAARRRGHHHH!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munstable
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  I dislike RTS -- period. And I hate especially Sci-fi RTS!
  
  These are statements I would've made a week ago before I had played Dawn of War: Dark Crusade.
 
  
  The presentation of this game is so good and the campaign mode is so engaging that I can't say 
 enough good things about it. Well, except that all other companies who are also making RTS games: 
 PLEASE STUDY &amp; LEARN!
  
  Graphics is gorgeous... and by graphics I don't mean only the visuals, but also how smoothly it 
 runs. The attention to model detail is terrific and doesnt feel clunky or heavy, which is a difficult 
 thing to pull off. The animation is also top-notch. I zoomed up close during a battle and I thought 
 to myself: Man, these guys really know how to animate! For example, just looking at a close-up 
 of the Krootox made me smile, it has so much attitude. Unlike games like Oblivion, that like to 
 show off rendering details but actually sucks in all other areas of design and animation, DOW: DC 
 shows much more consistency in its overall design.
  
  I also cannot stress enough how much more the addition of a campaign map gives to a RTS game. Now, 
 I actually care about using strategy and tactics, and I care about the stuff I build during missions 
 and I actually pay attention to what each and every building and unit does in the game. This is 
 because everything stays and will be useful during defense missions. (Other RTS games: BUILD, UPGRADE, 
 ATTACK! CLICK CLICK... REPEATBORING!)
  
  Sound, music, interface, gameplay and everything else is just so good! Of course, Im not saying 
 that this game is perfect. There is always room for improvements, but until I play for more hours, 
 the only thing I can think of right now is perhaps allowing players to fully customize (assigning 
 logos, squad names, colors, etc.) persistent squads and units like the commander and honor guards 
 during the campaign. But that's just icing on the cake!
  
  No doubt I will get bored with it after too much carnage like with most RTS games, but hey, I've 
 never come this close to enjoying one right from the start! (Well, except maybe the original C&amp; C, 
 but its ancient history!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobbomadic121
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This game, along with the original, are exceptional real time strategy games. This game however, 
 mixes things up a little from the original. The new races are awesome, but perhaps a little unbalanced, 
 and overpowered, but this will be fixed with the patches. The tech trees for all the old races 
 has been changed significantly, and this nullifies many old strategies. This is good for new players, 
 and forces old players to think. The new campaign mode is fantastic, and multi-player is as fun 
 as ever. The graphics engine is starting to show its age, especially compared to relics other game, 
 company of heroes, but it still does the job well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troyboy2k
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the Dawn of War series. With this recent expansion pack, along with the two 
 new playable races, it makes the series that much more enjoyable. The only downside to this game 
 that I could see to this game is a huge lack of effort in the storyline, in where they pitted all 
 the races against each other in a turned based/RTS game. I would of liked to see some alliances 
 formed, which could of broken apart as a result of certain battles/events. Although this is only 
 a minor downside, the game otherwise is an excellent addition to the series. Multi-player is a 
 lot more enjoyable with two new playable, additional units, and quite a few new maps. All other 
 elements stay true to the other games in the series, and expect what you know of Dawn of War and 
 then super-size it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReconDan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  well real good and snappy to the point wahhammer game great story line easy to learn quick games 
 and real fun for well u and a friends to have a good time just play and have fun but i warn yoou 
 some times it's hard and thats what makes it so fun so all yall have a great time playing it and 
 i'll talk to you good gamers some other time well nevermind ill tell u about the game well its 
 hard pitched fighting fun orks eldar and chaos and space marines and imperial gaurd im fond of 
 the imperials myself but yall choose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disdaine
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Casting my score aside, this is a great expansion for an already good game. The new single player 
 campaign is great and the new races make excellent (albeit somewhat overpowered at retail) . However...
 
  
  The general mechanics and strategies of the game haven't changed dramatically. It is in essence, 
 the same game. The biggest changes to the gameplay itself is...
  
  a) The initial Tau units can stealth and fire, which can be a nuisance.
  b) The Necrons don't 
 need that many strategic points to kick you a**.
  c) The Necron Lord's transformation is ironically more powerful than the Necron relic unit.
  
 
  If this expansion were released about six months to a year ago, I would not be so harsh. But in 
 all honesty Relic really outdid themselves with Company of Heroes. While they are two entirely 
 difference games (WWII recreation vs. sweet sci-fi backdrop) , you're left wondering what Dawn of 
 War would have been like using the Company of Heroes engine and how much better of a game it would 
 have been.
  
  If you're a diahard fan of the Dawn of War series, definitely pick up this expansion. It is clearly 
 the most polish of the three releases and unlike the Imperial Guard, the new races aren't crippled 
 with fragile infantry (don't bother quoting L2P , IG vs. Space Marines... who wins?) .
  
  For those who don't have any of the previous Dawn of War iterations, I would honestly pass this 
 one up. In LAN and Multiplayer you can only play with the two new races. The fact you can play 
 the others in the single player campaign is almost a slap in the face (yes, I own all three) . For 
 you, wait until this game hits the bargain bin or save your $30 towards another new release you've 
 had your eyes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VDrakula
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Dark crusade is exp. pack to great strategy game Warhammer Dawn Of War 40k. This is secound exp. 
 pack. This is one of the best expansions I have played for last 2 years (after Frozen Trone) . Gameplay 
 haasn`t changed since Dawn of War, but why change something what is good? There is two whole new 
 races, the Necrons and Tau. Of course there is adition to old races. The full zoom 3-D camera is 
 great, you can actually go eye level in the middle of the battle. The grafics and effects of battle 
 have been improved, with action and the staying courpses. This shoud be best expansion pack of 
 year. So buy this game its stand alone what mean u don`t need original game for this exp. Enyoj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluewrxman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 31, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  I thought that this was a great expantion. I am a big fan of warhammer and bought dawn of war and 
 winter assault.
  
  Dark Crusade adds two new races, the necrons and the tau, it expands on the campaign, so now you 
 can play as any race in the campaign. The campaign was what won me over because of how different 
 it was from previous warhammer games. You control one race and you are trying to conquer a continent. 
 It was different, but i really liked it.
  
  Even though I was not a fan of the necrons, I thought that they were a good addition to game. The 
 Tau are just plain cool, but what I didn't like about them was that they had no turrets! Also, 
 I kinda didn't like how they changed the units for the other races. Dont get me wrong they didn't 
 change how they looked, but I didn't like how no I could only build 2 fire prism tanks, or 2 La 
 Rouse tanks, which are not that great.
  
  Even though I didn't like many of the changes I understand that they are there to make the game 
 more fair. Overall I thought that this was a great expantion. They changed the campaign, added 
 two new races, and it all fits nicely on one dvd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablopaul20
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  Starting from the initial game (Dawn of War) , till the latest game (Dark Crusade) the Warhammer 
 40k series produced by Relic, has become more complex, more interesting. It makes you ask for another 
 expansion , or a complete game with a new engine. The fluid gameplay , that altough is old , still 
 feels good. The bloodshed, the bullets, the artillery , all make you feel like an general. The 
 2 new races contribute to the perfect equilibration of the game. All factions are equal , and all 
 have a different stile of playing. The sound is still amazing , the in-game unit speeches being 
 making an terrific atmosphere , pushing you closer to the battlefield. The only place category 
 at which the game doesn't excel is the Graphics. Altough they were breathtaking almost 2 years 
 ago , they feel kinda old now. But still the great level design and unit design makes up for the 
 old engine. And this engine has the great advantage that it doesn't ask for many resources. This 
 game from the beginning till the end feels like it was made by professionals , and that's what 
 Relic are : one of the best RTS producer . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbelieveable! I was trying to think something it was a 9 on and I couldnt. This game 
 is perfect. 10 for gameplay because of the squad system and etc. 10 for graphics but you need a 
 good graphics to play this game. 10 for sound because the sound was amazing in this game. It sounded 
 so real to an m4 and a m16. And 10 for value because YOU NEVER GET BORED of this game! This game 
 is perfect! and if you really dont like games get it any way it will be the more thrills you have 
 ever expericed believe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best expansions I've played for any game. It might actually be the best. 
 It not only adds two races to the existing five, but also offers new gameplay modes. And get this: 
 it's a stand alone expansion! If you don't own the original game, don't worry. You can buy this 
 one, and it's like getting Dawn of War and Winter Assault free (though you can only play the Necrons 
 and Tau online) . I almost gave this game five stars, but couldn't quite get over some very minor 
 flaws (which will probably be fixed with a patch) . However, the Dawn of War series remains my favorite 
 RTS game of all time. Gameplay: It's stlll the visceral, animated combat, great voice acting, wonderful 
 streamlined resource system, and gritty W40K universe that was introduced in Dawn of War. However, 
 the game now has what it lacked previously, and that is a lengthy single-player campaign with lots 
 of replay value. Now there is a strategic metamap of the planet of Kronus that you can conquer 
 with any of the 7 races. The map has about 25 territories, and each race starts with a headquarters 
 that must not be conquered, or else that race loses. It's a good story, and the gameplay also works 
 out well. You can fight battles in real-time over each territory or let the computer auto-resolve 
 it (I suggest fighting in real time to be safe) . The difficulty of the battles depends upon how 
 large the armies (or Honor Guards) of the attacker and defender are, as well as any objectives 
 that you must complete during the battle. On the standard and hard difficulty settings, some battles 
 are very easy and others are darn near impossible (I couldn't beat the Hard Orks at Hyperion Peaks 
 for nothing) . The gameplay has been tweaked in a number of ways. The AI is decent and now will 
 do things that it did not do previously (like cloak Eldar bases and make Sentinels for the IG -- although 
 it will not make Basilisks for the IG in skirmish or Fire Prisms for Eldar, which I hope will be 
 fixed with a patch) . Also, there is now a stealth element to the game that adds a new tactical 
 layer to battles. Elite units such as Terminators, Obliterators, and super vehicles are now capped 
 so that you can't have more than one or two of each. This is actually a good thing, since it makes 
 other units more useful in the late game and limits the spamming of elite units, which should be 
 rare units in the first place. The two new races, Necron and Tau, are great and have distinctive 
 styles. The Tau are a ranged race which outshoots all others, but is weak in close combat and melee. 
 The Necron are an undead race bent upon destroying all life. They are slow and methodical and are 
 somewhat vulnerable in the early game. However, if they last long enough to get some of their powerful 
 units out, they are a force to be reckoned with. Their late game is strong, especially if they 
 get their Monolith fully operational. You can think of the Tau as specializing in riddling opponents 
 with holes from afar, while the Necrons are content with slowly strangling their enemies to death. 
 All together, these new races make Dawn of War an even better game. Graphics: The game still looks 
 great, even though the base engine is two years old. No RTS game sports better animations, and 
 the new units look nice. It's just a good-looking game. Sounds: The game has loads of personality, 
 due to the excellent voice acting. The new races don't add much to this though, since the Tau have 
 rather bland quotes and the Necrons have none at all. But the other races have great lines performed 
 by good voice actors. Also, the music is quite good, and each race gets its own theme song, so 
 to speak. All of the special-effects sounds are appropriate. Replay value/technical issues: Because 
 you can play the campaign as any of seven races, the game has the kind of replay value that the 
 series has previously lacked. Also, the single-player skirmishes never get old to me, especially 
 since there are seven races now. Furthermore, there are some talented mappers and modders out there 
 who have greatly enhanced the gameplay over the past two years, and I suspect this will continue. 
 On a technical note, the game, as always, has been very stable on my computer. I wish that the 
 manual had included descriptions of all seven races, since some people will not have manuals for 
 Dawn of War and Winter Assault. Also, there are a few minor bugs such as the Basilisk one mentioned 
 above and an instance in which I say a deployed heavy weapons team oddly gliding over the terrain. 
 However, Relic has been good about patching the game, and I believe they will fix these minor issues. 
 Final Word: If you are an RTS fan or a fan of the W40K universe, you probably already have the 
 original game. If not, there is absolutely no reason not to pick up Dark Crusade. It's one of the 
 true bargains out there, since you get the equivalent of the original game and two expansions for 
 $30 (as of Oct. 2006) . I really look forward to seeing what Relic comes up with next for the Dawn 
 of War license. Rating: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomed-to-drum
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  There is so much content in this expansion that it is a simple no brainer to pick up. As far as 
 RTS goes this game is very impressive. The game itself has not changed much but there is so much 
 new stuff that it has a really good value. The two new races are a welcome addition to the game. 
 The Necrons have a completely different feel to them. The way you utilize there abilities and there 
 units is unique. There resource system is based on only power. They can feel a little overpowered 
 in that sense because they don't have the regular 6 limit on the power generators and they produce 
 power fast. There units are strong and cost almost nothing in proportion to the amount of power 
 they produce. The Tau are a little difficult to use at first because they rely so heavily on mixed 
 tactics but once you get down how the race operates they can be unstoppable. There is also a new 
 very extensive campaign that involves all seven races. The campaign experience is different everytime 
 you go through it. Even if you play as the same race the decisions the other races make change. 
 The battles can be very short or extremely long and challenging. The campaign alone adds hours 
 and hours of replay value. The wargear that you add to the hero unit is a really cool incentive 
 to attack locations and get lots of kills and it is cool to earn rewards for your hard work. The 
 graphics have been improved a bit. The game runs smoother at the higher settings then it use to 
 and some of the textures have been improved. The sound, in my opinion, is phenomenal as ever. The 
 explosions and gun fire are all incredible. With the extensive single player campaign, the skirmish 
 maps, and online play there is alot of value in the package. Also since its a stand alone you can 
 play the main game with all the races without the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnxiousTube
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  This game was awesome and had me going for every race. I love the new races the Tau and the Necrons. 
 They were really cool and had great killing animations. I love how the main story played out and 
 how you chose your race and won over the world. I was a little disappointed in that when playing 
 it is almost always the same no matter what and it never really changes. But I will wait until 
 2007 or later for the next one to come out hopefully with nids but you know things happen. Was 
 a really cool game and it has a lot of replay value I would suggest getting is good thank you.
 
  
  AnxiousTube
  
  Signing off.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberomega
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay hasnt changed since Dawn of War, but for the better. With a few new additions in units 
 to the already existing races, plus two whole new races, the Necrons and Tau, Dark Crusade has 
 earned it's place in my library of games.
  
  The graphics are breathtaking, being that you can zoom out from an overhead view to see your base, 
 right up to see the facial features in crisp detail on the models of the soldiers you command. 
 It slows down very slightly when there are numerous amounts of sprites about, but not enough to 
 make the game unejoyable.
  
  The Necrons are an interesting race thrown into the game, having no need for requisition and use 
 only energy. The strategic points are used to increase productivity of building both units and 
 structures up to a max of double the normal speed. However, they tend to be slow and cumbersome 
 and generally weak compared to the other races, but they make up for this with quick reproduction 
 of units within a squad and the chance of returning from the dead.
  
  Tau are amazingly powerful at range and I personally believe that they are among the top 2 most 
 powerful races offered in the game. They have a sleak look to them somewhat similar to the Eldar, 
 but more earth based. Although the Tau offer melee units, they are more suited for ranged conflicts.
 
  
  The single player campaign is more of a conquor the world type senario, and although it doesnt 
 offer a strict liniar campaign like Dawn of War, it isn't repetative as Dawn of War's campaign 
 was. It offers a number of senarios throughout the campaign so that one would not get bored by 
 the same destroy the enemy bases thing over and over. What really kept me going in the single player 
 was the fact that you could upgrade your commander with different items, which unfortunately made 
 him/her ungodly powerful, but it was interesting watching the character evolve, especially when 
 playing the Chaos Space Marines.
  
  Overall, I have suggested this game to a number of my friends and all have enjoyed it, and I suggest 
 the same to anyone who enjoys a RTS or Warhammer in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spamchild1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  As if the first to parts of this series weren't enough, Relic decided to add 2 new races into the 
 mix (along with some new units for the already existing races) and one hell of a campaign mode. 
 If your computer has a nice graphics card and a decent amount of RAM, this game is amazing. Running 
 incredibly smooth, and sounding as realistic as possible this game practically reinvents the RTS 
 genre. A game this good has not been seen since Starcraft. The full zoom 3-D camera is amazing, 
 you can actually go eye level in the middle of the carnage. It takes a while to get a hang of each 
 race because they are all so wildly different, which is in no way a bad thing. In fact, The Necrons 
 have an entirely different ecenomy than the other 6 races, making them the most unique. The balance 
 of power was really well captured, any race can beat any race if you know how to manage your tropps 
 and resources. By the same token, and race can create a defence vs any other race as well. If you 
 are a fan of the first to games, as I was, you may be a ilttle dissapointed at first with the changes 
 they made to the existing races to make everything balanced. For example Predators (for both Chaos 
 and Space Marines) have been changed to a 5 vehicle slot use. Also alot of units that were very 
 strong were changed so that you hae a 1 limit, among these are Terminators, (both assualt and regular) 
 Obliterators, Possessed Space Marines, and Whirlwind Artillery Tanks. Once you get past the changes 
 you'll see the game as more balanced then it has ever been making an even more enjoyable experience. 
 This game should not be passed up by anyone who likes the W40K universe or anyone who likes RTS 
 games. Realistic sound, incredible texture and shadowing, and gameplay that will keep you addicted 
 for literally years, I recommend this game to every gamer out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marko218
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade Adds a lot to be an expansion. It could nearly pas to be a sequel if the engin had 
 been improved. Dawn of War is still a great game, but dark crusade makes it superb. The 2 new races 
 have both their own strengths and weaknesses, totaly unique units and economy. In Winter Assault, 
 we didnt get much compared to this. The Campaign was OK but to short and the Imperial Guard were 
 interesting in the begining but disapointed me and many others, once you got online you saw that 
 they were'nt much to brag about, since you realy had to know how to play them if you wanted to 
 succeed against the most played other races like Space Marines. Space Marines have so far been 
 very overpowered. Now with 2 new races in Dark crusade all the races have been fairly balanced, 
 since elite units and vehicles have gotten hard caps . This forces the player to use his units 
 more carefully and allowes a good player to win online games even if outnummbered. Although, this 
 game/expansion is not perfect. I have played the Necrons now and I see that many people will be 
 highly excited about playing them since I see they are a perfect noob race like the space marines. 
 easy to play with since they preform a huge brutish force witch most players prefer. But a truely 
 good necron player can't be defeated easly. The Tau are according to my opinion more balanced with 
 the other races and harder to play.
  
  The grafics and effects of battle have been improved, with more blood, action and the fanloving 
 finishing moves .
  
  And for the Tyranids: They deserve to wait for CoD 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGuy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  My Favorite: Having my Kroot chow down on Space Nazis.
  
  Least Favorite: No preview of a new army for next year. What's happening in 2007? This game won't 
 tell you but it does inform you that something's happening.
  
  Okay. Are you sick of RTS games? This might be for you. Are you sick of Dawn of War? Then you may 
 not want to pick this up; or any other RTS for that matter. Sure the campaign is set up in a much 
 cooler way and the two new factions to choose from play different from the other armies you've 
 tried but if you didn't think the first Dawn of War was anything special, this game probably won't 
 move you. The meat of the game is pretty much the same exciting rts bloodfest. On the other hand, 
 if you thought DoW was excellent but you were disappointed because the Winter Assault expansion 
 didn't bring much of anything new to the game, this is the expansion you've been waiting for. Two 
 completely new armies, a whole new campaign structure, and of course all the little additions to 
 the existing armies. When I started the campaign portion of this game, I was reminded most of (no, 
 not Risk but) the original Warhammer 40,000 (epic) game Final Liberation. Although that game was 
 horribly buggy and one could hardly get through a battle without crashing to the desktop, I did 
 appreciate the territorial attack and defend design of the campaign structure. In Dark Crusade 
 this structure has been revisited and vastly improved on making it easier to backup your attack 
 force or the battlefields they've already passed through. This way, you're able to attack what 
 enemy you want, when you want. Each victory not only gives you the battlefield as a part of your 
 territory but also brings honor guard squads (which follow your commander onto the field from the 
 beginning of a battle) , territory bonuses (from expanding your infantry and vehicle caps to allowing 
 your attack force two moves per turn) , or sometimes wargear to buff up your commander with. The 
 reason I prefer this campaign structure is because it's far more open than previous incarnations. 
 Where the last expansion set you on a relatively linear campaign for either order or disorder and 
 rarely set confrontations within those categories, now you take control of one army and attack 
 whoever you want. So even an Imperial Guard army can invade the Imperial Space Marines, though 
 many would say that the Guard are still outmatched on that one.
  The only thing this campaign structure disrupts are the little narrative segments. Where once we 
 were shown a little cartoon done with the game engine to tell the story between each battle, now 
 we are only given them before you try and take over an enemy HQ battlefield. No big loss in my 
 opinion. However, those of you who were disappointed to see the same Dawn of War movie at the beginning 
 of Winter Assault will be happy to see a new one showing a nighttime battle between Space Marines 
 and Necrons. It's not quite as long or as exciting as the original but at least it's new right? 
 Don't worry, they still have the old one running during the credits.
  The main (battle) portion of the game plays much the same way it has in it's previous two incarnations. 
 There are a few differences such as certain vehicle and squad capps which seems to have angered 
 a few but I can appreciate it as it brings the game closer to it's tabletop source and also prevents 
 armies that are way too one sided (bland even) but don't exactly adhere to a particular theme. They 
 did make these changes with the original game in mind. While you can't take a whole army of Ogryns 
 anymore (because no Imperial General would allow so many ab-humans to band together) , you can still 
 take all Khorne Beserkers if you like the idea of having an army completely devoted to the blood 
 god.
  *UN-Spoilers*What was I disappointed with? Well I had kind of gotten used to them throwing in a 
 cameo of the race to be featured in the next expansion. So I was expecting to be raided by some 
 Dark Eldar, Sisters of Battle, or (with hope but no expectations) the Tyranids as I was defeating 
 the last opponent. After crushing them I expected another little (end game) battlefield to open 
 up but no, the credits began to roll. *Spoiler* One preview we do get at the end of the game is 
 a short cinematic where the camera zooms out from the planet you just conquered which is now being 
 covered in small (from your perspective) explosions. Then it continues to zoom out further past 
 two other planets, also being covered in mushroom clouds. Without any narration or text we're only 
 told at this point 2007. What's coming in 2007? Who knows; many have speculated that it's going 
 to be DoW 2 featuring a new engine which would be able to handle the Tyranids this time. Perhaps 
 it's the next expansion pack. Many say that their running out of armies but I think that before 
 they put Dawn of War to bed, they need to add the other little allies such as the Imperial Inquisition 
 (a good way to intro the Sisters of Battle or expand on the Grey Knights added to the Marines this 
 game) or the chaotic hoards of the Lost and the Damned. Either way, they've got me hooked. Whatever 
 it is that's coming out in 2007, I'm going to get it. Hopefully this series will just continue 
 to get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beorncid
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  After buying this game i expected another RTS game. fun for the first night but then it just goes 
 away. no replay value.
  
  But this game is much different. The story of this game is just right. not complicated but means 
 a lot of action. as for game play i found it was lacking a little. but hey if i suggest anything 
 to this game would be that there be more visual effect. bigger explosions. possible screen shake 
 when large explosions are created.
  
  I find there are to many RTS games out there now a days. all of them have 3 or 4 army's. this guys 
 got 7
  
  I will continue to play this game probable until C&amp; C 3 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enterprise-E
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War Dark Cursade is a Stand alone game to the very good Dawn of War series. Dark Cursade 
 adds two new factions to the battle and adds several new units to all the other factions from the 
 Aldar all the way to the Space Marines. The two new factions are the Tao and the Necrons. Your 
 mission in the game is to take over the Planet of Kronus. The way you take over the planet is all 
 up too however which is a little different at first but it provides you with the freedom to attack 
 , defend, and move anywhere on the planet. There is also incentives for taking specific areas will 
 net you a bonus of some kind . Like Elite Soldiers or the abilty to stike anywhere on the map. 
 If you played Rise of Nations or Risk games then you will right at home. In overall this is a very 
 well made RTS game and it is face pace surprising enough. So far I have log in a 25 hours in the 
 game and that is with just one faction. There are 5 more factions i have to play thru. You will 
 not be disapointed if you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaronPwent
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Dark Crusade bring two new playable races as well as a new in interesting campaign 
 mode. Added to the roster are the forces of the Greater Good, the Tau empire, and the mechanical 
 terror of the Necrons.
  
  The Tau bring forth a very well balanced race. While the fire caste warriors provide devestating 
 ranged power, the kroot allies act as solid melee cannon fodder. Perhaps most devestating of all 
 are the Tau stealthsuit teams. These scout untis are extremely mobile once upgraded with jump packs 
 and are automatically infiltrated. This allows for early attacks on the enemy or rapid expansion.
 
  
  The Necron play somewhat like a slow lumbering beast. They start up somewhat slow but once they 
 get a force mobilized, the necrons are extremely hard to put down. One of the most interesting 
 aspects of the Necrons is that they do not utilize the standard requisition/energy requirements 
 for construction. Instead, they focus entirely on energy. Strategy points give a bonus to construction 
 speed instead of the typical requisition points. This means that the Necrons are the only race 
 that doesn't have to focus on early expansion to finance their army. Instead, they can consilidate 
 a main base and send out cheap squads of Necron warriors or wraiths to deprive the enemy of strategy 
 points.
  
  Along with two entirely new races, each of the old races gets a new unit to utilize. The Imperial 
 Guard get heavy weapon teams which effectively serve as mobile bunkers to provide a defensive point. 
 Orks finally get some devestating ranged power in the form of flash gitz. Eldar get the servants 
 of the Laughing God, the Harlequins. Space Marines add even more demon slaying power with Grey 
 Knight terminators. No doubht they can come in handy since the new Chaos unit is a Daemon Prince.
 
  
  All the new additions are very powerful in their own right, but become even more frightening when 
 used in combination with already existing units. A bloodthrister and a Daemon Prince together prove 
 a frightening duo.
  
  Beyond all the new additions, some new limitations have been added to improve gameplay. A limit 
 has been added on all the top end units. This means you can no longer field an army of all terminators 
 or all obliterators. This limit makes the lower tech units a valuable asset. Additionally, a limit 
 has been placed on turrets. This means you'll have to use units instead of turrets to defend positions 
 as well as making turret placement very important strategically. Unfortunately or perhaps fortunately 
 depending on your racial preference, orks can still build banners all over the place allowing them 
 to reinforce important positions more easily then other races.
  
  The new campaign mode is akin to that recently seen in Rise of Legends. The world is divided into 
 territories for you to conquer. As you conquer territory you can reinforce them with troops or 
 hire on honor guard units to add to your attack force. Further, as you play, you are rewarded with 
 wargear used to upgrade your commander and make him a more powerful force on the field of battle.
 
  
  Added to all this is the fact that Dark Crusade is actually a stand alone game instead of a pure 
 expansion. You need neither the original DoW or the Winter Assault expansion to play. Dark Crusade 
 is actually a reverse expansion. This innovative design makes it so Dark Crusade can act as a stand 
 alone for new commers and allow it to still have expanded functionality if you own Dow or Winters 
 Assault. Its really an interesting concept and a type of functionality that I definitely imagine 
 will be seen more in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinanox
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I have never wrote a review, but ill try.
  
  Nice game very good details, but i could be more detail landscape.
  The colours are grest and 
 impressive, best in the Warhammer series indeed! Nice singleplayer and the wargear was impressive.
 
  Good Game!
  Sound some disturbing but O. K
  And the title was also GREAT, when you hear: Warhammer 40.000 Dawn of war : Dark crusade you have 
 to try it! Multiplayer was grat too!
  And it could be some more units in the game, i mean that you could built.
  And the new Tau Empire 
 race was also very nice a high tech race with many facilities, impressive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorp188
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  Excellent game best in the series yet, with great new races recommended to all people that like 
 all-out war RTS acton!!!
  
  Good online play. Suited mostly to people that have previous games and play tabletop.
  
  10/10!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  The graphics are excellent. I just love zooming in close on battles and now am obsessed with taking 
 screenshots. Excellent sounds of gunfire yells quotes ect.
  
  actually change my rating 99999/10!!!!!!!!!
  
  Its highly addictive once you finish the campaign 
 you want to finish with all races (except for eldar, i hate them!) campaign much like Rise of Nations 
 conquer the world feature.
  
  once again my rating 99999/10!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emaus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  I am really bad at these games online. I mean haven't one a game bad. But I like the single player 
 experience. This expansion adds two races to the mix the Toa Empire and Necrons. The necrons are 
 a machine race, the Toa empire is a war machine like the Borg in star trek that wants to assimilate 
 you to the greater good or kill you. For me I enjoyed the Toa as the seemed very diverse with the 
 foot soldiers that can only kill at range and the Kroot which are more geared toward Melee. You 
 also have to choose between to mantras to study, one which will give you powerful assault tanks, 
 and the other which will give you more powerful Kroot. To me getting the kroot that ride on giant 
 beasts was way more fun than the tanks. The beasts smash opposing troop formations while the rider 
 shoots a gauss cannon at them, very nice. They also have stealth combat units that upgrade nicely. 
 So yes I like the Toa.
  
  The campaign is really a risk type conquest game of sorts. You start out with a territory and have 
 to capture other territories with the eventual goal of overrunning the other enemies home territories. 
 It is fun, but I have a beef with it. When you start you have nothing, on the otherhand you enemies 
 are already established all over the other territories on the map. This does mean instant combat, 
 but it would make for better strategy and be more fun to perhaps start equal and run for certain 
 places while having to keep reinforcements in mind. Then you would have to catch and hold territories 
 with more urgency. But other than that it works well and plays like any of the other in the series 
 which means well, very well. This go round I can kick up the resolution to 1770 / 1000 for the 
 first time which is nice.
  
  You also have a hero unit. You basically move the hero unit from territory to territory. It is 
 your pointer from where you make your next move. Winning territories can give you elite guard as 
 well as upgrades to your hero.
  
  On normal setting can be very difficult. I remember the first time I was attacked by the orks, 
 they were on mybase immediately, and they just overan me really bad. I mean large groups of vehicles 
 and soldiers over an d over again. It was my Kobiashi Maru for Star Trekies.
  
  Graphics: nice nothing new but still looks great. Resolutions can go higher.
  Sound: excellent.
 
  Value: 24.99 excellent value, can play all races in single player without other versions.
  
  Memorable Moments:
  I loved the Kroot units, the beasts are quit entertaining eating units, 
 and just smashing formations. Nice.
  Sucky Moments:
  You can just get overun sometimes, you have no chance. But it's supposed to work that way when 
 you have a weak teritory and the come for it I guess. They find you way too fast where on the other 
 hand it takes you some time to find them, the only real flaw I see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Lindo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  This game is a very interesting look on expansions. This game doesnt require the original to play 
 it, but instead if you have the original you get more armies to play with. This unique new style 
 is very cool. Some positive things are that you get two new races to play in multiplayer and in 
 campaign. Another thing that is a plus is the fact that you get to upgrade your commanding officer 
 with the rewards system. Some of the more negative things are that it has a very crappy online 
 system. The only other thing I didnt like was the fact that it didnt have other races from the 
 warhammer 40 k universe. Over all this game was pretty good if you like rts style gaming then pick 
 this one up. I give this game a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kostyakuzmin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Sorry for my English :/
  
  Well... As I said Warhammer 40.000 : Dawn of War  Dark Crusade is probably one of the greatest 
 expansions packs ever made. This game has fantastic graphics, amazing sounds and more than 10 hours 
 of excellent gameplayIt has some very small glitches, like the unit can go through the buildingAnyway 
 Dark Crusade is greatand I mean it. In the single-player campaign you are playing as one of the 
 seven factions and you have to take control over planet called Kronus. The only way to do it is 
 to destroy other six races...
  Warhammer 40.000 : Dawn of War - Dark Crusade has two new playable races-Tau and Necrons... They 
 are really strong and fun to play as one of them. And there is one more great thing about this 
 game-Dark Crusade is ''stand-alone'' expansion pack, so you can enjoy this game without having 
 original Warhammer 40k : Dawn of War....
  Soif you are going to buy a great RTS  Dark Crusade is right for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000 is a legend in the world of tabletop gaming, and since the Dawn of War RTS game 
 it has also been great in the world of PC gaming. Now the second expansion pack for Dawn of War 
 has been released, and Dark Crusade is one of the best expansion packs ever made for an RTS.
  
  In case you arent familiar with Warhammer 40k, it takes place in the distant future. Mankind 
 has expanded out into space and formed a great Empire. But the Imperiam is beset by constant war 
 against alien races. Dark Crusade takes place on the planet Kronos where 7 of these factions fight 
 for control of the planet and its dark secrets.
  
  GAME PLAY
  First, let me say that the devs deserve big kudos for making this expansion pack stand-alone. 
 In other words, you can play the full single player game as any of the races with only this expansion 
 pack installed. You only need the original game, and first expansion to play as all the races online.
 
  
  With that said, not much has changed since Dawn of War, and thats not really a bad thing. Youll 
 find that Dark Crusade works much like a standard RTS. What sets it apart is its ultra-violent 
 source material, action packed battles, and Risk style single player campaign.
  
  My only gripe about the game play is the GUI still takes up nearly half of the screen. I wish they 
 had included a way to minimize the GUI, or make it transparent.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics havent improved much from Dawn of War, and are starting to show their age. Granted, 
 theres still a high level of detail on the models, and there can be a lot of them on the screen 
 with no slow down. But when you zoom in you can really notice the low-res textures. They certainly 
 dont look bad, but they arent up to par with current standards.
  
  SOUND
  The game still sounds as good as ever. This is a game where you really need to crank up the bass 
 to get the full battlefield effect. Theres new sounds and music for the new races, but some of 
 it is recycled from Dawn of War as you might expect. My only real complaint here is that the narrator 
 sounds like hes trying too hard to sound tough and grim. The other voiceovers sound good, but 
 youll really only hear them in battles.
  
  VALUE
  This is the selling point for Dark Crusade. Gone are the linear campaigns of the past games, and 
 instead DC has a dynamic turn-based single player campaign. Its shown as a top-down view of the 
 planet, with each of the races controlling certain territories. You take turns attacking different 
 areas, and reinforcing areas you already control. When you attack a territory, the game switches 
 to the normal battlefield map for that area. Controlling certain areas will give you access to 
 special units or bonuses. In addition to this, your hero unit can be outfitted with war gear acquired 
 from accomplishing certain tasks in each level. You will also be treated to a custom cut-scene 
 for your race when you defeat one of the others.
  
  Although the campaign isnt long or difficult, it does breathe fresh air into the series, and will 
 attract many new fans. There arent a lot of improvements for the graphics and sound departments; 
 but the addition of two unique races and a dynamic campaign will greatly lengthen the life of the 
 series. If youre into Warhammer 40k, or just like RTS games, this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nafda
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I always found myself uninvolved with any other aspect for Warhammer fantasy or 40k, aside from 
 the books up until now. For those who don't want to sit there, painting models and forking over 
 the dough to make grand scale armies, here's a nice subsitute.
  
  Dawn of War feels like any other rts, you build up your army with buildings for upgrades or defense, 
 prepare your troops, and unleash your forces upon your enemy. It is the primary factor that happens 
 in all rts, so it didn't take much effort for Relic to excel in this field.
  
  The real key here is the armies themselves, as Dark Crusade features two new races: The mech equipped 
 for the most part, with advanced long range abilties, forces known as the Tau. On the flip side, 
 the undead terminator like forces of Necron have their own strengths as regeneration on the spot 
 can turn the tide of war easily in their favour.
  
  Another bonus is that all the other factions from the other games are included, without having 
 to purchase any of the other games, aside if you want to play multiplayer. A strong, Risk like, 
 campaign is the central part of this game, as you face off against the other factions in an attempt 
 conquer the entire planet of Kronus. Where as skirmish is still available, with all forces being 
 able to fight it out, the difficult seems oddly unbalance compared to campaign's difficulty.
  
  For example, on easy in skirmish, the AI is a push over, they barely fight back, and make no 
 effort to reclaim any strategy points, while on standard, the zerg fest begins quite early.
  
  Overall, your best bet for replay value is playing online or going through campaign on all 
 the races before sticking with skirmish. Once again, Relic used the license rights with great detail, 
 hitting each race's unique characteristics dead on, making this game a great purchase for fans 
 of Warhammer in general, RTS freaks, or your casual PC gamer looking for some flesh meat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halox2020
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  The third and probably the best expansion pack so far of the warhammer dawn of war games is already 
 out and many players are wondering whether is it worth playing and appreciating it than the previous 
 games, winter assault and dawn of war in many terms like base, gameplay, units, balancing between 
 races and many more. Well, the answer is absolutely YES.
  
  The new campaign mode, the two new races ( Tau Empire &amp; the Necrons) , and the new A. I. Behaviour 
 would keep players keep coming back to play the game until who know that the next expansion pack 
 would rise up again.
  
  Dark Crusade features a new type of campaign which is turn-based and real timed strategy campaign 
 for players who will be able to select all seven races to play on and the objective is simple. 
 To conquer the planet Kronus and to defeat all opposing races. Each race will have different story 
 in their point of view by conquering the planet. Besides that, players also have the ability to 
 customize their main commander making them a more reliable and tougher unit on the battlefield 
 than the previous games. Also it features another interesting unit called the honor guards which 
 are special units that are already available to you when you purchase them throught conquering 
 other enemy provinces. A good idea though because there are times players will be against more 
 than one enemy on the real time strategy battle and do not have any time to build up defences or 
 elite infantry to hold of the first assault of the enemy.
  
  As most players know Dark Crusade features two playerable races which is the Tau Empire and the 
 Necrons. The Tau Empire forces players to mix tactics and balance between melee and range units. 
 For example, a fire warrior squad (basic range infantry but weak melee attack) must be accompanied 
 by Kroot carnivor squad (basic melee unit) or else the player is going to have a hard time sending 
 a single squad. Also players will have to choose between the teachings of Kauyon or Mont'ka which 
 forces the player to choose to specialize in melee or range units, which is good for players to 
 make up their minds carefully, for they cannot change another path again and the teachings could 
 provide players with special unit that could turn the tide of battle.
  
  As for the necrons, they have units that have chances of reviving themselves back during battle, 
 and one customisable hero that players can select his ability to the player's own tactics. All, 
 necron infantry and heavy infantry are very hard to defeat but it will cost a lot and some of them 
 are slow in moving like the bacis necron warrior. Necron race also have a unique way of economy.
 
  
  As for the remaining 5 races, each has been added one new unit to allow players to think of new 
 ideas. Other than that, the limitation system has been used where certain units and vehicles in 
 the game have their limits for game balancing and to allow players to appreciate all units provided 
 to them. Also the new way of stealth mechanics have been improved and its now more fun to play. 
 All seven races are evenly balanced in terms of unit limitation, prices, upgrades, and many more.
 
  
  There are a few disadvantages, of Dark Crusade, in terms of A. I. behaviour in skirmish games, it 
 is easy even on the hard mode. Althought the new A. I behaviour is that it will send small parties 
 to cripple the player and capture all strategic points in the map before you, before sending the 
 main attack force to your stronghold. But if you manage to defeat the main force, the A. I.
  will probably take a very long time to reinforce the main force and will probably not advance up 
 the tech tree. But it's still a challenge to defeat the main force and gaining and holding the 
 strategic points on the map before the enemy does which is fun. But now, the game has been focused 
 on the combat where players now can gain resourses faster and upgrade faster and also produce more 
 units to fight.
  
  Overall the game has been awesome in terms of gameplay, the new campaign features which allows 
 players to come back and play for more until who know a new expansion will arrouse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newformz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  After playing this for several hours (mostly on a sunday) i was totally engrossed although campaign 
 mode is great, after several battles you do get bit bored and need a break. This is mainly due 
 to how incredibly tense this game gets, you feel so involved in it and the characters are so life 
 like in there humour and character. The sountrack fits perfect with great voices. Everything about 
 this game is amazing - i would say im addicted. The buildings and technology is just right, not 
 over the top! The amount of upgrades is great and the way everything is thought out is incredible, 
 alot of detail has gone into this game. If you zoom in on the battles you can see the detail, the 
 way the characters interact is awesome, you can see the orks picking up space marines in there 
 hands and just crushing them, then throwing them flying across the battlefield. There is alot of 
 gore in this game, maybe some of it a little OTT. ; ]
  
  Final note: Just make sure you have breaks from it or you will find yourself getting tired of it 
 and getting back into your older games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehhousemastor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  dawn of war was allways a great game it was darker than the other games like it a real dark hate 
 in a black place bitter wars there is no humantiy and it expaned with winter assault bringing the 
 imperal gaurd the most human of races and now with dark crusade 2 more races are added to the mix 
 the nercrons metal zombies who were desiveved in to forsaking there body by the ctan now they awaking 
 only to harvest for them. the other race who made there way on to the expansion are the tau a young 
 race seeking to expand there empire but also new units flood the game like the horrfiring damon 
 prince and the utra zelots the grey knights the call to battle has called its up to you to hear 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War Dark Crusade is truely an amazing RTS expansion . Although, its an expansion but you 
 don't require the first edition game to
  play . Smart move as it can reach out to everyone. Immediately ,upon it
  hit the stall ,its was 
 competely wipe out before I notoice it .
  
  This expansion add on 2 new fraction .The Tau and Necron .If you do possess the last two version 
 you will have more option in multiplayer
  mode. Nevertheless the single campaign should keep you busy and
  loose your sleep for a couple 
 of days. The texture of gameplay is just
  right . But don't expect the game to be easy going . As most of the time
  you will be fighting 
 for your life from the moment you step into the battle.
  Before you could actually build up your army you will find them attacking
  your resources and 
 putting pressure on your army . Even if you will to
  set the option to easy setting. Well, its not going to be easy .Be careful and
  be prepare to 
 face intense outcome if you don't plan wisely .
  
  Relic this time round introduce campaign map into the game. Good try.
  But its doesn't look much 
 appealing . Still the campaign map for
  Battle Of MiddleEarth looks great with that 3D effect . Graphic and Sound is equally well done 
 . Sound effect is good and you
  will hear more voices from the background . Overall , hardcore RTS
  gamers should not miss out 
 this game . What can I say... a game well
  done. So! What are you waiting for.... go get it before its all over!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neogenweb
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Never have I seen a series of game get better such as this. Dark Crusade has braught back our old 
 flame to RTS'. The first installment was a great game, but was still riddled with bugs and equality 
 problems between the races. Even after 5 patches, the problem was improved but not solved with 
 Winter assault, which introduced a new race to the series.
  
  But now, with Dark Crusade, all the races have they're pros and cons, and not just on or the other.
 
  
  The addition of the good and evil balance that the Tau and Necron fight for is a new addition and 
 a nice twist that could only be seen in the original figurine game.
  
  The only problem I encounter during gameplay, is a small lag in voices during an all out battle 
 well 4-5 armies collide and clash. You really have to know what your looking for to find it...
 
  
  Hopefuly they will release another expansion with even more races ;) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalSonic89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is a great add-on to an excellent game.
  
  Dark Crusade is the second expansion to the excellent Dawn of War game, the first being Winter 
 Assault which added the Imperial Guard as a playable faction and gave a new unit to each side (Mega 
 Armored Nobz- Orks, Khrone Berserkers- Chaos, Chaplin- Space Marines, Fire Dragons- Eldar) . This 
 expansion adds two sides- the Tau and the Necrons, and adds a new unit to each side (Heavy Weapons 
 Team- Imperial Guard, Grey Knights- Space Marines, Flash Gitz- Orks, Harlequin- Eldar, Daemon Prince- 
 Chaos) . This brings the grand total of sides to seven factions. This expansion is actually stand-alone, 
 meaning that it can actually be bought by itself. Though itll only allow you to play as only the 
 Tau and Necrons online (You can actually play as all seven factions in the Campaign) . I got the 
 game as it was released, and set it down to play immediately.
  
  Graphics: The graphics uses the same engine as DoW, but the graphics have been touched up a bit 
 and optimized for NVIDIA cards. The game runs a hell of a lot smoother for me and looks a bit nicer 
 than it has in the past. There are also some new effects for the deaths of infantry (bar most Necron 
 units) , bloody chunks will emerge from them. The blood stains also look much nicer compared to 
 the previous version. The new units are also pretty nice in appearance- You can see things like 
 blood stains on the Grey Knights Halberds, the barbed wire on the Heavy Weapons Teams emplacements, 
 and much more. Overall, the graphics look nice for its purpose, much nicer than most RTSs on its 
 level (Of course, with next generation RTSs like Company of Heroes, it is getting out dated) , 
 but there are some modeling issues (Clipping and some arent completely together) which arent 
 too noticeable, but they are there. 9/10
  
  Sound: Dark Crusade contains the soundtracks from the previous two games, as well as some new tracks. 
 The music fits in well with each side, and isnt too distracting or detrimental to game play. The 
 Tau have a nice Asianesque theme, the Imperial Guard with an upbeat Militaristic tune, a dramatic 
 tune for the Space Marines, and a kind of OMG, were going to get raped theme for the Necrons. 
 Instead of an actual tune for the game at the title screen, it now plays your factions main theme. 
 Overall, the music is pretty nice, but half the time I cant even hear it, although it is cranked 
 up as high as it can go. The unit voices are pretty nice as well. They fit into the sides overall 
 feel and appearance. The Tau units will have some Asian accents, the Imperial Guard has some British 
 accents and sound like average people they are. Some people have issues with some of the new voices 
 for the Force Commander and Imperial General as well as some other units, but Im fine with it- 
 9/10
  
  Game play: Heres where the fun begins. First, Ill go over some of the mechanics of the DoW games 
 that are carried over into here-
  
  Like other RTS's, DoW has a resource system. There are two resources, requisition and power, which 
 are used to get units, buildings, and research. Requisition can be gotten by capturing Strategic, 
 Critical, and Relic points and building listening points over the Strategic Points and Relic points. 
 Power is gotten through power generators. Both of these are used in upgrades, and the relics help 
 each faction get access to their super-unit.
  
  Most noticeably, there are no individual infantry units per say, with the exception of some heroes. 
 Units are grouped into squads, whose size varies depending on what kind it is. These squads can 
 then be upgraded with special weapons (There is a limit to how many can be in per squad, which 
 is upgraded to up the limit the bit by research) , as well as a squad leader for some that can help 
 keep up morale (I'll explain this later) , increase fire power, and increase the HP of the units.
 
  
  Morale is another unique system that these squads have. Morale determines the strength and HP of 
 the squad. If it's high, it'll be at maximum efficiency. If it decreases, it'll start to become 
 less powerful, and when it reaches a certain point, the squad will break, meaning they're pretty 
 much useless and up for the slaughter. All the sides have different varying levels of morale and 
 how to keep it high.
  
  There is also a cover system, which will give certain bonuses or penalties for units in them. Heavy 
 Cover will give a boost to the units defense, but will slow down their speed. Negative cover slows 
 units down and gives damages their defense rating. These factors can greatly help players in ambushes, 
 assaults, and defenses.
  
  Each side has a selection of vehicles, and their effectiveness depends on the side. Vehicles don't 
 work as a squad, unlike infantry, and come in individual units. They don't have morale either. 
 Vehicles are very useful, and can help turn the tide of battle of used correctly.
  
  Combat is in two categories- ranged and close combat. Some units are powerful at Range Combat and 
 worse at close combat, and vice versa. Some are balanced with it. Most vehicles are ranged, but 
 a certain few actually have some CC capabilities. Now in CC, you can see units execute special 
 sync kills as they are called, meaning that youll see a finishing move of sorts. Those are always 
 pretty entertaining to watch.
  
  The game follows a rock-paper-scissors format, meaning that certain unit types are effective against 
 other unit types. Some vehicles are only effective against infantry, but may be weak against other 
 vehicles. Some infantry are tailored specifically for fighting off infantry, but may be weak against 
 vehicles. This system is in place to try and discourage spam rushes, and give the victims of those 
 a way to fight them off.
  
  And of course, heroes. Heroes have varying effects from side to side, but they all have a common 
 feature- Kickass, strong, and helps keep morale high. Heroes also have different powers, ranging 
 from morale strengthening/invulnerability, increase in strength, total invulnerability, special 
 attacks, and other things. Some heroes can be attached to squads, and most have an aura effect 
 to units around them. There are also special units that the sides can build, which are powerful 
 as well.
  
  Let me give you a crash course in the factions of the Warhammer 40k world. Remember, some aspects 
 of the story are sacrificed for game play.
  
  With DoW and WA, we have a total of five playable sides.
  
  Space Marines: The elite arm of 
 the Imperium of Man, the Space Marines consist of genetically and cybernetically enhanced warriors, 
 who belong to different legions. They are recruited from different worlds, and infused with genetic 
 materials of the long lost primarchs, who were cloned from the Emperor. Space Marines fight in 
 the most dangerous and important battles. Space Marines are probably one of the more balanced sides 
 and probably the best heroes. They are probably the most newbie friendly race as such.
  
  Orks: Orks are a crude alien race prevalent in the Milky Way. They are cut into many different 
 tribes, and often fight the other races and even themselves. This side is probably the wildest 
 one, and comical in some aspects. They are very heavy on rushing, mass numbers, and CC. Their population 
 system works differently, which presents a bit of challenge to some players. The Orks have been 
 given the short end of the stick in recent changes, but they still have a considerable player base.
 
  
  Chaos: The forces of Chaos are demonically tainted Space Marines who've been turned to evil. They 
 followed the Primarch Horus who became tainted with the forces of Chaos, and in turn became as 
 well. When Horus was slain by the Emperor, they fled back into the Eye of Terror, where they still 
 reside today, and launch massive assaults out of it known as Black Crusades. Like the Orks, they 
 rely on rushes as well. They have a lot of morale damaging weapons too. But you need to pay attention 
 to the Chaos far more than the Orks, since they do require a degree of micromanagement.
  
  Eldar: Eldar are pretty much Space Elves, to be frank. They were once a thriving race, but they 
 fell to sin and hedonism, and created the Chaos god Slaneesh, who destroyed their worlds and killed 
 off much of their population, leaving the Eye of Terror (An area where space meets the warp, which 
 is the dimension of faster than light travel. It is also where the Chaos reside) in its place. 
 These are probably one of the harder sides to play with, and involve much more micromanagement 
 and strategy. Their units are flimsy, but powerful if used correctly.
  
  And with WA, we get the Imperial Guard.
  
  Imperial Guard: The Imperial Guard is the backbone 
 of the Imperium of Man, with their numbers in the billions, and fights many of its wars. They are 
 made up of ordinary humans, and are deployed in mass numbers. This Imperial Guard takes after the 
 Cadian regiments, which as influences from WW II and other sci-fi things (Fans of Starship Troopers 
 may notice a resemblance between the Guardsmen and the Mobile Infantry) . They focus heavily on 
 ranged fire power and armored vehicles. With the exception of heroes and Ogryns, the units have 
 little to no close combat power. In mass numbers with vehicle support (And they also have the best 
 artillery) , they are a force to be reckoned with. Their hero works differently from others. The 
 Imperial General is a squad, and can be upgraded with other Heroes to boost his power. Those heroes 
 can be built separately from the Command center, and attached to squads for varying powers. Priests 
 increase a power of a squad and can make vulnerability for a short time, and Commissars can hold 
 up morale and even execute people to keep it up. Imperial Guard is also a hard side to play with, 
 and usually require skilled players.
  
  And Dark Crusade adds two sides:
  
  Tau: An advanced Alien race, peaceful in nature but not afraid to fight for an ideal they call 
 the Greater Good . The Tau was originally found by the Imperium as a barbaric race, but they lost 
 contact with them due to a warp storm. After it reopened years later, they found the Tau had become 
 very advanced and were already creating an empire. The Tau is like the IG in some ways, relying 
 on ranged fire power, and having specialized units for close combat. Appearance wise, many of them 
 have battle suits and have some influences from anime and manga. They are very advanced as well, 
 and more open to races than the Imperium of Man. The Tau utilizes devastating futuristic weapons 
 and has a very long range. They utilize units like the Kroots and vespid stingwings for close combat, 
 and their own units for ranged. Necron: The Necron are an evil entity, who were once an alien race, 
 but came under the influence of the C'tan, evil beings, who used them to try and destroy the dominant 
 race, only known as the Old Ones. They had been trying to extend their lives to fight the growing 
 radiation from the sun, and the C'tan offered them immortality if they would help them fight the 
 Old Ones. Their souls were stripped, and put into metallic bodies which were able to regenerate 
 if damaged. The Old Ones utilized the Eldar, and even created the Orks to try and fight them. They 
 were too powerful, and slowly they killed people for the C'tan to devour. The Old Ones were the 
 master of the Warp, and with their defeat, it became unstable and the first Daemons began to manifest. 
 Named the Enslavers, they swept across the galaxy and killed off much of the life. With no food 
 source, the Necron and C'tan went into stasis, waiting for a time when the Galaxy was populated 
 again. Now it has, and they are reawakening, restarting their reign of terror. Necrons are slow 
 and bulky, but their weapons are powerful and deadly. They also have a chance of having some of 
 their units resurrect after being killed. They use a unique economy- only power is used, and capturing 
 points only helps them speed things up. The Hero can be upgraded with special powers that let him 
 do a variety of things, like teleport, resurrect, disable weapons, and much more. They can eventually 
 raise their HQ building into a monolith, a massive pyramid-like structure that can devastate pretty 
 much everything. If it gets close to destruction, it simply warps back to base and goes back to 
 being a structure
  
  Onto the Campaign mode- This campaign is different from the past two games- in previous games, 
 the campaign was a series of missions back to back limited to a certain range of sides. DoWs campaign 
 was exclusively a Space Marine campaign, and players werent able to play as the other sides. In 
 WA, they allowed players to play as the Order (Imperial Guard and Eldar) and Disorder (Chaos 
 Marines and Orks) , meaning that the player had decide who to use in the last mission creating a 
 unique ending. Unfortunately, these were short and could be completed quickly. In Dark Crusade, 
 they decided to let the player play as any of the races in a new campaign utilizing a Meta map 
 (Used in many games like Rise of Nations) . Each faction has a different reason for being on the 
 planet, but I wont get into those here. The player starts off with a stronghold and some territory, 
 and they come into conflict with the other races. Some territories have special game modes when 
 you assault them, and usually give some sort of special ability if you capture it. For example, 
 there is one territory that has a space port. Capturing it will allow you to attack any territory 
 regardless of where it is. Other sides will also try to assault your territories, and you must 
 fend them off. Luckily, you can build structures on the map from when you took it that will carry 
 over into any defense missions (Any of them built near the enemys base will be wiped out) , and 
 you can use this to your advantage by being able to pump out powerful units quickly. You can also 
 garrison a defense force which will start off on the map.
  Each territory has a rating which can be seen when you select it. This will usually determine how 
 many bases there are and what kinds of units will be put into the fray. Each faction can also customize 
 their hero that leads their forces. As you take over territories, fend off attacks, and accomplish 
 other feats, you can gain access to unique items called war gear that can make your hero more powerful. 
 Also, you can gain access to Honor Guard units, which can be gained by taking over specific territories. 
 These are special versions of the infantry that you already have, but much more powerful. You start 
 off with these guys when you assault a territory, and are very helpful when you attack ones with 
 a high defense rating.
  
  The majority of the maps are unfortunately skirmish-like in nature, with only a couple with special 
 triggers. The strongholds usually have unique maps and special triggers. I feel that they couldve 
 actually done a lot more with the other territories than using skirmish maps with little direction. 
 Nonetheless, the campaign is pretty entertaining, and reasonably long.
  
  Onto some game play changes of Dark Crusade- Dark Crusades use of gibbing has a use for the Kroot 
 units of the Tau- they can eat these to gain health. The Necrons never truly die, and can be resurrected 
 by the Necron Lord if they dont do so themselves. They also have a unique economy which I mentioned 
 earlier.
  
  The Tau have a unique tech tree- towards the end of their tree, the player must decide whether 
 to build the Montka Command Post or the Kauyon Command Post, which will determine what kind of 
 units you can access. Only one can be built, giving the player a choice as to what kind of strategy 
 they want to pursue. The Tau dont have access to turrets though, as they are meant to be an offensive 
 side.
  
  Each side has gotten new units. The Space Marines get the Grey Knights, powerful Psyker units who 
 excel at close combat and daemon units. The Eldar get the Harlequin, a powerful CC unit. the Chaos 
 get the Daemon Prince, an upgrade for their Chaos Lord. The Orks get the Flash Gitz, units who 
 excel at ranged combat, and Imperial Guard get the Heavy Weapons Team, a powerful support unit 
 that excels at anti-infantry and can be upgraded to be effective against vehicles or become more 
 effective against infantry. In terms of effectiveness, Id say the Heavy Weapons Team is probably 
 the most useful, as it is a needed addition to the IG to fend off rushes and heavy infantry. The 
 Flash Gitz is pretty useful as well. I also love the appearance of the Grey Knights.
  
  In terms of general game play, there have been some minor changes in the tech tree and the use 
 of hard caps. Hard caps are limits on how many of something can you build. In DoW and WA, there 
 used to be an issue with people spamming the units at the end of their tech tree- like the Terminators 
 for the Space Marines. The units at the end of the tech trees are now capped at a certain limit, 
 so only a few of them can be built. This forces the player to try and use units from earlier tiers, 
 which I think is a good thing. Now people can try to use strategy instead of spamming units. Turrets 
 have also been capped, preventing the use of turret spams early in the game. The cap can be upped 
 with each stronghold you build, but keep in mind these structures require lots of resources to 
 build. Overall, I feel these changes are for the better, and force the player to use some strategy 
 rather than rely on spam rushes or excessive turtling.
  
  The stealth system has been revamped as well, and can be used in a strategic since. Most units 
 when in stealth stay that way, and can do a variety of actions without their cover being blown. 
 They can be detected by certain units, heroes, and abilities (in the case of the Long Range Scanner 
 of the IG) . Though this does lead to an issue Ill mention below.
  
  One thing I notice that is lacking in most DC maps is the cover system. It is all but non-existent, 
 and I feel this is a shame since I really liked the system. Some issues that this game has already 
 at start are these-
  
  -Tomb Spyders of the Necrons seem to resurrect regardless of chance.
  -Necron Lords dont ever 
 die- their corpses can be resurrected at anytime.
  
  These two issues are quite annoying if you killed them in your base, and you leave you base to 
 push on an offensive. Stealth is also an issue in some regards, especially with the Tau. The Tau 
 get a stealth team right off the bat, and they can harass players until they can manage to detect 
 them in some way. IMO, this is very annoying.
  
  Also, I personally think the Tau is very overpowered in some regards, and I warn players not to 
 take them lightly when you fight them. Another issue I wish they wouldve fixed is the issue with 
 sync kills. Some vehicles or super units who excel at close combat may have sync kills, which in 
 the process they become invulnerable. This is very annoying when you have sides like the Eldar 
 or IG who can fall very easily to such vehicles.
  
  9/10
  
  Overall, Dark Crusade is a very fun expansion. I can say this is possibly one of the biggest and 
 greatest expansions for an RTS made to date. Most RTS expansions usually add some new units, a 
 campaign, a new faction that may be generic or recycled from the older factions, and/or some new 
 game play features. Dark Crusade adds two units to the fray, gives a new unit to each side, and 
 revamps many aspects of the DoW formula. Dark Crusade has a great replay value- you can play the 
 campaign as many times as you like as any side you want, play skirmish games, or play online to 
 test your skills against other players. Everything about this game is great, and I personally think 
 it is an excellent addition to the series.
  
  Pros:
  -Great Graphics
  -Great Mechanics
  -Nice sides
  -Good music
  -Kill Syncs!
  -Good challenge and strategic
 
  
  Cons:
  -Some annoying unit voice overs
  -Sometimes music is hard to hear
  -Campaign shouldve had more unique maps rather than some generic skirmish maps
  -Game play issues 
 and imbalance
  -Sync kill bug
  
  Overall, its great. If you like DoW/WA, youll certainly like this. Also, the community is very 
 active in modding, and the Meta-Map in the campaign can be modified to become larger or add in 
 new factions. There are many user made maps and mods to choose from, and Relic is pretty good with 
 relations with the community. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batsnaxs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Get this game or bad things will happen! THAT is how good this game is. Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of 
 War - Dark Crusade is plainly THE best RTS game to ever be fathomed by the human mind. The game 
 can be bought at the low low price of Thirty Dollars. For a game as amazing as this it is amazing 
 that the price is so low. I would have bought this game evn if it was Sixty bucks. The gameplay 
 ROCKS and the Graphics are sw33t. The sound of explosions makes your eardrums tingle with joy. 
 If you choose not to like this game, you are missing out on a LOT of pure blowin', smashin' and 
 killin' fun. So my recomendation is simply : Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainaxe8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  All i have to say is that i nearly cried with glee as i decimated the Campaign game after many 
 long hours of game time. 10/10, absolutely the way an expansion is done. Praise the four powers! 
 I loved every minute of the game and will keep to loving it until the next one, hopefully that 
 one will be even better. New races, more units and a whole new Campaign style, everything this 
 game needed. Play style is as it was before, don't change a thing. If you want a game that can 
 last a long time, with great replay value? This is the one. That is all I can say, there is no 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Hunter44
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent stand-alone expansion for Dawn of War. It seems to change lots of things such 
 as upgrades, tech and such to the existing races, and also adds two new races, of whom are very 
 fun.
  
  The campaign is very very good, and has actually gotten me to where I jsut can't keep my hand off 
 the mouse during it. It seems you always want to keep playing, and right when your done and you 
 get your races special end cutscene, you just get urged to play the campaign as another race till 
 your done with em all!
  
  The skirmish and multiplayer are now much mroe fun with more maps, more races to battle it out, 
 and possibly more people willing to play.
  
  I suggest you check this out. Its a blast, and you shoudl only stay away fromt his game if you 
 didn't like the other DoWs or you dont like rts games, otherwise, CHECK IT OUT! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimMustang
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game gives you choices and lots of them. 7 races to choose from (although you need the 2 other 
 games to unlock the other races dawn of war and winter assault) . The single player is like the 
 Risk board and the rules are about the same. One move per turn, can re-enforce an area, get 'points' 
 for controling an area. The more points the more things you can get (special powers, upgrades, 
 ect.) Coolest thing is that you get a general or a hero and every win you get, you can upgrade 
 your hero with missles, armor, guns, and all that cool stuff. I have played almost all the RTS 
 out there and I still love the Dawn of War series. This game totally gets the A+ not only for the 
 game play but also its only $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultramarine777
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS THE BEST, it has a perfect gameplay and its just perfect. this game features 7 races 
 that figth for a planet called kronus n the single player campaign. THIS GAME DESERVES a high score 
 for being the best and it never gets boring. Yes it is highly addictive but its the funnest thing 
 ever. Im doing the single player campaign with the Spacemarines (a race in the warhammer 40000 universe) and 
 the game is not boring. if u played the original then u will like this one but if u are a new player 
 then lets see how many hours u wil be playing in a day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean4566
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 20, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  When Relic launched Dawn of War may people said it was their favourite RTS ever made. It combined 
 the Warhammer tabletop series with RTS elements and the grossness only seen before in First Person 
 Shooters. Earlier last month Relic launched Company of Heroes, an amazing WW2 RTS. (And probably 
 my favourite RTS to date.) Now Relic on a roll of success, has recently made Dawn of War: Dark 
 Crusade. It features 7 sides of play in Single Player, and 2 sides in multiplayer. (If you own 
 Dawn of War Gold it has 7 sides in multiplayer.) The graphics are very well done, even though their 
 not as good as CoH. The textures on the ground are well done, and the unit designs are also well 
 done. The sound has everything you would expect from this kind of game. Nothing Special, but it 
 also of high quality. The gameplay of this title really shines though. One match can be 20min long 
 where another can be over 2 hours, and because of the 7 sides, Army painter, and huge quantity 
 of maps this is a title any DoW or RTS gamer should pick up. I can't wait for DoW 2!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  This Expansion added new 2 new races and alot of new stuff to do, top notch.
  
  
  Gameplay: The expansions offers 2 new Races which is The Necron, Evil Robots summoned to the earth 
 to annhilate all life. And the Tau which is aliens that fight for The Greater Good whatever that 
 means. Also a new Campaign mode using conquest to take over the planet. With these new races and 
 alot of new things available the game finally feels complete, i'm not saying more expansions aren't 
 welcome, but with DoW, Winter Wars, Dark Crusade, this sure is a great collection. The new units 
 all look great and are all unique. Graphics : The Graphics hasn't been updated since DoW, but it's 
 still the best RTS Graphics available imo, units up close look very detailed and realistic, in 
 a futuristic way ofcourse.
  
  Sound : Sound also is pretty good, not very much variation in what units say when you point them 
 where to go, but still its nothing i mind, its all good.
  
  Conclusion: A Excellent Expansion with alot of new stuff to do, so with all expansions and the 
 main game compiled into one, makes this superb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Relic has worked its magic into the Warhammer 40K universe yet again. This game is a must have 
 for all RTS fans. They have taken an already great series &amp; made it even better
  
  Gameplay: With the introduction of the world map and 2 new races, the Tau &amp; Necrons, it adds 
 another layer of strategic depth for the player. Personally though, while I liked the world map, 
 I find that it is too easy to naivgate as the AI seems to fight among themselves more than fight 
 me! The actual strategic missions are'nt a cakewalk though. The fast &amp; brutal nature of the 
 combat ensures that there is never a dull moment in the gameplay. The new races play well and while 
 I think the Necrons are slow buggers, they sure pack a punch in combat.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: A bit dated, but hey, it still looks good so who cares. To me, it strikes 
 just the right balance between realism and comic relief. I still like the voice acting though. 
 Its a bit campy but suitable IMHO, for the context of the game.
  
  Value: With 7 races to run thru in Single Player, it will take some time just to complete the game 
 with all the races. Add in multiplayer and Relic has got a winner in their hands. Now where the 
 hell is the 2007 sequel? I want Tyranids!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:46 am PT
Review:  I've never played Dawn of War before but because i was very impressed with RELIC's Company of Heroes, 
 i'm giving this game a chance. This game played faster than Company of Heroes and you also have 
 to micro-manage your soldiers more. What i like about this game is the brutal fights and cool looking 
 effects. There are 7 ( !!! ) factions to choose from but it's quite dissapointing that each faction 
 is not that much different from each oher except the graphical department. This game, like Company 
 of Heroes is NOT a base building RTS, and a truly action/battle oriented RTS. Very fun and interesting 
 but Company of Heroes is WAY BETTER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BZO66
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  3 cheers to RELIC for putting out 3 outstanding games in a row based on one series!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  i never had the time to play the board game due to the fact that i am an older player and did not 
 have the time due to living the life of a grown up (wife/kids/work/bills) but i was ALWAYS curious 
 about playing the game and would occaisionally sneak a peek or two when i ventured into the local 
 TBS COMICS spot to let my son buy some pokemon cards or whatever, then came the PC version and 
 once i got the 1st game I WAS HOOKED!
  
  thank you RELIC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Relic put in a lot of work in this project and its obvious if we go through the different components 
 of the game.
  To start off, the very fact that Relic made this a standalone is a great idea. This way players 
 get the entire experience without having to go through the previous games. Of course in order to 
 get the authentic storyline players would have to buy the earlier DOW games. Further, in order 
 to play multiplayer with more than just the two new races, players would have to get the previous 
 games. This is an arrangement that is not too restrictive on Relic's part and is reasonable for 
 both them, and their customers.
  The different races available to players in single player campaign and skirmish in this game are 
 seven altogether. The older ones of the Space Marines, Orks, Eldar, Chaos; then the Imperial Guard; 
 and finally the two new ones of the Necrons and the Tau. As mentioned earlier, with this standalone 
 by itself, players can use only the Necron or Tau in multiplayer.
  The campaign mode is similar to the War of the Ring from BFME II. You can play as any one of the 
 races (thus 7 different campaigns) and still get a unique enough experience. Again, the equitable 
 nature of this game on both the part of Relic and the players is that given the price, players 
 get a unique enough campaign while at the same time Relic doesn't have to invest too much in seven 
 storylines. Basically, in the campaign, a player has to beat the other races for conquest of different 
 regions of Kronus. Each race has a home region and defeating the race in their home region results 
 in the race's offense abilities being knocked out - in a way eliminating the race from the game 
 (except for mop up operations) . Of course, actually doing so is a nightmare as the race is very 
 hard to beat in their home regions. That challenge of course adds to the game's value. Further, 
 each region can be garrisoned with troops and the whole experience is very user-friendly in nature. 
 Perhaps the graphics and sounds weren't that different from earlier DOW games but I found them 
 to be quite new to me. The demolishing explosions of buildings, ruined carcasses of vehicles, etc. 
 had a lot of realism in them. The audio effects were quite a treat too - specially for the vehicle 
 units imo.
  In summary, this game is a major victory to tuck under Relic's belt. A splendid job and most of 
 all, at a very reasonable price. More companies should take this bang-for-your-buck example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nocturn614
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Long story short here. I had never played War Hammer before and decided to try this one. After 
 playing thru almost one race I can say I really like it. It's definitely a step above Warcraft 
 3 both in game play and graphics. I referred to Warcraft 3 because I know how many people liked 
 Warcraft and it makes it easy to relate to. Graphics: The graphic engine is where you would expect 
 it to be. You need a decent video card to get the best out of the game but if you are on this site 
 I bet you have a decent card anyway.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay brings in somewhat new concepts that make the troops and building management 
 better than similar games. The Bottom Line and Conclusion: I you liked Warcraft 3 than you will 
 like War Hammer! It's a $30 well spent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyfine
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Super game. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzraeLskI
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  I waited for this game a whole year and I bought it the day that it came out but I found it not 
 to be so glorious. Don't get me wrong I love Warhammer 40k and I own the 2 previous parts but this 
 one didn't really grow on me. Sure I loved the Necrons and the Tau but it almost seems like this 
 game was made just for online play because you get only the new races but the single player campaign 
 SUCKS. I mean it's all the same with every race exept you get a different starting and ending movie. 
 And the second good thing is upgrading your commander but that is all there is to it. It looks 
 like you're fighting to see the whole map in one colour and then you start again and paint it differently. 
 I really liked this game but I expected a little more from it. And I leave the final verdict to 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alenfishman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Ive never seen a game with such a large, divers group of races. There are now 2 added races to 
 the existing 5 from the previous dawn of wars. The Tau and Necrons add an interesting new spin 
 to the game. With new characters added to all the races. The Good: it appears that they have raised 
 the over all rate of requisition because I find myself after a certain point, like never running 
 out. It also looks like they added more damage to the over all look of the game, all units and 
 structures look a little cleaner or scuffed based on what race you are. They also changed a lot 
 of unit structures, some units can have more reinforcements then before, they also seemed to make 
 more units that can infiltrate (cloak) .
  
  The Bad: 2 things really come to mind, the first would have to be the limit to certain units. Like 
 for example a tank, you can only have a max of 2 on the field, and some units like for example 
 the Orc Nobsquade. You can only have 2 of these units on the field at a time. Instead of allowing 
 people to just strategize and build what would work, they force pretty much everyone who playes 
 the game to only use the limited amount of the good units. This can be argued on being a good or 
 bad thing, I mostly think it limits your creativity with creating a attack strategy. The second 
 thing that I think is a problem in the game is infiltration detection. I have noticed that some 
 races have a huge advantage in this aspect while other races have no more then 1 unit that can 
 detect infiltrated units. Based on what I have noticed the tau and the space marines first scouting 
 unit they can build can infiltrate. Now this is a vary useful tactice. But other races cant get 
 the ability to detect infiltrated characters until late in the game. Like the Orcs, only the war 
 boss can detect infiltrated units, and you dont receive him for some time. The good thing is that 
 both of these problems can pretty much be fixed in patches.
  
  Conclusion: This is an amazing RTS, and I have played a lot. It is a lot of fun to play, but hard 
 to master. If you are a RTS fan, this game if full of constant action that you will never get enough 
 of. Even thought it has these few minor aspects that need to be fixed, and some would argue that 
 they arent even problems but positive aspects. All in all I give this game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaronhat
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  The problem with dawn of war is that it is to fast paced. instead of using the dephs the warhammer 
 world provides, it turns into a mess and thats to bad.
  warhammer 40K is all about tactic battles unfortuntly you can do that in the game ur units get 
 all jumbeled up and u find urself sending a mess of troops and no tactics. if we look at company 
 of heros that uses the same engine and basic consept it has plent of tactics. this is due to two 
 main things first the game runs at a proper speed that allows you to react and arrange your man. 
 the second thing is that squads last longer under fire again allowing you to decide what to do 
 with them.
  
  all in all its a good game to bad it becomes to messy and not really allowing for the great tactic 
 combat warhammer is all about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 17, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Hot on the heels of its outstanding new real-time strategy game Company of Heroes, experienced 
 developer Relic is back with the second expansion to its excellent 2004 game Warhammer 40,000: 
 Dawn of War, and it's a great update. Dark Crusade introduces two interesting and powerful new 
 factions to Dawn of War, raising the total number of different playable armies to a whopping seven. 
 It also features a new strategic campaign structure that lets you direct any of these seven sides 
 in a massive war for planetary supremacy, with shades of the classic board game Risk. Some new 
 units for the returning factions and plenty of new skirmish maps are also included, and you don't 
 even need to own Dawn of War or its first expansion pack to enjoy most of this (you only need the 
 previous games to unlock the older factions specifically for use in multiplayer matches; you have 
 access to every race when playing solo) . What with all that it has to offer, Dark Crusade comes 
 across as much more than your typical real-time strategy expansion pack. It's one of the best RTS 
 games around strictly on its own merits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lubu7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000 Dark Crusade captures the hellish universe of the 41 millenium, where ther is 
 only war. The idea of having you choose a race and guide it on a Rome Total War map of Kronus is 
 the greatest thing since the first release of the Warhammer series. Choose who to attack, reinforce 
 your territories, gather technology and troops to overwhelm your opponents and claim the war torn 
 planet of Kronus for 1 of the seven races available.
  
  In DC, you have the choice of the 5 previous races, which have recieved some spify new units, plus 
 the 2 totaly new ones. The Tau and the Necrons join the fray, and each bring with them a whole 
 new style of play. Forget what you think you saw in Winter Assault, the Necrons and the Tau live 
 upto their name on the battlefiled.
  
  Gameplay: You are given a choice to lead 1 of the 7 leaders of the races that fight for the world 
 of Kronus. You get to be the leader and your only goal is to unify the planet at all costs. To 
 do this, you will need to capture terrritories and defend your own. As their are 6 other races 
 fighting with you, things can get a little hectic. First off, the game is live at all times. You 
 build a Listening Post or a Demon Pit in the territory you that you had just taken from the Eldar. 
 Well guess what, the next time you fight for that territory, the buildings are exactly where you 
 left them. All of them (unless they fall in the zone of the attack enemy) . So once you get an enemy 
 on the ropes, build up, build up, and build some more. And to prevent turret spaming, there is 
 a limit of how many you can build per HQ structure.
  
  Moving away from battle, you get the map of Kronus. Here you will see a good number of provinces 
 and respective armies on them. Also you will notice special items (like Marine Veteran Squads and 
 Guardsmen squads, as well as support items) . Those special items, once in your controll, allow 
 you to get an advantage in battle. The squads you see, make up your bodyguard and show up on the 
 battle map when you invade/defend a territory. And the best thing, these units do not count towards 
 your cap limit.
  As for special attributes, they give you bonuses and other cool stuff to help you conquer the planet 
 of Kronus.
  
  Last, the character you select to play as, becomes you. After battles, you will have a chance to 
 add physical attributes that will make your general that much stronger. And these physical upgrades 
 will forever be seen on the commander unit in battle. Not to mention the extra goodies they grant 
 in battle.
  
  As for the actual gameplay, its as the other Warhammer 40,000 titles before. To make the long story 
 short, it basicaly a random map (though the map coincide with the provinces you choose) , where 
 your goal is to over run the enemy by destorying their HQ building. Graphics
  Same as in the previous Warhammer 40,000 titles. And all the graphic qualities can be adjusted 
 for maxim loook or performance.
  
  As for the character models, they look like very good renderings of the minuteres, complete with 
 all the chapter color schemes. Dark Crusade does a great job of putting many sweet looking units 
 on the map for you to kill and be killed by.
  
  Sound
  Voice acting could use some work, since the cleche dialogues can get irratating during dranw out 
 battles. but other than that everything else sounds good. (granted that I do not actually know 
 how a bolt blaster sounds :P)
  
  Value
  Remeber how we all wanted to see Starcraft 3. Well this is the same thing. But this time its real. 
 So the break down is like this: - If you are a fan of Warhammer 40,000 = GET IT RIGHT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  - If you liked the previous games = GET IT RIGHT NOW!!!!!!!!!!!
  - If you like RTS = Check it out
  - If you made fun of anyone who you saw playing the minutures 
 = GET IT RIGHT NOW AND SEE WHAT YOU HAVE BEEN MISSING OUT ON!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiling_bull
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  The storyline is huge improvement compared to the DOW and WA. Player now has the choice of in terms 
 of strategic control rather than following a standard linear story that both DOW and WA did.
  
  Unfortunately, this campaign game itself still feels weak and not as satisfying as it should 
 have been. Just to name 1 flaw, for example, they should have design the map using a simple 2 map 
 instead of having the map on a planet. Using a globe as the background, it planet seems a bit congested 
 on1 side of the planet.
  
  The campaign map also seems a bit lacking in depth as well. Choice of building on the campaign 
 map will make the game much more interesting.
  
  All these while, DOW / WA is more for multiplayer game. Based on this light, DC definitely lives 
 up to its name. For the RTS itself, I definitely have no complains. I am a big fan of WA and DOW 
 so the RTS part is ok to me except the part on restricting the number of units per type of infantry/vehicles. 
 But I guess this is more to improve the game play and getting used to it.
  
  As for balancing, I am not surprise about any balance issues as relic ALWAYS has balance issue. 
 However, I am very confident it will be fixing in few months time.
  
  To conclude, its a must buy for DOW and WA fan.
  If only they have put more features into the 
 campaign map, I would have rated it as PERFECT.
  In terms of multiplayer, its definitely must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazuma334
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off, this game is pretty damn good. It looks nice, it plays nice, and the sound is for 
 the most part pretty good. This is also my first Dawn of War game and it's a pretty impressive 
 package and the campaign comes with all the races from the old games including the two new ones. 
 I'm basing this review on the game as a new, not as an real expansion. Gameplay: Smooth. After 
 the tutorial which explains things very well, things get started off very fast. This is also not 
 like those grind for resources type of RTS. Instead, you have to capture points on the map called 
 strategic points in order to gain resources. Also, there are relics, which grant you access to 
 powerful new units that you can't build without and critical locations, which if you control enough 
 of you win. Building things are fast and you should get an army within no time. Also, at first 
 it might seem strange that your squad cap is limited to 20. But build up your squad reinforcements 
 and give them a leader and each squad can reach up to 10 or more. Then multiply that by 20 and 
 thats your true amount of men. Vehicles are all cool since they're based upon a pretty good universe. 
 Also, all the races have a distinct yet natural feel and many players will easily find a favorite. 
 My personal one is chaos marines, though I like the Eldar since I kicked ass in them in the boardgame, 
 which is fantastic too by the way. Another thing is the campaign settings, which work perfectly. 
 Easy is for new players, Normal is a decent challenge, and Hard is well pretty hard. Graphics: 
 At first, it might look a little crappy and muddled if you don't have a $3,000 machine like me. 
 Well, open up options and set everything on from medium-low and some things like body count on 
 high (which lets the bodies remain there) and then allow the special camera. Now you will see the 
 difference and how truly awesome the game looks, and how it still doesn't lag. If your system can't 
 handle the most powerful settings, the game will let you know by crashing and telling you to reset 
 it to lower (hahahaha) . Animations are pretty cool, though the Necrons look sorta choppy at times 
 when running, but that's no big issue.
  
  Sound: The narrator is cheesy. The tutorial guy pronounces everything clearly. Unit sound is cool, 
 and Chaos Marines are hilarious. Effects sound nice, but the background music isn't really anything 
 special or noticible, and is probably the weakest point in this game.
  
  In all if you're looking for a great new RTS, Dark Crusade is a fantastic place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arfurboy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War was unique and fun already by itself (even though the single player mode was really 
 short) . I played it day and night and yes eventually got bored of it. But Dark Crusade gives a 
 very good refreshing feel to it and now i find my self playing dark crusade till 4:00 am!! They 
 single player mode is a lot better than before. It is kind of like Rise of Legend's world map thing 
 but a smaller. I think that they did a very good job creating the turn based part of the game and 
 i love the wargear upgrades u can give to ur commander! And being able to play as any of the race 
 is awesome! i hated how u could only play as sm in the dow single player mode. The two new races 
 are very unique. The tau are crazy at long distant shooting but suck at close combat so you buy 
 some kroots to help do they hand to hand junk. The necrons are the most unique and coolest of the 
 races i think. They took the table top's great and all mighty monolith and upgraded it and made 
 it into the ultimate main fortress assault base!!! But for necron troops, the necron warriors are 
 slower than a snail!!! The graphics are pretty good but of course not the best. The sound and voice 
 acting sounds very well done and professional. Overall i love this game and i am very very glad 
 i got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_General2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War is a Real-Time strategy game from Relic, the same studio that has brought us the memorable 
 Homeworld and more recent Company of Heroes titles. Dawn of War is just as excellent as the previous 
 titles, as it combined fast-paced strategy with gorgeous visuals and high production values. It 
 is also one of a select few games that have captured the popular, gritty world of Warhammer 40,000 
 well and translated it into a successful game.
  
  The previous expansion, Winter Assault, was a great addition to the core game which included four 
 races. WA added an additional race, the Imperial Guard, which were every bit as well detailed and 
 fleshed out as the other teams. It also included some serious rebalancing, which fundamentally 
 change the gameplay... some said it was for worse, others said it was better.
  
  Dark Crusade follows the trend of Winter Assault by adding new races, this time two, a new campaign, 
 and some game restructuring and rebalancing. It also includes five new units, one for each existing 
 team. These new units are all fairly well done, but for some (the Harlequin, Daemon Prince, and 
 Grey Knights) one wonders if they were necessary at all. Another (the Heavy Weapon Team) are very 
 useful, but at the same time highly clunky and noticeably glitched. Overall, however, they are 
 good additions and add at least a bit of depth to the existing factions.
  
  The new teams, the Necrons and Tau, are amazing considering not only have two been introduced at 
 once (extremely rare for an RTS of this calibre) but they have much of the same excellent polish 
 and intrigue as the original teams do. The Necrons are soulless, robotic warriors whose goal is 
 to extinguish all life in the galaxy. They move with a convincingly slow, ominous pace and some 
 of their higher level units are quite imposing. The Tau, on he other hand, are a more benevolent 
 race whose goal is to bring unity to that galaxy through an ideal called the Greater Good . They 
 are, however, more than willing to use force to achieve this unity, and focus wholly on ranged 
 combat whilst eshewing melee.
  
  The visuals have been improved somewhat over the original Dawn of War and Winter Assault, which 
 is quite impressive with high-resolution textures enables. The new animations and designs are all 
 great and work well with the existing ones. Most importantly of all, I would argue, is the fact 
 that the new risk-esque campaign map is a success. Moving your force from territory to territory 
 provides a unique strategic element which helps bolster the game, through acquiring new honor guard 
 units which follow you around and earning wargear to improve your main hero. There are varied objectives 
 added in alongside standard battles, too; storming an enemy's stronghold is quite a treat. The 
 only downside is tha the AI is sometimes too simple or will overwhelm you with an unrealistic number 
 of forces, but on Normal, none of these things were TOO overwhelming (though some were definetly 
 hard... which is a good thing) .
  
  Finally, some of the new voice work is noticeably worse than it was previously. Some of the new 
 leaders sound pretty bad, and these new voices have permanently replaced the old (good) ones. The 
 units themselves, however, aren't so bad.
  
  Though the game is somewhat unbalanced with the new factions, and there are a couple of bugs and 
 poor voicework, this is understandable considering the massive amount of new content added. Dark 
 Crusade is somewhat rough, but regardless is incredibly fun and one can easily forgive it's foibles 
 (which will most likely be patched in good time) to partake in the massive amount of meaningful 
 and engaging new content it offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknyarth
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 16, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War, after the initial game, has become more of a straight Multiplayer experience. The 
 two campaigns in Winter Assault were not bad but lacked the same level of story development as 
 the first installment. However, where WA faltered, Dark Crusade completely neglects. The map at 
 first might 'wow' a player but very quickly it will become evident that this is nothing more than 
 a way to convince you to play skirmishes. The continuity doesn't feel like it adds all that much 
 and what you have to look forward to is rush battle after rush battle. This does add a great deal 
 to the play value but unless you're planning on taking this to the net and throwing a beat down 
 to your fellow gamers, this gets old terribly fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  As most of you probably know Dawn of War won RTS of the year in 2004, and a year later it was followed 
 up by the expansion Winter Assault . Both games had their flaws, but Winter Assault's biggest flaw 
 was the outright spamming of last tier units online, and the superiority of some races making them 
 nearly unstoppable. I am happy to say that not only does Dark Crusade fix these issues, but it 
 improves upon them and adds new content.
  
  Dark Crusade's new meta-map style campaign is obviously different from Dawn of War and Winter Assault's 
 linear and scripted missions. While many praise this feature, I personally wasn't very impressed. 
 Then again, all of Dawn of War's campaigns have been fairly mediocre. You begin by listening to 
 a poorly narrated introduction, and then you choose which of the seven races you wish to play as 
 by selecting their primary Commander unit. After another poorly narrated race specific intro you're 
 thrown onto the world map where you take turns with the simplistic AI in attacking and defending 
 territory.
  
  The meta-map function isn't as polished as it could have been. Nearly every territory on the world 
 map is just a one on one skirmish against your opponent. There are stronghold missions and the 
 occasional unique special ability territory with varied objectives, but in the end it's all the 
 same build up your base and massacre the enemy that has become a staple in the RTS genre. Your 
 primary objective is to push every other race off of Kronus by defeating them at their unique stronghold. 
 Oddly enough even if they die story-wise after you defeat them, the enemy Commander units can still 
 appear when you attack territories that still belong to their race which is odd and another example 
 of the campaign's lack of polish.
  
  Mediocre campaign aside, Dark Crusade introduces two new races to Dawn of War's current lineup 
 of Space Marines, Chaos Marines, Eldar, Orkz, and Imperial Guard. Now you have the ability to control 
 the Tau, a race of gray skinned aliens with animeish technology, and the Necrons a race of undead 
 robots who were clearly inspired by the movie Terminator . Both of the new races have their strengths 
 and weaknesses, as well as their different playstyles that separates them from simply being clones 
 of one of the other past races.
  
  Along with the new races, DC introduces a new unit for each of the original races: The Grey Knights 
 for the Marines, the Daemon Prince for the Chaos Marines, the Harlequin for the Eldar, the Flash 
 Gitz for the Orkz, and the delightfully buggy Heavy Weapons Team for the Imperial Guard. Along 
 with the campaign Dark Crusade offers you your usual skirmish and multiplayer functions. In Skirmish 
 the AI has been greatly improved, but still relies mostly on rush tactics which is unfortunate. 
 Multiplayer still uses the subpar Gamespy service, so don't expect any improvements in the multiplayer 
 field.
  
  The graphics for the new content is as one would come to expect from the Dawn of War series. Structures 
 and Units as well as terrain are detailed, but the always dreary atmosphere is still present. Sure, 
 the universe is supposed to be dark but some more colorful maps would be a nice change. We've seen 
 enough of the Jungle and Winter tileset.
  
  The audio is average. Most of the new units (except the Necrons who only make machine noises) have 
 great voice acting (but there are plenty of bugs such as the Tau failing to acknowledge other races 
 in skirmish and multiplayer) , but Inon Zur once again failed to live up to Jeremy Soule's superior 
 vanilla Dawn of War soundtrack, which is a shame. The sound effects are the same for the most part, 
 but they sound as they should.
  
  Dark Crusade improves upon Dawn of War, and more importantly Winter Assault by a significant margin. 
 The campaign is once again fairly underwhelming, but the new races and units are a nice addition 
 to skirmish and multiplayer and I would recommend Dark Crusade to anyone who liked Dawn of War. 
 If you have yet to play Dawn of War and are looking into buying this stand alone expansion I would 
 say go for it - better late than never, right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drakshon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  If you have enjoyed the previous Dawn of War titles, Dark Crusade is a must have. The new campaign 
 is quite interesting and challenging. Each side has a different flavor story though I wish there 
 were a few more story elements unique to each faction during game play. Each faction has an intro 
 when you start the campaign and a bit of closure when you win, with only a few choice lines from 
 your respective faction leader throughout the actual game play. In addition when attacking an enemy 
 stronghold or one of the 7 regions that give your faction unique abilities there is a story unique 
 to that area. Most people will desire to beat Dark Crusade as all 7 factions to unlock the stories 
 for each.
  
  The 2 new factions are both very fun and fit well into the balance of the game. The Necrons especially 
 have a very unique play style, using only energy for all of their production. The capture points 
 are used to increase the rate of production which can be very slow. As far as combat goes the Necrons 
 feel much like you might think an undead army should. They slowly plod towards their much swifter 
 enemies and proceed to walk through enemy fire until they are in range at which point they lay 
 waste to most units. All of their infantry squads have a chance to resurrect in combat, thats 
 not to say when you kill off a squad it will resurrect, but its members might stand back up after 
 being killed if the squad still exists. Their commander is very unique in that when he falls the 
 stays at the location he dies. When you recreate him he stands back up. I found this very useful 
 when my army was wiped out. I would wait a few moments for the enemy force to continue pushing 
 while rebuilding my army and at an opportune moment resurrect my hero and have him use his mass 
 resurrection ability on my fallen army. This allows the Necron player to pass the unit cap restriction 
 and scars the hell out of players who fall for it.
  
  The Tao are ranged gods, I would consider them silly when played correctly. Their base units, Fire 
 Warriors can not fire on the move and are useless in melee, but when stationary have a much longer 
 range than any other base units and deal devastating amounts of damage. Their hero and mechanical 
 vehicles tend to have higher range and damage but much less ability to take hits in return. Their 
 Kroot mercenary creatures are quite different being very much the opposite. This leads to the player 
 having to have a lot of planning when heading into battle as your force is only effective when 
 used thoughtfully, much like the imperial guard.
  
  The game has gone through a lot of rebalancing, removing the previous strategies of swarming elite 
 troops such as Assault Terminators and Prism Tanks. The New units in most cases seem to have a 
 definite place in the game. All things considered with the changes the game plays even better than 
 before and removes several of the I win strategies from the game,
  
  The only gripe I have is with the computer's skirmish AI. They feel dummed down compared to previous 
 versions leaving me playing Extreme computers and winning too easily in many cases. In DAWN: Winter 
 Assault I would beat an Extreme computers maybe 1 in 5 tries possibly less, now its more like 3 
 out of 4 and I don't feel its due to increased skill on my part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mem666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 15, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is everything you could ask for in the last expansion to an amazing RTS game (outside 
 of Tyranids) . The whole thing can be palyed without the first game or expansion, but then you would 
 be limited online too just the two new races. The two new races are realy fun to use and play differently 
 from the old so its a fresh take when playing against or with them. The Tau are like the eldar 
 is that they have units very good at one thing, but they have a big reliance on stealth and support. 
 The cheap, initial unit is always stealthed right off the bat and with the new stealth rules that 
 allow shooting while stealthed can really be fun to pester the enemy with. Talking about stealth, 
 all units that are now stealthed can shoot while hidding and can only be revealed by turets or 
 specialized units like leaders and such. The tau really can use this to their advantage by jumping 
 squads straying from base and sneaking in to de-cap poitns on the map. The vehicles for the Tau 
 are also really unique, they have a stealth carrier that can unload a suprise hit on a remote base 
 youu have set up and a carrier that can send waves of pesky drone out to distract you while the 
 fire squads pick you off from way back. The other reace, the necrons are unlike any other in the 
 game. They are slow to move, slow to build and slow to advance in tech but hit like a sledge hammer 
 when it come right down to it. Their whole economy is based on enrgey. The only reason to cap points 
 on the map is to build faster and hold off the enemy from them. I find the necrons to be more turtle 
 based then even the IG but when they come to play, beware. All there units have the ability to 
 come back to life randomly and the leader can gain the ability to mass revive, so you can never 
 be sure when the balttle is over. The 4th tier techs are insane as well, the leader can change 
 to a invincible wraith that will reap destruction on units, and the home base turns into a flying/warping 
 base of death witha giant laser on top and four rail guns on the sides. These two races bring enough 
 to the table to make even the old pros re-think al their tried and true strategies and opens the 
 game up. Their is a new system for limiting elite units to one or two, the new stealth system and 
 reduced vehicles means that all units are needed the whole game and tech rushing doesn't work wonders 
 anymore. The times and costs of lots of high end units has been reduced sop look out for stuff 
 poeple never brought out in times past. quick word of advice to all players, built one turet at 
 all bases for stealth protection because units like the Tau and Chaos can really work you over 
 if your not paying attention. This game is a highly recommended buy to all RTS fans, it may not 
 have the new flashy stuff of company of heros, but with SEVEN races and plenty of options for all 
 play styles this ranks as my favorite RTS off all time now, passing even Starcraft. (flame on) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_rebelion
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  This is a very interesting expansion on to the 40k universe, it has 2 completely new races with 
 there own way of killing the opponent. of course if you enjoyed the first 2 you are gonna look 
 at this and buy it. They have 2 new races Necrons, and tau. These 2 races very fun to play they 
 didn't make them build up exactly like all previous races. What helps this game is all the races 
 you can choose from. Starcraft for instance has never introduced any new races it's always the 
 same 3 (Not saying starcraft is bad) . The new Crusade campaign is kind of annoying but in another 
 light it is a new exp and bring light to a whole new kind of RTS exp. I recommend buying this hands 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafaronie
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This DVD just adds more and more of what we have come to expect from this amazing series. I don't 
 recall any other RTS ever having this many races of course I may ber wrong but I don't think I 
 am. Every faction has something for every one. No one are alike the other exepte some very few 
 similarities of the Space marines and the Chaos faction of couse you need the original games to 
 be able to play them. I think there are some factions that are not balance but if we all knowe 
 RELIC they usually makes patches to resolve those things. That is a good thing about a video game 
 is when we have developers that actually listin to their fans and make improvements along the way. 
 This is not to say that this not a good game but a very awesome one in my opinion especially if 
 you have the other two games and are into the DOW universe. Just seeing massive armies meeting 
 in the center of the battle field blowing themselves to pieces and seeing all the blood and gore 
 makes me feel guilty to get pleasure out of such a sight of course you can also turn that off I 
 believe if that is not your thing. Also I like the addition of a battle map where you decide to 
 attack and where you need to defend it make the game feel more non-liner. There is just so much 
 stuff I want to tell you about but so little time so look up the other reviews and make an informed 
 decision but I don't believe you will be disappointed. Another plus for this game is it is very 
 moddable so there is always stuff to download to give the game new playing styles. I look foward 
 to the future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bunishido
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Very well designed game i must admit, but there are a few lacking points i must make: First, the 
 necrons are too small, and lack the regenrative properties i was promised in the videos (invincible 
 ?) and there seems to be major balancement issues involving mainly the tau empire and especially 
 the necrons. Online when paired up these two factions are unstoppable, and hopefully there will 
 be a patch to solve this issue. The graphics are nice, save for the choppy blood splatter i can't 
 seem to fix even at the highest graphical settings. The necrons seem to be very small in comparison 
 to the other races. (I. e The destroyers are easily half the size of the other races tanks) . This 
 aspect does not help the fact that the necrons do not look intimidating, in the way that they should. 
 The sounds are the same as in the previous games and no complaints here, apart from the originality 
 factor. The gameplay is terrific, and the added limit to the quote ''uber units'' seems to work 
 for me. One facet of the game that really annoyed me, is the fact that now, the invisible units 
 and structures (eldar shroud) are virtually undetectable in the online game. Heroes are so longer 
 able to see them by conventional means (save the necrons solar flare) , this makes it aggravating 
 to have to send for example pathfinders (very weak and uselss units) to find an enemy postion along 
 with your main force (waste of squads) . I was in a game that lasted easily 4 hours in ''kasyr luthien'' 
 trying to find this eldar team even after destroying their bases on many occasions
  
  Apart from these small issues, im sure the game will be at its finest after soem patch work, and 
 for now still remains the favorite game in my collection. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frugus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  The best way I can describe the quality of this game is to say that it ranks at average when you 
 compare it to the cream of the crop of RTS games. There's alot of good competition ou there and 
 DOW definitly deserves to be in the pack of games you should look at when you are looking for something 
 new to play. Yes, even though the game is officially two years old now, it's still manages to hold 
 it's own even against more modern day games. This being said, it's not the best of them all either. 
 It's easier to list what this game has been lacking all along: a decent single player mode. Well 
 that may be harsh to say about Dark Crusade since they did add a very interesting campaign feature 
 but it's no excuse for the past games that where released under the same banner.
  
  First thing's first. If you are a Warhammer 40k fan, look no further. The guys over at Relic and 
 THQ did a superb job at bringing the tabletop game to the RTS gendra. Sounds like heresey to many 
 of you I'm sure, but they prooved it could be done. You will find all your favorite units in there 
 with their unique abilities. Heck, you can even paint your armies if you wish - yes, even with 
 preset colors like Bolt Gun metal and Bad Moon Yellow.
  
  For a gamer, this is a match made in heaven that worked. Relic is well known for their talent at 
 making beautiful dynamic looking RTS games (think Company of Heroes and Homeworld) while Games 
 Workshop knows all about strategic warfare games. I'll be brutaly honest, I suck at this game. 
 There are warhammer concepts that I'm just not familliar enough with, plus I hate playing online 
 against people who would rather play cheap. Still, just looking at the models and zooming in at 
 the battles NEVER gets old. I'm sure I would have stored this game away a long time ago if it where 
 not for that fact alone, and again, it's only better because they just happen to be Space Marines.
 
  
  It's my experience that the Space Marines are the most vanilla/basic stretegy faction there is 
 in the game. Think of them as the Ken and Ryu of Dawn of War. The Imperial guard is definitly a 
 contender for best looking faction though their plethora of different units need some getting used 
 to. If you don't like world war II esque looking characters then the new Tau will do the job for 
 sure. The Necrons seem to be the easiest to grasp as their mechanics of play are very simple yet 
 effective if not devestating.
  
  Any fan of RTS games who has never picked up a DOW game should not even think about this. The fact 
 that you don't need the previous games to play with the previous factions means that you are getting 
 pretty much all the games packed into one low priced package. The only thing that you will be missing 
 is the said armies while playing online (you won't be able to select them but you can still play 
 against them) . Other than that, the past single player modes where mostly ignored by everyone. 
 You won't miss much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skuijs
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Hi this is my second review ever made so bare with me.
  I've been playing Dawn of war since the original DOW.
  Saw all the patches and the winter assault 
 expansion.
  So i was really looking foward to the content that DC had to offer.
  But after hearing everyone compare DC to Company of heroes made me to think that maybe i would 
 be dissapointed with dc.
  But after playing COH and now DC i feel that DC is on a whole other level.
  7 Races more maps 
 more up close and personal action (because Company of heroes has no close combat to speak of) .
 
  And because of the new units to the old races and the whole caps system in place it feel like 
 a new game.
  This game is ideal for LAN players no cd check and you can play on 2 computers with one cd key 
 (HAVE FUN)
  Like the gamespot review said they could only have made this game better if they had put tyranids 
 in also :)
  
  Hope you liked the review Sebastiaan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 13, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Aslong as there is amazing RTS games like this, it will never happen
  Dawn of War is one of the top RTS games on the market, second only to Warcraft IMO.
  
  Dawn 
 of War is based off of Warhammer 40K, which is a HUGE HUGE HUGE, and very much so loved old D&amp; D 
 style game, it has changed the way many games are today
  
  Anyway onto the game
  
  If you liked the last two Dawn of War titles, pick this one up, two new races, great online, great 
 storys, and best of all, you dont need the first Dawn of War game on the PC to play it
  
  The controls are really smooth, graphics... though a BIT dated now, does not bring the game down 
 at all
  
  This is a GREAT Lan party game, if you are getting into RTS' it is also a good way to start, a 
 bit easier than Warcraft 3, but not so easy you just destroy anything
  
  Only real problem is you still CAN win by making huge armys and rushing... but honestly you can 
 with any RTS so whatever
  
  It is only $25, if you are a fan of RTS' than pick it up, you wont be sad you did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameplayer70
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 13, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Started out with dawn of war then just got better and better with each expansion winter 
 assualt was amazing and now dark crusade is a masterpiece, adding two new races changes the strategy 
 of the game and adds much more replayability. Each race now has its own campaign you can play as 
 each race fighting for victory on the planet Kronus. Customization of your hero's just makes the 
 game even better you can make your hero into a massive force to be reckoned with taking down entire 
 armies with the wargear. Overall this is one of my favorite games and My top RTS games out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apolou
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  if you like the other dawn of war then this game is for you and if you want to get in too it this 
 is going to be the perfect game, because is simple to get points to get your army up and fight. 
 not like other RTS game that you need like half an hour to fight, VERY FEW people already said 
 this game is bad but the reason is that they dont understand the game and story of it and if you 
 dont know game and how to judge them dont do it then and stop saying lies about a game thats good 
 . And yes company of heroes is the same as this game because it was the same company that made 
 it they have the same simple rules but the only thing is that dawn of war is about the future where 
 man fight to stay in the universe with other races with different reason to fight and the cool 
 part is that in dawn of war, war will never end and will continue on till all life is gone =) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Finally, War Hammer 40k Dark Crusade has arrived! Its been a long summer of horrible console releases 
 that arent even worth renting, and that only makes the release of this game ever more sweet.
 
  
  The first thing I do whenever I start a WH game is jump into the army painter and spend, probably, 
 half an hour detailing my personal factions. They need to be right by my standards before I get 
 into the game. As been mentioned before, customization is my thing. After that was satisfactory, 
 I began to play.
  
  Theres a tutorial as per usual that you can choose to ignore, but being as there are two new races 
 to indulge in I suggest playing them out in full. The Necrons and Tau have new and individual ways 
 of play, which is not only exciting, but new and creates a learning curve as if it were a whole 
 new game.
  
  My one disappointment, and Ill get it out early, is the single player customization of heroes. 
 Though it was certainly advertised as customization since the announcement of this game, it actually 
 is more like upgrading. Ten upgrades that you earn and your base powers are always in place. I 
 was expecting, form the word customization, a series of choices in upgrades like a tech tree of 
 some sort. You can choose the armor and weapons for your hero or the abilities, that sort of thing. 
 I was also depressed when I found out that you had to play with pre-set faction colors in SP, negating 
 that last bit of customization that the word implies. Nuff said.
  
  The TBS coupled with the RTS works beautifully. I couldnt have asked for a better combination 
 for this expansion. However, you have to be careful while playing. The NORMAL difficulty is more 
 like HARD, and the HARD difficulty is more like INSANE. EASY lands somewhere in the middle of what 
 would be considered as a standard of EAY and NORMAL. No matter what difficulty you can always expect 
 droves of enemies at your base from the start, so dont expect to turtle away. Not gonna happen.
 
  
  To counter any threat youll need an honor guard. You build it slowly, battle by battle, and I 
 would suggest that be the first thing you concentrate on. Build it up, make it work, and learn 
 to use it before you even think about going after a faction city. Honor guards are the line that 
 separates life and death. This is true so much so that you may be able to take entire regions with 
 the honor guard alone, most of all late in the game. I played through my first time with the Tau, 
 and with the hero unit, two fire teams, two stealth teams, and two krutox teams I was able to deflect 
 any initial attack, and in some smaller maps, finish the enemy off without building more then a 
 barracks. Later on with crisis suits it became a joke to build regular units. There are some new 
 units in the game, one per race, that add some spice to the old meat from before, but in most cases 
 it basically just icing on the cake. Some of this units are amazing, and have value in the game 
 SP and MP. Some, like the new ork units, simply aggravate me and create absolutely nothing special. 
 As say this, mind you, as a player who DESPISES playing green skins. To me, theyre like comic 
 relief when its not appreciated. Annoying. But, Ive got my favorite races, you have yours.
  
  The game has bugs. Lets face it, A LOT of games are released with bugs. In DC you may see your 
 units firing into the air while on the run, or off into a hillside while the enemy they're actually 
 firing at might be standing the theopposite direction. A little odd. There's one odd thing that 
 I don't know what to say it is, at the end of a mission. Mission ends, the screen pauses instantly, 
 you are hurled tot he victory screen. It's a rough transistion, not a cheery YOU WIN transition. 
 Hmmm. Another bug is, for some reason, large units sometimes studder and pause while attacking 
 large groups of enemies. Weird, but can be fixed if you re-click on the target. Finally, the Honor 
 Guard will sometimes not tell you when they are either under attack or capturing a point. These 
 are little things that will certainly be fixed with the first patch, no doubt. There has been some 
 complaint of the new changes in unit caps, unit type caps, and turret caps. I say, it makes the 
 game more itneresting. Too many turrets made it all too easy. In this expansion you have 6, and 
 you can either put them on the front line, or protecting your base, or scattered about. Choose. 
 The unit cap is also exciting, honestly. Now the unit you create have more meaning. Keep them alive, 
 or replace them all. I like it. Story line wise, A MJOR BREAK TROUGH for WH. Way better than the 
 last two games. WAY better. The only thing you have to endure is a VO of an old man from time to 
 time, then the cut scenes and dialog for the big battles. Short and sweet. And finally, specualtion. 
 Another release in 2007? Crazy...
  
  The remaining details of the game can be found anywhere there days, as the selling price will also 
 be. All I can say is, I love it. Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chipnut
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  For me the Dawn Of War series has always had a place in my heart, being my favortie RTS series 
 and one of my favorite games. Coming from a person who didn't play strategy games much before. 
 Ever since Starcraft schooled me up and down, I strayed away to shooters and role-playing games. 
 Relic has made a Series that brought me back to the gerne, and there thrid installment, Dark Crusade 
 really brings alot to the table interms of the new content and innovation. First of all the 2 new 
 races are fun and add alot the game. The Necron are very unique, only using only 1 resource instead 
 of 2 (and incase of the orks 3) instead of the other resource capturing points will reduce build 
 times making things faster to produce. I found them refreshing and quite fun, the necron are a 
 race for the people who prefer making strong units stronger and using them in very unique ways. 
 The Tau are more versitile then I had orignally thought, the Tau are divided into 2 factions, one 
 that focuses on technology and long range, and a more primative race that prefers brute force. 
 It seems weird at first but comes in very handy if you find your usual tactics don't work you can 
 switch up you game plan very easily. The New units for each of the prexisiting races are pretty 
 good, but nothing really new. They do add new game play, but not very much. The new campaign is 
 very enjoyable, and is really inovative. For those who don't know about it, the campaign consists 
 of an overall goal of taking over the planet of Kronus, a planet that all 7 races a fighting for 
 control over. Now instead of following a series of missions on a given path, you are stuck on map 
 with 25 different areas, playing out like a board game (Risk) . When all the elements come together 
 you become very imeresed in the battle for Kronus and will so find youself planning you attacks 
 more and more, and pulling of some nice strategic moves. The Mutiplayer hasn't changed much, but 
 it was fine to begin with, I only wish they had adapted somthing like the campaign for Mutilplayer. 
 All the new things that this stand-alone exspansion, (Meaning YOU DONT NEED the preivous games 
 to play, it installs all the content on it's own you do not need the 2 previous installments) Dark 
 Crusade adds a lot of new Gameplay, and a good amount of new content, the adds alot and takes away 
 very little. Showing the Relic really know their stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tompikka
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 13, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  I was waiting this game really, but I'm a bit disappointed.
  The campaign is good, you may play all seven races, but in multi player you need the previous versions 
 to be installed, and the size of the full game is about eight GB-s!!
  Some units are buggy, forgets the prefixes. For example: When you set down the HWT (Heavy Weapon 
 Team) . It's quite disturbing.
  The new voices of the command squad, and the nob are very exasperating!
  And there is some bug, 
 when you positioning the squads.
  It was better in Winter Assault. The squads are spreading too wide.
  I like space marines with 
 HB-s, and when somebody is shooting at me, and i want to go back a bit, the half of the squad remains 
 at the same place... This is disturbing!!
  
  It's not a bad game, but it requires a few patches, to make the game really perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Broomhilda23
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  the reviews and praise it gets is overhyped. I'm not saying its a bad rts but its not deserving 
 of high 8's and 9's. It reminds me of the Total War series in that it was extremely overhyped by 
 game review sites. I buy just about every RTS to come out that gets good scores. Another MAJOR 
 issue i have is i bought Company of Heroes right when it came out. The similarities between the 
 structure of both games feel almost copied off one another so it feels like more of the same. Well 
 looks like i'll be looking forward to Age of Empires expansion and Empire at War expansion due 
 out soon~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zennious
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best RTS games I have ever played. Not only does it offer 7 playable races to 
 defeat your enemies with, but it offers an indepth and actually strategic Single-Player Campaign. 
 You are in charge of one of the seven races bent on ruling the planet Kronos. This part of the 
 game feels more like RISK than anything else however it has a neat twist. As you move to different 
 Territories you wish to control it will take you to the battlefield to control units and lead an 
 army to destroy the opposition. As you will take strategic territories you can boost your leaders 
 stats and modify your units. Take the time to play this game, it's force to be reckoned with.
 
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  I think the dark crusade is a good game. very violent, fun, and cool. i bought this game when it 
 came out, and the stragity book. i bought the book because i want to see all the wargear and the 
 tec tree for necrons (other resons to but thats the main reason.) i heard about this game from 
 a guy who play dawn of war in the original game. most people give this game 9.0 to 1.0 but ive 
 seen 2.3, 7.4 and so on. peple who like warhammer 40,000 or a fan of dawn of war, they should get 
 this game. its like starcraft, warcraft, age of empire, and any other RTS game out there in the 
 world. when i play this game, i also notice that when a unit kills a unit, it does like a fatality. 
 for example, the gray knight stabs a unit and throw it back high and far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  DOW: Dark Crusades is a RTS from THQ and Relic the people who bought you the Dawn of War series 
 and games like Compnay of Heroes. Dark Crusade's gameplay does a great job of putting the focus 
 on vicious front-line combat by forcing you to quickly send out squads of powerful soldiers to 
 claim strategic points spread across each map. Relatively little time is spent building up a base, 
 so you'll wind up focusing your energy and attention on managing the game's exciting, gory battles. 
 The game delivers fantastic graphical details and is certainly the best in the series. The game 
 has a lot to offer first-time players and fans of the series. It's definitely a must buy for any 
 RTS loving fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perseverantia
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade is an excellent addition to the Dawn of War series and well worth the $30 retail price. 
 The innovative campaign, which allows you to play as one of seven races - including the all-new 
 Tau and Necron races - adds even more depth to an already immersive gameplay.
  
  Each race is led by a hero character who grows stronger as the campaign progresses through the 
 acquisition of additional pieces of Wargear. Each new piece provides a bonus to the combat, health, 
 or other statistic of your hero. For some races, acquiring all pieces leads to a special power, 
 such as the Chaos Lord's ability to transform himself into a Daemon Prince. As territories are 
 captured, special units become part of your Hero's Honor Guard. These are especially powerful versions 
 of familiar units and are available to your side immediately at the beginning of a new scenario 
 once trained.
  
  Another exciting addition to Dark Crusade is the introduction of new units for the existing races, 
 such as Grey Knights for the Space Marines. Fans of the Warhammer 40K table top franchise will 
 be delighted by the new units they've chosen.
  
  Players of the original Dawn of War game will remember the rich voice acting which added a lot 
 of depth to the gameplay experience. Unfortunately, the voice acting in Dark Crusade, while good, 
 isn't of the same quality as the first two games. Given all that has been improved, however, this 
 is a minor criticism.
  
  All in all, Dark Crusade is fun, immersive and very well designed. Anyone with even a passing interest 
 in Warhammer will enjoy the game and die-hard fans will delight in the rich, highly detailed gameplay 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel1130113
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game really rocks! the necrons are great, the Tau are the best, and the singleplayer campaign 
 is awesome. I've already outfitted the Tau commander with some cool armor and powerful weapons 
 and he's barely unbeatable, and my Imperial Guard commander really helps in battles. The Chaos 
 Daemon Prince realy kicks some ass in the battle plus the Bloodthirster their both invincible. 
 Get this game you won't be sorry, especially if you are a Games Workshop fan. If you're still not 
 conviced try the demo, it includes two maps and you get to control the Tau against the Space Marines 
 Blood Ravens 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_spec
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Since I am a Warhammer fan, I d really say this game really brought the 40k world to live. It showed 
 the chaotic battlefield and the savage life during that time. With additional 2 factions adding 
 to the already chaos fight, it made it more chaos. In addition to that, the gameplay is about the 
 same to me, although 2 new factions and new units has been added. I don't really like the music, 
 which is kind of boring. I think THQ should make faction music more special than other faction's. 
 Like warcraft 3, each faction have its own speical music and sounds. The graphics looks the same, 
 its kind of cartoonish, unlike MARK OF CHAOS, which aims for realism. Although the graphics of 
 the game is already great, but there is much to do fix with it. The shadowing and lighting is not 
 that good, plus there is not much weather effect and scenario effects. I hope THQ can make it more 
 better looking, in terms of lighting and shadowing.
  
  As always the brutal gameplay really kept me from sleeping, but I don't think DARK CRUSADE involves 
 much clicking like STARCRAFT and WARCRAFT. I hope THQ can make the next DAWN OF WAR more clickage. 
 Plus the city fight maps and missions, doesn't really have a lot to it. I hope THQ can make it 
 that so we can blow up buildings, and oil rigs to create addtional chaos to the battlefield, also 
 units ability to take cover and shoot, not standing in an open ground taking hits. Last but not 
 least, why is the orks still so weak? Their units and buildings is so 'weak', so easily destroyed 
 and killed. Plus orks just dies when it comes to fire fights and cannon lobbing time. Plus their 
 close combat doesnt really do much, orks need some more powerful and elite units to be added. Such 
 as the 'ard boyz, commandos, battle wagon, sitck bommas.. etc. And last, WHAT HAPPEN TO ALL THE 
 BIKES AND SKIMMERS IN WARHAMMER 40K? WHERE DID THEY GO? did they go deleted or what, since bikes 
 and skimmer is such a important part of the orignial warhmmaer 40k, the fast attack factions. Other 
 than that, i think the games is great. Also adding ALL the races would be great and every single 
 units included in the codex, PLUS player's ability to GAIN ACCESS to each factions of creating 
 squads with different gears. eg. terminator squad with lighting claws, hammers, rockets, powerfists, 
 storm bolter, power sword. or the ability to make the force commander WEAR a terminator suit. Nice 
 game.. I'd say but much more to improve to make it trully like WARHAMMER 40K universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker-x-
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best RTS expansions (Standalone or incremental) that i have played, though there 
 are flaws, the game still willfind a way into the books of how Relic dominates the RTS scene, the 
 game is all about building your army quickly then ANNIHILATING everything in your path, in a show 
 of awesome blood and gore, in the end of each battle, i feel satisfied
  with a greatly showed game, some of the flaws include for me, i sorta uped difficulty even on normal, 
 if youdont start out right, any of your enemies (Space marines, Chaos, Eldar, Orks, Imprial Guard, 
 Tau and Necrons)
  would easily trample you. either wat tis expansion is an instant classic
  you will not go bored with this game, playing trough the campaign with every faction will take 
 alot of time, about 70 hours in total i belive, and plus the addition with the other 2 warhammer 
 40K games you can pay all the factons online, yes this game will be known for the ages.
  
  I just hope they make another expansion with Tyranids 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevryn
Rating: 4.4
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is, well, the same old thing as the last two. It just adds some more of the same boring 
 stuff. The story line is minor, and tends to just consist of background. The fighting tends to 
 be a war of attrition with the same 8 units or so, with little tactics. There are not really that 
 many units per side, and resources are too easy to gain leading people to just throw units at the 
 other side. Single player wise, the AI is just plain stupid. It reminded me of the original starcraft 
 battle. net tactic of the computer of just throwing units at you constantly with no rhyme or reason. 
 As for multiplayer, rushing seems to be about the only thing that happens. There's very little 
 tech building anyways so I guess it isn't a big deal that the games are pure rush. Now, on the 
 positive side... it actually runs very smoothly and works. I know this may not seem like a big 
 deal, but considering most stuff released lately, that's an accomplishment to be mentioned. Course 
 that could be because this is the 3rd expansion. One area I was very disappointed with was the 
 unit pathing. I would tell a squad to go somewhere and it would send it's units in all directions 
 before going to the right spot. It was rather annoying when trying to skirt an enemy base. In closing, 
 I found the game boring and it put me to sleep very quickly. It worked fine, but that is expected 
 with how long the same engine has been being used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanchez01
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  If you love the first two, you might love this one as well. The two new races add a great trill 
 to the game play, but with only one addition to each of the other races and little tweaking here 
 and there, the game gets old after the first couple of days. The single player campaign was a high-light 
 of the game, but when playing it it felt like the basic skirmish mode, only the race killer missions 
 have a sense of uniqueness to them.
  
  As all the past Dawn of Wars this one is a great peace to the Warhammer Universe... I guess I had 
 real high hopes for this one and in parts, i was disappointed.
  
  In the game some features contradict the fluff world, this is not a big deal, but The game makers 
 should stick to the FULL fluff when making these types of games...
  
  Do I recommend buying this game? Yes... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyDeathKnight
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite series and It rocks!! Great gameplay, 2 new races and 8 new maps this 
 is the best expansion pack I have ever seen. A solid new conquer the planet system with the added 
 wargear makes this an instant classic. Playing as up to seven warhammer races makes this an awesome 
 experiance for warhammer veterans as well as new commers. This game is a sure hit and a 100% recomendation 
 from me. GO AND GET THIS GAME AS SOON AS POSSIBLE BEFORE IT IS ALL SOLD OUT.
  LET THE RED HARVEST BEGIN!!!!+ FOR THE GREATER GOOD!!!!!!
  
  your friendly nieghborhood Death 
 Knight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: levi72
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Dear all who have any common sense to at least try this game,
  Wow... this game is the most amazing creature of any stratgey (sorry for missspell) anyway, The 
 game features many great adaptaions to the original. It features a completely revamped campaign 
 style, a type of risk for those who have played risk, but for those who havent it is a map with 
 diffrent territorys, you command, in this case, one army. The objective is to obliterate the other 
 opponets, that is the basics quite more complicated than that..... But on the subject of races this 
 game is the best RTS expansion to come out (in my opinion, prove me wrong...) race wise of course 
 and period for that matter, now this expansion features 2 more races which makes, and sadly ends 
 the growth in all probabilty, a grand total of 7! The 2 new races include The Tau (TA-OW) and the 
 Necrons (Neck-rons) the Tau is a race based ALMOST, not completely, all on Ranged weapons while 
 they do have the power of Kroot (good luck trying to find a kroot beating and ork) which are small 
 ugly creatures with **** weaponry but nice strength, the kroots carnivores also have the ability 
 to eat the carcass of dead enemies and friends. The Necrons on the other hand are a COMPLETELY 
 diffrent kind of game play all together. Instead of requisition they are a power only race, BUT 
 dont think you wont be needing any requisitoin poinst either the more points you capture the faster 
 the necron's soldiers build. With that diffrentialty (if thats a word) they can also manage to 
 ressurect themselfs Hints the name NECRONS (undead space skeletons basicly) with a powerfull lord 
 the Necrons are a formidable race to deal with and take caution while entering combat with these 
 buggers. NOW the last HUGE diffrence in this game, (other than the fact it is standalone) is the 
 new addition of equipment. yes, that is correct you can equip your leader with better (UO term, 
 ULTIMA ONLINE) loot. not much to explain on that catagory soo... thanks for reading and enjoy an 
 amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uglynuncreative
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I just got my copy of Dark Crusade and was excited like it was the super-bowl of gaming, I'm not 
 going to lie, I was hopping about just fooling around with the army painter after installing it 
 and seeing the new intro, just checking out the new units of the two new factions. Then I decided 
 to set up a skirmish mode on my favourite map with the new factions to see what the looked like. 
 I decided to play my favourite faction thus far the Space Marines, figuring I knew their tactics 
 and units so it'd give me leeway to fool around and see what these new guys had to offer. Furthermore, 
 the manual mentioned the addition of a new Space Marine unit, the Grey Knights, elite assault terminators.
 
  
  Early into the game though, I noticed the first change in their balancing options which bore ill 
 portents of what was to come. There's now a limit on unit and building construction. Below is a 
 list of the units and buildings which are limiting and their limits:
  
  Limit to Turret Construction - 6 Turrets.
  Limit to Whirlwinds - 1 Whirlwind.
  Limit to Terminators 
 - 1 Squad.
  Limit to Assault Terminator Squad - 1 Squad.
  Revamped Scout Infiltration ability is harder to control than old one.
  
  While some may argue 
 this is more in line with the original table-top game, I never played that game, but rather I became 
 a fanatic for the gameplay of the videogame. What these changes mean is that if you're style of 
 play is different at all from the norm (IE - what the computer does) you are no longer welcome 
 in Dawn of War. If you're the type of player who likes watching little men go flying from artillery 
 barrages, there will be none of that in this expansion. If you like a more defensive style of play, 
 there is no room for that. In fact, if you like tech'ing up and having hard-fought climactic battles 
 with the heavy hitting units of the game, it will never be the same, as you can't really build 
 those units anymore. The vast array od different methodolgies employed by players in online multiplayer 
 matches and the ability to adapt on the fly by altering the nature of your forces has ceased to 
 exist in this expansion. Now there is only one way to play each faction. Only one game to be played 
 over and over and over again. If you watch the computer in replay and do as the computer does, 
 then that is all there is to do. In placing these restrictions on building and unit construction, 
 Relic has created a choke-hold on how to play the game. If repitition is your thing, than you'll 
 like this expansion, but if you enjoyed the ability to try new ideas and new mixes of forces in 
 different situations which was afforded by the previous two iterations of the series, then those 
 days are over; save your money and keep playing the old versions.
  
  These are only initial impressions of having played one faction which Iw as very familiar with 
 before, I'll post more on the Imperial Guard and Eldar when I can stomach learning what has been 
 destroyed there. It likely won't be any time soon, I'm so disappointed that I'm thinking of going 
 outside and doing something in the sun rather than playing videogames on my day off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteKill1942
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Strait down from the warhammer dawn of war saga. The best expiation pack 
 yet for a RTS game yet. and so many races to choose from is so grest to have. in dawn of war dark 
 crusade there is plenty of game play not just in single player. there are so many multyplayer maps 
 as well. it is very balensed in the sense that if you know how to use a race to its full extent 
 agensed another player that does the same even with a different race it is fair. but verusing a 
 computer it is unbalanced unless on a hard difficulty. but then it could be too hard so it has 
 its faults but all in all its a fast paced great and fun game!!!!! a 9.8 with no exceptions!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamaroHO305
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth every bit of the wait and money. This game is very addictive and fun to play. 
 I think the game is a little one sided because of the fact that the Necrons dominate on the battlefield 
 and that you can field the Monolith and the Nightbringer at the same time... that is a deadly combination. 
 The Tau are not as powerfull as the Necrons, but can still own the battlefield if used correctly. 
 The Tau have an overwelming arsenal of heavy infantry, tanks, and other very powerfull units. I 
 also like the units that were added to the already existing races. Overall the game is very good 
 and worth the money... it's a must buy RTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electrite
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 11, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  I have to say, when I first played the demo for Dawn of War: Dark Crusade, I was mildly concerned 
 about the direction the game was taking. Sure the Tau were OK to play, but the near-incompetence 
 of the demos AI was not reassuring. Yesterday, I managed to get my hands on the full copy of the 
 game, and I have to say, all my worries have been blown out the door. Dark Crusade takes Dawn of 
 War to a new level, not only adding the two new races, but introducing a slough of balance tweaks 
 and a few new units that make the game even more dynamic and enjoyable than either the original, 
 or its Winter Assault expansion. The days of spamming enemy players with your most powerful units 
 is over, making even early game units still relevant in third tier combat. Limits on the number 
 of turrets a player can build discourages bottling up in your base and encourages the player to 
 seek out combat with the enemy. Finally, the single player free-form campaign is far more enjoyable 
 and dynamic than the linear plot-driven campaigns of old. For those invested in the Warhammer 40K 
 universe, you'll be happy to know that Relic apparently designed the game to be more in-line with 
 traditional 40K canon, balancing units numbers and power to more accurately reflect the tabletop 
 experience. Overall, Dark Crusade is a solid expansion that harnesses the awesome potential of 
 the Dawn of War series and the incredible depth of the Warhammer universe. For the Emperor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pathetic417
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This game is full of mind-blowing fun. I mean it is so addicting for miniature collectors and rts 
 gamers alike. The new tau race is so awesome! The necrons are great too. The campaign mode presents 
 a whole new level of Dawn of War. If you missed out on the other DOW games, start out here to see 
 if u like it. It beats the crap out of warcraftIII too. Having a whole squad at your disposle instead 
 of individual units is so much better. Minutes into the game you will have huge overwhelming armies 
 fighting. It's awesome. So what are you doing? Get off your butt and head to your local computer 
 gaming store and BUY THIS. HURRY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarzyz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Addon that adds 2 totally diffrient and unique races plus units for the allready 5 exsisting races. 
 Awesome!
  
  In terms of gameplay, the Necrons will be particularly friendly to new players. The races in Dawn 
 of War have never been balanced conventionally, where each is ultimately equal in power to the 
 others. Instead, they're tuned more towards style of gameplay. Some races reward, indeed require, 
 micromanagement, whereas others are better suited to simply flinging drag-selected hordes into 
 battle. The Necron fit into the latter category, with only a single resource to worry about and 
 free warriors at the bottom of their build tree. Most Necron units have a chance of automatically 
 reviving after a death, and they're led by a single flexible commander who can be kitted out with 
 your choice of three spell powers. Simple, powerful, and user-friendly. What's more, if the Necron 
 last long enough, it's just a matter of time before their base -- called a Monolith -- literally 
 digs itself out of the ground and becomes a virtually unstoppable juggernaut. You might think Imperial 
 Baneblades and Ork Squiggoths are powerful. How quaint. Wait until you see a fully awakened Monolith. 
 It might look and move like a fat Dalek just dropped in from an episode of Dr. Who, but it is, 
 hands down, the single most powerful thing you'll ever see in Dawn of War. The Tau cater more to 
 players who are tactically hands-on. Their mix of units requires a conscious strategy, including 
 a choice from two mutually exclusive branches during the mid-game. Their units have lots of abilities, 
 powers, and specific upgrades, blending stealth, firepower, melee, and vehicles in almost equal 
 measures. It's as if Relic built them to be the sandbox race, with a wider range of strategies 
 than anyone else. Unlike Winter Assault, Dark Crusade isn't just a new race. It also offers a great 
 new way to play single-player games. The campaign isn't a traditional set of scripted missions 
 that tell a story with cutscene commercials. Instead, it's a board game where you tell your own 
 story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottpy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  I just received my copy of Dark Crusade yesterday and I must say I was impressed with the finished 
 product! I couldn't find anything that was hokey or clearly out of balance. I started by playing 
 the two newest races - Tau, and Necrons. The Necron's resource model is a bit different from other 
 races and I find that a nice change of pace from the standard resource location/power model.
  
  Playing the campaign is fun! If you've played Battle for Middle Earth II, you'll see some slight 
 similarities. All in all, I'm really enjoying this game and it was definitely worth the wait!
 
  
  Good Things:
  
  - The two new races are interesting and fun to play.
  - Balance seems to be pretty good.
  - The AI is actually half way smart!
  - Graphics and sound 
 are great.
  - The campaign mode is nice.
  - Customizing your commander! Way cool!
  
  Set Backs:
  
  - I didn't like how even though I have valid copies of the other games installed, 
 it still asked me for their serial numbers! LAME!
  - Network performance for online play could be a little better. Very fixable with some optimization. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommunistLiberator
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  The game is really, really addictive. I can't stop thinking about it. I'm sneaking during class 
 to write this review. The Tau are so cool. They may be overpowered, but it seems like all the races 
 are. I can't wait for class to finish and keep on playing! LOVE!!!!!! I can't wait to start playing 
 as the Necrons and the Grey Knights. The game is just so good! Graphics are still really tight, 
 sound effects for all are really good, music is pretty sweet, gameplay is still as good as ever, 
 and the new meta-map adds really interesting effect to the single player game. Kinda wierded out 
 by Imperial guard and Space Mariens fighting but whatever. It'd be wierd if they didn't. Meta map 
 really makes the game good I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: studfish18
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  For fans of the table top game and for those who aren't, this is still an amazing RTS! With the 
 addition of the Tau and the Necron the styles of game play and strategy are endless, giving the 
 game constant hours of replay time. Way to go Relic for finally allowing fans of Warhammer 40K 
 to play it the way they've always wanted.
  
  I did find that some of the armies, particularly the Necron, seem to have distinct advantages over 
 some of the other armies, but if you have ever played the table top game, you'd know that the armies 
 are unbalanced, thats how it's supposed to be. The fun and challenging part of the game is picking 
 an army and learning to use it strengths to overcome its weaknesses and eventually kick the living 
 snot out of everyone else. Try playing with each different army and you'll notice distinct advantages 
 and disadvantages to each one, if the game seems to easy, change your opponent, or change your 
 army, or just bump up the difficulty level, the AI set to hard can definitely provide a challenge 
 to any gamer.
  
  So go out, get Dark Crusade and prepare for hours of carnage, because in the future, there is only 
 war... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan16
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  WarHammer 40k the Dark Crusade the latest chapter in the warhammer series. this is not a expansion 
 pack but a normal game doesnt require all the original 40k games to play. This game is just out 
 right great relic has kept 40k rolling and it continues to after this release. 2 new races tons 
 of new animations more blood and gore. The same game play you loved in the first warhammer. All 
 new single player modes with strategic map. and all new heroes wargear witch makes it even more 
 fun to see your top geared hero rip them into a blood pile.
  
  Positives
  - Old school game play
  - More blood more gore
  - All new single player
  - Hours of game 
 play off line
  - New races to master - Balanced the races (no more termie spam, possed spam)
  
  Negatives
 
  - You need the last 2 warhammer games to play those races online
  - Network issues online (its still playable just minor fixes are needed)
  
  Overall 9.0 Superb 
 great game and good job relic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monsooon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  The place where true intentions are shown best, in the battlefield. Dawn of War Dark Crusade are 
 one of the best RTS up to date by relic. The Hybrid expansion of the award winning Dawn of War, 
 with great graphics, fast game play 2 new races and an evolving community. The Tau a race that 
 strive to fight for the greater good. The Necron a cursed race that had been enslaved and turned 
 to mechanical xenos, Their numbers are legion there name is death For the greater good. For the 
 star gods. For the Emperor. For fighting. For Choas. For revenge.
  Play Dawn of War Dark Crusade. For On the frontlines, there is but one commandment... Thou Shalt 
 Kill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProHexen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow is all I can say when I first started this game. DOW: DC is by far the best RTS game of the 
 whole Dawn of War universe. The new single player is very fun. I love the whole planet conquest 
 idea. You are able to choose 1 of the 7 races and go all out and capture all the territories and 
 kill all the other races.
  
  I love the 2 new races. The Necrons are very powerful and very tough to kill. Only thing I don't 
 like about the Necrons is that they are really slow. The ground units take forever to catch up 
 to the Commander unit.
  
  The Tau are very good as well but easier to kill than the Necron.
  
  Graphics are still great. 
 Sound is very good. Love the gameplay. It's very easy to know what to do. It's the same as the 
 other 2 games, if you are a first time player be sure to play the tutorial first.
  
  You do not need to have Dawn or War or Winter Assault to play this game. But the downfall of not 
 having them is that you will not be able to play as Space Marines, Chaos, Orks, Eldar, or the Imperial 
 Guard on Multiplayer. My advice is that you should go ahead and get Dawn or War and Winter Assault 
 since you can get both of them for the same price as Dark Crusade.
  
  I hope you all enjoy this game because I love it a lot and will be playing it for many hours to 
 come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAmSD455
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade comes along right after Dawn of War bursts into peoples computers and then Winter 
 Assault slides in as an expansion pack. Dark Crusade acts like an expansion pack but does not requier 
 the other games to actually be installed into your pc. Although you do need the CD keys.
  
  Dark Crusade brings more factions into the Real Time Strategy than any other game and expansion 
 has ever. 7 Diffrent races with little to NO similarity, and completley diffrent storylines behind 
 each, including hero units which during campeign, grow stronger as you earn points to give them 
 better wepons and armor.
  
  Campeign is set up to be a conquest kinda thing where every turn you get, you try and take a territory, 
 and when one of the other forces come onto your territory, you can choose to defend or let the 
 computer try and do it for you, either way, every territory you take, you save your base and get 
 to use the same one to defend against other attackers.
  
  All in all, Dark Crusade is everything you got in the first two Dawn of War's PLUS some, infact, 
 plus alot, its a very very rewarding game to own and it will keep you enthralled in the story mode 
 and campeign for a very very long time. Enjoy hopping online and painting up all your new units!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aranos420
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original Dawn of War. It brought the miniatures game to my computer in a visceral, 
 fast-paced way that would leave my heart pounding for some time after finishing a long skirmish 
 with my buddies against the computer controlled opponents. Then, Winter Assault was released, bringing 
 to us the oft-overlooked Imperial Guard, regular joes who have been drafted to fight the hordes 
 of Chaos and Orks all over the universe. And now... we have Dark Crusade, which adds the foul Necron 
 and battle-suit wearing Tau (reminiscent of a lot of anime I've seen) . So... how is it?
  
  Well, the first major difference you'll notice is when you play the single-player campaign. Instead 
 of having a preset, linear mission-by-mission set up for just two races, you may now choose one 
 of the seven total available races (provided you have Dawn of War and Winter Assault) . The campaign 
 puts you on the surface of the planet Kronus, divided into a variety of provinces. Your goal here 
 is to remove the other six races from Kronus by defeating them at their stronghold. You move / 
 attack once per turn, and when you invade an enemy territory (or someone invades yours) you drop 
 down into the familiar RTS battle. This is nothing original; this was first done in a Warhammer 
 40K game known as 'Final Liberation'. Also, it was done in Lord of the Rings II. Not original, 
 but still adds nice variety to the game. I give the developers a thumbs up on this one. The graphics 
 are still wonderful. The new Grey Knights look incredible, and ALL the units are fluidly animated, 
 whether they are being slain by an axe or firing their weapons madly. The environments for the 
 maps get the job done. However, if you zoom in, you'll see the time and effort put into them. Unfortunately, 
 you won't always be able to admire them as you probably won't have time to do so!
  
  The sound is top-notch. The musical score conveys the occurrence of battle quite nicely, in an 
 orchestral martial theme. The unit acknowledgements and confirmations, as well as cries, battle 
 shouts, and numerous other sounds are wonderful. You'll know when your units are breaking; they'll 
 shout to retreat or beg you for directions.
  
  Well, the graphics and sound are great. So that leaves gameplay, right? The single player campaign 
 is a fresh addition. I like it. However, in my opinion, the races suffer from balance issues. Chaos 
 Marines are extremely powerful, with various abilities such as infiltration, summoning Khorne (who 
 along with one daemon prince was able to wipe out my entire army AND base!) , and so on. The super 
 units allotted for each race don't balance out, and it makes you wonder how some races (the Imperial 
 Guard a glaring example) can even hope to stand against the others. Orks for example, are quite 
 hardy, and even get a larger amount of infantry than other races. They focus on melee combat, so 
 it makes some sense. However, the Imperial Guard, who is quite fragile and lacks the tough units 
 of the other races, receives no bonus troop cap. If the Imperial Guard were to receive a larger 
 amount of troops, that'd be great. Also, some of their specialized units, such as Kasrkin, cost 
 3 squad points, which seems a bit ridiculous, considering how weak they are compared to other races' 
 units of the same tier (For example, Chaos Obliterators, which cost 3 squad points and can withstand 
 severe amounts of punishment and can wipe out whole squads with no problem) . The new races are 
 enjoyable, requiring different play styles, but they add more to the feeling of imbalance. The 
 Necron are extremely tough, can revive their dead, and have incredible capabilities, including 
 slowly time, and dishing out enormous amounts of damage. The Tau feel weaker, with focus on ranged 
 combat, but being able to fire from stealth and summoning Kroot creatures that rival the Squiggoth. 
 The Tau commander seems like he's made of paper, despite that oh-so-fancy battlesuit he has.
  
  Overall, Dark Crusade is a good addition to Dawn of War and Winter Assault, adding two new 
 races, and expanding our options. It also provides a fresh way to play in single player, with a 
 new campaign mode. Unfortunately, none of the game balance issues seem to have been addressed, 
 and in fact, have been made worse by adding these two new races. It's kind of a shame. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
