-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War: Soulstorm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warhammer40000dawnofwarsoulstorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New Sisters of Battle and Dark Eldar factions add variety to gameplay.
 Expanded campaign now takes in an entire solar system.
 Aerial units added to the new and existing armies.
 Great Warhammer 40K atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Similar feel to last year's Dark Crusade expansion.
 Persistent campaign introduced in Dark Crusade is nearly identical here.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 2,219 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Iron Lore
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 4, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Soulstorm caps off the long-running Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War series with recycled gameplay. 
 

  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War: Soulstorm, the third and presumably final addition to the four-year-old 
 real-time strategy franchise based on Games Workshop's billion-dollar tabletop-game system steals 
 its best moments from 2006's fantastic Dark Crusade expansion. Consequently, this stand-alone add-on 
 has a been-there, done-that vibe. Only the presence of tried-and-true action-packed gameplay, along 
 with the introduction of two new factions and an expanded nonlinear campaign, elevates the proceedings 
 above a feel-good exercise in recycling, and these elements are so similar to those introduced 
 in Dark Crusade that you're guaranteed to have a couple of flashes of deja vu.  

           Guts, gore, and plenty of gunplay are the hallmarks of every campaign mission.      

 
  When you get right down to it, Soulstorm is pretty much a carbon copy of Dark Crusade. The big 
 additions to the Warhammer 40K family are, once again, two more factions and a nonlinear campaign 
 based on a Risk-style turn-based tactical map. Here, the two new sides are the fanatically religious 
 Sisters of Battle, a group of pissed-off space nuns who take Catholic guilt to a whole new level, 
 and the sadistic Dark Eldar, who chow down on souls for fun. The Sisters are most notable for such 
 downright spooky units as the Penitent Engine, which consists of a heretic strapped to the front 
 of a crucifix bot loaded with flamethrowers, and a faith resource that juices what amounts to battlefield 
 spells. The Dark Eldar are almost as memorable, due to a nifty slave-and-demon thing going on with 
 regard to units, and a new soul-essence resource that powers enemy-blasting combat abilities. But 
 even though these features give the factions plenty of personality -- particularly the Sisters, whose 
 Canoness leaders screech loony battle cries like "Witchcraft, heresy, and mutation!" -- neither brings 
 much new to the table when it comes to gameplay. If you've already developed solid playing styles 
 for the Imperial Guard or the Orks, you don't have to make too many changes to be effective while 
 fighting as the Sisters or the Dark Eldar.  

  Few surprises are on offer in the campaign structure, either, which is a straight rip of the one 
 in Dark Crusade. The only change here is that your war rages over territories spread between four 
 planets and three moons in the Kaurava system, which gives the campaign more of an intergalactic 
 atmosphere. Regardless, there aren't any serious differences between the single-planet campaign 
 in Dark Crusade and the multiplanet one here. The number of territories to be conquered is roughly 
 the same at 31, and you can hop between worlds like you were walking across the street. So the 
 only real difference is the turn-based map screen in which you plot out moves, which is an attractive 
 rendition of a solar system instead of simpler planetary terrain.  

  Furthermore, a lot of story seems to have been sacrificed to provide a nonlinear campaign. The 
 flimsy plot deals with a warp storm that draws the interest of the game's nine factions to the 
 Kaurava system, setting up a battle royal that plays out more like individual skirmishes than an 
 integrated campaign. As such, mission goals are very repetitive. You build a base, set up some 
 plasma generators, crank out troops, and then head off to conquer and secure strategic points on 
 the map to boost the requisition resource -- over and over. Chances are awfully good that you'll 
 lose interest in figuring out the mystery behind the warp storm long before you conquer a couple 
 of planets and start getting some answers. In many ways, a fully scripted campaign would be more 
 intriguing in a game like this. It would probably be a better way to tackle the soap-opera intrigue 
 and craziness of the Warhammer 40K universe.  

           Meet the Dark Eldar, they're the bad guys.      

  Other aspects of the game are holdovers. 
 Enemy AI is spectacularly dumb on easy difficulty and a pretty stiff challenge on normal, which 
 makes for a big leap if you start on the bottom rung of the ladder. Aerial units have been added 
 to all factions, including both of the two new ones as well as the seven existing ones, but they 
 don't make any serious impact on gameplay. Combat aircraft just seem to give you a boost in speed, 
 letting you pull off quickie attacks to seize critical strategic points and relics. You can live 
 without aerial units in solo play, although smart human players online tend to use them a lot for 
 the aforementioned lightning strikes on key map points. Dozens of skirmish maps are available for 
 two to eight factions in skirmish mode, and most of them have been ported in from previous editions 
 in the series. Visuals and sound appear to date back to the inception of the franchise in 2004, 
 which makes for a dated experience. However, the game was quite a looker way back when, so it's 
 stood the test of time fairly well. And you still can't quibble with the detailed, colorful take 
 on Games Workshop's miniatures, or the apocalyptic look of the levels, which are just as grim and 
 nasty as you'd expect from the Warhammer universe.  

  Soulstorm feels like a fitting end to the Dawn of War line, even if the the secondhand features 
 and gameplay keep it from hitting a high note. The addition of the Sisters of Battle and the Dark 
 Eldar rounds out the Warhammer 40K lineup of factions (except for the oddly MIA gene-stealing Tyranids) , 
 and the planet-hopping campaign gives the franchise an epic, intergalactic feel for the first time. 
 Nevertheless, the familiar gameplay tastes stale, and after four years, its run its course.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (128 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Vladimal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Even more than Starcraft, Warhammer 40K Soulstorm brings races with personality to RTS. The strategy 
 and tactics vary widely by race, and differ even from one opponent to the next. The variety is 
 instantly challenging and entertaining.
  
  Like all the 40K series, you either attack or lose. No chance to turtle and wait it out, or get 
 the advanced units before shedding blood. You fight with what you have, and hope to survive to 
 grow and reinforce. If you don't the AI will!
  
  The few flaws of Dark Crusade have been fixed (massive garrisoning of captured areas) , and resources 
 always seem scarce until the end. Knocking a race out of the game is never easy, and a single slip 
 in strategy spells doom.
  
  Crank up the level to the highest, and try to capture a new territory each turn. And don't stick 
 with the drab Space Marines who just bully their opponents. Try your hand with Eldar or Dark Eldar 
 who really can't go toe-to-toe with anyone else. They you have to be clever.
  
  Soulstorm is my all-time favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoosh_meister
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 12:08 am PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the most underrated games of all time, to date i am still shocked and 
 appalled at the large quantities of gamers out there that have never even heard of warhammer 40k.
 
  As a single player experience, it's fun and well paced, but it truly comes to life in multi-player. 
 Unlike most strategy games that promote turtling yourself in a corner with your resources and seeing 
 who cracks first after some rock against the wall throwdowns, this game promotes action, right 
 from the word go you have to be in the field of battle, you have to fight, strive and conquer to 
 ultimately win, no stagnation, no sitting on laurels, if you are not in the thick of it, you will 
 lose. The game, like it's twin company of heroes, promotes fast paced strategy action, and it is 
 that exactly, strategy !. A lot of games follow the formula of "who builds the biggest unit first 
 will win the game". balderdash i say !!! warhammer is balanced, there is no "ultimate" unit. almost 
 every unit and object in the game has a counter, a way to beat it, a weakness if you will, the 
 trick is to balance your army, limited in size by the pop cap, into a force to be reckoned with 
 that can respond on the fly to any threat. This is multi-player strategy at it's best. The industry 
 should take note 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief150
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game has become a franchise ever since the very first very gorey game that they released and 
 still keeping it great!
  
  Gameplay 
  
  This game is really good and keeps the same flavor we all know and love. Relic has just released 
 2 new races to the Dawn of War Universe, The Sisters of Battle and the Dark Eldar. Both of which 
 are diffrent and unique for the Dawn of War series. The Sisters of Battle play like a mix of a 
 Imperial Guardsmen and Space Marines making them a threat to be reckoned with. They also have there 
 own unique resource "Acts of Faith" which lets them summon special abilites unique to the race. 
 The Dark Eldar are completly opposite from the "Good Eldar". They have great ambush abilites and 
 very unique units and buildings. They also have the ability to harvest the souls of the fallen 
 to use some of there most deadly abilitys and units in the game. So far a great add on to Dawn 
 of War.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics adds a nice touch to the game but could have been better since they have used those 
 same graphics for 3 stand alone expansions. But overall adds a nice touch to the game.
  
  Sound
  
  The Sound in the game is great. Adding nice cheasy sayings that each race has while 
 also adding the great explosions in the game. Great Graphics 
  
  Stability 
  
  I always look for in a game is for it to actually play on my computer and this one works with flying 
 colors. Ya it may have some bugs but nothing that will make you go and throw your copy out of your 
 window. This game will work on any 4 yr. old system since it only uses a Pentium IV requirments. 
 Overall great stabiltiy and accessable to all. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  Overall this game is worth the 30 bucks now and will you having playing for hours. Great Game ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firepire
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I've never played Dawn of War games until Soulstorm nor have I ever played the real table top version 
 in my life. However this is the game that has made me fall in love with the whole Warhammer 40k 
 universe!
  
  I've spent over 100 hours playing MULTIPLAYER and literally zero playing the campaign and skirmishes. 
 I understand that there are different expansions in this Dawn of War series like Dark Crusade and 
 that Soulstorm only adds two new races to the game but... since I have all the races unlocked in 
 multiplayer it doesn't make a difference to me.
  
  THE MULTIPLAYER IS AWESOME. If you love RTS multiplayer, then you will love soulstorm because the 
 game is simply amazing when you play against other people. If you have all the other games, then 
 you'll have a ton of races to choose from, each with very very unique characteristics. I can't 
 describe how amazing the game mechanics are, the game is incredibly balanced and having played 
 every single race, they are are equally amazing in their own respects. Also, there is very rarely 
 lag in multiplayer games which I find very surprising given that you are playing against people 
 around the world, literally...
  
  I've played against french players, russian, czech, korean, chinese players all on Soulstorm and 
 it's so easy to get a game started and finished. Long games run up to 30 minutes while typical 
 ones are under 20 minutes. This may sound fast but it lets you get hundreds of games in your repetoire 
 such that you don't suck anymore. Once you're not a noob anymore, you will find playing against 
 other people incredibly fulfilling. The game is so diverse and dynamic with very unique attributes 
 and abilities for each race such that you can easily play over 100 hours in multiplayer without 
 getting bored.
  
  This is the game that has made me drool over dawn of war II because once you've played soulstorm 
 multiplayer through and through you will see how amazing DOW II is going to be. 
  
  If you're only looking for a campaign experience, you'll probably get bored within a few games 
 because the experience is 10 times more dim than multiplayer against real human opponents. AI opponents 
 can be "turtled" out, where you sit around for 30 minutes building an unstoppable force to crush 
 them. This gets so damn boring too fast, but with multiplayer, you're always on your feet!
  
  I hope this has helped you make your decision!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coco_nutz18
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  the necrons still rule!
  
  the dark eldar is quite cool but sucks when attacked by stealth enemies.
  
  the campaign is 
 all about conquering every inch of the world and killing every enemy to extinction.
  
  that is how you survive and advance in this game.
  
  it's good because every clan has unique 
 units & abilities, & unique heroes as well.
  
  every region has it's own reward, so choose the region you conquer with caution.
  
  every time 
 you conquer a region, you have to protect it from invaders as well. 
  
  great graphics when fighting.
  
  the bad?
  
  it's repetitive!
  
  the game loads too 
 slow even when you have a very powerful pc (when i said powerful, it means that the pc is clean 
 and maintained very well with the help of some utilities..=p)
  
  the story is weak.
  
  but what the h*ll you'll still enjoy it for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optiplex523
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  It can be very immersive, specially when the armies are engaging. There is high adrenaline like 
 most real time strategy games and all warhammer 40k series. There are a few differences over the 
 previous version, like a few new units, a couple of new factions, some flying units. But not much 
 change in overall gameplay. I couldn't tell about the single player though -which i haven't even 
 played- because i only play multiplayer games, format of which hasn't changed or hasn't changed 
 noticeable. You still have your kasyr map and the previous maps so dont worry about that. Oh one 
 importang thing: you dont need to buy the previous games in order to play soulstorm but if you 
 dont have them, you will be able to play only with the two new factions, although other players 
 can play you with the previous factions if they have the complete set. So if you like playing the 
 space marines or the necrons, you will have to have the other versions installed already in your 
 computer in order to play them. A bummer continues to be the waiting time to start playing. You 
 can see your statisics but bad thing is people tend to leave if they see someone with low statistics. 
 So it can take forever to wait for game. If you announce game pro only, there might not be that 
 many pros playing around so you end up waiting too anyway.... oh well, hope they manage to fix 
 that. 
  But it's a great game, addictive and you have a nice time playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telion445
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  this is my review of dow: soulstorm. first of all i'm very happy that their is new multiplayer maps 
 to choose from and if you got the other dow games you got yourself 120 multiplayer maps to play. second 
 is that two new playable races to choose from: first is the sisters of battle there're your nuns 
 with guns and have the living saint and the second race is the dark eldar they're like the chaos 
 space marines but they use splinter rifles and raiding tactics to win battles and take prisoners 
 for them to torture. third is that that the seven other races get new units and for the first time 
 air units to play around and new worlds to conqure. finally i'm a little unhappy to hear that you 
 must becareful playing that it has some kinks to fix up and i think they have a download to fix 
 the problem. i gave the game 9.0 out of 10 and i gave it that cause of the problem. this is telion455 
 and this is my review of "dawn of war: soulstorm". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:29 am PT
Review:  why do i NOT reccomend getting this after dark crusade? because the tau were modified MUCH, and 
 the two new factions soulstorm adds arent all that great unless your a RTS master. but jebus!!! 
 NINE FACTIONS!!!! they each are PERFECTLY well balanced!! they have thier flaws, and advantages 
 that i intend to list now!
  
  Space marines - a balanced faction with units decent, not so decent, and just plain awesome. 
 
  
  Chaos - the only thing to say here is that this faction is amazing! all its units are overpowered, 
 and thier building build time is quick.
  
  Eldar - very weak unless you them right. these guys can reap destruction against infantry, but 
 vehicles.... not so much unless you have its uber unit, the avatar! which is amazingly powerful, 
 as intended.
  
  Orks - the most hilarious faction for thier WAAAAAAAAGH!!! stuff heheheh im not too fond of these 
 guys, but a lot of others are! 
  
  Imperial Guard - these guys are pitiful humans with l@Z0R gunz! but... being humans, they make 
 environment reaping vehicles of war! the key to winning w/ these guys is thier tanks! 
  
  Tau - units are very fun to use, their bassically china, a very powerful army!! they also talk 
 in a sort of chinese way! their only dissadvantage is thier low build times.
  
  Necron - like the tau: powerful, and destructive! but bad build times. if you know latin good enough, 
 youll notice NECROn, yes, theyre a zombie faction! so, their limbs arent so great, meaning they 
 move slowly. not too many vehicles! but thier infantry make them very powerful, plus all their 
 units are recruited from a single building - the monolith
  
  Sisters of battle - one of those people you see on the SS boxshot is one of these guys..... i mean 
 girls!!! they arent feminists but they are like this... 
  
  Space marines - imperial guard + women = SoB 
  after a while of playing with them, you will learn 
 that they are very powerful!
  
  
  super soldiers!! with weak weapons, heavy armor and balanced vehicles. defensive!
  
  Dark eldar 
 - eldar... remember them? these guys are pretty much the same... in a twisted evil way............ 
 they arent powerful at all. but they have one advantage. 
  thier buildings will build themselveswithout a builder once the construction has begun. they grow 
 up so fast..............
  
  
  
  thats all of em. there is a downloadable faction available though, the tyrannids. which will also 
 show up in DoW2!!! i hope to own that game one day.
  
  
  
  
  now, the multiplayer is terrible!!!
  
  just dont press the multiplayer button!!! you wont find 
 enjoyment there, it requires the other games to play as their factions. so if you buy this game 
 for the MP. return it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazorBlankGiga
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  I originally bought this expansion for about 30 bucks, which isn't asking much, but it had the 
 same single player to it as Dark Crusade, it had no innovation to the graphics, and they have yet 
 to patch the game for things THQ knows is messed up.
  I do in fact like the Dark Eldar, but I think they should have at least kept the Sisters of Battle 
 with the same name as their predecessors the Witch Hunters being the fan of Warhammer 40k that 
 I am I would have preferred that.
  I really think the engine of the game slowed down with this expansion because on Dawn of War Dark 
 Crusade I had about 40 to 50 frames per second with a full army on the battlefield. On this game 
 however I get about 20 to 40 frames per second I don't know how they managed to mess up the engine 
 so much from the last expansion, I mean I don't see any graphical enhancements like from Dawn of 
 War to Winter Assault where they added ground scarring, and persistent corpses. Oh! Another thing 
 is the fact that if you want to play all of the races online, or over a lan you have to have all 
 of the other games installed, and if you're like me reformatting your computer every so often to 
 ward away identity theft then this becomes a long drawn out task. I mean couldn't they just ask 
 you for all of the CD keys from the other games instead, I know they've got all of the races packed 
 onto this one disk it's not like they don't have them on there, and they have to retrieve key files 
 from them. I also don't have infinite memory on my computer either so it's quite irritating when 
 about two tenths of my memory is being taken up by one game alone.
  Needless to say this expansion is just a must buy to whom ever is majorly into the online gaming 
 community. If you don't want to play it online so much, and you want it for its wonderful single 
 player campaign don't bother, go throw your money elsewhere because you aren't getting your kicks 
 here.
  I personally believe they should have just had this as a booster pack of sorts only adding the 
 two races to the Dawn of War Dark Crusade expansion, because -1- They don't have anything new to 
 the single player campaign. -2- It wasn't much of an expansion. -3- The engine got screwed up somewhere 
 in the programing. -4- It lacked graphical enhancements. -5- It takes up way-y-y too much space.
 
  Really THQ, and Relic step it up. I hope I don't see any of this **** with Dawn of War 2, otherwise 
 you're going to have one pissed fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus_CXIII
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The graphics, the camera angles, the options, the immersed interactive game-play, the total control, control, control. 
 I mean if you suffer from OCD, this game is for you. Strap in and jack it up, your in for a ride... 
 I bought it a month ago and was instantly hooked. There are so many aspects of the game to stay 
 on top of. It takes some getting used to but the over-all experience is great. I haven't even played 
 it on line yet because I want to grasp the full scope of the game in single player mode first and 
 I am enjoying it very much as is. I, as of now, have yet to complete half of the campain. It is 
 that involved. I have high expectations of the on-line version. Watch out gammers the fist of Mont'ka 
 is here. Cry havoc and let slip the dogs of war..." ICARUS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzz_off5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k Dawn of War Soulstorm is still the best RTS game in the world. Action from the start 
 and no, wasting time on gathering resource. I played the Dark Cursade expansion but after I played 
 the campaign for like an hour the enemy computer's bases was so over powered and I had nothing 
 when I went to war. Will the computer toke their entire army (not just honor guards) and full operational 
 bases. In the end I got pretty angry about that there was a so big deferent's between me and the 
 computer. The campaign in Soulstorm where you need to conquer the tree plants in the sol system 
 is so great. There is balance between you and enemy, the special abilities are granted to the different 
 races. You actually have a chance to take down the enemy stronghold. It's cool that the stronghold 
 battle's are like normal campaigns, instead off being a normal dawn of war match were you would 
 never stand a chance. The two new race are really cool, the ability the dark elder have to make 
 there enemy's moral drop to zero. The Sisters of Battle have some really powerful close combat 
 units. The stealth mode are also so nice, the flying units are a big minus. The limit cap I hate 
 so much because it prevent you from getting really powerful. There is just nothing as fun as to 
 army's of the strongest soldiers smashing together in a huge fight. I like Soulstorm but, Winter 
 Assault is without limit cap so I kind of like it better.
  
  I'm looking forward to Warhammer 40k Dawn of War II. :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scippi125
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok, when i first heard about Dawn Of War: Soulstorm, i was really looking forward to it as Dark 
 Crusade was such a great and fun game. After i got Soulstorm and decided to give it a try, the 
 first thing that hits me was the impressive intro. The thought of another great addition to the 
 DOW series was crushed after playing campaign for about 2 hours, the voice acting was appalling, 
 the story is pretty much the same, all races want the star system for their own, and there was 
 absolutely nothing new except that you fight on 4 different planets/stars instead of one massive 
 one. 
  
  Ok so campaign was a big failure, let's try skirmish, it was quite the same except a few minor 
 changes for some certain races. But something seems wrong... Yeah the AI sucks, i remember having 
 to struggle against standard AI in DC and now i can beat insane AI in 5 minutes !!! (Is this whether 
 because i'm a big noob or i have improved when i got soulstorm i do not know :D)
  
  So everything i've tried so far was mediocre, average-like and not as impressive as i thought it 
 would be.
  
  So then i went on multiplayer, i was amazed by the amount of fun i had dancing my fws and thrashing 
 enemies from a distance. I have been playing this game online for nearly 2 months constantly now 
 and i've been playing online ONLY, and i get bored quite quickly usually :D. There are also some 
 other annoying minor bugs too which you can find here: http://forums. relicnews. com/showthread. php? t=184081
 
  
  So to conclude this review, i'll summarize the whole thing to make your lives easier:
  
  PROS
  .It's a DOW game :D
  .Great online play
  .The 2 new races are distinctive and fun 
 to play
  .You won't be able to know where the name came from until you've played as the Dark Eldar :D
 
  
  CONS
  .Bugs, bugs and more bugs
  .Not a lot has been added or changed
  .Voice acting is horrible
  .Why the game is named after a Dark Eldar's power please don't ask 
 cos i have no idea :\
  .In my opinion, still some balancing issues
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War Soulstorm is a fun 3rd expansion but honestly, I guess I just lost 
 interest because of the lackluster production values... I mean its not horribly made. Its a competent 
 entry and 3rd addition to Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War but its just not made by Relic and it shows. 
 Its made by Iron Lore, creators of Titan Quest (which was solid) , which coincidentally is a developer 
 that no longer exists. They went under. Its sad but ultimately this game just falls apart. I guess 
 part of it is my interest since Relic decided to hand this off to another developer and that resulted 
 in a game that lost its tone and flavor. Even if Relic was overseeing this games creation. 
  
  There lots of improvements over the previous titles but the graphics just look dated and the 
 textures are really poor. Worse than what we saw in Relics efforts. For me that right there is 
 a turn off since Relic did a good job of using the right amount of detail when they were making 
 the expansions. I think this expansion was phoned in and its true that it was made pretty quickly, 
 almost right before Iron Lores demise. Then when Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War Soulstorm went gold, 
 Iron Lore went under. Or something like that. Either way it bought Relic time to put up with us 
 fans so that they could work on the current Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War 2. 
  
  Sorry my review turned into a rant but this game is a bit weak. Get it only if you feel you have 
 to play with the Sisters of Battle and Dark Eldar which while nice aren't noteworthy additions 
 whatsoever because they lack the Relic polish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  I understand that this game is actually worse than Dark Crusade, mainly because it is the same 
 game two years later, but somehow I liked it better. I am trying to find an explanation for that 
 and the only reason that I can think of, is that maybe I was just in the mood for Dawn of War. 
 All the charm of its senseless violence is here and the two new races are actually very intriguing. 
 The Sisters of Battle are a standard race, much like the Space Marines, but the Dark Eldar are 
 more diverse and require a lot of micromanagement. I, personally, prefer bully armies, but I must 
 admit that the Dark Eldar trickery is very interesting to play with.
  
  Other than that, the game offers exactly the same campaign from Dark Crusade, only on a different 
 setting, but that's not much of a difference. There are even fewer "story" battles this time, because 
 there are no more special provinces except enemy strongholds. The bonuses they provide, have been 
 diminished as well and there are no more uber powers like the Space Port or the power that allows 
 you to attack multiple times in a turn. In fact the only two powers I found kind of useful in Soulstorm 
 were the Forward Base and the Eldar's ability to move three times in a turn.
  
  On the other hand, provinces are roughly the same in number which means much more skirmish battles. 
 Since almost all of them yield honor guards, at the end of the game you will start each battle 
 with such a huge army that you will simply attack-move it towards the other end of the map and 
 you will be a winner in three minutes. Not exactly a challenge.
  
  Overall, this is exactly the same game as Dark Crusade. It is better in some aspects and worse 
 in others but still, it is the same game. On one hand, this is a very cheap way to release an expansion 
 pack (especially a third one) . On the other, if you liked Dark Crusade (there are no reasons that 
 you didn't) , you will like this one as well. It's been two years since its release and Soulstorm 
 is a good excuse to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sennapods
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: both new races presented well, with impressive relic units. However, base building sucked 
 up a lot more time than was available for actual combat. That being said, the relic units were 
 pretty awesome. The Dark Eldar relic unit with its fearsome Dark Matter cannon is probably the 
 best relic unit in the entire game. 
  
  THE BAD: the commentator sounds much more overblown than he should. The game lacks individual intros 
 for each race a la Dark Crusade. Also lacks the exceptional inter-race banter on stronghold missions 
 that so drew the player into the battle in Dark Crusade. Acts of faith don't perform as advertised, 
 especially Divine Retribution.
  Stronghold assaults lost much of their flavor, which hinders replayability.
  The archives of 
 each territory tell you less and less about the system than one expected.
  
  THE UGLY: There are no hints as to the fate of Davian Thule and the other commander units from 
 the last expansion except Gorgutz, who makes it onto this game as well. The storyline is much thinner. 
 Eldar harlequin glitches everytime you select the dance of death. I haven't played this game in 
 months now because it just sucks so bad
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MandoWolf
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Like all, I expected another Dark Crusade, which was pretty much the BEST of the entire series.
 
  
  I was disappointed by the new races, a new female army and a pirate army. Sisters of Battle are 
 just a rip off of the Imperial Guard, and the Dark Eldar are no better than 5-10 minutes in the 
 game. Otherwise they blow except for the Special Vehicle with the canon that obliterates all.
 
  
  The single player missions, I haven't even played and I've owned this game since it came out, I 
 just bought it for the expansion in Multiplayer which this game rocks at. When I did try to play 
 it, It took 10 minutes to load the maps, so I just said "forget it" and instantly registered my 
 Multiplayer tab online.
  
  I LOVE the new maps, they are good, only thing is they are not making any patches for Multiplayer... 
 which blows because they're are alot of bugs in the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halox2020
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  This game takes you back to Dark Crusade where has a multiple ending campaign but this time its 
 more irritating and less detail of the warhammer 40000 universe.
  The BAD SIDE & GOOD SIDE
  The new races are almost the same gameplay and tactics as the other races just with the additional 
 new resources and the effectivness against certain units.
  The new air units are a good idea of included into the game but is just like a floating vehicle 
 in the air and its way weaker and not deadly than any units. So much for air support.
  
  New and unique models of the Sisters of Battle and Dark Eldar make the game more extra meat & corpse 
 and colours into the game.
  
  Longer campaign but weak strategy of conquering and defending and some races have certain power 
 that could overcome certain races easily.
  
  No proper inspiring conversation between different races and poor mission objectives.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedre123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  So here is the deal at first i realized the graphics were absolutely miserable they were blurred 
 and then i found that you could go to the options windows and change the quality and now problem 
 solved the graphics are great.
  
  admittedly this is my first dawn of war so i wouldn't know if the gameplay is overused but as far 
 as i can tell it is very good the campaign is interesting and londg as hell the new races are cool 
 and everything is tip top as far as i am concerned one annoying thisng is with human groups when 
 you click them they say stuff and sometimes it is obnoxiously long and loud and you often have 
 to click them multiple times so that is annoying but other than that great game
  
  base d on the review i was expecting a dissapointing game but i was very very very very pleasently 
 surprized with the entire outcome
  graphics 9
  sound 7
  gameplay 8
  tilt 9
  value 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realsatan84
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'm new to W40K but for the first time of playing this, i find that the game play is somehow 
 interesting and i think i could be sticking to it for quite some times.. the single play story mode 
 suck up most of my time as I'm so into it. The play style is so much different from Blizzard RTS. 
 So be ready to learn something new out of it.
  For those RTS lovers, i would recommend "must try". The graphic could be odd at first, but i get 
 used to it very fast. I especially love to see the battle with the hero knock off others normal 
 units! It is cool to see the buildings constructing and producing too~ 
  Wow come to think of there is still 6 more faction that I'm have to play to master it, and all those 
 story mode to go through, i guess i could probably play till SC2 is out though... hahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poshkidney
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  This is the last expansion pack for Relic's excellent RTS games based in the Warhammer 40K universe 
 of the table top game.
  
  While Dawn of war has had its flaws but it doesn't stop being a brilliant RTS game while it's already 
 had two well made expansion packs that brought new faction, Units, maps and more of that gory strategy 
 we love this final one is a bit of a disappointment.
  
  It brings two new Factions the Dark eldar the counter part of the elder that play similar to the 
 elder but have a more chaos liking to them. As of the other faction sisters of battle who are a 
 faction of venomous hags of the Space marines that play like the space marines but focus more on 
 faith to the emperor as if he's some god. Both factions play like other factions but still feel 
 balanced and unique.
  
  But with these new factions they bring a new type of unit to all factions, an air unit while it 
 may have sounded good on paper it doesn't seem to work as it feels out of place and doesn't mix 
 with the ground tactics and it seems to much while less is more as the first dawn of war was perfect, 
 winter assault added to it, Dark crusade took into a different direction in the campaign and was 
 almost pushing it to the point dawn of wars gameplay was getting tiresome. 
  Now In soulstorm it's tiring and really needs something in the gameplay it's the game as what was 
 in dawn of war and the other expansions and now its feels old and tiresome as battle feels slower 
 and is getting irritating and even the gory battles aren't worth it. 
  
  The main campaign is short it features four planets to conquer each separated into smaller provinces 
 that have you zoomed out making them hard to see and fiddly. These provinces are maps that can 
 be played in both skirmish and multiplayer but units and buildings don't look as pretty as they 
 do it the campaign another disappointment we thought might have been fixed.
  
  Its not great but if you're a big fan of dawn of war you should buy it only to be the first to 
 access the Dawn of war II beta before people who put of buying soulstorm but liked dawn of war 
 if you really want to wait for dawn of war II you should just give soulstorm a pass and spend it 
 on something else. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: verysneaky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Although Dark Crusade was a great game, Soulstorm is basically the same thing with a couple of 
 new classes. I know it's an expansion pack, but it just hasn't done as much as DC has. The multiple 
 planet deal is kinda silly, its pretty much the same thing as DC, but annoying.
  
  Gameplay
  Basically, the same as DC, which has nice gameplay, but just feels too much the same. 
 The two new classes and the air units are kinda cool, but the air units seem kinda useless most 
 of the time.
  
  Graphics
  Basically the same as DC again, not improving on anything, but still looks good enough. 
  
 
  Multiplayer
  I've played some LAN with a friend, which was fun, the classes are still quite balanced and is 
 worth having a go at.
  
  Verdict
  Although it just feels like Dark Crusade with a few additions, it's still a good game and is worth 
 playing if you liked DC. Otherwise, it doesn't have too much going for it and is better to just 
 wait for DoW2 if there are any doubts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HufflePuff-TLH
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  To start with, in my oppion the orginal game was one of the best RTS games in a long long time, 
 and still is the gameplay was fresh and hardcore full on action.
  This expansion to the game lets you play 2 new races (kinda like the other ones) and gives you 
 a new campain to play with, that is like the one from Dark Crusade with the planets, but it dosent 
 realy do the job sadly, there are also flying units in this new expansion, and they realy made 
 a sad job with thouse, the grafiks is getting old and it all looks a little sad, this game should 
 have been cancled and they should have waited with posting a new game untill DOW2, that looks awesome, 
 it looks like they just neeeded to milk the original a little more before releasing dow2,
  
  So sadly this game dosent realy bring anything new to the table, and it is very disappointing 
 comparded to the other realeses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crush_Project
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  when i heard of this game from my old dow buddies, they told me that it was nothing new over dc. 
 What they didnt tell me was that they reduced the hp for most units and added a huge increase to 
 the cost of teching.
  
  What this means to me is that the skilled players that could dance or micro their troops and have 
 superior control of their armies lose to guys that just know the right build orders. Its a much 
 harsher tech progression, so if you find yourself behind a bit its virtually impossible to catch 
 up if hes halfway intelligent.
  
  The game has even worse loading/lag issues than even the original dow, even with the ridiculous 
 amounts of ports you have to open (this game isnt really even worth it if you have a router unless 
 you like turning it off) .
  
  The community has the same amount of people on it in ss as dc anyways, so i dont see the point 
 to this product. Its feels like a down grade with the extra tech problems.
  
  Even the 2 new races look like they spent about an hour redesigning the current sm and eldar armies 
 to give us these new additions.
  
  I would say its a complete waste of money, but then again, looking at the competition (or lack 
 thereof) what else are you going to play?
  
  oh and looking at the past, all these expansions get ONE patch. Thats it. Maybe this xpansion will 
 get the uber fix to everything that we've been waiting for since 1.1 of the original game, but 
 im not holding my breathe anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  After numerous flops in the VG industry, GW has finally found Relic to bring the 41st millennium 
 to life.
  
  -Pros-
  *Awesome Melee Combat
  *Nice Detail on Models
  *Captures visceral nature of 40K
  *Well Balanced Units (Apply patches)
  * Array of different 
 Armies to Master
  *Quick Packed Multiplayer
  *Geared to run on old machines
  *Excellent audio and superb voice acting
  
  -Cons-
  *The idea of Terrain isn't flushed out 
 enough
  *Maps can feel claustrophobic
  *Campaign Missions can feel repetitive
  *Some units act stupidly (They take the long route instead of short route)
  *Base Building
 
  
  The Dawn of War franchise is fantastic. Im a Tabletop player so this game was a dream come true. 
 Its an excellent RTS that will have me playing until the day I die.
  
  The Sob and DE are wicked armies. Well see how the 1.1 patch re-balances the game.
  
  Hardware/Software- 
 Runs fairly easily. Taking Shadows off can help smooth things out, but they add alot of detail 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supes36
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Missed opportunities. Thats how you could describe Soulstorm, yes they added two new races, yes 
 new campaign, yes more maps but the greatness they passed by happy to wave at and hug mediocrity. 
 The new races are fun Dark Eldar are wicked, SOB are mighty, but honestly neither blew me away 
 and i won't be using them much besides an occasional random battle online. The campaign is my main 
 beef. Oh it is infuriating, first they strip the story down even more from DC which was thin (Yet 
 fun) but still entertaining. And ohhh the planet map now theres all these planets to attack, GAY. 
 If you took every territory and laid it out you would end up with the same amount of levels as 
 DC. Its sluggish in running, the graphics are starting to show there age, and i played the crap 
 out of DC and past DOW and this made me mad. I wanted to get back in with their promises, well 
 they gave what they said just not in the magnitude they implied. Real let down for me, if your 
 a fan pick it up the new races are good enough to warrant a purchase i just expect more out of 
 the company who gave us one of THE best RTS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoliathUK
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing dawn of war for a long time, but only got round to bothering with soulstorm today, 
 on a whim. First off I was stunned when I launched the game and had to deal with the default camera 
 zoom - quickly realising that a long, loooong time ago i downloaded some new camera scripts to 
 increase your viewing distance dramatically.
  
  Trying to play the game with the original view distance, I found it a messy and frustrating experience. 
 A quick google though provided me with the same camera scripts i'd used in Dark Crusade, and voila, 
 I can see a tactically sensible proportion of the battlefield at a time (roughly three or four 
 times as wide a perspective as before, and zoomed further out) .
  
  WHY do the devs try and hinder you with the crazy close up perspective? Isn't this a strategy game?
 
  
  Anyway, if you own dawn of war and haven't downloaded some camera .lua's yet, I thoroughly reccomend 
 you do. It won't interfere with your ability to play online, and it instantly makes the game far 
 more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles194
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Ai is stupid they dodn't defend there bases , they just mass attack one base and then the next 
 so on and son on. The campaign is exactly like dark crusades except a galaxy and nine factions to 
 play as. Barely any new units were added only air and air units dodn't just fly over all terrain 
 if they fly over a gap they will slow down ,wtf. There are also only 1 air unit per team wtf again. 
 I want variety. I haven't played online yet but I think it might be a little better because of 
 the fact that there will be no stupid ai to deal with. I think they should also add some more heros 
 that aren't just people. Like they could have a hero tank for instance. Or a hero plane. They could 
 include a way to sell off buildings but they didn't do that either. The one thing that is really 
 stupid is that all the races with turrets the turrets look all the same. By the way the new races 
 are sisters of battle fanatics who want to cleanse the universe of all heretics and the dark eldar 
 who are just evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HatchetKill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  The First look and feel of soul storm is just like playing dark crusade with a few extra attention 
 to details, but as you progress though the battles you will find it does have quite a few more 
 options for upgrades and different beasts and weaponary. I myself love the dawn of war series so 
 this game was a must, but all in all you can still get the same feel if you were playing dark crusade. 
 Online seems to run along the same lines as the older versions, yet still very enjoyable. Most 
 reveiws will give this game a average score but that is only because the older version were just 
 as good. Really the dawn of war series is funtastic gameplay. They seem to have touched up everything 
 in the way of graphics, it is just hard to tell at first because like i said before they dawn of 
 war series was so good. Cant complain really, for if they changed it too much people would just 
 whine that they should have left the game play how it was. So personally I would give it the thumbs 
 up. Hatchet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _FORCE_96
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Firstly, the good and exciting features of Soulstorm are the new and brutal two races which really 
 do add something new to the scene of DoW and play completely differently. On the one hand you have 
 the pious and fanatic sisters of battle who just want to burn everything to the ground and then 
 the mysterious and vicious Dark Eldar which mix stealth with brutality and slavery. This adds a 
 new edge to the multiplayer complementing new strategies and also brings the number of races to 
 a grand total of nine to pick from!
  
  Secondly, the bad areas. The campaign in Soulstorm is the same as last year with a few more provinces, 
 making it slightly boring and the skirmishes you fight to capture sectors become very repetitive 
 and makes you reluctant to carry on playing. Also, the air units in the game are a waste of time. 
 You spend your time training poorly controlled and vehicle cap hogging piles of junk. Just don't 
 use them. Lastly, it is alot like Dark Crusade which is highly dissapopinting. The gameplay is 
 still addictive and fast paced but Soulstorm doesn't add anyhting new to the formula in terms of 
 how the game actually plays. Overall a very fun agme to play with some brilliant new races but 
 recycled gameplay and a very dull campaign let this game down massively. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjghani
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  The main problem is the repetition of the same game play we've experienced in the last three games. 
 There's nothing new here, and oddly enough none of the exciting OLD scenarios either. 
  
  The Unit AI has gotten DUMBER. For example, the hero unit will knock back enemies, throwing them 
 out of his own Line of Sight and losing interest in them to switch to other (always less important 
 target) . I mean if you make the units un-managable at least give them some intelligent algorithm 
 or at least a survival instinct, right now they are dumb, ineffective and suicidal!
  
  The campaign difficulty scales has completely changed for the retarded. You have three settings, 
 Easy, Medium, Hard. 
  Enemy AI in EASY is so retarded that it's good for beginners to the concept of Real Time Strategy 
 games (or clicking a mouse) . 
  Enemy AI in Medium is very very hard, to the point that it's frustrating. I mean if you want to 
 experience what an Iraqi tank battalion commander must have felt like against the Coalition Forces, 
 then maybe this might be educational for you.
  Enemy AI in Hard is punishing to the point where you feel like it's cheating. There simply isn't 
 enough time to produce as many troops as the computer AI will produce. 
  
  The game is gone back a bit, Dark Crusade was a far better gaming experience. So was every other 
 game in the series thus far. 
  
  The story telling has gone from passable in the previous installation (this warhammer story line 
 sounds like it was made by a futuristic axe-murderer who was locked into a prison cell with a copy 
 of Lord of the Rings and came up with this little gem of a universe. 
  
  So if you really want to experience what was good about this series, get Warhammer Dark Crusade 
 or any of the older ones (or just wait for Starcraft 2) otherwise if you had no interest in the 
 genre or the franchise, skip this blatant attempt to squeese more cash out of the fan base. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  SS is the last (Thank god) expansion to Dawn of War. The series was supposed to end after Dark 
 Crusade, however they produced SS and now this IS the last expansion for the game. 
  
  SS Adds 2 new races to the game. Sisters of Battle and Dark Eldar.
  
  SoB are terrible, there 
 units are rubish and they really cannt do that much damage to anything unless you mass build them.
 
  DE are almost the same as the normal Eldar just dark and evil, this add's almost nothing new to 
 the game, playing at the SOB will bore to so much you wont even play with them anymore. If you 
 are not a fan of the Eldar then the DE will also bore you, if you dont like both of the new armys 
 (Like me) the this is really not an expansion at all... its just a revamped DC.
  
  Relic added in new units. Flying ones... these are terrible to use and every single unit in the 
 game can shoot at them, this is stupid and defeats the object of the flying units. They might aswell 
 be a Tank of an infantry unit, very disapointing. They also add no strategic value to the game, 
 They may be able to fly up and over cliffs and forest to flank enermys and even behind an enermy 
 base. But to be honest you might aswell jump some infanty over there of landspeeds ect... no value 
 what so ever.
  
  Haveing said all of that the graphics are awesome and look really nice, although it looks different 
 from the other DoW games its still nice looking.
  Good sound aswell also helps with this game.
  
  At the end of the day, this game is very bad 
 and offers nothing new to the series of DoW
  
  All I can say now is bring on DoW2, cant wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  I am a bit late in reviewing this game but I must say I definitely don't agree with Gamespot on 
 this one.
  
  I thought this game was an absolute blast and the replay value made the game worth twice the price.
 
  
  Aside from some minor annoyances and repetitive voiceovers, I found the strategic aspects of fighting 
 each class to be spot on. This was one of those games that gave me a definite sense of triumph 
 after winning a battle, vs. some RTS games that I just think "whew, glad that's over."
  
  Graphics - The graphics are clean and I experienced only a few bugs that simply required a quick 
 reboot. Scrolling and screen movement was smooth, and load times were reasonable.
  
  Gameplay - I am a big fan of being able to pause an RTS and think about my next move, and Warhammer 
 gave me plenty of scenarios to think about. I like to "turtle" and build up my base to a level 
 that is self defensive enough for me to max out my army and go in for one massive attack. Although 
 this could be done in this game, it was not the case for each scenario and I liked the fact that 
 Warhammer kept me on my toes and didnt have me repeating the same strategy again and again. Where 
 the game did fall short was the pure lack of maps... Going into a battle for the 10th time on the 
 same map did get a little old. But being able to build up my army so when the map did load I was 
 already sporting a healthy army was fantastic. Many battles were won with an initial strike and 
 took only minutes to complete... others took hours and never really seemed to get old. I wouldnt 
 call it a bug per se, but there were times when the battle should have been over but I couldnt 
 find that one last opponent to kill who might be hiding in some remote corner of the screen. This 
 would have been a good time to use a fog of war cheat code, but I opted not to go that route.
 
  
  Storyline - A bit cheesy and a we bit Final Fantasy'ish, but enough to make the battle enjoyable 
 and satisfying to watch through from beginning to end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z-Z-Zorpheus
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  I'll start the review off saying that Dawn of War is my favorite Real Time Strategy game. It was 
 what first got me wondering what all the fuss was about with Warhammer 40k. Dawn of War: Dark Crusade 
 solved all the problems of the previous campaigns and brought the total up to 7 races. So naturally, 
 when another expansion comes out adding two more races and a campaign that claims to span four 
 planets, I'm all set to have a blast.
  
  Unfortunately, the pimply grots somehow messed this dere thing up. Somehow.
  
  The two new 
 races are interesting enough. The Sisters of Battle use a faith-based system and a lot of flame-based 
 weaponry, and are like a strange combination between Space Marines and Imperial Guard in both look 
 and feel. The Dark Eldar are the new rushers of the bunch with an emphasis on quick production 
 of fast units, and have soul resource units that power abilities you can activate at any time. 
 Both races seem to be balanced well, and offer even more choices to the game. So far so good. As 
 far as new units are concerned across the old races, though, all you end up with are flying units, 
 which seem pretty much just tacked on at best. At worse, though, you have the Necrons which basically 
 only had the support scarabs of the Tomb Spyders modified to be air units. Their function now is 
 reduced to anti-air and scouting, which you really can only justify in a pinch considering how 
 much health it shaves off your already-fragile tomb spyders to create them. Guess the Necrons are 
 afraid of heights. At least they are granted an alternative to the Nightbringer, the Deceiver, 
 which can be used to temporarily turn units to your side or create an illusion of an Activated 
 Monolith.
  
  Unfortunately, the single-player game itself really could have used a few extra coats of paint. 
 True, there are four planets containing nine races, but only so much of each planet is divided 
 into territories, which basically means you have only just a little more provinces to control than 
 you did in Dark Crusade. Not much of a deal breaker, but this is the first in a line of disappointments.
 
  
  Note that provinces no longer remember the base layout that you had at the end of each skirmish, 
 which basically means that, apart from the basic structures you add in through Reinforcement that 
 fills out your starting tier, you end up having to build up your latter tech tiers repeatedly on 
 the same province, making the gameplay needlessly repetitive and tedious. After a while, you start 
 asking yourself, "Why am I building up my base? Most of it is just going to mysteriously vanish 
 anyway."
  
  Gone also are the periodic special missions scattered across the provinces that added a bit of 
 variety to Dark Crusade. You can only get power-ups by defeating enemy strongholds, aside from 
 a couple token panels that give meager starting resource bonuses. The webgate panels, which allow 
 you to move from planet to planet, all follow a Take and Hold mission plan, which is all right 
 the first couple times you do it, but becomes ho-hum quickly. 
  
  That leaves the enemy stronghold missions to break the tedium. The enemy stronghold missions can 
 range from laughably easy (Dark Eldar) to frustratingly hard (Imperial Guard) . The rewards themselves 
 also range from practically useless (Necrons, Orks) to must-haves (Sisters of Battle, Space Marines) . 
 However, many of them follow the same conventions: Several bases around the map specialize in creating 
 one type of unit, these bases gradually being phased into play, and your commander bellows for 
 you to eliminate them as you gradually work up to the main base. Occasionally thrown in are convoys 
 or points that need to be destroyed or taken to prevent the enemy from dispatching a large force 
 of units and/or the enemy super-unit to give you a world of hurt, and some sides utilize a giant 
 cannon of sorts that can wreak havoc on your armies. Finally, there are the occasional random unit 
 drops called in that have the habit of targeting weak spots on your base. Most bases are simply 
 a combination of these elements thrown together. The Imperial Guard stronghold has all of these 
 clichs, making the assault on their base a juggling act of catastrophic proportions.
  
  Of course, even these issues could be mitigated if the journey is accompanied by an awesome storyline. 
 Unfortunately, they have bungled this, too. In Dark Crusade, when you assaulted the enemy stronghold, 
 the two sides would exchange unique banter that established that the enemy knew who they were fighting. 
 In Soulstorm, these lines are cut out, making the entire campaign experience storywise feeling 
 a bit generic, with only narratives occurring when you finish the stronghold missions. In addition, 
 there are some rather bizarre story elements as well, not the least of which the continuity gaffe 
 that allows a Necron Lord to speak. For a taste of the most bizarre of these, beat the Sisters 
 of Battle stronghold as the Orks.
  
  Finally, there also seems to be a nasty set of bugs with the game at the time of this review that 
 have yet to be corrected, not the least of which a bug that allows the Sisters of Battle in multiplayer 
 to have free requisition, essentially banning them from any fair competition. A few of the aforementioned 
 strongholds in the game are made considerably easier because the game does not accommodate for 
 one doing things "out of order". For instance, the Imperial Guards don't realize you have destroyed 
 the stronghold's huge cannon until the point where they were scripted to start firing it. The Dark 
 Eldar base has an exploit that I won't mention here that lets one with a decent honor guard finish 
 the scenario with extremely minimal resistance providing you skip some of the objectives they expect 
 you to do. A patch is supposedly in the works, but it has been a long time in coming, which almost 
 makes me think they are rebuilding the game almost from the ground up.
  
  In short, the only thing that keeps this game afloat is the tried and true Dawn of War gameplay 
 and the two new races that manage to freshen things up a bit. It just saddens me how much better 
 the game could have been with a bit of extra time and effort. Ah well. So when is the sequel coming 
 out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  "Burn the heretic. Kill the mutant. Purge the unclean."
  
  
  I was more than likely one of the last gamers, not to mention Warhammer fans, to hear about Soulstorm; 
 I ran across it when poking about for Company of Heroes reviews. Nonetheless, I have now picked 
 up and played the last iteration of Dawn of War and I must say, I am disappointed. Sure, Iron Lore 
 is more than capable of forging a master title, having done so with one of my favorites -Titan 
 Quest- but I doubt real-time strategy is their forte. I suppose it doesn't matter much now because 
 their eight-year tenure as developer has ended.
  
  "Happiness is a delusion of the weak."
  
  
  Warhammer being Wahammer, Soulstorm definitely 
 provides in the gameplay department. It could be my brain performing some trickery, but to me it 
 seems as if the blood has been turned up even more, or perhaps that is due to my Kroot Carnivore 
 squads Predator-lunging enemies to the ground and ripping them to shreds. Whatever the case, Soulstorm 
 is just as much the bloody carnival of death that its predecessors was. Orks will charge into groups 
 of foes with hatchets, Greater Knarlocs will thunder amidst a hapless group of infantry and pick 
 their bones clean. The carnage is very much preserved.
  
  With this Dawn of War campaign, I chose the Tau Empire, a race I'd never even so much as skirmished 
 with. Their lack of an effective skirmisher was immediately apparent, as their close-range mainstay 
 -the Kroot Carnivores- are flimsy at best. Regardless, Fire Squads more than made up for the difference 
 with pinpoint accuracy and deadly barrages of fire. At the end of my four-planet slaughter spree, 
 my commander was outfitted with a stealth generator, missiles, drones, a flamethrower, and other 
 goodies with which to one-man-army my opponents. The lack of defensive structures was killer is 
 some of the missions, and led to much frustration and restarts. Nonetheless, within fifteen-odd 
 hours I had transferred sole ownership of the Kaurava System to the Tau Empire.
  
  "Nobody is innocent, there are merely varying levels of guilt."
  
  
  Unfortunately, Soulstorm 
 is far from faultless. Iron Lore has done little to reinvigorate a four-year-old title, no matter 
 how spectacular said game is. Two races, the Dark Eldar and Sisters of Battle have been added, 
 along with the addition of true air units... and that's about it. The Dark Eldar are extremely fun 
 to play, with an abundance of magic and focus on collecting souls of fallen enemies. But in head-to-head 
 battle with any other race, much as their light-hearted galaxy-defending brethren have difficulty 
 with, the Dark Eldar are no match. The Sisters of Battle, I'll be honest, I haven't played with 
 as much as I wished I could. But, they are little more than a fresh coat of paint on the ageless 
 Space Marines. Their units are more specialized, and much more entertaining to look at, but sadly 
 the Sister voice acting forces some painful headaches. As for the true air units, the word "meh" 
 immediately comes to mind. They have their purposes, but any game can be easily won without producing 
 a single one.
  
  Much as Dark Crusade before it, Soulstorm frustratingly lacks a true, story-driven campaign. Players 
 are presented with a Risk-style, four-planet map and given free reign to conquer it as they see 
 fit. I chose a blitzkrieg style and struck swiftly as the strongholds of enemies as quickly as 
 I could, incapacitating them so I could focus on more volatile races. Each stronghold mission, 
 of which there are eight, are the high points of the campaign. Each has cutscenes, multiple objectives, 
 and some semblance of effort by Iron Lore's level designers. All other territories are annihilate 
 or critical location, and become trite and time-passers all too quickly.
  
  "Cowards die in shame"
  
  
  None of this is to say Soulstorm is bad, because that is something 
 it is most definitely not. The new races are fun to toy with, and Dawn of War is a style of game 
 which never truly becomes tiresome. But it is safe to say that for forty dollars, I could have 
 expected a bit more innovation. It's sad to see such an epic game die with a sub-par final expansion, 
 but it makes 2009's Dawn of War 2 all the sweeter. The clock can't turn fast enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 16, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so let me start by saying that I am one of the biggest warhammer fans ever, I've been playing 
 the tabletop game for 12 years now and show no signs of stopping. So you can naturally assume that 
 I was also one of the biggest fans of Dawn of War, and I was, I loved all of them, but this is 
 still the gamerverse, so DoW eventually started to get boring. I loved Dark Crusade and Winter 
 Assault, but Soulstorm, is just a big miss.
  
  I'll start with going over the ins and outs of the two new races the Sisters of Battle, and an 
 old favourite of mine the Dark Eldar. The Sisters are very simple, they are essentially just Space 
 Marines with flamers, I was quite dissapointed at how alike to the Space Marines they were in terms 
 of game strategies, you could use the same techniques and they would work equally as well, though 
 it is cool to see so many flames at once, it wears quickly and you will probably get bored of them, 
 the Sisters of Battle use a new resource called faith, which I just find stupid because it just 
 makes everything harder for no reason. Next the Dark Eldar, now the Dark Eldar seem to be rushers 
 dream, they have tonnes of fast units and, for some reason, don't even have a damn defensive structure 
 past the listening post. But like the game you see the truth soon enough, the Dark Eldar are a 
 near impossible race to master, their units are expensive and have very little health, the simpilest 
 way to win with them is to simply amass either Scourges, Talos' or both and go at it. The new Dark 
 Eldar resource is souls used to power special abillities, these abillities are ok, though they 
 are no where near as impressive as they seem, I'm yet to see the Soulstorm power, being the most 
 powerful, actually kill anything.
  
  So now to the gameplay. To put it simply it hasn't changed at all, it is exactly the same as Dark 
 Crusade, except with the added flying units, which to me just seem like a half arsed attempt at 
 adding new units. Other then that just expect the same gameplay styles to work that worked in the 
 last game.
  
  Next story: I'm deeply dissapointed. Back in 1975 when Gamesworkshop started in Nottingham, those 
 brave men created an IP in which some of the best Sci Fi and Fantasy stories were written, if your 
 into anything bloody, violent, intriging and all around awesome, I strongly advise you check out 
 Blacklibrary. com and pick up some of there thousands of novels. So why the hell would they make 
 this story so ****? I was deeply dissapointed in every aspect, it is the same story from Dark Crusade, 
 just stretched so thin that it would tear at the first sign of stress. I can't even go on I am 
 so pissed.
  
  So now graphics. DoW never had the best graphics, and they seem to keep it that way, you'd think 
 after the release of games like universe at war and CC3 they would update the dated look, but it's 
 still there in all its blocky glory.
  
  So in conclusion, if your a fan, big or small, avoid this game, your set for dissapointment. I 
 strongly urge anyone who has never played a Dawn of War game to play the others though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAkster
Rating: 3
Date: May 6, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game a month or two before its release, i liked the previous games as was 
 looking forward to this one.
  
  Upon playing the game, the worst thing about it was there was no interesting story. Some storm 
 is over the planets for some reason or another, and so you have to conqueor all of the planets 
 in the exact same way as Dark Crusade.
  
  The Only Things It Adds To The Game:
  
  2 races
  
  A few new mas
  
  And i honestly was looking forward to this and wasted 20 on 
 this which i could have used to buy Crisis (although it would probably not work great on my PC) 
 which was right next to it.
  
  You pay 20 for 2 new races, no half decent story or anything, ther isnt even a campaign, its just 
 a fairly random conqueor all the territories game, exactly the same as dark crusade but with less 
 of a story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  1. Technical Issues
  2. Graphics
  3. Story
  4. Gameplay
  5. Multiplayer
  
  
  1. Technical Issues
  Well the game is good enough. The initial loading screen when you load your 
 game is sometimes long. Kinda stupid pathfinding at moments, but this is a problem of all DoW games.
 
  
  2. Graphics
  The game uses the same graphical engine as the original Dawn of War which is almost 4 years old. 
 Still it managed to look good enough. It is graphically stunning like C&C3 or Sins of a Solar Empire, 
 but looks fine. The screen you see is kinda small at least for me. 
  
  3. Story
  The game lacks the Story mode campaign in as in the original Dow or Winter Assault. The campaign 
 is almost the same like in Dark Crusade. We have a map divided at different territories and we 
 have to conquerer the fortresses of all other races to win. Still i think that in Dark Crusade 
 the missions were more exciting and interesting. Now there is just 3 types of missions - Defeat 
 all enemy bases, Hold Critical Location points for certain amount of time, and the story moded 
 missions when you attack a fortress.
  Also the campaigns are long and monotonic. After you collect a certain amount of personal guard 
 you just rush out and take out the enemy withing 3-4 minutes. Still the motives of the different 
 fractions are quite interesting. Some people may find it interesting to complete the campaign with 
 all the races.
  
  4. Gameplay. 2 new races, a few new units. The two new races are as unique as all the other races 
 in the game, although they steal something from some of the other races. Both of them have a unique 
 recourse. For Sisters of Battle it is the Faith, which is something like global mana which allows 
 some powerful spells to be cast . The Dark Eldars collect essence from the fallen enemy units for 
 the same reason. The Air units which every race now have... i have found them to be kinda useless. 
 Apart from this the gameplay haven't moved even a bit from Dark Crusade. 
  
  5. Multiplayer 
  Haven't played it. But from what i've heard the balance between the 9 races 
 are still very good. Also i may say that the game is very dynamical. Worth playing.
  
  Well, the only reason to play this game is because it completes the DoW saga. Otherwise it is not 
 much of an improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wooly_mamoth
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  This is the new Dawn of War expansion Soulstorm, though there are 2 new races it still feels like 
 you are playing Dark Crusade. The new races are Sisters of Battle and the Dark Eldar. 
  
  The Sisters of Battle are a bunch of women prepared to cleanse the galaxy in the Emporer's Name. 
 This means they have power armor like Space Marines but are women. They have the Faith Resource 
 which is similar to Waaagh resource for the Orks but harder to gain. You need Faithful Units that 
 increase the resource when they 'cleanse' the battlefield of enemies. Though they are a great addition 
 they feel more like a reimagination of the Space Marines and have had added some new bits. The 
 Dark Eldar however are nothing like anything else in the game. 
  
  The Dark Eldar are evil Eldar that are experts in torture and violence, they put fear into even 
 the most faithful heart. The Dark Eldar have a Soul resource which require your army to kill enemies 
 and Slaves to harvest the souls to quench The Thirst. The only tricky thing about the Dark Eldar 
 are upgrading their units and squad caps because you need to build Soul Cages to do this like the 
 Imperial Guard building Barracks. This race is get fun to play with and collecting souls is so 
 much FUN!
  
  The campaign is similar to Dark Crusade but this time covers a solar system. The campaign takes 
 awhile to get use to if you havn't played Dark Crusade but easy after a fewer Race Eliminations. 
 But what I think should have been added are space battles between planets which would be nice but 
 I don't think would have happened.
  
  Online is good but like Dark Crusade it gets repetitive you either get owned or win completely.
 
  
  My conclusion is that the Soulstorm is game worth buying if you enjoy the series but I would not 
 recommend to those new to the series. The last thing I wanted to add is that when you install the 
 game DO NOT install Xfire if you can as it slows do game play and internet connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlaydeXi
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  The first game was over the top, Dawn of War, is something i played 3 times over just to revel 
 in it's awesomeness. Winter Assault i missed sadly, but then i got Dark Crusade, whoa! This was 
 the first time you got so many races in so many varied locations and so much fun, i loved it.
 
  
  Then this came, i expected with more locations and two more races 
  (we need moar! bring the Tyranid!) it was going to be the regular smash hit. But it wasn't, all 
 this was, was a rehash of the same exact game as before, with a bit more polish and spit. The extra 
 locations needed to finish the game are good, but nearly half are 'critical location' type, which 
 is just boring because even on hard, they barely attack you. the only real excitement is when playing 
 on insane in skirmish. The campaign is the selling point in the game for me, but it isn't there 
 in this game. Where is the Khorne-style kill as many as possible free -for-all level or the kill 
 all orks without a base level? There is no ingenuity left in this game compared to the last one. 
 What? They added planes? So you can build 5 planes... big whoop. I expected much much more, but 
 then i heard of WH40K 2 coming out next year, and it all made sense. This game is the RTS version 
 of NFS Prostreet; a filler, something that can be done in the middle while the troop are assembled 
 for a proper all out. I honestly don; t know why they bothered, and if they couldn't, at least make 
 on like the original timeline RTS with some story. I finished 4 races and got so bored trying to 
 finish the rest i resorted to a trainer to make me care about playing some more.
  
  If you are a die hard fan like me of the WH40K series, and by die hard i mean get the books and 
 read them type, then you will like this, but you will also see how game'ing a series can spoil 
 it a bit for you. It's a mixed blessing, i only hope Dawn of War 2 can rekindle the magic of old.
 
  
  For the Imperium! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macmert
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Well the first of the series, Dawn of war was incredible, fantastic story, great gameplay and graphics... 
 
  
  Dark Crusade was even better, BUT there was no storyline... The game was based on a turn based 
 map, each race attacking to a zone on the map, you could reinforce and such such....
  
  Sadly Soulstorm is no different... instead of one map, there are 4 planets to conquer, 6 or 7 different 
 races (Didnt count :D) and big suprise, no storyline or anything, just different maps to play in 
 order you choose... I guess the creative staff did fall a sleep or got fired, so there was noone 
 to write even a simplest of story... 
  
  If you played the Warcraft series or Starcraft, or CnC series you would know what I mean, a good 
 storyline takes a simple RTS game to a higher level...
  
  Also the battles are massive for my taste... too many guns, too much explosion and too much mess 
 for me to follow, sometimes the battle gets so crowded I just sat and watch, reinforced the loss 
 of squads... after the battle is over I checked my losses and produced new units... 
  
  But it is a fast paced game, so hardcore RTS players will love it I am sure, but even a mediocre 
 RTS player like me (The last one I played was AoEIII :) ) had fun.
  
  But if you are looking for a deep story - based RTS game containing many elements, this is not 
 your game, if you want a good turn based - real time mixup this is definitely NOT your game, after 
 all you can play the best one around which is Medieval II or Civ4 (All hail Sid the Almighty:) ) 
 if you are looking for a good strategy game, other than that this is a good game and give it a 
 try... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wintergiampy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  I have no words to describe how much I like DAWN OF WAR SOULSTORM, how much is EXCITING, AMAZING 
 and simply SUPREME. Actually I liked (and played) all Dawn of war games, but this one is really 
 the best, even of Dark Crusade, although it is not revolutionary as the latter has been.
  
  In this review I'm trying to tell you what are the features which make Soulstorm so beautiful, 
 why you should buy it, but also what are its limits.
  
  MAIN FEATURES
  A new world, The "System of Kaurava" made by 4 planets and 3 moons. Each planet is occupied by 
 two or more races, each one with its stronghold, its ability and its territories. To win you have 
 to defeat all the factions, by taking their strongholds. Every territory you conquer, gives you 
 the requisition, and a bonus squad, or a special ability. If you conquer a stronghold, you defeat 
 a race and take its bonus power (like the Tau's cannon Ores'ka) . To move across the planets you 
 have to use the portals. Each portal has two destinations. They are well defended, and to take 
 control of them you have to complete a special mission (win by capturing and taking control of 
 strategic points) . In this way, the game provides 29 new maps, available also in multiplayer mode. 
 There are two completely new races: Sisters of Battle, and Dark Eldar. Each of them has a new resource: 
 Faith and Soul, which gives new powers to the units. Each old race has a new unit, and these units 
 are a new type of vehicles, the air vehicles, which open a new strategy. Of course you can choose 
 the race and the commander you want to use to take control of the system, commander who can be 
 powerfully strengthened with 10 equipments you receive completing objectives.
  
  WHY SHOULD YOU BUY DAWN OF WAR SOULSTORM?
  It's simply: it's the only game which gives you the 
 possibility to use 9, an I said "nine", completely different and well-done/balanced races, either 
 in the campaign or with your friends online. This means that if you play a multiplayer match with 
 8 players, each one can use a faction different from that one of the others, making the game really 
 enjoyable and never monotonous, in fact you won't be able to run out all the races, because there 
 still be one, out of nine, which none can take. And that has never happen before. Just try to wonder 
 how would be your online playing using all this godsend: Orks, Eldar, Space Marines, Tau, Necrons, 
 Chaos, Imperial Guard, Sister of Battle or Dark Eldars, woooh! Just unbelievable. For examples 
 you shouldn't make alliances between Dark and "Good" Eldar, but what if you and your friend use 
 them (reaching a compromise) to beat another faction like Sister of Battles and Imperial guards? 
 What if also Space Marines would join the SoB and IG, to fight together "In the name of the Emperor"???
 
  
  On the contrary, if you are an old fan of Warhammer, and you have all other previous games, you 
 are obliged to fill up your collection and feed your hunger of DOW campaign.
  
  THE BEST OF SOULSTORM: THE NEW RACES
  I love Relic because they are not lazy fellows. They brought 
 two new races in Dark Crusade, making happy all the fans and surprising all the critics, and now 
 they did the same thing again. Actually I didn't expected two new races from soulstorm, and when 
 I found out that they would have been "Sister of Battle" and "Dark Eldar", .. well.. I made a Wooooh! 
 In fact they are simply beautiful and, by the way, two of my favourite ones. The units I like the 
 most are the exorcist, the immolator, the Saint (who can be compared in strength to Necron's Ctans) , 
 the guardians, seraphim squads, the priest with all its faithful acts (how beautiful and powerful 
 they are!) , then all the so fine and well defined units of DE, thenwell I liked almost all the 
 new units. Describing them is not easy, just trust me when I say you'll enjoy with them. 
  And what about the completely two new resources: Faith and Soul Essence? Just exciting. It makes 
 the new factions stronger and more different. A player would certainly choose the new abilities 
 gave by faith and soul to strike the other "old" races, and also the game would be funnier thanks 
 to fact you have to worry about how gain them. (which creates new strategies and makes you build 
 proper structures) . 
  I don't agree with people who say that DE or SoB are weaker than the other races: an expert and 
 wise player, who's able to use well Soul or Faith resource, would certainly make the victory of 
 the others really difficult, if not impossible.
  However the new resource make the new races a bit too privileged in regard to the other races (compromising 
 a bit also the well-balance of the whole game) , fact that I personally accepted as a good point. 
 
  
  RESCUING THE NEW UNITS OF THE OLD RACES
  Since Soulstorm has been released I've been listening or reading of many complains about the new 
 air units introduced in dawn of war; the players don't like them much, or they think they could 
 be better, or.. useless. Well.. in my opinion.. it's just a mistake. Not the units, but the judges. 
 I heard that they are slow. What? If a lightning is slow, what about all the other vehicles? I 
 heard they're not efficient. Yes, but only if they are alone. What if you use them with bigger 
 vehicles or infantry? I heard that you won't use them. Yes, but they are the only unit which can 
 fly upon everything, mounts or hills, and overcomes quickly every obstacle. I heard they are useless. 
 But I see in them my favourite explorers.
  Relic staff could do two things: introduce these completely new air units (changing a bit the way 
 of playing) or introduce another unit for each race. The fact is that any other unit would have 
 been similar to the previous units, whereas the air units are the most different and innovative 
 units they could add.
  Of course they can be and, must be, improved, for example I expect a proper building where create 
 them, once they augment. But they are quite positive. 
  What gave me big shiver is the essence of the second Necron Ctan, the DECEIVER!!! I just dreamed 
 it in my best.. Nigthmares!!!!
  Actually it's the only adding which is not an air unit, would you imagine the necrons with a plane? 
 Instead it makes the leader of the Necron the strongest one.
  
  DIFFICULTY
  Well, they've done an attempt to improve the difficulty of the campaign, making the special missions 
 for the strongholds really well-done and enough difficult (I particularly appreciated that their 
 defence can now arrive upper 15) . I tell you of my first mission in a stronghold, that of the imperial 
 guards. I was playing with the sisters, but when the alert system (unique for that mission, my 
 favourite one) reached the level 6, I didn't know what to do, because they were the leman striking 
 me, while a Baneblade was building. I had to use all my strength and a lot of immolator and guardians 
 to destroy them and finally win. So, missions in the stronghold are better and more difficult than 
 what they were in Dark crusade. Actually they're the only missions where there's a movie (which 
 aren't although beautiful as they were in DC) and what you are searching for during the entire 
 campaign. 
  Nevertheless the average difficulty level, at least in my opinion, is disappointing: the other 
 missions, also when the forces are at level 10, are too easy. I want more!
  
  BUGS
  Yes, unfortunately there are some bugs, someone really annoying but nothing to fear, also because 
 they can easily fixed with a patch, which, I do hope, should be soon released. 
  
  THE GREAT PROBLEM
  DC brought many news comparing it with the two DOW precedent series, for example 
 a completely new world, a revolutionary way of playing which makes DOW more similar to the Original 
 Game of Workshop, the possibility to decide what to do, what province attack, personalize your 
 hero, do the campaign different for each nation, ecc. This is why I have to say that I expected 
 more from SOULSTORM as it regards the way of playing it, above all the new system, whose good point 
 is to be bigger than Kronus (and so makes the campaign longer, which I favoured) , nicer and more 
 exciting (for example to move onto another planet you have to go by the portal) . Another thing 
 is that there also three Moons, and it's just beautiful. The bad is that the entire system is as 
 defined as it was Kronus alone: kronus standing alone makes the 90% of Kaurav system, and this 
 is not good, it's simply disappointing because it makes SS not to be perfect (that's why I vote 
 9,5) . Moreover the quality of the provinces is better in kronus because, as a planet, It was bigger, 
 here instead when you move upon a province to attack it the resolution goes down. In my opinion 
 (and it's what I expected) the producers would have better doing like this: make the campaign in 
 the first planet with all the nations on it (a planet which would be more or less like kronus) then, 
 once conquered the planet, the player would move onto the next planet, till the end, having dominated 
 the entire system.
  Another problem is the storyline: it's not so careful. It seems you haven't many reasons to conquer 
 the planet, except for your race glory. This reflected also on the movies, which miss the point. 
 
  
  ADVICES/HOPES FOR THE FUTURE
  Here there is resumed my advices to Relic for the next DOW games, which, as usual, I'm always waiting 
 for; :
  -a game more difficult,
  -better storyline, with good movies at the end of the strongholds, maybe a speech between arrogant 
 and oppose commanders during the game,
  -a system more accurate as I explained before,
  -new equipments,
  -the entire strategy based more on the requisition, to be used to buy special 
 squads which they must be needed to overcome the enemies (making the game more interesting and 
 requiring a great strategy) ,
  -special missions also for "normal" territories, not only for portals or strongholds,
  -improve 
 the new world of air units, with a building dedicated to them,
  -continue making new races powerful, original and beautiful as always done until now.
  
  At 
 this point I only have a QUESTION:
  
  HOW LONG I HAVE TO WAIT FOR
  
  TIRANIDS??
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssuttles
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 23, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Thus the Sisters came to light, and then we banished them. Soulstorm is in need of many fixes. 
 First, the Sisters are far too weak and that is a big contrast to their real abilities. The flamers 
 and meltas are disappointing. One shot from a Melta and you can bring down a Land Raider, but they 
 seem to take all day in this version of DOW. I am a big fan of the series and the tabletop version, 
 but there should always be a distinction between the two. I did not enjoy the addition of mission 
 from the TT version added to DOW. Take and Holds are not as fun when the game is adding requisition 
 points so slowly. Even though I would have bought the game regardless to complete my collection, 
 I do not recommend this for anyone new to the game. You will find it slow and boring while you 
 try to build forces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shintsurugi06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War: Soulstorm is the third standalone expansion pack to the original W40K: 
 Dawn of War. This expansion introduces two new factions: the Sisters of Battle and the Dark Eldar. 
 The expansion also brings an air unit to each faction. 
  
  The two new factions in Soulstorm bring more of the tabletop strategy game to the PC. The Sisters 
 of Battle, another subdivision within the massive Imperium of Man, are pretty much just female 
 Space Marines. Their units handle quite similarly to the Space Marines, just a bit flashier and 
 prettier. This faction seems a lot more fanatical than the rest, using a resource called "Faith" 
 to power many of their units abilities. Units such as the Missionary can attach themselves to squads 
 and use Faith to give the squad a healing boost or a damage boost among others. Their superunit 
 is the Living Saint, essentially a gigantic angel like thing with the ability to jump around on 
 the battlefield and deal massive amounts of death out to infantry. Other than those two points, 
 the Sisters of Battle are pretty much just another faction. This is more than can be said for the 
 Dark Eldar however. The Dark Eldar are pretty much what their name implies. Dark. Eldar. They handle 
 almost exactly like the Eldar, just with a lot more screaming and creepyness. The Dark Eldar utilize 
 souls from dead bodies in a very similar way to the Sisters of Battle. The thing is though, souls 
 are pretty hard to collect, as you need to actively go out and collect them, rather than just build 
 some sort of building and let it do the collecting for you. 
  
  Another new thing that Soulstorm brings into play are the air units. Ranging from bombers than 
 rain death to skirmishers that annoy the hell out of enemy units, the air units in Soulstorm are 
 quite versatile. What they aren't is durable. Any unit with a ranged attack can hit air units. 
 And deal copious amounts of damage to them. Remember the days of Starcraft where you could hold 
 off a Marine advance with a few Wraiths? Yeah, that isn't gonna happen here. Air units are very 
 easily destroyed, and are only effective when used as a support unit. That being said, the air 
 units aren't BAD, per say, just a little on the weak side.
  
  Soulstorm's campaign tweaks the Dark Crusade style campaign a little bit, by setting the territory 
 map over a few planets connected by Webway Gates. It's still very similar though, take army, defeat 
 enemy territories one by one until you get to the enemy stronghold, and then you do something special 
 to defeat them. They've added the bonus of "racial powers", but that's just Ctrl + X ing the territory 
 powers of Dark Crusade and putting them into races. However, it's still a worthy playthrough.
 
  
  All in all, Soulstorm is a welcome addition to the Dawn of War series, if not as awesome as the 
 other three installments. I highly recommend this game to any Warhammer buff and many strategy 
 buffs as well. I only have one major complaint left.
  
  WHERE ARE THE TYRANIDS?
  
  Good playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  Story: Become the head general of on of the major forces and take control of planets.
  
  Missions: kill everything on the planet and move on.
  
  Controls: Standard RTS control.. mouse 
 and keyboard
  
  Features: New armys, air combat, improved graphics
  
  A. I.: takes about a minute to load into a battle but the story telling elements inbetween conflicts 
 entertain you with cool storys from the 40k universe.
  
  Graphics: The best graphics so far out of the DoW series. Everything is very detailed down to the 
 little pieces of gravel.
  
  Audio: Amazing. Audio is superb. Everything is good about the Audio.
  
  Multiplayer: Online 
 RTS muliplayer. You must have all the other expansions to play as the old armys.
  
  Requirements: a pretty good PC, a little backstory on the 40k tabletop game.
  
  The Good: Everything. 
 This game is So good.
  
  The Bad: Several crashes and random glitches really make this games rating go down.
  
  The 
 Ugly: Orks.
  
  Replay Ability: High
  
  The Bottom Line: The best DoW game in the series and a must play for any Warhammer 40k fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttoommii
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  The game has 2 new races. Sisters of battle and the Dark Eldar. The dark eldar has units with strong 
 damage and weak armor. They have the weakest commander and solid relic unit. The Sisters of battle 
 are fanatical women warriors. They are a combination of Imperial guard and the Space Marines. There 
 basic unit is very weak but can take heavy weapons.
  Bad things are : - Campaign map is bad -Voice acting is bad -There is no good story -Too strong 
 Dark Eldar -Too weak Imperial Guard - Graphics are very bad
  
  The rest of the things are very good. Gameplay is at high level.
  Flying units are bad and too 
 slow. Necrons are the only race that havent flying units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wawadungoga
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 18, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  When i first got the soulstorm game, i was so nervous to try out every race and their new additions, 
 but allready when i wanted to start a campaign, it took so long in loading, i had to go and see 
 tv for a while until it finished. Its very cool that two new races are added, and i think they 
 fit in well with the other races, i like the new resource system available to the new races ( Faith 
 and souls) but i think this also should be added to the others. I am really disappointed that the 
 base-saving of a map you had allready conquered, is gone, it takes away all your defence against 
 a new attack, and it just simply sucks. And i thougth that, like with the other expansions, that 
 there would be several new units for eah race, not just a new airunit and thats it. I really thougth 
 that this expansion would be huge, and plenty of unexplored surprises. I also wonder why it wasnt 
 relic who continued the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adicts805
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  The DOW games some of my favorites. I like how they have 9 armies... this gives me a wide selection 
 to choose from and all of them are different from another. The Conquest idea for the campaign was 
 a good idea but executed poorly. The Loading is horrific i go out and have a cigarette when waiting 
 for it in the campaign and i still have to wait after that. The Conquest was a real let down and 
 it kept falling the more i played until i finally couldn't deal with it anymore and only did skirmishes. 
 I always disliked the low population cap for the armies and it came back once again. The game has 
 a lot of units to choose from for an RTS but it is still limited like all other RTS games these 
 days.
  
  Hopefully another DOW game will come in fix the problems in this game, add another army or two 
 like all there expansions and can keep me occupied with it for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elosolipa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  What about last expansion Soulstorm for Warhammer 40K? I'm playing it right now and think It is 
 a really good addon for the game, cause the last two XPs had been large steps back for the title. 
 The extraordinary fun of the original game was converted with them into an impossible difficulty 
 and in consequence an unplayable game. But, some things has change and some others doesn't bother 
 so much now. 
  
  All races are more balanced and Necrons or Imperial Guard are less bothering with their f.. king 
 heroes. In fact, now when you start a game is much probable to survive a Heroes Rush with starter 
 units. I feel like they made a lot of changes and a great effort to reverse a big new deception 
 for all of us lovings of Warhammer Empire. 
  
  In addition, they add an interesting campaign mode that let you play it with any race, a great 
 play mode change!!! Cause a lot of players (including Me) dislikes playing with a race combat style 
 that is very distant to player strategies, and in consequence, waste a lot of time restarting escenarios 
 or loosing a lot of resources walking the same path one and another time again. 
  
  The basic game has a great unit diversity for all the races and different kind of units for each 
 race. But, with this XP they add some new that gave the game what was missing. Now we can laugh 
 about rushes of simple units destroying all the bases just by doing a medium well done strategy. 
 An excellent reward for advanced game users. 
  
  I'll never be tired of mention that it has excellent graphics in comparison of the hardware requirements 
 needed to run it. Obviously thanks to the engine. Extremely enjoyable at maximum detail. 
  
  So, enjoy it and destroy that insolent enemies!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  I don't know what happened. Dark Crusade did all the right things, but from the look of it, Iron 
 Lore didn't really want to keep all of the good points that Relic implemented, and made some additions 
 which... in my honest oppinion... detract from the game.
  
  First off, I'll mention something that I have been happy with in every past instace of the game, 
 but was disappointed with in Soulstorm. Voice Acting.
  
  Theres only one way to describe the voice acting in Soulstorm: Metallic. Everybody sounds like 
 they are half robotic. Just because were in the 41st millenium, doesnt mean everybody has robotic 
 voiceboxes. Also, some of the voice acting has been changed and made metallic, the new voice acting 
 is metallic, but some of the old voice acting has been left as it was in Dark Crusade, which removes 
 even an aspect of consistancy. Also, the voices in-battle and in-cinematic of commanders (and some 
 troops) is different. It makes it almost laughable to think that while hes talking to his troops, 
 the Space Marine commander has a heavy accent that sounds close to Russian, but when hes talking 
 to me during a battle, he has no real discernable accent at all.
  
  Now, I will get the races out of the way before I take on the real big problem I have with this 
 game.
  
  The Sisters of Battle are lore abiding by what Games Workshop has set out for them. Their structures 
 are very gothic-church-esque, they are constanly spouting quips about fire, purging, and his holy 
 name, and almost everything revolves around fire, much like it should.
  
  The Dark Eldar are lothesome, and they sound it (well... that and smug) . Their units all revolve 
 around lightning attacks, and as such dont last in a prolonged firefight. Their structures are 
 all dark, glowy, and spikey, as they should be. Like the Sisters, they follow their lore respectfully, 
 and I have to commend Iron Lore, if for nothing else, that they didnt try and screw around with 
 Games Workshop's lore.
  
  Both armies are failry balanced, with the Sisters being slightly more populous and slightly less 
 powerful than the Space Marines, and the Dark Eldar being slightly faster and about as powerul 
 as the Eldar. 
  
  One thing further though, Aircraft. I see aircraft as useless to use, but incredibly frustrating 
 when they get used against you. No longer can you focus your defensive efforts on ne side of your 
 base in the corner of the map, now you need turrets and things at the back to ensure you dont get 
 flanked by aircraft. Also, when you pull all of your forces out of your base to launch an assault 
 on an enemy base, you need to drop forces off because ONE aircraft has flown over the mountains 
 and is attacking your HQ where you have no defenses. All they do is make an irritating diversion 
 and take away from the bloody ground combat, which Dawn of War is supposed to be about. Air Craft 
 should be left where they belong, in Battle Fleet Gothic.
  
  Now.... the campaign. For some reason, Iron Lore saw it beneficial to remove the Base Permanance 
 feature from Dark Crusade. Why? I have no idea. What they did was replace it with a base garrison 
 feature, where, much like unit garrison in Dark Crusade, you buy buildings to place on the map 
 with your Planetary Requisition. Despite the obvious irritation of having to spend your hard and 
 slow generated resources on things you already should have already had, theres also the fact that 
 you may waste those resources if that territory never ends up getting attacked.
  
  Another variation which Iron Lore cant really be faulted for, is the change in wargear available 
 to commanders. I know you can fault them for changing it, they had to, but I feel that the new 
 wargear is nowhere near as good as the wargear in Dark Crusade. A lot of the designs are disappointing, 
 and a lot of powers are underwhelming. That said, some of them are good, for example the Chaos 
 Lord can now get the Possessed Marines Daemonic Fire ability.
  
  Last issue I have, is the new group of fortress territories. In Dark Crusade they were challenging 
 and fun, coupled with witty and insightful dialogue. In Soulstorm, the dialogue has been scrapped 
 completely, and all you get are the taunts from the opposing general. The levels themselves arent 
 fun. If anything, they range from menial, to infuriating.
  
  The disappointment I have in this game, I feel, can be linked directly to Relic outsourcing it 
 to Iron Lore. My hope is that they did this in order to get a start on Dawn of War 2. Either way, 
 Soulstorm itself is a real disappointment, undoing a lot of what made Dark Crusade so good. As 
 such, I gave it a 7.5, based mostly on its inadequacy next to Dark Crusade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shnelle
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I love the Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War series. It is one of the best built RTS games around. That 
 said, Soulstorm feels like a bit of a cop out. It does have some nice additions but it suffers 
 from the "patched content masquerading as a sequel" sickness. Both the new races are simply cookie 
 cutters of already existing ones. There is no campaign, only a long line of player vs random spawn 
 AI maps. What new features the game does have feel haphazardly added. It's still a good game but 
 it really should have been better, a lot better.
  
  The two new races are the Sisters of Battle and the Dark Eldar. Guess who the Dark Eldar are copies 
 of? The Sisters are female Space Marines. They are different enough that they feel interesting 
 but they are not NEW races at all. They do come with a new feature that allows each race to activate 
 special abilities using a third gatherable resource. I very much enjoyed these skills and they 
 certainly made themselves felt when you needed to punch through an onslaught of enemies. My disappointment 
 came from the fact that the other races were not given this play mechanic. This seemed both extremely 
 unfair considering the Pvp advantages for the new races and an example of a lazy developer. I really 
 hope they incorporate this special ability resource management mechanic for DoW2 into every race. 
 It really is a great idea.
  
  A total lack of RPG elements is seriously felt as well. In earlier games of DoW each race has its 
 own story as it wages war across the globe. You get cut scenes. You hear the commanders baiting 
 each other during battles. The maps within the Campaign have special victory objectives/scenarios 
 to complete in order to win. This keeps the campaign interesting and makes you want to play it 
 using different races. These features are almost completely absent from Soulstorm. The only maps 
 that contain any semblance of planned scenarios are each race's home base. Considering you have 
 to defeat 3-6 random AI spawn maps per race for about 7 racesyou do the math. I can play 30 random 
 AI matches on my own. DoW did so much better in the past.
  
  The flying vehicles are a nice touch. This allows you to scout across maps much more easily. You 
 also don't keep all your buildings when you conquer a map. In Dark Crusade you could end a map 
 with a huge base and half the points on a map taken These fortifications would be saved if anyone 
 attacked that map. This has been completely done away with. If anyone attacks the map, you've got 
 to start all over again. I actually think this is a good idea. It puts more emphasis on using planetary 
 resource to sequester troops and buildings inside a map, which was kind of redundant in the last 
 game.
  
  Overall Soulstorm is still fun to play. It's still a nice addition to the DoW series. It simply 
 makes you feel like the developers kind of did a half-assed job of delivering it. Though if its 
 because they were hard at work making DoW2 and they deliver on those promises I can hardly blame 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N8terz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the Warhammer 40k series since the initial launch of the first game and I have 
 to say, the game has come a long way. With nine... yes I said nine, unique playable factions with 
 all sorts of goodies to go along with them. I've played all the RTS's on just about all the consoles 
 and pc and I have to say, that Warhammer 40k beats em all because of how intense and detail oriented 
 the battles actually get. For instance the classic heavy Space Marine Juggernaut will tear through 
 the lighter armored units with a fair amount of ease, picking baddies up, crushing them with their 
 bare hands and then throwing them across the battlefield in an exquisite bloody mess. But thats 
 just one melee unit out of the... 30 or 40 different variations across all the factions... and 
 thats just the melee units. All in all with the selection of nine different playable factions and 
 a not so depthly but a single player experience accurate to the actual Warhammer 40k Board game, 
 Warhammer 40k is the strategy game my friends and I keep coming back to. I'm sure you will too... 
 once you can handle the intensity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waring_Houses
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Soulstorm which is the third stand alone expansion of dawn of war introduces 2 new races and extra 
 units for all racers to the grim darkness of the year 40,000.
  
  Soulstorm has 2 major additions which are:
  
  Races:
  The two new races are the Dark Eldar 
 and the Sisters of Battle.
  
  Sisters of Battle - are a sect of all women fighters from the Space Marines. In many ways this 
 is not very interesting because we already have the Space marines and the Imperial Guards and the 
 Sisters of Battle are somewhere in the middle. They have similar units to the Space Marines but 
 are more occupied of cleansing 'impurities' and there soldiers reflect this.
  
  Dark Eldar - are a break away group from the original Eldar group. The Dark Eldar are very cruel 
 and normally take slaves after world raids to torture and experiment with. Their soldiers while 
 quite weak have very strong weapons and strength which balances out. They too aren't that original 
 as there is already the Eldar race which has been there since the start.
  
  Aerial Units:
  Every race now has a flying unit with the exception of the Necrons (damn) . Many 
 people think that this is a good thing I however think that you'd get more fun out of an update 
 like a toad on a unicycle (picture it!..... isn't it awesome?) . I hate the release of airial units 
 because it means you have to look after your base more which subtracts from your attacking strength.
 
  
  All in all Soulstorm gains new ground with the new races but looses some with the addition of aerial 
 units. Even after the set back of flying units I think it's the best one in the series to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luykus
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The lamenting will never stop, oh why didn't Relic make this game. And don't give me, "Well, it's 
 got Relic's name on it!" Yeah, it looks like that's all the work they put into it. The graphics 
 are subpar and after the great graphics of Dark Crusade, that means only one thing.... IRON LORE!
 
  
  Look, if you like Dawn of War for what it really is, a Warhammer 40k RTS. Then don't get Soulstrom. 
 Iron Lore destroyed the story line... in fact, that game has no story line. (Why do we have to conquer 
 this funny named star system?) It has the worst voice acting of any Dawn of War game. (The Sisters 
 of Battle and the Narrator are the voices saving grace) 
  
  Iron Lore didn't even try to do anything new. They didn't try to balance any of the old factions 
 and really didn't balance any of the new races. (Both the SoBs and the Dark Eldar are weak and 
 not that much fun to play as) They even nerfed the Imperial Guard even more by weakening the Baneblade 
 and keeping the horrible unit caps on the Stromtroopers and Leman Russes in place. 
  
  Look, I will not waste your time by saying much more but just keep in mind one more thing. Iron 
 Lore shut down a couple months before this game even came out, if that doesn't show a lack of commitment, 
 I don't know what does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorPH-
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Soulstorm is a welcome expansion to the Dawn of War series, but it treads too much old ground, 
 to put it bluntly.
  Dark Crusade's success lay in the amount of new features it brought. A larger, Risk-style campaign 
 with commander customisation and two new races. What has Soulstorm brought? An even larger, still 
 Risk-style campaign retaining commander customisation with more or less the same upgrades and two 
 new races. Yawn. The only feature that's really outstanding and unique from Winter Assault and 
 Dark Crusade is the introduction of air units, which is one of the two only things that was carrying 
 the hype, the second being the new races.
  The initial feeling this expansion brought to a DoW fan such as myself is, honestly, disappointment. 
 To me it just feels lazy, and this impression is not eased by blatant lazy copying of unit noises 
 and bugs for things that really shouldn't have bugs. Every building for the new Sisters of Battle 
 race has the same selection sound as their Space Marine counterpart. When capturing a relic, the 
 shaft on the floor does not open and so the flag rises up through solid material making the whole 
 procedure look buggy and unfinished. Speaking of which, how the hell did that happen? In all the 
 previous games the hatch on a relic would open, how did Ironlore manage to screw it up if it needed 
 no improvement?
  Obviously no one wants to feel disappointed in something they just spent 30 on, but its hard to 
 keep trying to convince yourself after several skirmishes without descending into full blown denial. 
 I won't lie, this expansion is indeed a let down, especially considering it was expected to bring 
 so much to the table AND be the final installment in the series. Here's hoping that they at least 
 release a patch or two to smooth the gameplay. Overall it's a good game and I've still had hours 
 of fun playing it, and I don't think that it was a complete waste of money. There is just still 
 a lot to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asrahn
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Ill start off by actually admitting that I was really looking forward to this expansion. Being 
 a 40k nerd, I expected the same amount of ass-kickery as I experienced when Dark Crusade was released. 
 I expected crushing puny elves under my feet and kicking some butts in the name of the Emperor. 
 Thats what Ive done I guess... but Soulstorm just doesnt cut it, it does not deliver what it 
 was supposed to be.
  
  I am disappointed, it is as simple as that. Please read along with my points and see if you agree, 
 and note that everything bad I comment upon was probably made better in Dark Crusade.
  
  _
  
  Point one would be the map size. In Dawn of War: Soulstorm we have 31 zones. 31 zones 
 divided up on 4 planets and 3 moons. Dawn of War: Dark Crusade had 24 zones, on one planet. In 
 my eyes it is easy to see which game was given most time and effort into its creation. Soulstorm's 
 greatest flaw when it comes to map size is the fact that the respective races start very, very 
 close to one another. Personally I played my first game as the Blood Raven's, and during my second 
 (2: nd) round, I destroyed the orc's HQ, punting them from the battle. Being capable of attacking 
 an HQ during round two (assuming you win round 1) is a rediculous concept that really shows how 
 god damned small of a game this is.
  
  Due to the small mapsize, taking over zones doesn't really feel important any longer, but rather 
 just staging areas for taking your troops one step closer towards the enemy stronghold. Youll 
 then spend LONGER time during the actual HQ battle than it took you to fight your way to it. Go 
 figure.
  
  _
  
  Point two would be the dialogues, story and in-game cutscenes. The background story of why the 
 Imperial Guard, the Space Marines and Sisters of Battle are fighting amongst each other is pretty 
 much shrugged off, instead youre given a small notification to remind yourself about what happened 
 on Kronus in Dark Crusade. Fiction in all honor, but I at least want to have a viable reason. "They 
 hate each other because he did this and she did that" would have worked, as long as they made some 
 kind of half-assed attempt at an actual EXPLANATION at least.
  
  As far as Ive seen, the only "good" (still not better than any Dark Crusade cutscene) cutscenes 
 are the ending ones, who kind of makes SENSE for once. Wheres the bickering between commanders 
 that I longed for? And where are the elaborate speeches about what happened to the crushed enemy 
 forces? Dirt, blood and mayhem? Where did it all go?
  
  The cutscenes are edgy, terribly lame at major points, and reeks of the strained need of giving 
 characters... well, character. Something they utterly fail at. And I mean come on, a Chaos Lord 
 should not act like a sissy and scream in a high pitched voice when things go to hell. He should 
 bloody stand his ground and curse his men for being weaklings. He is especially not supposed to 
 be a pansy when carrying around a god-damned Khorne chainaxe! Onto that, the Sisters of Battle 
 doesnt sound like battle-hardened maidens of purity, but rather desperate feminists with a bad 
 case of hangover. Every voice in the game that is new with Soulstorm just falls flat on its face, 
 failing to give a good impression of a commander/fanatic/soldier or just about anything else that 
 opens its mouth. Argh, I hate you Iron Lore.
  
  Also the HQ assault pre-texts and speech are just awful, giving no feeling of anticipation at all 
 but merely annoys you with its amateurish design and makes you want to go in there and punt the 
 **** out of your enemy and your own troops with equal measure. Despite the heroic voice (and effort) 
 of the one reading the intro's, it all just goes down the drain.
  
  Summed up, the new voicing, dialogues and general feel to the storybits of Soulstorm is "THIS IS 
 NOT WARHAMMER 40K!". My Chaplains voice is a bright lantern in the dark that is this expansion.
 
  
  _
  
  Point three would be the balance, or rather lack thereof. With Soulstorm comes the brilliance of 
 having discarded every bit of tweaking, fixes and patching that Relic had done with Dark Crusade, 
 reversing back to old methods. A slight example would be that a fully upgraded Space Marine group 
 with an Apothecary has about the same amount of HP as an Imperial Guard Baneblade. I wont even 
 start on the Sisters of Battle issue.
  
  Also, air units. Theyre there, and they dont do **** Theyre like flies that can be annoying 
 if the enemy knows how to use them, but in the end theyre pretty worthless as far as combat goes. 
 Quick raids into enemy territory, sure, but no other units are fitted for this (Save for perhaps 
 a few Dark Eldar ones.) The uselessness of air units is increased by the fact that every unit in 
 the game that has a ranged weapon can shoot at them.
  
  Speaking of Dark Eldars, who the hell rides a jet-skateboard into battle? Theyre just silly. Tyranids 
 would have been a much more viable option, but Im not sure if I want Iron Lore to touch them.
 
  
  _
  
  Summed up, Soulstorm as a whole is not what it was meant to be. 90% of the expactations I had were 
 crushed immediately during my first campaign, and as I gave the game chance upon new chance, I 
 realized that perhaps it was all in vain.
  
  I wouldnt be the least surprised if I got to know that Iron Lore is a second name used by EA.
 
  
  This is not Warhammer 40k, this is a cheap copy of Dark Crusade that has been glued on top of a 
 working franchice. I suggest you stay away from it, or just dont play any of the other Dawn of 
 War games before trying this one out. Perhaps then, thanks to oblivion, this can be seen as a half-assed 
 or perhaps even decent game, and not just a failure of game creation.
  
  //Ash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Soulstorm, adds yet more to DOW then just a pretty face lift. the new "hero" units and air units 
 add extra tactics and counter forces to an already tactic heavy game. the races and race upgrades 
 also help increase the longevity of DOW and add more options for play styles to it. 
  
  having picked up Soulstorm to add to my growing warhammer/40k collection i was quite the candy 
 store kid waiting to play with the new units and races and complete yet another great campaign. 
 the camp i might add was acceptable. i found the planet conquest a little lacking as its no different 
 then having it all on 1 planet. the number of locations per world really didn't change that much 
 compared to DC or WA expansions, it still kept about the same number of territories. on top of 
 that compared to WA or DC there was only 1 narrated location per world and that is the race HQ. 
 unlike DC or WA where every few random locations you would get a wicked narration. SS didn't have 
 that. it left the campaign feeling kind of flat to me. sure the race HQ story is great. but i liked 
 having random little stories. as it gave more depth and feel to the campaign.
  
  in lou of race balance i found the dark elder lacking in useful base defense. rather strange that 
 they wouldn't get some form of defense turret as the torture pit upgrade really doesn't do anything. 
 it knocks enemies down and lowers moral but if your fighting marines that really doesn't do much 
 to save your base. the sisters over use of flamers is quite enjoyable though i might add their 
 flame turrets seem to be the longest range turret in the game on-par with missile turrets.
  
  
  all in all still a good EP. if they had spent a little more time on the game though to 
 improve the campaign a bit more it would be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huscarl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the 40K, been playing the games for years, and was glad that finally a new game 
 was made. Now the third expension. And I must admit, the age shows. I still love the game, which 
 is quit close to the tabletop game. And I love that the theatre of war has been expanded to several 
 planets. The addition of the dark eldar, which I thought were suffering a severe case of neglect 
 by GW, and the sisters of battle one of my own armies) were a great surprise. But the airtroops. 
 Still haven't found the added value. They just zoom around the battlefield and just don't add to 
 the rest of the troops. And because the battle is spread over several planets, it would be a great 
 opportunity to add some spacebattles, like battlefleet gothic. Still, I love the game, but can't 
 wait for dawn of war 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidr_pikula1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  Iv'e been an avid fan of the Dawn of War series since its inception about 3-4 years ago, and had 
 high hopes for soulstorm, i thought that the meta campaign on dark crusade while occasionally tiresome 
 was a fun way to pass the time like you were playing a skirmish but actually get a reward for doing 
 it, in the form of an honour guard unit or a campaign bonus, and maybe even a piece of war gear. 
 In Soulstorm while it does continue this formula, it doesnt continue it very well, the game manual 
 does not tell you what criteria need to be met to gain the wargear, and the persistent base structures 
 from the previous game campaign are not so persistent this time, either through a bug or deliberate 
 changing is unknown (to me atleast) .
  
  The flying units, while very nice looking can look very "jumpy" to put it lightly, the way they 
 move makes them look like they are being driven by the twitchiest pilots ever, they are quite slow 
 aswell, but they do add a new dynamic to the game and that is always a good thing (mostly) . Although 
 the voice they gave the Hell Talon just screams Stephen Hawking at me.
  
  The new races while interesting may be somewhat overpowered now that they have all new special 
 soul, and faith abilities that the older races somewhat lack. The sisters of battle do seem interesting 
 to use though, but the many weapon upgrades that can be lathered onto the squads may make them 
 to powerful. My one major disagreement with the Sisters of Battle though, is their missionary, 
 this unit will sing the most annoying little song every time it captures a point on the map, and 
 as the lower tier point capturing unit you will have to put up with it for the first few minutes 
 of the game until you have better/more powerful infantry squads out.
  
  Now onto the voice acting, why o for the love of God why couldn't Iron Lore of asked the same voice 
 actors Relic used to provide the voices for the persisten characters such as Gorgutz, because now 
 he sounds like a moron.
  
  I have also noticed some bugs in the campaign as well, where there is the word bearers flag in 
 the victory over an enemy stronghold menu, and also in some of the honour guard units description, 
 this just strikes me as Iron Lore being very very lazy.
  
  So in closing I would say that Soulstorm while ambitious misses the mark a bit, but not so much 
 that it is a terrible game to play, or that it detracts from the gameplay in any major way, and 
 hopefully a patch could fix most of the issues that have been found with the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorclaw1234
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  The dawn of war soulstorm is better than other soulstorm series. My favourite faction is the necrons 
 because the troops are awesome there is a monolith, necron warriors and the Necron commander but 
 the favourite troop of the Necron is the commander because he looks awesome. Another favourite faction 
 I like is the Tau Empire because the Tau and the kroots are so awesome the favour troop I like 
 in the Tau are the Kroots because they look like creature tribesmen. I also like the Tau Commander 
 because he got rockets on him but i prefer the Tau being yellow because it fit them well. I like 
 the Chaos too because they are an evil version of the Space Marines!! The Dawn of War game have 
 new vehicles which are flying types. I have played the demo once but prefer the Dark Crusade because 
 I can play as the Tau Empire and there are aliens. Dawn of war series are nice ilike the troops 
 here!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrc2505
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Is this the perfect RTS? It is very close, But it is the best I've ever tried.
  
  When I first tried the DoW series a few years ago, and... well there's was nothing to say other 
 than: This game is perfect.
  And the new DoW is no different. The new units and factions give the game a new twist for the better, 
 and you still get the same gaming experience as you got in the old DoW games.
  
  The only thing i can point at and say is bad are the campaign. It's the exact same thing as it 
 was in Dark Crusade. The only thing there is to say about that is: THAT SUCKS!!!!
  
  I don't know how many of you are waiting for Warhammer Online but i am, and Soulstorm is a good 
 game to be playing until it comes, but if you are more t the old Warhammer then you should try 
 out Mark of Chaos.
  
  So there is just one thing to say: If you have'nt tried a DoW game before, you should start now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega0718
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  The Good: Well obviously the best part in Soulstorm is the two new races; The Dark Eldar and the 
 Sisters of Battle. The more the merrier as they say. Fans of these armies will surely not feel 
 left out except for Tyranids, and their fans, who are yet to have a Dawn of War debut. Anyway, 
 the two new armies are unique from other armies in that they use two new resources exclusive to 
 them; Faith and Soul Essence. The Soul Essence is used exclusively by the Dark Eldar. Everytime 
 a unit dies it will leave behind this dark glowing stuff in the ground which certain Dark Eldar 
 Units can gather and once you have enough you can use the gathered soul essence to unleash various 
 power upon your enemies. The Faith resource is exclusive to the Sisters of battle. This faith is 
 generated through 'faithful' units (The living saint, canoness etc) and upgrades (listening post 
 upgrades)
  
  The Bad: The campaign feels cheap in that the planets are not that detailed compared to Kronus 
 from Dark Crusade. Kronus was well though of containing a lot of unique power ups etc. The four 
 planets and three moons of Kaurava in Soulstorm contains all that Kronus contains just by itself; 
 or what is contained in one planet is spread out if four planets and three moons making the campaign 
 feel much of the same. If they just made the planets and moons as detalied as Kronus then it would 
 be much better. Also the removal of the Commander to Commander interaction during a army stronghold 
 assault was dismal. I prefer having my commander character interacting with the enemy commander 
 this gives the game depth.
  
  The ugly: The Air factor. Come on THQ and Relic you really thought you could firmly cement the 
 concept of air warfare in a game just by introducing one air unit per army? Oh please it will take 
 much more than that. It will take around four to six air units, a dedicated structure for air units 
 and other air warfare stuff you see in an RTS that successfully have air warfare.
  
  Maybe I am asking too much, maybe in Dawn of War 2 (if they make one and I will be there to review 
 it) will solve all of the mess but for now this is where Dawn of War stand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I was hyped for this game when it came out, I ran out to the store and got it, but when I got home 
 and played it, it just felt like dark crusade with a patch to add a couple things in there for 
 good measure, but what was there was still great like every other Warhammer 40k game.
  
  The Gameplay is still same as ever, but the gameplay is what is great about the game, you can't 
 stay in your base and turtle up, you have to go out and capture points to gain points for you armies, 
 and capture relics to gain super units, the game is basically all about frontline combat, Every 
 race in the game also plays completely different, adding another cool twist to the game. The 2 
 new races are quite interesting in some regards, the sisters of battle are the holiest of all of 
 the races with a special resource called faith, how they are generated was a mystery to me, (I 
 did pretty horrible with them, I personally like the Imperial Guards, strong vehicles :D) There 
 strong suit is in Infantry, vehicles are pretty bad and don't fare well against other races, but 
 the infantry do alot of the leg work. The Dark Eldar I am not familiar with, and so yet to play 
 them, but what I can tell you is that they are a new race. Another new addition is the inclusion 
 of Air units, these are not earth shattering, but nor do they even add an incentive to build them, 
 since anything can hit them, and don't have a good effect, you'd think they would fly up in high 
 altitudes and carry lots of bombs, but its like a toy airplane carrying a tiny grenade.
  
  The Graphics, while good, just don't fare as well as Company of Heroes, They get the job done, 
 the battles are bloody and fierce, but Effect such as shadowing, and shading techniques really 
 let the game down, but the are direction is fantastic, with every faction getting its own unique 
 look, in other words, every race looks completely different and plays out differently as I said 
 before.
  
  Sound wise, All races get there unique sound to them, all done with great voice acting, and the 
 sound of battle cries, death, destructing, and sound of gun's firing, artillery, you name it, it 
 sound fantastic.
  
  Value, the game has multiplayer, like all Warhammer 40k games, its fun as always, but the singleplayer 
 leaves alot of to be desired, its the same as dark crusade's, except with new stories, but the 
 skirmish battles are fun and exciting if you bump up the difficulty.
  
  This is a great expansion over all, the game wouldv'e done better if bundled along with Dark Crusade, 
 but this is a great game over all, and I think if you are a big fan of War Hammer, there is not 
 reason for you not to get this or a new comer, but if you are an average rts gamer, who just played 
 Dark Crusade, you might want to consider looking elsewhere, unless you want more races to play 
 around with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owner34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  I think this is the best of the Dawn of War games. The new armies are good although Sisters of 
 Battle seem to be sort of pointless. The flying units add a whole new dimension to the game because 
 you can now fly to the battle very quickly. So if you in a very big battle and you need reinforcements 
 quickly you could just get some of the flying units and have them come very quickly.
  Online is very fun. It seems that the armies are more balanced making it a much funner and less 
 painless experience because you aren't always getting owned. Also the new armies are rellay fun 
 to play as, especially the Dark Eldar. The Dark Eldar are very balanced because they are very good 
 in the beginning and are very hard to beat, but at the end they wont have a chance.
  The one army that I would really like to have in this game is the Tyranids. I would rather have 
 them then the Sisters of Battle, so I hope that they are in the next game. There are a few glitches 
 that need to be fixed; but this game is really fun and I think that it has changed my view on the 
 Dawn of War games because this is definitely the best in the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timotiherb333
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Like it's predecessors, Soulstorm attempts to transfer Warhammer 40k to PC, and it, like all of 
 the other games in the Dawn of War series, has done pretty well. Soulstorm combines excellent graphics 
 with incredible gameplay to make a fantastic sequel to Dark Crusade. Like the other games, Soulstorm 
 involves a lot of cool units, a lot of gory combat and in depth base building. The two new races, 
 Dark Eldar and Sisters of Battle, add a new strategic element to the game, wheter you are playing 
 as them or against them. The Dark Eldar are slow to start, but have a lot of swift and deadly units. 
 The ability to harvest soul essence from the corpses of fallen foes gives playing as the Dark Eldar 
 that little edge over the other races, as you have your tortured slaves running around the battlefield, 
 swinging picks at dead bodies. The Sisters of Battle, however, were a dissapointment. They play 
 VERY similarly to the space marines, and their buildings even make the same noises! The collection 
 of faith adds very little to their gameplay, as you simply have to kill enemies to get it, and 
 then use it to make "Acts of Faith", which are useless abilities that certain units can channel. 
 However, despite past that small downfall, Soulstorm is worth every dollar that you pay for it. 
 If you thought that the Dark Crusade campaign was good, then imagine that, but on a bigger scale. 
 In the new single player campaign, the nine races wage war in the Kauruva system, which consists 
 of four planets and three moons. To travel between many of these, you must secure and use ancient 
 gates. These are huge webway gates that allow you to travel between planets. When you attempt to 
 capture these, it turns into a take and hold mission, whereby you must secure over half of the 
 critcal locations on the map (One of them being the gate) , and hold them for about 7 minutes. I 
 find this aspect of the campaign incredibly enjoyable, as all of the different races have differnt 
 ways of holding objectives. The campaign includes only one old favourite in hero selection, that 
 being Warboss Gorgutz of the orks. The other heroes are fairly similar to the Dark Crusade ones, 
 but with different names, faces and colour schemes. Many of the core wargear choices have remained 
 the same, but there are quite a few changes to the more subtle pieces of wargear. In addition to 
 the new heroes, every race now has a certain strategic asset, which can attained by other races 
 by conquering their home territory. The essential gameplay is the same, whereby every race has 
 one army which pretty much moves around and slaughters anything in it's path. All in all, the campaign 
 alone is worth buying Soulstorm for. The huge amount of new maps make Soulstorm's multiplayer incredibly 
 enjoyable. it also introduces multiplayer medals, which basically give you bragging rights over 
 your friends who don't have the medals that you do. The skirmish mode is essentially the same, 
 albeit with new maps. Now, the moment we've all been waiting for: New Units. All of the old races 
 has one new unit in Soulstorm. All of the new units, exept for the necron one, are air units. All 
 of the air units are different in at least one way. Some may be anti-vehicle, some anti-infantry, 
 and some capable of dropping bombs. The new necron unit is the essence of the deceiver, which you 
 can choose for your lord to turn into instead of the nightbringer. The deceiver has a couple of 
 neat abilities, like the ability to turn enemy units on their friends, and the ability to make 
 a phantom monolith to draw enemy fire, but I would advise that you generally use the nightbringer, 
 as the deceiver has no attack and is not invincible. Overall, Soulstorm is definitely worth buying, 
 and it is deservant of every point in the 9.0 that I rated it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War was first released in 2004, if you can believe it, and it was initially a game I had 
 missed all together. The reason? Voldemort. However, one of the many time I broke away from Voldemort's 
 spell and swore it off, one of many times, I discovered DOW and couldn't have been more pleased 
 with myself. I first picked up the Gold Edition of the DOW and Winter Assault package in August 
 2006. I was defiantly happy about the games and the way they played. I could have sworn, at the 
 time, it was some sort of breeding between WarCraft and StarCraft, but I was pretty uneducated 
 at the time. Anyway, the unique strategic point game play was what turned me on, much less the 
 first games over the top acting and sorta stale animations. 
  
  So Dark Crusade comes out and this time I had been following it since finishing WA, also after 
 visiting the GameWorkshop website and figuring out that it was not a new comer that followed WarCraft 
 and StarCraft, but the DEFINING genre and the previously mentioned were actually somewhat of a 
 big rip off. So DC renewed my already developing love for any Warhammer game, but it also came 
 with disappointments. In all it left me wantingfor this promised and rumored next installment. 
 
  
  ...
  
  *Sigh* Soulstorm does very little to excite me. In fact, it does very little at all. Maybe I should 
 have known what was going on when I downloaded the demo. The game's opening cinema was really BLAH 
 and I thought to myself, "Maybe that's what they threw together for the demo." No. That's it. As 
 uninvolved and bland as the gameplay would be.
  
  Two new races have been introduced: the Sisters of Battle and Dark Eldar. We all know this. What 
 you may NOT know is that I favored the Sisters over the Dark Eldar. I sorta like that everything 
 is based on flame and purging and melting. They play... in a very difficult and dependent manner 
 however. What I mean is, you need a full army of support for your siege units in order to take 
 down even small bases because they simply can't cut it on their own. In comparison to other races, 
 all other races really, where you can send in your special units with a small following and achieve 
 great results, you actually need your entire damned army to go in with the Sisters in order to 
 make a stand. Most units are not entirely wonderful at melee OR ranged combat, so you end up just 
 needing more of them to accomplish the same smaller units of other races would be able to. Their 
 listening posts are, as a whole, not entirely great either, and VERY often require turrets to keep 
 them up and running. However they are extremely fancy at taking down morale in a jiffy and fun 
 to look at and play. The idea of faith and its use int he battle field is also a lot of fun, but 
 limiting as well since one powerful spell can basically drain all your faith during a big battle. 
 As the Imperial Guard were once the 'rejects' and I found them appealing, I also see the same for 
 the Sisters. 
  
  Dark Eldar, I haven't gotten into yet. They look neat.
  
  So as it turns out there's nothing special per race in Soulstorm. No unique cut scenes to begin 
 the single player campaign, no unique interaction or trash talking within the home base battles 
 either. There are cut scenes, oh yes, but they are entirely generic and have no hint even of your 
 playing race being involved. Kinda sad. I kept thinking to myself, with the LACK of the specific 
 race/faction involvement throughout this game, shouldn't I be allowed to use my own color schemes????? 
 I expected more. 
  
  Oh, don't expect anything new from the character "customization" either. It's the same formula 
 of win achievements=more gear. This is an UPGRADE system, NOT a customization system. If it were 
 custom we'd ave the choice of WHICH hero unit to play as AND what kind of weaponry/spells they 
 would use. Maybe one day...
  
  And RED Tau? WTF? How many races in this game are already RED?
  
  Trouncing through this game 
 becomes more of a chore than anything else. You don't retain any of your old bases which means 
 every defense is as long as every offense making the forward movement of this game come to a screaming 
 halt. It's a terrible chore. I favor the old system, leaving behind a garrison of a few units, 
 building them up with enough time during a defense to get to the attackers new base and destroy 
 it. Quick and painless. 
  
  Multiplayer is fouled up too. Yes, the achievement system is very interesting but no one will play 
 against the Sisters of Battle because of a bug that allows them the possibility of infinite returned 
 resources if exploited. I have also heard rumor of a glitch in the Dark Eldar system as well. I 
 don't yet know what it is, or if it really is at all, but it makes me mad. So, Iron Lore goes under 
 just before releasing this game, milking the cost of the expansion as much as they can in order 
 to go out with a bang. Now there's no support for the game, as I understand, making it evermore 
 bugged and flawed. 
  
  I demand a redo! I was promised an expansion with story, customization, and excitement. Damn it. 
 Give me a DOW game that can satisfy my true need for character customization, RTS, TBS, and loads 
 of blood in the fashion that only Warhammer can provide, and I'll be happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanchez01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War made fans proud, Winter Assault was a success, and Dark Crusade was let down that grew 
 on one playing.
  
  The origanal Dawn of War was a classic, a game to go down in the history books. Fans and critics 
 loved it, praised it, and played it. It brought many aspects of the 40k universe into a playable 
 field of delight and enjoyment. 
  
  Winter Assult, a great exspantion to a novel game, added a great race and added a new, splended 
 story. It picked up Dawn of War and made it a better game. 
  
  Dark Crusade, a disapointment to say the least. They had a great idea with the campaign, but it 
 lacked the story, not to mention the infighting grinds my gears. Yeah yeah, Kronus was a tomb world 
 under attack by many races and goals... but again it lacked a deeper story... to shallow... it 
 was more of a collection of skirmishes then a progressive campaign. But, they did well on the two 
 new playable races and the new units to the older ones.
  
  Now to talk about the Newest to the family, Soulstorm... It killed me. The campaign is still the 
 same mess as Dark Crusade, but bigger, lacking a true story, like the makers took the easy way 
 out... disapointing... The new air units are a disaster... apsolutly awful... GW needs a slap in 
 the face for letting them make the air units like they did... Apart from the disasters they let 
 happen, the two new races, Dark Eldar and Sisters of Battle, were acceptable and playable, one 
 of two reasons I perchased this game, the other being that I am a loyal fan to GW.
  
  Is this game worth buying? Well ask yourself this, "Am I a Warhammer fan?" 
  
  If so, you have 
 to get it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kildapoe56
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I have enjoyed the first 2 installments of DoW, this has many elements that I feel are a huge plus, 
 but a couple of things still bother me, or have added to my list. Bother List:
  -Some of the enemy armies, seem to make no progress through the course of my own campaign, while 
 others seem to dominate everyone, maybe a few dominating factions, or at least every race able 
 to make a difference would have helped.
  
  -The one thing that bothers me the most is the fact that the game no longer keeps your buildings 
 intact, you have to start all over again, the only thing this does for me is clear up my quest 
 for capturing everything, and upgrading all before taking out the enemy head quarterd, which is 
 good in the fact that I can now rush the enemy HQ, and win without any regrets.
  
  I enjoy the majority of the remaining elements of the game, I feel like there should also be more 
 territory bonuses, but overall I enjoy this game very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonkee
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Unlike other Dawn of War titles, Soulstorm didn't really stand out to me. Really the main reason 
 I decided to purchase it was the desire to keep updated on all the Dawn of War expansions. While 
 Soulstorm is fun and entertaining I wouldn't say it's particularly great. Soulstorm seems almost 
 like a new suit. . . it's all nice and clean and sharp and cost you some good money but at the 
 end of the day when you take it off and put it back in your closet next to your other suits it's 
 really not that different. . . ya sure the collars shaped a bit different, and the stitching looks 
 amazing but, well, its a suit. Soulstorm brought some new maps and a new campaign "feel" but it 
 s really not different enough to rate as one of the top games. Now Soulstorm does have some really 
 great aspects to it despite some of the rather cookie cutter features. The new air units are a 
 great addition although there probably could have been a few tweaks here and there. The sisters 
 of battle are a very interesting new race to play, as are the Dark Eldar. Both races do have there 
 unique charecteristics and it does improve playing the game in really any aspect. Overall I'd say 
 Soulstorm is fun and entertaining but your not going to find anything real different, you'll just 
 get that "new suit smell" in your nose for the first few days you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnderWiggen66
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Dark Crusade set the bar for computer based warhammer 40000 and soulstorm limboed right under it. 
 The battleground gameplay is identical to Dark Crusade but with 8 races instead of 6, more restrictions 
 on moving from territory to territory, and computer opponents who can't make any headway even on 
 hard. Then there's the long load times between map and battleground and choppy performance during 
 large army battles. Worst of all, they no longer save your base modifications after winning a territory, 
 so each time you're attacked you have to start from scratch plus whatever you reinforced with. 
 They honestly would have been smarter to just re-release Dark Crusade with the two extra races 
 and a few new territories on the same planetmap. It would have made them more money and would have 
 sucked less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Well Warhammer 40000 Dawn of War is back. I did not see this expansion pack coming, I thought that 
 the next Dawn of War would have been Dawn of War 2. Well, it seems that I was wrong,& that Soulstorm 
 had came as an expansion pack, but standalone, just as Dark Crusade did. Well I loved all the Dawn 
 of War games,& they will always be among my favorite strategy games &, why not, games in general. The 
 concept with strategic points, relics & critical locations is fresh, it's got style & it gets better 
 & better. How could I refuse such a meal? Well, it's clear that Relic is busy with another Company 
 of Heroes expansion & (let's hope) , Dawn of War 2 ,so they gave the work to Iron Lore, the same 
 guys who gave us Titan Quest & Immortal Throne. Well, they've done quite a job, but now I'd like to 
 make a short presentation of all the factions available so far.
  The Space Marines are the Emperor's Elite soldiers. Trained to fight with honor & courage, but all 
 the same equipped with the finest weaponry & armor, it is said that one Space Marine is a match 
 for 100 Imperial Guardsmen. They are my favorites,& they've been introduced in the original Dawn 
 of War game.
  The Chaos Marines are Space Marines fallen to the dark side... making sacrifices to Khorne ,the 
 Blood God & other evil gods. They were tough in the original game, but they suffered downgrades & 
 are quite weak now.
  The Orks need no more  very funny in the same time, these guys 
 know only battle. But they're not too good, I'd say they're the weakest faction. They were introduced 
 in the original DoW game.
  The Eldar are some kind of gay robots,& the most technologically advanced faction in the DoW universe. They 
 started up in the original game,& I'll say they're really good in battle, but only if you know how 
 to use them, which I don't.
  The Dark Eldar are one of the two new races in Soulstorm. They're Eldar fallen to the dark side 
 & they're similar to Chaos in their beliefs, but they're much much stronger in battle, in fact they're 
 one of the best races yet in the DoW games.
  The Imperial Guard are common soldiers fighting for the Emperor, "the regular army". But they have 
 some very good vehicles & a bunch of genetically mutated soldiers that kick a$$. As long as you 
 use them correctly & progress in upgrades. They were introduced in Winter Assault, but also seen 
 in the original game.
  The Necrons are metallic skeletons that were once human,& have fallen to worship the C'Tan deities. They're 
 not evil like the Chaos or the Dark Eldar, but they don't like being disturbed & they want to eradicate 
 all life. They're not too tough at the beggining, but after they do their Awakened Monoliths & summon 
 the Nightbringer, they're hard to defeat. They were introduced in Dark Crusade.
  The Tau are specialized in ranged combat, but they also have specific mercenaries for melee combat 
 & bait. Again, they look weak, but if you know to use them, you can do great things alongside them. They 
 were introduced in Dark Crusade.
  The Sisters of Battle are the second new faction in Soulstorm. They can be called "chicks with boltguns", because 
 they're the only women in the DoW games, fighting for the Emperor. They seem really like the Space 
 Marines, but they're very weak in defense.
  So, you met the races, let's start with the campaign. A warp Storm has taken place in the Kauvra System,& 
 all the factions have started to battle each other for supremacy. Not much of a story, as it was 
 in DoW & Winter Assault. Soulstorm is almost exactly like Dark Crusade, but here you have four planets 
 & three moons to conquer, nine factions & some new stuff. The commanders are a little bit changed, I 
 mean some new wargear added. The teritorries you conquer aren't all "Anihilate" skirmishes, some 
 need a take & hold victory, but some of these non-stronghold missions were better designed in Dark 
 Crusade. But the Strongholds are really greatly done. The Dark Eldar one reminded me of the last 
 mission in Dawn of War... Speaking of new things, they've added air combat & aerial units. The Tau 
 & the Space MArines were granted the best ones, but the Sister of Battle & Imperial Guard ones are 
 also usefull,& the Ork one looks really funny. This air combat is not the best, but it was a necessary 
 upgrade. Also, the Necrons got a new C'Tan deity, the Deceiver, who won't fight, but confuse the enemy 
 & things like that. Oh,& the Dark Eldar harvest souls as a resource, so the management is quite complicated...
 
  Well, Soulstorm again sounds... perfect. The same manner of superb music & proffessional voice acting, plus 
 improved sound effects. Greatly done!
  Let's not forget about the multiplayer. It now features 9 factions, considering the fact that you 
 have all the other three games installed. You can play in singleplayer with all of them only with 
 Soulstorm, but in the multiplayer you'll be having only the Dark Eldar & the Sisters of Battle. Going 
 back to the idea, the multiplayer has really improved, there are A LOT of new maps & also some achievments 
 & medals similar to the ones in Battlefield 2142.
  Despite Iron Lore's great success with this game, I'd like the expansion packs to stop. OK, these 
 were high end graphics in 2004, but now it's 2008... they still look good, but they would need a change. Second, the 
 same style of the game gets boring after a period, considering the fact that you've played & replayed 
 Dawn of War, Winter Assault & Dark Crusade. As a conclusion, thanks for everything Relic, Iron Lore 
 & THQ, but now we want Dawn of War 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phase_1337
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the DOW series since the first game. Its been one of my favorite RTS's simply 
 due to its fun game play. The introduction of aircraft was poorly done imo, it could have been 
 done far better with more planes and making air troops more worthwhile. The two new factions are 
 good, sisters of battle are pretty cool but overall its just above average.
  
  More units and more expansion into the air could have made this game greater... but its still quite 
 solid and the campaign will keep you going for awhile. Multi player has always been the best aspect 
 of this series, and while it didn't bring anything much new to game play and overall strategy.
 
  
  Been there, done that but its still a great game and worth buying if you have money and are bored 
 with your current RTS. I recommend it to those who have played the other games in this series, 
 while it doesn't do anything new, the aircraft, new units and factions (plus new single player) 
 add to the experience of DOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashawnthl
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game and if you never played any of the strategy warhammer game before this game 
 will blow you away, This is one of the best real time strategy games ive played on pc or any console 
 in a long time. The graphics are amazing to watch and look at as you watch your selected army come 
 to life as they move across the battle field destroying or being destroyed by the computer AI or 
 pvp on the game world map. What i love most is the online game play, ive stayed up till 5:00am 
 playing this game. At first the controls might take some getting use to but once you get enough 
 practice you will become a master general in the gaming world of warhammer, commanding your troops 
 to move forward towards *Victory .The only major problem i have is the online load times can take 
 forever, and it can become somewhat of a headache, trying to get a good multiplayer match started 
 at times, (the quick start match up option seems to be useless) other then that this is a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  If you have not had the chance to play any of the Dawn of War game series this is a great time 
 to step in to the series.
  
  Pros:
  Good summary of the series
  Do not have to reinstall the prior games to enjoy the rest of the armies - only need to enter the 
 CD key to enable them in multiplay.
  Spirit and Souls add a nice twist to all the armies available.
  Older game engine is nice and 
 runs on a lot of systems now.
  
  
  Cons:
  Air units just do not feel right at all - glass ceiling effect.
  Game engine could use a bit 
 more polish - newer hardware has been out of awhile and would like to take advantage of it.
  Strategy map is hard to read and keep up with as its too tiny - needs a zoom when other races battle.
 
  Lacks more story mode in single player.
  
  
  Overall I really like Soulstorm, it has a nice vibe too it. I would really like to have seen more 
 story mode as I have enjoyed the Warhammer40k dark universe over the many years. Soulstorm returns 
 following the same format that Dark Crusade has where you have a Risk like map and interface as 
 you pick your battles. Strategy wise, his is a great feature as you don't feel like you are boxed 
 in a pipe with canned "step forward and attack/defend, wait for the designers to tell you what 
 to do next" approach.
  
  One of the things I miss from the earlier Dawn of War game was the story breaks, I am a sucker 
 for story as it helps the "why" part and makes the battles much more meaningful. Now the desperate 
 struggle that was hard one has more depth of feeling after you finally win that campaign. Unfortunately 
 Soulstorm follows the same format as Dark Crusade in only offering a few in game animated scenes 
 after eliminating an entire army.
  
  The other item is air units. They really feel tacked on at the last moment, maybe its a limit of 
 the game engine but it feels like there is a glass ceiling and that its a unit that hovers off 
 the ground at x distance vs really flying across the map. What would be interesting was they would 
 actually do strafing runs or bombing runs then have to return to base to reload/refuel. 
  
  Ground troops would have AntiAir weapons that would damage them lets say after three shoots based 
 on firing angle/range etc. This would keep them from swooping all the time on the maps and taking 
 focus away from the ground war. So in short its a specialized unit that is pretty vulnerable but 
 powerful when used at the right time - rewards combined arms effect.
  
  Last but not least I do want to give out kudos for keeping this game alive for the fans and the 
 game play format of take and hold vs resource mongering and micromanagement. It will be sad if 
 this is the last of the original Dawn of War series but I do look forward to Dawn of War 2. : ) 
 
  
  Happy gaming all !
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aladar_1704
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  There is a disappointing news, and that's that there is none! I mean, sure, you've got the usual 
 kabooze and the shooting and the blood&gore, but no depth whatsoever. Soulstorm doesn't really 
 take off at any given moment, the storyline is as thin as my toenails and, really, why build a 
 "solar system" if you're not gonna be able to benefit from taking on a planet vs. the other? Where's 
 the strategy in going map by map, and replicating over and over and over again the "star-gatey" 
 hold-thy-ground experience. 
  
  On the good side, the new units do look quite okay, well blended in with the rest, and you've got 
 a gazillion races to choose from, though mind you they don't play fantastically different after 
 a cpl. of spins. You've got the trench soldiers, the mechanical units, and now the flying buzzers, 
 and of course the "flagship" of the race that's always fantastic to see at play. Some missions 
 are challenging, there are some AI bugs that really make it fun to play because it's gonna be predictable...
 
  
  ... and that's about it. Sing the funeral march, the dawn of war franchise, such as we know it, 
 has had its last breath. 
  
  G. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GonzoGuy
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I hope you haven't gotten tired of Dawn of War because THQ certainly hasn't and this expansion 
 is made for all of us who enjoyed to death the original and everything in between. I won't deny 
 that they're milking this franchise for all its worth, but that doesn't change the fact that this 
 game is fun and you don't have to be a total Hammerhead (like me) to appreciate it; although considering 
 the price for this "expansion pack" it would help. The two new armies don't feel vastly different 
 from the existing armies (as opposed to the original tabletop version of the game) but that would 
 be hard considering they are armies 8 & 9.
  
  What's new? Dark Eldar and Sisters of Battle of course. They aren't exactly armies who will change 
 the dynamic of the game but if you've been playing Dawn of war for a few years now, you will probably 
 appreciate the subtle combinations these forces offer. If you've often thought: I'd like to play 
 an army thats a little Guard and a little Chaos, Sisters of Battle is right up your alley. If you've 
 often thought an army that's a little orky but fast like Eldar would be perfect for your tactics, 
 you'll dig the Dark Eldar. Both of them are fun additions but neither seem completely unique (gameplay-wise; 
 based on the Games Workshop designs keeps the style for each army completely different and wonderful 
 to gaze on) or reinvigorate the game in the same way the Necrons & Tau did in Dark Crusade.
  
  Also, rather than adding a random new unit to each army, they've decided this time to add new 
 air support units for everyone, except necrons who get a new K'Tan lord for some reason having 
 to do with balance as there are plenty of necron flyers in the Warhammer 40K setting. While some 
 are better than others, none of them really change (or even add much to) the dynamic of the game. 
 They're basically light fast vehicles that ignore all units and terrain during movement. They could 
 be a bit disappointing for anyone who wanted to add lightning quick strafing runs (which are still 
 available in one form or another with some armies) to their battle plan and I haven't really had 
 any defining moments with them they way I have had with other units they've added over the years.
 
  
  What's changed from Dark Crusade? A few things but not all of them are good. It is a bit more difficult 
 but it doesn't seem to be by any improvement of the AI but rather by making the opposing force 
 tougher and stronger which will of course make things more challenging but not necissarily more 
 interesting. For many who marched right through Dark Crusade, this might be all they needed. For 
 those wanting to match wits with your computer, keep working on that MCP you've been brewing since 
 1982.
  
  You may have heard that the Soulstom campaign takes place in an entire solar system. I was excited 
 to hear this at first too and imagined each army with its own planet, all sorts of weird new battlefields 
 like asteroid fields, Space Hulks and Ork Roks. Unfortunately they didn't go that far with the 
 variety and many of the new battlefields closely resemble the ones you've played on in the past. 
 The entire campaign map isn't much bigger and the other forces seem loath to leave their planet 
 of origin meaning you'll be playing against the same armies in the same maps most every time you 
 play as a different army. So it takes the Dark Crusade campain dynamic and makes it a bit stale 
 and invariable for some reason. I have a feeling I'm not going to play through this one with every 
 race the way Dark Crusade drove me to.
  
  You'll also notice that while playing through the campaign your buildings disappear from conquered 
 territories. So if you get attacked, you have to completely rebuild the board rather than just 
 your troops. Once again, this is something that artificially raises the difficulty and play time 
 but doesn't make any of it more interesting. On the contrary, if you have a heavily contested territory, 
 it can get real tedious rebuilding the whole thing over and over again. Thankfully this hasn't 
 happened to me yet but it sounds really annoying doesn't it.
  
  You know what else is annoying? Game crashes, and this one has one of the worst. After clearing 
 out the main Tau HQ map many have seen their game shut down before they have a chance to save. 
 The original pc strategy game for Epic 40K (Final Liberation) had the same problem but at least 
 that crashed closer to the beginning of the fight, not at the conclusion. This glitch alone is 
 enough for me to advise against buying this game until a patch is provided.
  
  Hopefully by that time the price will have gone down because $40 just seems like a lot for an expansion 
 pack. I know that for a new player it's actually a really good deal: the largest (though not the 
 most interesting) campaign, all the armies (in single player at least) in all their glory, and 
 a compilation of all the skirmish maps makes this a bargain for anyone who's interested in the 
 series but hasn't picked it up yet. Then again, for $30 a newcomer may find more entertainment 
 out of getting the platinum bundle of all the previous Dawn of War material, playing through the 
 two original campaigns, and then sinking their teeth into Dark Crusade. By the time their done 
 with all that, Soulstorm should be well below a reasonable price due to the fact that Dawn of War 
 2 will probably be well on its way. 
  
  Those of us who picked up the original and every expansion since then might feel gypped after loading 
 up Soulstorm. The other reason many would find the $40 price a bit steep is that it's a game that's 
 really starting to show its age. Don't get me wrong, they've done a great job of translating the 
 two new armies from their beautifully sculpted tabletop presence to a beautifully rendered screen 
 presence and it's still a fast, beautiful, and fluid game (provided you have a pc with some balls) 
 that has been technically updated here and there. However, you should keep in mind that the original 
 came out in 2004 (to be fair: one of the best years ever for gaming) and is still running on the 
 same engine. If you want a snazzy new RTS, I'm sure there are plenty of other titles that would 
 be appropriate for your needs. 
  
  The fact remains that Dawn of War is still one of the most bloody, violent, and exciting RTSs out 
 there. Yes I said exciting and yes I know it's an RTS. That's one thing they haven't ruined in 
 all the expansions. In case you don't already know, DoW isn't so much about building up an army, 
 territory, and grinding resources (like every other RTS out there) but it's about strategy and 
 tactics. Most of all it's about gruesomely slaughtering your enemy. So if you dig Warhammer (40K) 
 but have avoided RTSs because they seem really tedious, don't avoid this one. It really wont bore 
 you to death.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War was one of those games that was surprisingly entertaining for me. I knew nothing about 
 Warhammer 40,000 (and still know little) so playing a game that used that license seemed pointless, 
 but DoW ended up being a solid game that wasn't dumbed down like most video games based off of 
 a license from another form of media are. It was followed up by the disappointing expansion Winter 
 Assault, and then the more enjoyable expansion Dark Crusade, and now finally Soulstorm which is 
 (supposedly) the final expansion to Dawn of War.
  
  As is Dawn of War's tradition, the game's campaign is bad... very bad. It's essentially a redo 
 of Dark Crusade's meta map campaign, except with less story, which I didn't think was possible. 
 Really, Relic and Iron Lore should have been more like Petroglyph, or EA and made a meta map mode 
 a secondary game type, and made the campaign a linear story similar to the original Dawn of War, 
 and its first expansion Winter Assault because that way everyone wins.
  
  Like Dark Crusade, Soulstorm introduces two new factions bringing the selection up to nine out 
 W40K's eleven primary factions. First you've got the "nuns with guns" Sisters of Battle who fight 
 the enemies of the Imperium regularly, especially Chaos. Second you've got the Dark Eldar, sadistic, 
 and twisted versions of the Eldar (space elves) from the original Dawn of War... you can essentially 
 refer to them as Drow in space because that's really what they are. Both new factions fit in quite 
 well with the past seven, and the past factions have been tweaked making Soulstorm's launch version 
 perhaps the most balanced edition of Dawn of War to date.
  
  Along with the new factions every existing army has been granted a new type of unit, air units. 
 Unfortunately the air units are, as I feared, poorly implemented. The air units constantly hover 
 similar to the air units of Starcraft, and the clunky animation and movement doesn't help since 
 when they move they constantly stop and restart their engines. To top it off, air units do little 
 to no damage, and can be taken down by any ranged units making them seem like unnecessary additions; 
 they're quite useless if nothing else.
  
  Visually Dawn of War is showing its age. Despite some tweaks to the older factions, and the new 
 factions being consistently solid in quality; Dawn of War's low resolution textures on units, and 
 terrain make it feel somewhat sub-par when compared to more recent releases. While I think that 
 "fullres_teamcolour" is enabled by default, I added it into my local. ini file, anyway; and noticed 
 a slight increase in the quality of the unit textures. Audio wise, there's nothing really new except 
 the new music themes for the Sisters of Battle, and Dark Eldar, plus the voice acting for both 
 factions which is actually fairly good.
  
  I'm somewhat torn with Dawn of War: Soulstorm. I enjoy the new factions, but the campaign is poor, 
 and the $40 USD price tag seemed a little high considering that Winter Assault, and Dark Crusade 
 were only $30 USD. Still, if you enjoyed Dawn of War then it's perhaps worth checking out once 
 the price drops, and a patch is released. If you haven't played the addictive Dawn of War what 
 the hell are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaintFenix
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  It has its ups and its downs. 
  I think THQ could have put in some more time into tuning up the graphics which look a bit dated. 
 
  
  Pros: 
   Solid game play
   awesome voice acting
   sweet multilayer
   loads of maps
   great new layout for single player campaign
   focuses on the combat rather 
 than the resource gathering which is everyone's favorite part
   makes you think where you place your units
   makes you think about your strategies with every 
 race
   nine unique races with their own strengths, weaknesses and tactics
   great community
   people who have played the tabletop game will feel at home
   brings the 
 40K universe to life
  
  Cons:
   old graphics
   old engine
   no Tyrnids  
   you can't zoom far enough out sometimes
   has a fairly steep learning 
 curve
   maps can only feature 8 players  this can be good for lower range computers but most people 
 have graphics cards and enough ram to support this  and it's bad when you have nine races
  
  What I'd like to see in Dawn Of War 2:
   some 1st person shooting
   a new engine
   
 individual computer player difficulties so you can challenge yourself wile still having a hope 
 of winning
   single player award system
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War has always kicked ass, and every expansion brings on cool, new stuff. In fact, I'd 
 say there's nothing wrong with the new stuff in Soulstorm. More or less.
  Well, "Sisters of Battle" are just MORE Imperials, and the Dark Eldar are to the Eldar as Chaos 
 is to Space Marines. Which is to say, they're completely different, but not dramatically enough. 
 They're all still cool, though.
  They have pretty much every Warhammer 40,000 army now. The Witch Hunters (Sisters of Battle) and 
 Dark Eldar were added in. I don't know if Daemonhunters actually have anything unique enough to 
 warrant their own army, but if they do, they're missing. I hardly know anything about the board 
 game.
  The only thing they're really missing (aside from the previously mentioned Daemonhunters) is the 
 Tyranid army. Which I guess is okay, because some fans made a Dark Crusade mod that added the Tyranids 
 in, but having them officially put in would be a lot nicer. Fans made a Tau mod for Dawn of War, 
 too, but Dark Crusade's Tau blew that mod out of the water.
  Anyway...
  ALL they added was some cool, new things. The campaign in Dark Crusade utterly disappointed me. 
 The first game, along with Winter Assault, had actual campaigns with voice acting, scripted cutscenes, 
 special objectives and all that other good stuff typical to a good RTS campaign. They never really 
 made any sense and had zero likeable characters, but they were still awesome.
  Clearly where I'm going with this is that Soulstorm has the same crappy campaign as Dark Crusade, 
 just with planets and gateways to travel between them. It all plays out as an extremely lengthy 
 board game (nothing like the actual board game) . The player controls certain areas of the interplanetary 
 board, and to get more he must send his Commander to fight battles on enemy territory (when its 
 his turn) , and must sometimes defend his own territory. The player gets to customize his Commander 
 and gets special abilities depending on his army, and that's all fine and good, but ultimately 
 the whole thing is lame. Firstly, there's no real plot or anything. There's especially no characters 
 or cutscenes, except for the intro which says "The Tau were really pissed so they went to the planet 
 to kick some ass!" Yeah whatever.
  My biggest problem is that, even though it's a big free-for-all, the actual levels are strictly 
 1vs1. I cannot stand games that do that. I remember playing Medieval: Total War, which made it 
 almost impossible to fight alongside a teammate and there was no way to against two seperate enemies 
 who weren't on the same team. Though that's not realistically very likely.
  The campaign would've been great if battles could've involved more than just the player and his 
 one opponent. If you're going to have a ton of armies and have them all against eachother, you 
 ought to make it so they can all fight eachother at the same time, if a situation calls for it. 
 What if two armies want the same area owned by another army? Then all three armies should do battle! 
 That'd be awesome! But this game does not have that.
  What I can't stand now is that the Tau Commander icon is solid red, just because the Tau army in 
 the campaign is red. I never play as those red jerks in skirmish! They're way too damn red, and 
 so is the icon. Friggin' red.
  Anyway, the new things are cool, but the campaign sucks and there's still no Tyranids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: td_tempest
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, I need to point out to the other reviewers and all them gamers that Relic only 
 PUBLISHED Soulstorm, and it was Ironlore that actually did the coding. That said, Ironlore already 
 closed down, so no point flaming them.
  
  Soulstorm has a bunch of issues, not game spoiling, but issues that just stick in your face and 
 refuse to get out of it. Firstly, graphics. The melta weapons, which fire blue beams, tend to 'stick'. 
 For example, my Immolator destroyed a Waaagh banner, but when i ordered it to switch to a listening 
 post behind the now dead banner, the beams remained stuck on the dead banner, but the post still 
 took damage. Not sure if this is an isolated issue, though. The Sisters of Battle units also look 
 pretty plain, and it irks me that every single one of the SoB squad member have the same faces. 
 This worked for the SM because they had helmets, not so for these ladies. Its not really that important, 
 but it still irritates me. Plus, why a mole on their cheek?
  
  Secondly. Audio. In DC, when hitting an enemy capital, the enemy commander would boast, give a 
 little speech, etc etc, and then when you gained control, your commander and the enemy commander 
 would have a little verbal exchange. It really added some character to the capital battles, something 
 that I looked forward to in a way, trying to see all the different verbal exchanges. In Soulstorm, 
 this is missing. Totally absolutely missing. There's a short dialogue describing the capital, and 
 the defenses, but no exchange between your commander and their commander. Also, while we're on 
 the subject of commanders, Gorgutz, the Ork Warboss who was all spunk against Lord Crull and on 
 Kronus, becomes some kind of whimpy half ass ork. Gone are his wisecracks and remarks about headz. 
 Infact, the game barely touches on his headhunter moniker. And also, when the chaos AI attacks 
 on the risk map, the audio that plays is IDENTICAL to the one from DC. Also. Chaos Lords are supposed 
 to be kick ass pwnage guys, not whimps who cry cause they're losing.
  
  Thirdly. Gameplay. Now, we come to the vaunted air units. I've not actually tested out these kids 
 out on a pre SS map, but i've heard pretty bad things bout them. What I do know is that they're 
 basically landspeeders. Also, a little trick/exploit/bug i found is that they will use their AA 
 weapons as long as their target is on the same level as them. I. E ordering them to shoot something 
 up a cliff when they are on cliff level. I also dislike the fact that individual capitals have 
 different powers. This forces me to make a beeline for the SoB capital, which is totally absolutely 
 irritating when you're chaos.
  
  Okay. Issues out of the way, the good points. The air units. They are useful in smacking down those 
 irritating convoy of parts of baneblades in the imp capital, also for gaying the chaos statues 
 in said capital. They move fast, which makes them ideal for putting out hot spots. I do understand 
 the fact that 70% of the units in game can shoot air units. However, a hail of bolter shells don't 
 do diddly to aircraft. Looks scary, but only meltas, las weapons and missiles can do the smackdown 
 on them fly boys. Oh, and attack scarabs too. I also liked that fact that you only keep the buildings 
 in your territories if you added them as garrisons or dropped them in as forward bases. Previously, 
 I took my time capturing a territory because I would built up bases all over except where I knew 
 they would spawn, which resulted in insta-pwnage no matter how hard the AI hit me. Now, there's 
 a greater emphasis on the garrison, although with the inability to strike anywhere as per the space 
 port on kronus, this really doesn't matter. You only have to lockdown the webway gates to ensure 
 total safety.
  
  SoB. I know they're big on the 'By fire be purged' thing, but its a little too much flame for me. 
 Still, they are very effective at breaking morale, and nothing chews through imps faster than flamers. 
 The penitance engine is like a dreadnought on steroids, and the exorcist, a pipe organ artillery, 
 is probably useful only for scattering infantry. The immolator's voice is a little ... enthusiastic, 
 and the unit itself is basically a bigger, badder hellhound. Nothing else of note to mention about 
 them, aside from their Acts of Faith, which are basically abilities that range from creating invincible 
 angels to firing beams of golden light/holy fire. They are very powerful, and can turn the tide 
 of the battle, i kid you not. Oh yes, i almost forgot. The Living Saint can ressurect herself if 
 she dies. Very usefull, but almost certain to be tweaked. Dark Eldar. Well. They are, in a nutshell, 
 Chaos in Eldar bodies. Lots of melee, horrible vehicles and lots of screaming, spells, blood torture 
 and souls. Horrible vehicles in the fact that you really need to use them as hit-and-run not stand-and-blast. 
 Their superunit, the Dais of Destruction isn't really a MBT, more of a support unit because it 
 protects units around it from ranged fire. The Dark Eldar also focus alot on morale breaking and 
 melee. They have spells, which are powered by souls, which you have to harvest from dead bodies. 
 Or from your own buildings. What I have named the Dark Eldar supply depots. They can be upgraded 
 to produce fresh corpses. Really makes souls easy to come by. The spells themselves are pretty 
 okay. Nothing overly powerful. By far the most usefull ones are one that grants detector to a squad, 
 and one that breaks morale on a global scale. Point to note here, the Dark Eldar capital power 
 allows them to strike any webway gate from their capital. While it is pretty cool, putting the 
 raiding thing in, the AI doesn't do diddly 'bout it. The campaign is short. It seems shorter than 
 Dark Crusade, which is just wrong. The terrain is varied, making it seem like 7 different places. 
 You have cities, forests, marshes, corrupted lands, the works.
  
  Overall, I do realise that Ironlore tried hard to come up with something that is a worthy finish 
 to the DoW series. But perhaps a first foray into RTS, it was unwise to work on an expansion for 
 such a celebrated series. Soulstorm tries its hardest, and it IS an enjoyable experience. It could 
 have been so much more, if they had taken more time, ironed out the minor issues. I have to point 
 out something i find totally hilarious. On the Chaos capital planet, there are these statues of 
 Bloodthirsters. Now, if you re orientate your camera, you will see that the statues have 'The Emperor 
 Protects' engraved upon them. Damn funny imo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remusgd13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  I think the single player got better : - the fact that you don't keep your buildings after you 
 conquered a territory is a nice thing ( only if you reinforce the territory) - however if you have 
 enough reinforcement units you can crash the enemy very quickly.
  The Sisters of battle are a tough faction - almost the same as the Space Marines - but more oriented 
 on morale damage . The dark eldars are the same for the eldars.
  The campaign is similar to Dark Crusade and it has only 3 difficulty levels. The AI plays after 
 a "charge with all" tactic. It just throws all its soldiers on you - he has no defenses - this 
 way you get some real intense battles followed by easy conquests. Maybe 2 intermediate difficulty 
 levels would have improved the game and the AI should have been trained in other tactics also.
 
  The aerial units are nice but they aren't a too big addition to the game.
  Maybe some customization of the troops would have been nice. Maybe more maps. Even some Tyranids 
 ;) .
  In multiplayer it is very nice. You get some really nice battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freekness
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  A good add-on but it's a shame they took out the orbital support from the game that they had displayed 
 in the demo, I was looking forward for their use in the game but I have to admit it might have 
 made the game even more chaotic. And the story mode is amazingly good fun and longwinded battles 
 except for the fact that the actual story lines lacks substance and has no movies except for the 
 beginning and end. The story mode is similar to the previous add-on expect that you only get a 
 story briefing during the loading of the battles for the Home base territories of other races stead 
 of the occasional important territory which is a bit disappointing, and I am starting to miss the 
 in-game story line movies that the first Dawn of war had in its story line. But what makes up for 
 these disappointing parts is the two new races that are as detailed, different, explosively exciting 
 as all the others, with these two new races the total comes to nine races with completely different 
 strengths and weaknesses, if that doesn't amaze everyone then nothing will, and what amazes me 
 even more is that they are all completely different in every sense. I believe this game is evolving 
 in to one of the great master pieces like Warcraft, Starcraft, the Command and Conquer series, 
 Lord of the Rings Battle for Middle Earth, Supreme Commander and Total Annihilation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Git17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Soulstorm is the third expansion to the Dawn of War series. It introduces two new 
 races, a new campaign and some neat multi-player badges for online. The expansion in my eyes is 
 very good, if not surpassing the previous one Dark Crusade. However it is not without its faults. 
 I shall divide the review up as follows:
  
  -Races
  
  -Campaign
  
  -New units
  
  -Bugs
  
  -The new races: 
  
  The first of the new races I shall discuss are the Dark 
 Eldar. These are basically the evil versions of the regular Eldar, who love nothing more than to 
 torture, kill and burn. To my surprise, this race was extremely well portrayed. Their very design, 
 which is hit and run is well established within their army. The Dark Eldar units are fragile by 
 nature and are not made for full frontal assaults but instead hit and runs. Not to mention their 
 voice work really gives a feel that these guys are really psychotic nut cases. 
  
  They are my favorite out of the two new races introduced, mainly because they seem to be done so 
 well. With the notable exception of the Dais of Destruction but I will get onto that later. 
  
  The Sisters of Battle are the second race introduced. How to sum up.... nuns with guns. The 
 entire army is consisting of virtually all females suited up in power armour. They also seem to 
 have an extreme case of Pyromania. By comparison to the other two imperial factions, the Sisters 
 are by far the most fanatical which is immediately noticeable once you click on their basic trooper 
 unit.
  
  As I mentioned, they are pyromaniacs, and a large number of their weaponry and vehicles are focused 
 around, you guessed it, fire. They are the middle road between SM and IG, but are also very enjoyable 
 to use due to a new introduced faith system which allows them to use special powers during battles.
 
  
  Overall I was very impressed with the handy work of the two new races introduced and am more than 
 satisfied in this particular areal
  
  -The Campaign:
  
  The Campaign is roughly the same as DC, an identical system but instead is set in the Kaurava system 
 which consists of four planets. The territories number roughly the same as before [31] and unfortunately 
 the majority of the maps are skirmishes.
  
  This can be, for many people, extremely tedious and boring. However for the die hard Dawn of War 
 fans it should be no real bother. The stronghold missions however are another package all together. 
 If you thought the DC stronghold missions were difficult, you are in for a serious surprise.
  
  It is not the main highlight of the campaign and is more down to personal preference. Though 
 I was just happy getting an opportunity to use Gorgutz and his Waaagh again, 
  
  Another problem accodring to many players is the abscence of diaologue during t he Stronghold missions. 
 The beloved bantors between the leaders from DC are now non existant. This does take away a lot 
 of the atmosphere within the missions and no doubt many will feel dissapointed. 
  
  
  -New units:
  
  SS introduces a new type of unit called Air units for all races bar one. There 
 has been much controversy the introduction of these units, from poor implementation to just crap. 
 Thankfully they are far from game breaking and add a little bit of more flavour to the originally 
 all ground assault gameplay. Not for everyone and not a necessity but they are reasonable enough. 
 Not game breaking not smashing either unfortunately.
  
  -Bugs:
  
  Ah... the bane of all games. Bugs. Unfortunately SS is not exempt of this, two particularly game 
 breaking ones. You will be happy to know, if it is of any consolation, it will only really effect 
 you online. The first bug is not actually that serious considering that it requires an observer 
 in the game. Suphise to say, an Observer can use the DE powers in-game whilst watching, which can 
 drastically effect the outcome of the battle for either player. 
  
  The SOB one however is quite game breaking. I am not sure of the precise method, but it grants 
 the SOB near unlimited resources. 
  
  Considering I am more of a casual LAN/SP person, this does not matter to me as much, but for those 
 who love your online play, hang tight and hope it is patched soon.
  
  -Balance:
  
  Balance is possibly the best it has ever been with the introduction of SS. There, has of yet, not 
 been a serious balance issue found with the very notable exception of one. The DE have a uber unit 
 called the Dais of Destruction which has this insane ability which I shall call the "LAZOR OF UBER 
 MASS PWNAGE!!!!111" which does as I have said. It can be seen as somewhat of a game breaker, as 
 can not only this baby almost eradicate everything and anything it touches, it can be fired.... TWICE! 
 Best advice is to stun this baby with a Big mek shokka or the SM AT stun. 
  
  Other than the insane "LAZOR OF OMFG I WIN!" everything else seems to be in good shape.
  
  
 -Conclusion: 
  
  SS is the third expansion of the DoW series and delivers yet more races to the already staggering 
 amount. It cannot go without saying the game could require a bit more polish, and the two bugs 
 I mentioned are indeed a serious nuisance when it comes down to multi-player. But for those who 
 are not multi-player nut heads and just want a bit of fun OR you love DoW I would highly recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablopaul20
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  The reason why I gave this game such a high mark is :1) gamespot doesn't allow intermediate marks 
 ,else i would have given it an 8,8. 2) I'm a big fan of the series . 
  
  First of all ,let me explain what this game does good : it builds upon the award winning DOW series. 
 The series is known for its intensive combat along with some of the most beautiful animations in 
 gaming history. This expansion adds a significant amount of new content by adding 2 new races along 
 with 1 new flying unit per former race ( except Necrons who get Essence of the Deceiver) . It also 
 adds a meta campaign that involves conquering a vast number of territories from the other 8 races 
 ,with your chosen faction.
  
  Now building upon a game like DOW is enough for me ,and the 2 new races are great fun ,even though 
 the disbanding of Iron Lore left them with quite a few exploitable bugs. The combat is still visually 
 intensive ,the animations are still great and the old dawn of war engine got a bit of an improvement. 
 Also maps are more varied and have much more cover zones ,while leaving behind the chokepoints 
 seen in earlier maps.
  
  So what is bad you ask? Well to start with the campaign is prolly the biggest disappointment : 
 filled with plot holes , bad voice acting along with the absence of the initial cutscenes and commander 
 taunts , the storyline and the campaign's atmosphere are just ... bad, to say the least. It is nowhere 
 near even the Dark Crusade campaign. Also some races are vastly superior to others in terms of 
 starting bonuses ,effectively unbalancing the game on the meta-map 
  
  The second bad point is the flying units. Vastly overhyped , I luckily didn't care much about em 
 in the first place , thus avoiding the disappointment felt by many other fellow gamers. Flying 
 units are hovering pieces of metal ,some truly useful ( like the Fighta-Bomba or the Tau Marauder) 
 that can accomplish most roles (Anti-vehicle ,anti -infantry, anti-air ) compared to mere one roles 
 like the SoB's dogfighter or the Marauder's long bomb cooldowns. The main issue with air units though 
 is that they can be shot down by well let's see ... everything ,ranging from IG lasguns to dark 
 matter guns. Thus without proper ground support , the air units are mere sitting ducks
  
  To make a long story short, if you liked the other in the series its a green-light ,if you can 
 live with the bad storyline . If you are new to the series 
  Soulstorm would be a great addition to your gaming collection ,but only yet again if you can live 
 with the story , or the lack of it mainly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerosabor
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  Ahh Soulstorm.... when i first heard the name i was, like most DoW fans, excited to get into it. 
 I enjoyed all of the previous DoW games and i found it to be one of the better RTS's these days. 
 However, when i installed soulstorm and played it for a couple of hours, i realized that i was 
 just playing Dark Crusade but with a few addons.
  
  Firstly the campaign is pretty much the same, you get a few territories, go on a killing rampage 
 across the map and conquer territories. Theres nothing new to the campaign and i found myself pretty 
 much just repeating exactly what i did in Dark Crusade, except with Sisters of Battle or Dark Eldar, 
 which i do both like. Although there are new rewards in some of the territories, i thought i might 
 as well just be playing Dark Crusade as it was much faster.
  
  Secondly, although i do like the two new factions, it just wasn't really much of incentive to drag 
 through the campaign. It felt like the two new factions were just shoved amidst the chaotic battle 
 without any reason and it just feels like they were out of place. They also didn't really add anything 
 new to the DoW series as their units, buildings, technology etc felt the same as SP and Eldar.
 
  
  Thirdly, the half-planes that were implemented were exactly useful, or interesting, or graphically 
 well orientated. I just couldn't find any real use to them, except maybe flying them into any enemies 
 base to reveal the map. They don't have that much hp and are vulnerable to almost any unit, which 
 is surprising seeing how they are suppose to fly high in the sky. All in all these units were impractical 
 and basically used to attract people who don't know what they are in for. 
  
  Personally i just felt that Soulstorm didn't offer me anything new that Dark Crusade didn't already 
 have. If everything in soulstorm came out in Dark Crusade instead of them being two expansions, 
 then Dark Crusade might have been one of the best RTS games in recent times (just my opinion since 
 i do like DoW) . I think they made a mistake in splitting them into two expansions as most people 
 got use to Dark Crusade and Soulstorm just didn't offer enough new toys to play with.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: justintime2kill
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40K Soulstorm brings the same addictive gameplay to the genre. That being said, "same" 
 is the keyword. Warhammer Soulstorm doesn't seem to bring anything really new or groundbreaking, 
 it just seems to fall short. The new races are nice but somehow seem recycled from previous races. 
 The new units don't bring any awe inspiring gameplay either.
  
  Dark Crusades introduced a new single player campaign mode as well as new and unique factions. 
 The Tau and Necrons races had a refreshing way of dealing with resources and conquest. A new race 
 like the Genestealers would have probably been a good introduction into the series. If not just 
 for their unique appearance it would have given the Warhammer 40K legacy a refreshing twist. 
 
  
  Once again the game is by no means bad, its just a little lacking, especially with a $40 dollar 
 price tag stuck to it. These races and unit expansions could have easliy been accomplished with 
 a couple of downloads for the fans. I would say that its worth the buy if you want to keep up with 
 the ever expanding Warhammer universe but should have only had a $20 dollar price tag on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost2138
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  I am certain that Warhammer 40K Dawn of War: Soulstorm looked great on paper. Based on a successful, 
 established franchise? Check. Open-ended campaign? Check. Nine distinct playable factions? Check. 
 New units for every existing faction? Check. Runs great on lower-end systems? Check. Unfortunately, 
 the part that seems to have been completely forgotten in the process of compiling the actual game 
 is, as is often the case, implementation. All the right ideas are there, but all of them, perhaps 
 because of the game's somewhat advanced age, fall short of previously established expectations.
 
  
  To be fair, Soulstorm is not a bad offering all around. For those who are not familiar with the 
 previous installments within the series, notably its predecessor Dark Crusade, the game centers 
 around the perpetual armed conflict set in the Warhammer 40,000 universe, pitting various factions 
 of the Imerium of Man (essentially space Romans with a Medieval catholicity combined with a Third-Reich 
 totalitarianism) against all manner of aliens and heretics. Standing against them are the Eldar, 
 a space-age elder race reminiscent of the Elves; forces of Chaos, represented by men corrupted 
 both physically and mentally by madness and disfiguration; the Necron, essentially Space Undead; 
 the T'au, a technologically advanced race of powersuit-wearing hunters; and the Space Orks, whose 
 name basically speaks for itself. Unlike with most traditional RTS games, Soulstorm almost completely 
 foregoes storytelling in favor of a dynamic campaign which plays out in a fashion very similar 
 to Risk, as the players take turns on the strategic map, conquering territories through real-time 
 battles. Conquest of territories provides players with requisition, which is the game's primary 
 resource. In turn, requisition may be used to reinforce conquered provinces. Conquest of other 
 provinces confers bonuses, such as travel between planets and increased resource production.
  
  The problem with the above, however, is that the conquest metagame is not very strategic -- 
 or very thrilling. While Dark Crusade forced players to start from scratch with every faction, 
 receiving bonuses as rewards for hard-fought battles, Soulstorm provides factions with production 
 bonuses as a starting perk, making certain races (like the Sisters of Battle, for instance) substantially 
 more overpowered than others (such as the Imperial Guard) . The strategy behind the metagame is 
 almost completely nonexistent as well, typically boiling down to reinforcing frontline provinces 
 to their fullest while leaving others exposed and hoping, against all hope, that the computer AI 
 will not be clever enough to initiate a deep strike. Most of the strategic portion, then, is relegated 
 to the actual RTS element of the game, which has always been the bread and butter of the Dawn of 
 War franchise.
  
  Here, too, there are substantial shortcomings, but not, as one would expect, of the balancing variety. 
 Quite on the contrary, all the races in Soulstorm are expertly balanced against one another, possessing 
 strengths and weaknesses in equal measure. The primary design flaw in the RTS portion of Soulstorm 
 rests in the complete lack of gameplay innovation. The highly touted air units, supposedly the 
 selling point of this title, are nothing more than hovering tanks with a few nifty special abilities. 
 Sure, the Imperial Guard's Marauder can drop frag, incendiary, and smoke bombs on enemy troops, 
 but without the ability to traverse walls, it is virtually useless (the designers of Soulstorm 
 would have done well to take a clue from titles like Act of War and World in Conflict on the handling 
 of air units) . The new factions, represented by the Sisters of Battle and Dark Eldar, are likewise 
 more gimmicky than crucial in their addition, both relying on a third resource gathered primarily 
 to power special one-shot abilities. The existing factions remain virtually unchanged save for 
 the Necron, whose Lord gains a couple of new abilities to play around with. The maps, though nifty 
 from an aesthetic and visual standpoint, are likewise nothing really new ("Oh, look, a ruined city! 
 Oh, look, a series of islands with walkways between them! Oh, look, a two-sided battlefield with 
 a defense-negating river running smack through the middle to wage war in!")
  
  The multiplayer, Dawn of War's primary draw, has likewise not changed much, the addition of online 
 achievements notwithstanding. Despite the depth and intricate balance between the playable factions, 
 the online multiplayer ultimately ends up being shot down by the combined IQ of the community, 
 which, nine times out of ten, is approximately equivalent to a shoe size. Although a fun diversion 
 initially, the multiplayer modes' novelty wears thin after roughly three or four hours of game 
 time.
  
  So, then, what does this all amount to? Is Soulstorm really a wasted effort? Well, no. Those who 
 are just now discovering the Dawn of War saga would do well to pick up Soulstorm, as it contains 
 the most expansive roster of any previous installment while retaining the strengths (as well as 
 a few of the weaknesses) of the predecessors. To a gamer who has experienced the original, as well 
 as its expansions, however, there is very little to recommend, as most gamers already familiar 
 with the series will, simply put, be bored to tears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrkHammer007
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  The third expansion to the successful Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War had some very big shoes to 
 fill. After all, Dawn of War was a Game of the Year, and its two expansions were pretty popular 
 as well. Iron Lore stepped in to develop Soulstorm, and it promised much: an expanded version of 
 the Dark Crusade turn-based metamap campaign, two new races (the Dark Eldar and the Sisters of 
 Battle) , and the addition of flying units.
  
  Sadly, they weren't up to the task.
  
  The air units aren't anywhere near as well done as other real-time strategy games: instead, they 
 end up being hovering vehicles that suffer the same disadvantages as their ground-based counterparts. 
 The idea that a high-tech aircraft can be shot down by a flamethrower should have been the first 
 sign to Iron Lore that Soulstorm was out of their area of expertise.
  
  The one faction that doesn't have a flying unit (the Necrons) have a choice of summoning the Essence 
 of the Deceiver instead of the Nightbringer. The Deceiver can summon a decoy Monolith that will 
 draw enemy fire; unfortunately, from what I've seen of it, it never disappears, and its "attacks," 
 though not damaging, are still capable of knocking units around, making it nearly impossible to 
 mount a defense against a Necron assault accompanied by a real monolith.
  
  It doesn't stop there.
  
  The campaign map lags on a PC capable of running the first 3 installments 
 on maximum settings. Too much is happening on the screen at once, and the areas on the map are 
 too small to be easily interpreted. It also makes load times for the campaign map absurdly long.
 
  
  Once you start the campaign, the attacks range from difficult (finding all the unit production 
 facilities can be frustrating, given that the AI likes to scatter them all over the map) to nearly 
 impossible (Take and Hold against a fully reinforced province can take as many as 4 tries) .
  
  Uninspired choices for campaign strongholds also abound: the Tau, for example, have a giant 
 cannon of mass destruction based on their moon. Sound familiar?
  
  Voice acting is wooden, and in many cases inappropriate (the Chaos Lord actually starts crying 
 over destroyed objectives as you progress through the stronghold mission... obviously, "hundreds 
 of centuries of combat" doesn't harden like it used to) . 
  
  The final sloppy touch is the honor guard tool-tips for Chaos: where the instructions and cut-scenes 
 refer to them as Alpha Legion, their honor guard are referred to as Word Bearers, a completely 
 different legion entirely (in fact, it was the Legion from Dark Crusade; perhaps they recycled 
 code that they forgot to go back and edit?) .
  
  As much as these flaws mar the final product, however, the game is still incredibly fun. The new 
 races provide new ways in which to fight.
  
  The Dark Eldar, evil and sadistic cousins of the Eldar, have incredibly fast, powerful units that 
 reward a player capable of coordinating multiple hit-and-run strikes. The new "Soul Essence" resource 
 they can gather fuels powers ranging from stealth detection to a lingering area-of-effect attack 
 that can eliminate large numbers of enemy infantry.
  
  The Sisters of Battle, the militant arm of the Inquisition and the third Imperial faction to appear 
 in the DoW series, relies on Acts of Faith powered by Faith (of course) generated by units and 
 gathered by Icons on their Listening Posts. This can turn battles into routs if used properly.
 
  
  If you are a long-time fan of the series, you may end up sorely disappointed with Iron Lore's foray 
 into the real-time strategy genre (they have since folded) and frustrated by Relic's trust in them 
 to carry the torch. However, there is enough entertainment left in this expansion to justify owning 
 it (probably not at its release price, however) and its likely Relic won't let a high profile franchise 
 like DoW end on such a stale note.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuVZ-tOo-SPoogE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The following Willy Wombat review will be of the new expansion for dawn of war, Dawn of War Soulstorm, 
 please read on............... OK Dawn of war, its a fantastic series based on a fantastic model 
 gaming franchise, Warhammer, There is the actual dawn of war game itself and 3 expansions, Winter 
 assault, Dark crusade, and the new Soulstorm which this review will be based on. Right then for 
 starters it has a real graphic upgrade providing a new, really cool opening movie and added detail 
 to what seemed like once plain characters, vehicles, buildings and landscapes. It has an additional 
 2 new races, the Sisters of Battle, and the deadly Dark Eldar. Alo there are and extra 29 multiplayer 
 maps now bringing them to a total of 114 maps, all of the old armies have got new aircraft fighter 
 units except from the Necrons who's commander could only turn into the Nightbringer god, can now 
 also turn into the Deciever god, which pretty much ballances out all of the armies. The campaign 
 has gone from Space marines missions, to a series of missions depending on whether you choose good 
 or evil, to a choice of any army conquering a planet and now to a choice of any army to conquer 
 a solar system, with 4 planets and 2 or 3 moons (I forget how many) . There is also a much larger 
 variety of unit phrases and for the dark eldar a whole new way of gathering resources. There are 
 2 armies with special methods of resource gathering, the Necrons gain resources from capturing 
 strategic points and building obelisks on them, and The Dark Eldar can send their builders and 
 Talso torture machines to gather the trapped souls of dead enemies. Alltogether this game is pretty 
 damn good, BUT as with any good game there is one flaw, the campaign loading speed is awful, it 
 takes no more than 10 seconds for the old version to load, this new expansion now takes from 2 
 to 4 minutes, but its worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymunkey89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  i love my orksys they just seem to get better and better but always just as funny and stupid as 
 well. a great game and a good add on as well. still has that same feel to it and the same old great 
 stuff were used to, and i got for it only 20.00 as well which i think is pretty damn good as its 
 great. i haven't played it much yet but what i have played of it i have seemed to find that its 
 slighty harder in the campaign im playing in as the orks which i personally think that will help 
 in the long term as i thought that sometimes some levels could be way to easy and simple. dont 
 know if its just me as im bit rusty because i have been playing C. O. D 4 or what???. this game makes 
 the series, which was already great even greater. i haven't tried out multiplayer yet but im sure 
 it will be solid as normal. can the series get better and bigger. who knows? but im sure whatever 
 it is it"ll be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellbishop
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  After reading alot of the player reviews I was expecting to be sorely disappointed when finally 
 getting around to purchasing and playing the addon to DAWN OF WAR. Fortunately this turned out 
 to be a case of people complaining too loudly about minor things.
  
  The Sisters Of Battle are really done well and properly fleshed out. The sound effects for them 
 are amazing bringing out the extremism of their religious fanaticism. The male troops such as the 
 Confessors are also given the treatment sounding just as devoted in their faith.
  
  Graphics are top notch and much more better then they were in the Demo version. The Penitent Engine 
 is highly detailed with a very intricate mechanical look. Yes the sound effect as one excellent 
 reviewer has mentioned does sound obscene but then again it fits in perfectly with the holy orgasmic 
 rapture spoken so much about in religious books on how serving God will be as being in a constant 
 state of ecstacy. So I have no qualms with the sound effects for the Penitent Engine.
  
  One sound effect which really caught me off guard in its menacing beauty was the artillery unit 
 called Exorcist which fires from its church organ like tubes creating a very buetiful church organ 
 musical sound. Having many of these firing at slightly different rates side by side is quite inspiring. 
 
  
  Graphics for other units like the Sisters Of Battle, The Confessor, The Missionary, Sister Repentia 
 Squad etc are stunning and capture the look of the Warhammer40k universe perfectly. Especially 
 notible is the Living Saint the giant angelic Godlike being of the Sisters Of Battle which one 
 can summon after having build many other needed structures to lay waste to enemy units. Vehicles 
 are also top notch and its nice to the Rhino taking a prominent place in combat once again.
  
  Music is great with some new tracks adding to the religious mood of the Sisters Of Battle.
 
  
  Combat seems much more balanced and reminds me of the unpatched version of DAWN OF WAR. For the 
 first time in ages I could play on standard difficulty and not have to worry about it becoming 
 a bum rush situation with the Sisters Of Battle being able to hold huge numbers of enemies at bay. 
 Why they changed combat in WINTER ASSAULT and DARK CRUSADE to a bum rush situation after the first 
 patch I dont know. Am just happy to see combat once again feeling balanced without having to resort 
 to playing at the Easy setting.
  
  Complaints about aircraft are a bit exaggerated but I do agree with them being more like hovercrafts 
 land units then actual air units. I was expecting some cool strafing runs and fly by bomb drops 
 but there were none which was a surprise since they had this in a previous old Warhammer40k game 
 called FINAL LIBERATION. Other then this I have no complaints about this expansion and it is well 
 worth the money I paid for it. 
  
  Thanks to all involved for this great expansion :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainkire
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  First I will start with the good things about this game: if you have played the dark crusade expansion 
 pack take all the good things you can say about it and fit them into this spot.
  
  Now the bad things:
  1. I loved the single player campaign style from dark crusade and in soulstorm 
 it was brought back, but they made the world map too big and there are now too many races. This 
 causes the gameplay to become boring and tedious halfway into the campaign.
  2. One of the things I loved about the campaign from dark crusade is that the story was well done, 
 each race having a good reason to be there and fighting the other races, even when it was the space 
 marines vs the imperial guard. The story for soulstorm is poorly written by comparison: a warpstorm 
 appears, why? nobody knows... maybe it has something to do with chaos... but never mind that you 
 have people to kill! The motivation for the eldar, necron, space marine, and chaos armies to fight 
 were copied and pasted from dark crusade while the tau and imperial guard switched their roles. 
 The two new races in soulstorm, the sisters of battle and the dark eldar have the weakest stories 
 of them all: they just showed up. Like I said earlier I loved how dark crusade explained how the 
 space marines and the imperial guard could end up on opposite sides of the battlefield but such 
 an explaination is missing in soulstorm and its absence is felt even more with the addition of 
 the sisters of battle (all three are defenders of humanity [not even different nations/empires of 
 humanity - they all are sworn to defend the same people] )
  3. Another part of dark crusade's campaign that I liked was that members of you army would talk 
 to the enemy (usually the commander of yours talking to the commander of the other) . Through these 
 conversations you could get a feel of the enemy and how your own race views them. These conversations 
 are missing in soulstorm, which is a shame because it would have helped break up the monotony of 
 the campaign.
  4. I hate the two new armies in soulstorm. They both have underpowered units due to their special 
 powers being overpowered in some cases. They are also the last two races anyone would have ever 
 asked to be added to the game, I should know as I have seen polls from before dark crusade that 
 didn't even have the sisters of battle on them with the protoss from starcraft ranking higher than 
 dark eldar. This wouldn't even be a bad thing if it wasn't for the fact that people have been wanting 
 to play as the Tyranids since before the first expansion added the imperial guard.
  5. The new "air" units of the game are a poor addition, they don't really fly they only hover about 
 30-40 yards above the ground. That isn't flying as something that actually flew wouldn't be dipping 
 and rising with the terrain as the "air" units do. They are also weak against anything but infantry 
 and anything that can never have a ranged attack, which is odd since the game already had units 
 that could move (actually they jumped or teleported) over impassible terrain that were effective 
 against infantry. These new "air" units also have a bug that will occasionally stop moving and 
 firing their weapons.
  
  This game gets a 6, also known as a D- for being poorly developed, ignoring the wishes of the fans 
 for the Tyranids, and only half done compared to the previous expansion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catsi
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about the expansion pack, Soulstorm, I was elated. I've been a huge fan of the 
 Dawn of War series, finding the strategy and the game play awesome. In some ways I prefer it to 
 Command & Conquer, where skirmish and Multi game play essentially can devolve into a Tank Rush.
 
  I found the first Dawn of War to be immense fun, the single player was filled with the traditional 
 corniness expected from the world, and the races generally stayed true to their original settings 
 (I used to play the table top) . 
  Winter Assault was fun, allowing for more diverse strategy, and was the first Dawn of War to really 
 show you how devastating tanks can be (rather than just as some backing units) .
  Dark Crusade was a change, having less of a story line and more of a "conquer the world" strategy. 
 The map was just the right size not to become monotonous as you are essentially playing skirmish 
 games for a large portion of the game, and re-enacting the same tactics over and over again.
  
  And now we've reached Soulstorm, the Dawn of Disappointment. First off, it plays similarly 
 to Dark Crusade, in that you have a map (albeit, over 4 planets) and you tramp around taking territory 
 and destroying strongholds until you have killed everyone. This was fine in Dark Crusade, on a 
 nice small map where the fighting was fast and furious, but here, the map is so big, and so stretched 
 out, you're going to be spending most of your time playing skirmish game after skirmish game, using 
 the same tactics over, and over and over again. The powers you'll receive upon taking an enemy 
 stronghold are helpful, but not essential. They're not going to change the tide of battle any time 
 soon. The only really cool ability is the Tau interplanetary cannon that you just WISH you could 
 use and watch the effects of it shatter enemy defences. After your 15th conquest, the game begins 
 to get dull and repetitive, with the territories taking around 30 min to complete, while the strongholds 
 can take anywhere from an hour to an hour and a half. I think the biggest issue I have with this 
 is that after the first 3 or so maps, you've seen all the units. You know what to build, what the 
 research does. The point behind single player is to gradually work your way up to the cool new 
 units, not get them right at the beginning and spoil the surprise. What reason would we have for 
 progressing? We have all the powerful units from the first invasion. Hardly stimulating stuff.
 
  
  As far as the story goes, this is, without a doubt, the worst story I have seen in the Dawn of 
 War series. A warp storm has appeared in the system. Why? We have no idea. Maybe Chaos summoned 
 it. They do happen to be in the centre of it. But we really don't know. Because of this warp storm, 
 the other races have all decided to pop in for a major war. Isn't that enough?
  I'm serious; the story line is so weak, that it really makes you wonder what the point is to playing 
 all the way to the end. There's no real interaction among the races, it's all just "Generic" attacker 
 and defender.
  As far as the voice work goes, well the units are all tried and true, so it's hard to screw that 
 up. Unfortunately, it seems that your army doesn't react as much when you encounter your enemy. 
 Comments such as: "Orcs! Purge the beasts!" seem to be slowly drifting away, generating an even 
 larger gap between the races and any sort of interaction. The narration is some of the worst I've 
 heard in a Dawn of War, it seems as if the narrator can hardly believe the dross he's required 
 to speak.
  
  The sound is still solid in this game, but of course it is, it's all been used before. Units respond 
 less now, which can be a little unsettling, especially if you need to zoom back to the unit to 
 make sure that they're following your orders.
  The music is good, effectively apocalyptic, but again, this is all tried and true so there isn't 
 much to talk about.
  
  So let's talk about the new races and units. First, the Dark Eldar. These guys are creepy, disturbing 
 and fun to play. They're fast and evil and have a strange obsession with whips. They play similar 
 to their Eldar brethren, but can take a bit more punishment. They rely on spells in order to succeed, 
 but I can see them having difficulty with races such as Orcs, where the sheer numbers are likely 
 to overwhelm them. 
  The Sisters of Battle are even more disturbing than the Dark Eldar. If you were ever perturbed 
 by the Space Marines and their zealotry, they are as NOTHING compared to the Sister of Battle. 
 These fanatical sisters are so obsessed with purging and flame, that most of their weapons are 
 flame based. They are similar to the Space Marines, yet not as versatile, relying more on their 
 spells and abilities to get them through conflict.
  It's rather disappointing that the two new races are generic knock offs of already established 
 races, especially with the Genestealers still waiting for their entrance into the world.
  It's interesting to note that both these new races have a penchant for bondage. While the Dark 
 Eldar are simply obvious, with their slaves, Succubi and so forth , the Sisters Penitent Engines 
 seems almost obscene as it will respond to your orders with normal machine whirring and an abnormal 
 feminine moan.
  
  Now for the new units. All the races have been granted an exciting new toy to play with. An airplane! 
 Except it's not that exciting and it's not really an airplane. This might be an issue with the 
 game engine, not really being designed for it, but the airplanes work pretty much like landspeeders. 
 They have this annoying habit of sometimes being unable to fly over units, buildings and trees, 
 meaning that you need to coax them over things gently. It's the little Airplane that Couldn't. 
 They just seem to be thrown in as an afterthought. They can be useful, but if you buy them, you're 
 going to be limited to very few (if any) tanks. They have no jump capability, allowing you to zoom 
 around the battlefield, (think Command & Conquer Firehawks) , they have no real strafing. They like 
 to hover in one position and shoot. No ducking and diving (like planes would) , no swarming the 
 enemy. If Starcraft managed it, all those years ago, with the Protoss Carrier, I don't see how 
 it's difficult here.
  
  And that's about it. An abysmal single player that'll have you playing skirmish after skirmish. 
 A awful story. Interesting, obscene yet knocked off, new races. Sub-par new units that can't really 
 fly all that well and possess a huge vehicle cap. For those looking to add a little more spice 
 in their multiplaying experience, this is probably a fun add on. For those looking for the progression 
 of the Warhammer 40K world, and a fun single player ride, the story alone is enough to make you 
 cry tears of confusion, as you watch your dreams for 40K madness torn apart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedMageNeko
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  One problem I had with Dark Crusade, Soulstorm's big brother, was that the difficulty wasn't particularly 
 high for most of it, particularly in the campaign. In Dark Crusade, once you take control of a 
 point and build Listening Post's on them, they remain yours even when they enemy attacks later 
 in the game to retake that territory. Upgrade them and they give you a HUGE advantage in defensive 
 matches, allowing you to hold them off as the huge influx of requisition allows you to crank out 
 your forces and steamroll they enemy. Even Stronghold missions for the most part lacked any real 
 difficulty for me.
  
  Soulstorm changed that immensly. They AI is now far more agressive and will launch assaults against 
 your base from almost the moment the match begins, each attack growing as they upgrade their own 
 base and start bringing in advanced units and armor. The removal of controling all points you held 
 during a previous game has also made defense more difficult.
  
  Stronghold missions, the massive set piece battles of Dawn of War, have become even larger and 
 grown in difficulty tremendously. Your enemy starts out with a sprawling array of forces and only 
 builds more as the game plays out, including superweapons. For example, during the battle with 
 orc forces, I found myself facing off with four seperate squioth over the course of that mission. 
 The same with the Tau and Krootox, though I also found myself facing multiple Hammerheads as well. 
 The battles also serve to highlight each races strengths, such as Eldar utilizing stealthed Webway 
 gates all over the map to strike at your forces from many directions at once. Fighting these stronghold 
 battles makes you take even traditionally weak armies like Orcs and Imperial Guard seriously.
 
  
  The addition of aircraft to the game was both applauded and dreaded by fans when it was announced, 
 worried that it could very well break the game. After having played with them, I can tell you that 
 is not true. Each race has a unique aircraft added to its aresenal, most falling into specalist 
 roles like the Chaos Hell Talon, best used as a bomber and tank hunter, Sisters of Battle Lighting, 
 an anti-infantry and fighter craft, and Orc Fighta-Bomba, a sort of airborne artillery piece. However, 
 some races have craft that are sort of all purpose units, like the Space Marines. But despite an 
 ability to travel over even impassiable terrain, they aren't much different then any other armor 
 unit in the game and are in some cases slower then other armored craft.
  
  The two races each fall into a nitch in the game, causing them to be true monsters in that field 
 but little else. Sisters of Battle focus heavily on anti-infantry and morale damage. Even their 
 artillery unit, the Exorcist, focuses less on dealing heavy damage and instead with a massive spread 
 of light damage missiles to break enemy morale and devestate a squad. Their main weakness is a 
 lack of anti-armor damage save for one unit and an upgrade to a light assault vehicle.
  
  Dark Eldar, the second new race, has a racial ability to start construction on a structure, then 
 move on to another as that one builds itself, allowing them to expand rapidly. Combined with their 
 high speed attack units, they can strike out at the enemy rapidly, making them a powerful hit and 
 run race. Their weakness is that their forces are rather fragile, meaning a concentrated counter-strike 
 can break through them rather easily.
  
  There are in my opinion only two real flaws with the game. Flaw 1: The campaign seems to lack much 
 of the story of its predecessor. In particular, the reasons for the three Imperial Races (Imperial 
 Guard, Space Marines, and Sisters of Battle) to be fighting eachother isn't particularly well explained. 
 Flaw 2: The graphics are starting to show their age when compared with newer games. However, this 
 "flaw" also means that even older systems can play this game smooth as silk, which my own system 
 is.
  
  One thing I think I should note to my fellow Dawn of War players, and I am not certain if this 
 was intended or not, but it seems you do NOT need a CD key from they older games like Dawn of War, 
 Winter Assault, or Dark Crusade to play any of the races in skirmish or multiplayer like you did 
 in Dark Crusade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboybebop990
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  I am a veteran RTS gamer I have played so many of them. I never got into pen and paper games which 
 this games universe comes from so there is nostalgic effect like that.
  
  This game was amazing when it first came out. Absolutely fantastic I loved it played it non-stop. 
 The first expansion came out and I played that obsesivly with my friends then Dark Crusade came 
 out and I loved playing as the necrons because it was so much fun to charge across the map with 
 robots from hell.
  
  Then soulstorm came out and I got it mostly out of dedication. The game is fun same formula but 
 there are to many other RTS games out there that are so much better first one that comes to mind 
 is company of heroes.
  
  The new units are interesting but dont add to much if you ask me. They did a great job on making 
 all of the races different although in the end they are just the same formula. Build a barraks 
 build upgrade buildings build a motor pool build more research building build special unit barrack 
 build more reasearch make god unit kill everything in path. The only race that really went out 
 of the box was the necrons especially with making their own main base their superweapon although 
 in the end it boils down to the same.
  
  I understand this is an expansion pack but for how long this game has been out and how many different 
 expansions I would love to see a new game. Not just the same stuff regergitated with different 
 names and new looking buildings.
  
  In the end this game is the same as the last few add two new races a few new vehicles. Which in 
 my opinion dont add anything at all just some glisten for people to drool over before the game 
 releases.
  
  Graphics are an entire gripe completely. They look muddy uninteresting and the same thing I looked 
 at when it first came out. Back then it looked great but now it looks uninteresting and boring. 
 Also cmon lets get a good cutscene when your about to assault a stronghold not just a cruddy machinima 
 that if I tried me and my friends could make.
  
  This next gripe is mostly just because I have been playing this universe to long but the over use 
 of sadoism is sort of annoying after a while especially with the new race where they took it just 
 a step to far with the dark eldar and their slave pits. I do not remember the name but one of the 
 upgrades surrounds it with these really crappy looking bodies that look like the peasants from 
 warcraft 3. The chaos did the sadoism good the dark eldar take it to a level that is just dumb.
 
  
  Overall this game is good its the same formula if you like the old games this game is great but 
 if you want something good with good graphics and a good story and just something better go for 
 some of the RTS out there like COH or World in conflict.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esplinmanor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Soulstorm adds the Sisters and the Dark Eldar, as well as a vastly expanded single player campaign. 
 The new races, especially the sisters, might seem like rip offs of the old races, but they are 
 not. The sisters and dark eldar are incredibly unique in their gameplay styles and specialized 
 units. The sisters have their focus on "the cleansing fire of the emperor" which makes their focus 
 against infantry. Their faith meter literally allows miracles which provide another degree of depth 
 to the sisters. The Dark Eldar have incredibly specialized units. even their base units have devastating 
 effects that can destroy the morale of an enemy force and shred them in a matter of seconds. The 
 sisters and the dark eldar are truly worthy additions to the game. The new single player has been 
 expanded to include an entire solar system. this adds new considerations such as controlling the 
 interplanetary connections, and choosing which race you want to focus on. the expanded single player 
 also greatly increases the longevity and originality of each campaign. Also, and this isn't as 
 technically important, the orks are as funny as ever. Warhammer 40k: Soulstorm is a worthy addition 
 to a franchise that continues to expand from its base and remain fresh as the years go bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InuHanyou1701
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for another Dark Crusade this game comes pretty close. I'll get the negative 
 out of the way first so we can end in positive. The new races are decent but they aren't the Necrons. 
 I think one of the huge attractions for me in Dark Crusade, aside from the new campaign style that 
 is, was the Necrons. They were powerful, and awe inspiring. The Sisters of Battle are awe inspiring. 
 Visually they are absolutely amazing! The negative about them? They tend to be a little on the 
 weak side. And they stole the construction animations from the Imperial Guard. While I can understand 
 this as they are part of the same army as the Imperial Guard (Under the Emperor's command I mean. 
 Not that you use them alongside the Imps) it seems kind of like a very quick, corners cut, way 
 to do things for them. And if you're like I am, one of the allures of an RTS game is the build 
 animations. (Or maybe I'm the only person who's like this which I guess would make me crazy. =P) 
 The Dark Eldar are... well... I'd have to say that my strongest dislike for them is that they do 
 not have buildable turrets and considering the foes they face right off the bat in the game, (The 
 Chaos Space Marines) this is a very VERY poor defensible (I can't spell that...) race. The other 
 thing I didn't like about the Dark Eldar would be their build animations. They just seemed kind 
 of rushed and it seemed like they could have done more with them. But I digress. And of course, 
 what can be said. They're Eldar after all. They will be slightly weak. Now then. That's out of 
 the way. The campaign map is... different. I suppose you could say I'm slightly disappointed. I 
 got spoiled with Dark Crusade. In Dark Crusade you could see the leader of the main army (Example: 
 Gorgutz for the Orkz) represented by his character on the campaign map. As the campaign map is 
 on a bigger scale, they've done away with that and replaced the army's representation with a colored 
 dot. I think this was... sloppy and again made it seem like they cut corners in places. The easy 
 way to solve that would have been to have the dots represented when you are zoomed out and can 
 see all of the planets and then, once zoomed in when attacking (Or having a way to zoom in while 
 looking at the map) you should be able to see the character. Again. Maybe I'm just being too picky. 
 Now. I think the biggest disappointment in the game was this. In Dark Crusade, whenever you chose 
 your race that you were going to be in the campaign, it went into a little cinematic, explaining 
 how the race got to Kronus and what they hoped to accomplish on the planet. They did away with 
 those cinematics in Soulstorm which was, to me, like "Come on guys!". Anyway. And something new 
 that I've found out. If you are not a fan of take and hold objectives (Example. Take and hold half 
 of the critical locations on the map) then you probably won't enjoy this aspect of this game. To 
 get from planet to planet you must capture providences with Ancient Gateways in them. These are 
 marked on the map with the little Eldar Webway gate symbol by the providence and they are usually 
 well defended. All of the maps elsewhere have annihilation objectives. The gateway providences 
 to not. You must take and hold half of the critical points on the map for 6 minutes. If you are 
 not a fan of this mode of game play (I am not a fan BELIEVE ME) then will hate this. Not only do 
 you have to take that providence, but you also have to take the other one connecting to the other 
 planet. Anyway That's the negative stuff.
  
  The positive stuff! It's Dawn of War! What can I say? The game play is as addicting as Dark Crusade 
 was and it will keep you coming back for more and more. The Sisters of Battle look fantastic. Other 
 than the negatives I listed up above they are very fun to play with. Their turrets and tanks are 
 incredibly different. While they look just like the Space Marines' they function a little differently 
 in that, they use flames as opposed to bullets. This was odd to me at first as, up until now, I 
 associated flame damage with morale damage. But it turns out to be very fun and the flames look 
 pretty darn good. I wish, as I did on Dark Crusade, that they had left that annoying turret limit 
 out of the game. It's back! The Sisters of Battle have a special resource of their own called Faith. 
 It's gathering is a little complicated so listen up. Only the faithful can cause this resource 
 to build up. The faithful would be your hero unit and any other units with the designation in their 
 description. There are 5 small bars that make up the indicator and each section (Each bar) is originally 
 locked off. To unlock them you have to build listening posts and research an upgrade on each of 
 your listening posts. Faith is used to activate the abilities of your hero unit. I've yet to really 
 use them that much. Haven't really found the army that lets me mow over the opposition yet for 
 the Sisters of Battle. In addition to this, you can research an upgrade that places "horns" (Like 
 the musical instrument) on every one of your buildings. Once you activate the horns it does morale 
 damage to enemies in the area and strengthens your army in the area. 
  
  The Dark Eldar. If you are a fan of StarCraft you'll remember the Protoss' little perk of a builder 
 being able to build something and then walk away and start on something else. The Dark Eldar can 
 do this which is INCREDIBLY useful in constructing your base quickly and leaves out the need to 
 make multiple builders. The most powerful units of this race are it's vehicles and boy are they 
 interesting. Aside from their gothic style of architecture, I just get a kick out of hearing the 
 engines pop every time they move from a stationary position (I know. I'm weird. I'm geeky. So sue 
 me) . It gives you kind of the feeling of leading a gang of motorcycle dudes into battle which is 
 a hilarious thing to picture really... The air unit for this race is very very weak. I wouldn't 
 recommend using it at all for anything other than recon. The Dark Eldar also have their own unique 
 resource. Basically what you are doing is harvesting souls and this can be done one of 2 ways. 
 The resource is always harvested using a Tortured Slave (Builder) so be sure you create an extra 
 one for this purpose. The easiest way to collect this resource is to build a Slave Chamber and 
 then upgrade it with the Torture Pit (I think) upgrade which causes it to spawn lost souls for 
 you to harvest. That's the easiest way to get this resource. The other way to harvest it is to, 
 surprise, harvest it from the corpses of the slain. This resource powers your special abilities 
 for the Dark Eldar which are accessed VIA a bar on top of your info window. You can use these abilities 
 at any time whenever you have enough souls harvested. And they range from a lightning strike against 
 a single enemy to an acid cloud that damages enemies over time, to the Soulstorm (Woot for originality!) 
 which is a lethal storm that you can move once deployed that hurts both you and your enemy so be 
 careful with that one. I haven't played very much as the Dark Eldar because, as I stated above, 
 their lack of defense turrets, coupled with the Chaos Marines is highly annoying. 
  
  Speaking of air units. Don't listen to the people whining about them. I find them dead useful and 
 they look fantastic. They're great for quick recon and looking for your enemy's base. Granted they 
 are kind of useless in battle (For some races) but they are an interesting addition to Dawn of 
 War. Though I find an army of 2 Hammerhead gunships and 3 Barracudas for the Tau makes a very lethal 
 force and have had TONS of success with that combination.
  
  The idea for increasing the scale from one planet to an entire solar system was very very interesting. 
 It was slightly reminiscent of Star Wars Empire At War except much less lame. (Not that I don't 
 like EAW. I love it. It's just Lucasarts could have done better) . It expands the game exponentially 
 and makes things much more challenging. A few things that the devs added are a few new racial abilities, 
 such as the big cannon who's name is not coming to me right now for the Tau Empire. Basically what 
 this does is fires whenever you choose to attack an enemy providence and causes damage to the garrisoned 
 forces there making it easier for you to get a foothold and conquer them. In addition to this, 
 you can use them right off the bat. You don't have to conquer the providence for your race to gain 
 them. (I mean. The one assigned to your race. Not everyone's. I don't think you could do that in 
 Dark Crusade but I could be wrong about that. I was never really clear about it) . And now of course 
 you have 2 new races to play with so that gives the game the possibility to be played for literally 
 days on end if you have no life like me. =P I kid I kid. But it does provide a great deal of longevity 
 for the game which is always a plus. Think Final Fantasy length in an RTS game.
  
  The graphical detail in the game is fantastic. Granted it's not going to be Crysis level. I don't 
 think any PC game will be. I don't have my graphics turned up all the way because it will slow 
 down the game (And a choppy game is the most annoying thing in the world!!!) and they still look 
 fantastic. The sound is. Well sound. It's pretty darn good. They did a nice job but then again 
 they had a lot to work with to start from as well. 
  
  All in all. Soulstorm is a fantastic addition to the Dawn of War franchise so I highly recommend 
 this game if you are a fan of this series or series such as StarCraft or WarCraft or Command and 
 Conquer. You will love this game! I know I do! It is a wonderful follow up to Dark Crusade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  I have thoroughly enjoyed Dawn of War, plus all three expansions. With the addition of the Sisters 
 of Battle and the Dark Eldar, the game now has 9 fairly unique and fun races. This expansion is 
 at least as good as the other two, though it is not without flaws.
  
  Gameplay: Same great, over-the-top, explosive action. Just more races to cause havoc. The campaign 
 is based on the meta-map concept from Dark Crusade, where you move about a turn-based strategic 
 map and engage in real-time battles. The new maps look great, but it does get tiring having to 
 fight the same skirmish on the same maps during the campaign. Each race has a stronghold mission, 
 which are challenging and well done. There is really not a lot of reasons to play through the campaign 
 more than once or twice, but it is a nice diversion. 
  
  Skirmishes against the AI are generally great fun. My only quibble is that the AI is merely decent; 
 Relic really does need to get more serious about AI programming for Dawn of War 2. While it can 
 sometimes put up a good fight, at other times computer opponents will do some outright goofy things, 
 like not tech or build necessary buildings. Thankfully, there is a good player-made mod forthcoming 
 that should greatly improve the AI. Still, Relic, which has built its reputation upon real-time 
 strategy games, should take more care with its AI. Anyhow, I only rarely play multiplayer and haven't 
 played it with Soulstorm yet. However, there are supposed to be some improvements, like better 
 connectivity, metals, etc.
  
  Graphics: The game still looks great to me. The Dark Eldar and the Sisters are well done. The game 
 adds air units to the mix which also look good. I personally like them, though they don't have 
 a large impact on the core ground-based gameplay.
  
  Sound: As much personality as ever. The Dark Eldar are especially wicked in their voice acting. 
 All other sounds -- explosions, weapon fire, etc. -- is convincingly done.
  
  Technical issues/documentation: Beyond minor AI bugs, I have not experienced any technical issues 
 with the game in single-player modes. The game comes with a manual that adequately describes the 
 new races. 
  
  Replayability/Value: Since this game will continue to get some high-quality, player-made mods and 
 maps, I will probably be playing it for years to come. The Dawn of War series is my favorite RTS 
 game, and Soulstorm just reaffirms that. Since it is a stand-alone expansion, I highly recommend 
 it to anyone who likes strategy games or the Dawn of War series.
  
  Pros: 
  +2 new and well-done races
  +Slightly improved campaign
  +Many more maps
  +Still looks, sounds, 
 and plays well
  +Has a talented modding community
  
  Cons:
  -Not the best skirmish AI, even after all of these expansions
  -Only slightly improved campaign
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cln_kickass
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Impressive game that gives lots of choice, graphics are excellent to say the amount of units on 
 the field, flying units are fun and offer new choices to fighting wars, great on-line play with 
 lots of game rooms, even more gore and violence on the previous addition (still loving a blood 
 thirstier being killed by an avatar) the bombers are good but how does the land speeder tempest 
 lightning fighter and a few other air unit stay afloat (nothing to hover with?) , only problem for 
 me is the 2 minute loading time to the campaign and 1 minute after a battle but its liveable with 
 and that on hard imperial guard find it hard to defeat the equal and stronger numbers of the sisters 
 of battle. Another set of good points is that the bonus goodies on the campaign are in the strongholds 
 not random areas so to take the bonuses you have to really fight it out. If Warhammer isn't your 
 type of thing then i would say try the demo if you like it it's well worth buying if not don't 
 bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foggy666
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Soulstorm, like Dark Crusade before it, is a great game.
  I love the Warhammer 40K universe, and Soulstorm, like its predecessors, captures the slogan "In 
 the grim darkness of the far future, there is only war" very well. 
  Every map looks like it seen war for a millennia, every race fights to the death.
  Nine races, 
 each unique and interesting (the space marines are my favorites) , fight over territories, each 
 battle is a simple skirmish, with the exception of stronghold battles. Each race has it's home 
 territory called a stronghold, and when you attack it, you get unique scenario with some objectives.
 
  Of course the game has some flaws. The engine starts to show it's age, and the textures and meshes 
 are not very detailed.
  But in my eyes the biggest, and maybe the only flaw that actually made the game less good, is that 
 there is no real story that unfold with each mission. I loved the original Dawn of War, and one 
 of the reasons was the great story. If only Soulstorm had more scenarios and less skirmishes the 
 game would get a 10 from me. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seraphym_k
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  First of all the game still has that same gritty Warhammer style to it, that we all love. It's 
 much still the same DOW, but... it's been 4 YEARS since DOW and what were these guys doing? As 
 much DOW impressed me, as much I enjoyed Winter Assault and as much I loved Dark Crusade... Disappointment 
 is the word for Soulstorm. Yes, two new races add some variety, but there are too many "issues" 
 to spoil impression of this good game.
  Air units? Hello! Have developers ever played a decent strategy with air units? I doubt that, because 
 in Soulstorm air units behave almost the same as your average infantry or vehicle: can't fly over 
 a building, get slowed down flying over a crater and whatever - I never built it after a few missions.
 
  Sisters got faith? Somehow Marines did all the cool stuff without it as a resource! Now how could 
 they fail the idea so much? And that's when they did it almost right for Dark Eldar...
  Now the rest of my frustration comes from campaign and citadel missions. Like when getting rid 
 of Space Marines citadel: "We only have to slow them down!"... and what? The Emperor himself will 
 come down from his throne to save them? It's still same Dark Crusade style - just get the grip 
 and fight off first wave and you've won. Then slowly clear the map of any enemy bases and units. 
 It was still ok in Dark Crusade as races at least had some interesting perks there, but in Soulstorm 
 it's just plain tedious.
  Now campaign is not campaign at all, just a bunch of skirmish battles. And after getting a few 
 honour guards, on normal level, you can rush down most missions with ONLY honour guards, not building 
 any units at all, and finish the fight in 5-10min.
  Yet, even with all the glitches game is ok, I just really HOPE with next game relic will address 
 all the problems of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yfang097
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  As I've played through the campaign mode of the game, the only thing I found myself enjoying was 
 the battles, and not for the graphic, just the battle itself. Nothing else in the game has the 
 depth or the enjoyments even DC had, which I thought DC was not a very successful expansion. Two 
 new races got me excited before the game came out. I saw all those pictures, and designs, I thought 
 they would be awesome, but no, they are horribly failed that expectation. 
  Sisters of battle looked like Space Marines had sex change, their poorly designed unit models (at 
 least most of them) , and lame dialogs, I've got more fun out of the mod that were going around 
 on the Internet, and the mod had way better graphic design than the original, not to mention the 
 weapon designs. Yeah, burn everything, fun at first, wait till you see a armor unit coming at you. 
 Dark Eldar, let's say they are somewhat successful. I liked the model designs on this one, but 
 the rigid animations totally destroyed that, have you ever noticed the finishing moves of most 
 of their units? Lame lame lame. Their units would slid their own wrists when capturing a strategic 
 point, that's pretty cool, even though you never see the blood coming out, so they faked it? What's 
 the point in that? Their special abilities were cool, but there are only one or two that are actually 
 useful. 
  One other big thing about Soulstorm was the Air unit. Yeah, it's nice if they were actually useful. 
 The only thing I could find myself using air unit for is when I'm too lazy to use my ground unit 
 to find remaining enemy forces. Oh sure you can use they to abuse the enemy infantry easily enough, 
 if they don't fight back, I mean, everything in this game is anti-air, EVERYTHING, even the flamethrowers, 
 I don't know how does that make sense. 
  When I played DC, I was impressed with the dialogs every commander units had before the final battle 
 at each race's stronghold, very original, very strong. But Relic managed to take that away as well, 
 Soulstorm has a simple dialog yes, a very plain and idiotic dialog, which my favorite Space Marine 
 sounded like fool, the commanders had nothing intelligent to say , the dialogs have apparently 
 been rushed through without any sort of tweaking. Soulstorm has a very poor storytelling tactic, 
 it doesn't even have a complete storyline. We know the warp storm brought Chaos into the story, 
 we know the Imperial Guards were suppose to defend their own territories, but what about the other 
 races? Joining the party? Did somebody send out invitations for the hell of it? And how do we enjoy 
 the campaign without a storyline, just why are we fighting all those races? 
  I know that there's nothing I've said that people don't already know, this is the only game in 
 the series that I have heard the most negative things about, and just to me, a complete failure. 
 If you bought it, I feel sorry for you, and if you are a first timer for the series, this is a 
 bad expansion to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuke
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok, Im not very Objective gamer, but the big problem i had was how lazy they put the game together. 
 The building noises were a mix of the other races. The sisters of battle are just too damn powerful. 
 The sisters repentia has over 20,000 health, thats just over powered. The rest of the sisters are 
 just as over powerd, love to play as them, i win every time. In the campaign there were supposed 
 to be different commanders, but they are nearly the exact same. This game needs a Big Patch. The 
 campaign is great though, like the idea, but it still needs some tweaking. I like the fact they 
 put in air units but there is only one. I wish they had at least two types of air units and base 
 defenses. The game manufacture is going out of business and i can see why. Its not worth the 40$. 
 Love the 40K collection, soul storm not so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Xantos
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  why the they start making a sequel when they haven't even finished all the races yet... and the 
 races the do have don't even have all their units yet... go check out warhammer 40K and all the 
 there actually is... then you will know that this game is just getting started... and with each 
 "expansion" (they are stand alone games ) plenty of upgrades are brought to the table... balance 
 issues new units... the addition of flying units reall does change the game... though most people 
 haven't noticed it yet... 
  
  and i don't understand how anybody can say that even the new races feel recycled the two new races 
 are very different than anything else... i was afraid that my Dark Eldar (tabletop) would end up 
 too much like the eldar but with enough play they are really different...
  
  a sequel isn't needed yet... there is still a lot to do... such as tyranids, chapters, craftworlds, 
 and many other breakdowns that could be done to make the game that much more exciting... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenj30
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Dark Crusade took the Dawn of War series to a whole new level with the entire planet take over 
 campaign. This has been expanded in SoulStorm with the introduction of a 4 planet + 2 moon galaxy 
 where you test your DoW skills with 9 total races (2 of which are new in SS) . With the introduction 
 of air units there are new ways and strategies to play as your favorite race. While SS is still 
 a highly playable game with much to offer and it does take the DoW game series to the next level 
 of game play, there is some room for improvement.
  
  First the plus side: - SS has all the playability of Dark Crusade. I love the Risk-like take over 
 the world (s) aspect for the single player campaign. - The races provide multiple strategies to 
 really allow an RTS player to develop their favorite style. There is no one right way to play. 
 For nearly all styles there is also a counter style to keep you hopping.
  - The introduction of the Sisters of Battle fit well into the pyromaniac RTS players. Specializing 
 in fire-weapons they build toward a crusade and can burn their way through enemies on their quest 
 for cleansing the universe. Adding a new Faith resource adds an interesting dimension to this race.
 
  - The dark Eldar are like an antithesis of Sisters of Battle, totally corrupt and harvesting souls 
 they provide something for the player that wants to explore the dark side of the force.
  - I think the aircraft is a cool add. It's a new dimension and while they don't dominate the game 
 play like they can in some other RTSs I think they add a cool tactical twist. For example, an air 
 unit can help soften a tank rush.
  
  Now for the Cons:
  - On the con side, the 4 planets only have about 6 territories each. I guess I was expecting more 
 given the number that are on the 1 planet from Dark Crusade. Its almost like they took all the 
 territories from 1 big planet in DC and spread them over 4 smaller planets in SS. - The territory 
 maps and each unit's stronghold map are not as intricate and involved as those from DC. While there 
 are quests on stronghold maps, I think the ones in DC where more engaging. - It is frustrating 
 that your buildings are not persistent if you win a territory. You have to reinforce a territory 
 once you take it over or all you have is your command center. I guess this is a balance thing since 
 I have not seen any races build a mass of honor guard units like you could see in DC (even if they 
 did not have all the territories) . Given this, when you have to defend one of your territories 
 you are at even odds with your opponent. They don't have an unnatural amount of honor guard and 
 you don't have all your high-level buildings and ready-made requisition to lean on. You still have 
 to build up while they build up and then attack so you miss out on the epic battle of your elite 
 squads against theirs, which can be really fun. - The enemies commanders don't seem to be as aggressive 
 in SS as they were in DC. While I see skirmishes between then there are seldom any wins so most 
 races just sit with 1 or two territories. Since they don't build up much, they are pretty easy 
 to take over. In DC, there was enough challenge that when you hit a territory with an 10 or 12 
 strength you knew you were in for a pretty intense fight. I have yet to experience that in SS. 
 Hopefully, SS has not gone the way of other RTSs like Command & Conquer 3 where territory conquest 
 becomes a long campaign of battle and winning through attrition.
  - There are some buggy graphics like blood spatter that hangs in the air as if stuck to an invisible 
 wall and sometimes your air units fly vertical over terrain but these are small things I would 
 expect to be corrected in the first patch.
  
  Overall I would classify SoulStorm as a credit to the Dawn of War series. It makes the normal incremental 
 improvements you would expect for an expansion. Its not perfect, but hopefully with some tweaking 
 in the next patch (hint hint) it will be cleaned up and make its mark on the universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  I usually prefer Skirmish battles to story mode/campaign battles when playing RTS games. The story 
 mode is usually way too easy to beat, and often tries to be too original, wandering astray from 
 the true core of RTS gaming. For example in Age of Mythology one level changed all your men into 
 sheep and you had to try avoid getting eaten by farmers. That's fresh and charming in a way, but 
 its not why I love RTS games. I want to build my own stuff, and then blow my opponents stuff up.
 
  
  Soulstorm is definitively all about this. It's basically a collection of Skirmish maps, with a 
 vague story to connect it all together. The game also offers a sense of progress as you battle 
 your way through four separate worlds, for the purpose of dominating the entire solar system.
 
  
  You can choose freely which countries you want to conquer, and in which order. Figuring out the 
 order is a turn based mini game in itself, and as you progress you can give each country a permanent 
 defense bonus. This is useful as enemies will try to take back countries you have conquered , and 
 if the defense bonus is higher than the attack bonus of the enemy you can let the battle be resolved 
 automatically and win without having to replay the scenario. If the defense bonus is too low you 
 need to defend the area by replaying it. Which is in fact a bit slow and tedious, so managing the 
 defenses well is a good way to make sure you progress fast.
  
  Every time you conquer a country, you get some bonuses, like additional shields or weaponry for 
 your heroes, or other permanent bonuses. They can help you win in the later stages. So, conquering 
 the countries in the right sequence is important.
  
  Each race has their own strongholds, and this is the only places where you can find something a 
 bit different. Unlike the rest of the maps, they seem better planned, and has some kind of story 
 elements to them as well as many secondary objectives.
  
  You are not going to play this for the story though, you see a short in-game cut scene prior to 
 attacking a stronghold, and after you complete the job. Except for the Orc stronghold which shows 
 some sense of humor, these are kind of dull. You never feel close to any of the characters, they 
 seems artificial and soul-less.
  
  I found the difficulty level to be quite low. Its mostly about patience, not really a challenge. 
 You can allow the computer to cheat though, to give it better than normal stats, but I did not 
 do that even though I found the regular lever was too easy. Its not fun to play against someone 
 that cheats, even if it is the computer. Its like playing a chess game with some of your pieces 
 missing. This is where the game fails a bit in comparison to regular skirmish battles. In Skirmish 
 battles you can usually tune the difficulty level much better to suit you, by adding more enemies...
 
  
  All in all, a good way to waste time, but nothing revolutionary here. There are some new races 
 and units to try out, but honestly, I do not really care much about having a million different 
 races. Yet, this seems to be the most important update to this game. The rest is pretty much the 
 same.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireWarriorr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  well only a few days have pass of the game official release and the people is starting to tell 
 that there are some things that can be changed to make the game a lot better.
  
  here are a few things:
  
  -air units have a lot of graphical failures for example the Tau
 Barracudain some terrains starts to fly vertically, or sometimes it shoots missiles without
 
  turning to look it's target
  
  -the game is not well balanced (some races are more powerful than others and some tactics don't 
 have a counter tactic)
  
  -don't you think the planets are too small ??? no really, Kronus in Dark Crusade was composed by 
 30 provinces at least, and here planets have 6-7 provinces
  
  -when a unit dies sometimes the blood lies suspended in the air like a wall or something
  
 
  -Dark eldar buildings have Horrible ground graphics when you see them closely
  
  -the water have some graphical problems in a few maps
  
  -the buildings you construct during 
 a mission disappear when its finished
  
  -the campaign map is too small, sometimes is difficult to see what is going on, it will be better 
 if it was bigger whit a mobile camera
  
  -some units lack of creativity (its the same unit of other races but whit some little details changed)
 
  
  -some strongholds are too easy too defeat even in the hard difficulty level
  
  
  
  
  well there are a few more things but im bored of writing this review XD
  
  
  
  
  
 PD: this game don't make total justice to the Tau they must be better than this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bouffok
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  great game adds alot to the original but the game is starting to feel old even the gameplay after 
 i have seen what relic could do with the essence engine in CoH i have been dreaming of seeing a 
 DoW II but they keep on coming out with expansions and expansions and they take too long to come 
 out with them too so when are we going to see something real ? they are just trying to make more 
 money off an old game just like the sims did of course having 9 totaly different races is good 
 but the maps are too small and feel clamped up with so many units on at the same time and the bigger 
 units can't move around that well ... bigger maps are needed updated graphics are needed some gameplay 
 updates would be needed too thegameplay is great but starting to feel a litle old too in the tabletop 
 line of sight and cover is a great deal it definetly isn't in this game and i hope that will improve 
 in the future too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Happy_Kegger
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I think that people have been attacking Soulstorm with problems that are either not true or aren't 
 problems.
  
  First of all the "horrible" air units are not bad, its just they are specilized and people clearly 
 don't get that. The demo was a bad example of using air units since the Dark ELdar air unit needs 
 to either take out enemy bombers or disable turrets before a massed land attack. They fail on their 
 own. That said, the land speed tempest is awesome at utilizing cheesy Space Marine tactics that 
 are hated by many. Basically, send several tempests around the enemy defenses, over impassible 
 terrain and on top of their HQ. Deep strike your army and destroy. Interestlingly, many units can't 
 fight air units effectivly, (Bloodthirster, dreads, defilers, talos, banshees, assult marines...) . 
 So your opponent will have to either build many turrents next to their HQ or keep ranged squads 
 at the back of their base the whole game. This lets you focus your pop cap on either dreads, predators 
 and a land raider and smash trough the enemy defenses or sneak around with tempests and drop pod. 
 Plus tempests can kill buildings very quickly, so you don't have to worry about reducing the power 
 of your attack. This is only one tactic that the new air units allow. I know that Chaos and I. G. 
 can procede with similar tactics as I have tried them. (The other races likely can too) Half of 
 the new air units are meant as a barriar to the new tactics of the other races though ex. Dark 
 Eldar and Necrons (attack scarbs fly now WOOOT) . So, the air units DO introduce new tactics to DoW, 
 Geography is no longer as much of a obstucle.
  Next thing on air units is all the bugs that people are claiming. I don't know what those people 
 did, but my air units fly over impassible terrain easily, they don't need bridges to cross rivers 
 and don't get stuck on mountains, even on the old maps. That is one of the great things about them, 
 and I don't think people should claim that there is a problem when there isn't one.
  I have seen quite a few mentions on the non-linear maps of DoW. Personally I love them and I think 
 that they fit DoW perfectly. DoW's concept was tactics and strategy. If you want great stories 
 then read Warhammer 40k novels that are plentiful. DoW is about tacitics and linear stories are 
 NOT tactical. I think that is why the map is non-linear, and Soulstorm's map introduces awesome 
 new ideas like Tau inter-planetary cannons and removed ablities like Fury and the Spaceport that 
 were just too cheesy. One issue that has come up is that the game does not remember your buildings 
 while on the defense. Personally I like it, becasue it supports the use of planetary req to build 
 bases instead of leaving an enemy alive just to build turrents around his base so that if anyone 
 attacks you they lose automatically (wahoo I won a game in 30 seconds cause I'm obssive) . Basically, 
 don't be so cheap/lazy the game should be a challenge.
  Now, on to the new races which are great, first Dark Eldar. Dark Eldar play completely different 
 to the other races, since their builders don't need to stick around building stuff. However they 
 do need to stick around collecting souls for all the crazy Dark Eldar abilities. It is a nice match 
 since you can quickly set up a base, but once your off slaughtering, your workers have something 
 to do... harvest. The units of Dark Eldar all are either clearly ranged or clearly melee meaning 
 you need to take advantage of dark eldar speed to keep them out of combat or quickly get them in. 
 All in All the Dark Eldar are tough to play since they are weak but with their abilities and speed 
 they can strike fast and hard, quickly escaping before the enemy can mobilize their army to defend. 
 This fits perfectly with the table-top game, which plays them out as crazy torturing Eldar pirates.
 
  Lastly, the Sisters of Battle are NOT space marines. The big give away being that they are not 
 genetically enhanced like the SMs. Thus they will lose a one-on-one fight with a SM squad. That 
 is where missionaries come in (and the voice overs for them are awesome!) . They can buff the SoBs 
 with crazy faith abilities, making them good. The one problem I have is that their turrents are 
 aweful unless upgraded to be anti-tank. Basically, don't count on your defenses holding of the 
 kind of attacks that I. G. and SM heavy bolter turrents can. The best thing about SoBs by far is 
 the amount of fire they can send out, at some points all you can see are several giant bonfires 
 across the battlefield. The SoBs have many awesome units but are not SMs so don't play like they 
 are.
  
  Overall, this game has been underappreciated by reviews and adds tons to DoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomPayne20
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  In Winters Assault and Dark Crusade they were very well done and scripted. This time around it 
 seems like it was rushed to be finished. Some of the sounds are tacky, The unit movements of the 
 new races arent brilliant. What really ticks me off is a territory under your control does not 
 remember the base you built whilst conquering it as it did in Dark crusade, so now it takes just 
 as long as an attack to defend your territory increasing the chance of losing it thus drawing out 
 reaching the overall goal.
  
  The graphics of the Karuva system map seem rushed compared to the map of Kronus in DC. 
  
  
 Sisters of Battle, in theory are tougher or as tough as space marines yet a squad can get completely 
 obliterated by a standard imperial guard squad. Yet Dark eldar one of the less resiliant races 
 in the canon are supposed to be weak yet I can beat a full chaos army with half my population filled.
 
  
  Plus the story of how three imperial factions are fighting against one another is a bit stupid 
 and poorly explained. At least it made vague sense in DC.
  
  All in all a poor add-on to what has been a strong series of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkreaper_1
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Now on the 3rd Expansion pack of the Dawn of War series there are some positives but sadly there 
 a quite a few negatives as well with SoulStorm.
  
  New Races:
  Soulstorm adds two new races bringing the total number of races to 9. Which compared to other RTS 
 games is a hell of a lot. Although eyebrows were raised when the two races were going to be the 
 "Sisters of Battle" and the "Dark Eldar". 
  Unlike the Tau and Necrons added in the previous expansion pack the two new races aren't that much 
 different from the ones already in Dawn of war. The Sisters of Battle are basically an all female 
 version of the Space marines only a little bit weaker. The Dark Eldar don't add a lot of variety 
 either. There units are either excel in hand-to-hand combat or ranged combat, which is the same 
 story with the Eldar. While both races have "special" abilities (The sisters of battle have to 
 build Holy relics to acquire "faith" which powers some of their units special abilities, and the 
 Dark Eldar harvest souls from the dead to unleash special abilities.) It doesn't really add anything 
 that will make you go wow or effect the way you play.
  Considering that a lot of Warhammer 40k fans have been crying out for the Tyranids to be added 
 since the first expansion pack it's a bit of a cold shoulder from THQ and Relic that they haven't 
 added the Tyrandis yet.
  
  Gameplay:
  With the main solo campaign Soulstorm has taken and expanded the gameplay from Dark Crusade. In 
 Dark Crusade you battled across a single planet Risk style. All races would take it in turns to 
 attack adjacent territories. With Soulstorm the idea and gameplay is the same except that it has 
 been expanded over 4 planets and 3 moons. Although by doing this it has only roughly doubled the 
 number of territories it does mean that there are now at least 35 to battle across.
  I can see this becoming a Marmite situation. You either love it or hate it. Some might be happy 
 they've kept the style of play while others may feel like it's a re-hash. And those who didn't 
 like this style in DC aren't going to see it return on a much grander scale.
  
  There is also another problem with this style of play. In Dark Crusade when you conquered a territory 
 all the structures you built were saved, so if you were attacked you'd start with all the buildings 
 you had from previous plays on the territory. But for some reason in Soulstorm you don't. It may 
 not sound like a big problem but its annoying having to rebuild everything from scratch over and 
 over again plus it puts you at a big disadvantage if you are attacked by a large army. This normally 
 turns into a race to raise some sort of army in the time it takes them to cross the map.
  
  I've also noticed a bit of pathing problem as well. Units for some reason or another will become 
 "stuck" and just move back and forth slightly. It's easy to solve this problem but when moving 
 units long distances repeatedly it can be slightly annoying. Plus this problem wasn't present in 
 previous versions of Dawn of War.
  
  New Units:
  Now my biggest complaint about Soulstorm. The new units.
  
  For some reason air units have 
 now been added. This is an odd decision as not only are there plenty of ground units to add to 
 each race but before the games release relic held a poll on their website asking people what units 
 they wanted adding to each race. None of which included any mention of air units.
  In my opinion the air units are pretty useless. They don't really add anything new and considering 
 the vehicles already available are pretty expensive and weak. I've also noticed that when i play 
 a skirmish against the PC, they hardly ever build them.
  
  Misc:
  On the graphics front the game hasn't really changed much. Some people might like the style of 
 the units but for me it's starting to look dated, especially when you zoom in to some of the basic 
 troop units.
  In regards to the sound not much has changed. The units, as always, have great quotes when you 
 click on them or give them an order. It's a minor detail but one i very much like and something 
 i think makes the units come to life. Although saying this, the banter between some races in the 
 campaign mode when you're invading their main base is missing.
  
  Summary:
  To sum up Soulstorm is a solid expansion pack. It ups the number of races to 9. The gameplay is 
 solid, fast and enjoyable. Is great to play online. And it still manages to keep the feel of the 
 Warhammer 40k universe. 
  However apart from the races it doesn't really add anything new. Which is great if you love the 
 previous expansion packs or if you're a first timer but for me it's starting to wear a little thing, 
 especially when you consider how the previous expansion packs made big changes to gameplay in one 
 way or another. Also the new units are a complete waste and you can very easily go through a whole 
 campaign without using them.
  
  While Dawn of War is still a fantastic RTS i think Relic/THQ needs to move on. They can look back 
 at Dawn of War and the expansion and be rightly proud of what they've done but they need to put 
 it all to bed and start anew. 
  They need to make a sequel with a better graphics engine (Company of Heroes showed us what they 
 can do) and somehow reinvent the main campaign gameplay to make it feel fresh... and add the Tyranids 
 as a playable race!
  
  So to sum up, i can easily recommended Soul storm to new gamers and to regular players of the series 
 but with the latter i would warn them that they shouldn't expect anything radical, even with the 
 new races. But it somehow still manages to stuck you in, which is a sign of good game to me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qioden
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  the DOW soul storm is finally out! i got it the first chance i got and start playing, but after 
 i finished a couple of campaign games i find the game is not quite what i had in mind.
  
  the game is great, im a great fan of the original table top game and this game provided me a opportunity 
 to play all i like without spending too much money.
  
  anyway, back to the game, the graphics are as usual, no improvement there, im a tau player and 
 my starting race is obvious tau, i was very excited in the preview images about the plasma (or 
 is it Ion) blaster the tau commander is equipped, but in the game the visual effect are as same 
 as last games plasma rifle, im not sure what the blaster should look like but difinatelly not the 
 one in the game.
  
  i was very disappointed by the lack of new units introduced, sure the barracuda looks very cool 
 but somehow i find it lacking, i mean there lots of units in the table top game, why not bring 
 all of them in?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-o194
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Yes Soulstorm was indeed a epic fail at first i had high hopes for it thinking that Relic would 
 see the failures they had in dowdc and fix the game but no it seems that was wishfull thinking. But 
 lets get to why it was a fail.
  
  1. Its QS skirmish maps for a campaign. Now adays it seems developers love non linear which i hate 
 and so does the rest of the world.
  
  
  2. The addition of 1 air unite per race. they cant even get it right i mean come on for gods sake 
 they are fixed wing fixed jet aircraft that hover? AND CAN BE BROUGHT DOWN BY LASGUN FIRE? It seems 
 they just threw in the aircraft as a after thought on how to make more money.
  
  
  3Dark Eldar. Never has a game introduced a race so badly that i needed to throw up on my screen 
 to avert my eyes from the terrible crap that happened. The Dark Eldar who are hard dark cruel and 
 about a 1000 other words for Emo Sadist with a corpse fetish come off like a bunch of panzy **** 
 and talk about week i mean its the Eldar i know but come on at least wychs should be good but are 
 nothing less then meat shield for the 1 tank/dreadnuaght they seem to possess that rates middle 
 way on the not suck scale.
  
  4. Sisters of Battle. The Sisters are a welcomed addition to DOW but are implemented poorly and 
 seem to just be Marines with different skins they dont play well and all the special powers they 
 get fail but to be fair so do the dark eldars so everyone is good.
  
  In conclusion at its core Soulstorm is a cracking good time but is held down by poorly implimented 
 races bad voice acting limited population caps (do the devs think we all have Gateway 95s) a campaign 
 thats just a qs multiplayer romp with no objectives no story so if you do buy it dont bother with 
 the campaign stay on multiplayer. 
  
  If DOW2 doesnt have graphics and pychis on the scale of COH with a population cap of supreme commander 
 and at least cures 2 diseases then i will burn relic to the ground.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ENVYHYSTERIA
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Soulstorm is very good in my oppinion. yes it introduces 2 new factions that add very very unique 
 play styles to the already huge game. people are complaining about the game having no story. its 
 not about the story its about the gameplay! stop whining it is what it is. the new air units just 
 seem kinda thrown in there they arent very effective at all. maybe some of the other factions air 
 units are worth a poop but the races iv played with were pretty lame. that is the only complaint 
 i really have . it was a good decision but the end result is a little lackluster. more r&d could 
 have helped who knows? The new races play completely different than the rest as always . its very 
 refreshing to see. the new conquer the galaxy campaign is very addicting as was in Dark Crusade 
 . this one isnt as repetitive as the other one as i play more and more. the game is worth the 40 
 bucks if you want to refresh your dawn of war expieriance it doesnt add much to the formula but 
 its super entertaining as always bloody bloddy action. with a lot of firepower flying around. and 
 with 9 races fighting what more could you ask for? the game is huge!!! \
  
  very good 9.0 in my oppinion and ive played RTSs for about the last 10 years. i havent been able 
 to put warcraft 3 : roc/TFT down since i bought them. those games have PERFECT gameplay. this game 
 comes very very close to being that good. pick it up if you like RTS just add it to your collection 
 i promise its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DasFlesh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War was already one of the most expansive RTS games available on the market. With the addition 
 of Soulstorm, it has become the undisputed winner in that category. Being the biggest doesn't necessarily 
 mean being the best though and taking that into account Soulstorm still delivers more to look into 
 for not only seasoned DOW veterans but for newcomers to the series as well.
  
  Taking a look at the new features the three that stand out are 
  -Two new races
  -An expanded 
 campaign
  -New air units for each race
  
  The two new races are interesting and if you take the time to play them, they will grow on you 
 and offer more diversity to your play. The Dark Eldar are, for DOW players who would understand 
 this, a mix between chaos and the Eldar (duh) . They are unique in that their builder doesn't have 
 to stay on the building to keep building it (kind of like the Undead in WC3 or Protoss in StarCraft) . 
 The Sisters of Battle, although i have not played them as much, are similar to the Space Marines 
 in units but have a distinct unit list among them none the less. All in all they are unique enough 
 to look into. I won't go on too much because I would like to keep this relatively short.
  
  The campaign is expanded on the DC formula. This isn't a feature you should level your purchase 
 on unless you are familiar with the DC game and only play SP. I find that this game is much more 
 interesting online no matter what your skill level is. Once you play a few SP games with a race, 
 you should go online and have most of your fun there The SP still is fun though and if your new, 
 you should still have fun after playing it through on a few races. If it's story your after though, 
 look into the first DOW or its expansion Winter Assault. Speaking of which, buying the first DOW 
 if you like this isn't a bad idea seeing as it adds 4 more races to play online.
  
  The new units are interesting in that they all are (except for the Necrons) air units. They don't 
 affect the balance of the game too much but they really do become interesting in that they can 
 traverse the battlefield unhindered and unblocked by terrain. It is nice to be able to get reinforcements 
 from above without having to worry about a block in the middle that would take infantry quite a 
 while to traverse. Do not worry, if you have played DOW before, they aren't a big enough deal that 
 they will change your whole strategy.
  
  With those three major things taken care of, overall Soulstorm is a worthy conclusion to the series. 
 At the moment it is new and will need a patch to remove some bugs you can read about on forums 
 but with that fact being ignored, you shouldn't regret buying this if you are into RTS or love 
 more additions to an already extensive list. I give this an 8.5 because while it offers new content 
 that is quite fun to look into, the series is showing its age and it isn't a perfect game. It's 
 an expansion that does just that and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronsf
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War is one of my all time favorite RTS games, and the new Soulstorm expansion is a welcome 
 addition. There are a couple of disappointments, however.
  
  Campaign
  
  The new campaign is almost identical to the Dark Crusade campaign, except there are 4 planets instead 
 of one. There's really not a whole lot different here. The story is paper thin as well.
  
  Air Units
  
  Air units open up some interesting possibilities, but overall they are a disappointment. 
 I've found that I don't really even use them that often. The benefits are that they are quick and 
 melee units cannot attack them. They really don't offer much over a fast attack squad like Assault 
 Marines. I would have liked to see something along the lines of calling in Air Support like in 
 World of Conflict or Call of Duty, where you don't actually control the unit but it provides a 
 destructive attack on an area of the map.
  
  Sisters of Battle
  
  The Sisters are kind of a cross between the Imperial Guard and the Space Marines. The standard 
 Battle Sisters infantry unit is similar to Imperial Guard with a 10 member cap and fast reinforcement 
 time. They appear to be much stronger than Imp Guard, though. The Sisters don't really seem to 
 have as much unit variety as other factions do, but they are fun to play nonetheless. The new faction 
 specific global resource of Faith is used to execute special abilities and has some other uses. 
 It's an interesting new gameplay mechanic.
  
  Dark Eldar
  
  To be honest I haven't played the Dark Eldar that much as I don't find them that interesting. Mix 
 Chaos Marines with the Eldar and that's kind of what you get here. They also have a global resource 
 called Soul Essence which works in a similar way to that of the Sisters. However, the Dark Eldar 
 have an advantage because the Soul Essence can be used to execute area of effect powers on the 
 map.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Overall, if you are a Dawn of War fan and already own the other expansions, I recommend you get 
 this one as well. Don't expect anything really innovative or different, but there are some new 
 unique gameplay aspects that enhance overall playability. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyadamshole
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 7, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  JUST TERRIBLE. The "aircraft" can't cross a river without a bridge.
  
  http://forums. relicnews. com/showthread. php? t=183923
  
  
  Units:
  
  Flyers - Easily my 
 biggest list of problems in the flyers area. Before we go further, id like to mention that i was 
 apprehensive about flyers in SS - how would they be implemented, etc and after the demo i found 
 myself wondering why each race had been given a tacky skimmer unit instead of a proper new unit 
 like a Chaos Dread, etc. However, i decided to try Flyers out, and my first observation is this. 
 Flyers are Aircraft, vehicles unaffected by terrestrial obstructions. They can fly over rivers, 
 Deserts, walls unimpeded, right?
  
  Then why oh WHY do my Marauder bombers need to use a freaking BRIDGE to cross a river?!
  
  
 I apologise for my language there, but i could not help but laugh when i watched my bombers skirt 
 the river edge, reach the bridge, then fly over it. Infact, why do my bombers insist of using ground 
 units paths to move everywhere. Half the time they dont fly over walls, instead flying with my 
 main army. New tactical options in SS due to air units? Im sorry, but im forced to disagree.
  
  Second flyers problem - It seems that on all the old maps (i. e. pre - SS) Flyers get stuck 
 on pieces of impassable terrain for ground units. Let me explain this. Marauder bomber flies up 
 a sheer cliff. At the top and bottom of said cliff are two pieces of terrain accessible to ground 
 units. The cliff itself is impassable to ground units. My aircraft then gets stuck in the impassable 
 terrain area, only being able to move around the area of the cliff. Eh?! I only get this issue 
 on pre SS maps or maps with large variations in relief however.
  
  SoB issues - The green selection rectangle around the SoB's Immolator is off centre on my game, 
 dont know whether this is the case for anyone else.
  
  All SoB large flamer weapons, when firing at airborne units, leave the same fireball that they 
 do when shooting at ground units directly below the aircraft. Seems weird imo.
  
  Artwork
  
  It just seems unfinished to me. The textures for the Dark Eldar are pretty good, 
 but the Sisters of Battle unit textures look like they were never fully completed.
  
  Campaign
  
  My issues with the campaign are purely down to my own lack of imagination i suppose. 
 Its just apart from the fact we have planets, the SS campaign is just a rehash of the DC campaign. 
 The DC risk style meta map was a fun and new addition, but with SS, i just dont feel like grinding 
 provinces again. I wanted a campaign with a true full plot, and i feel that the SS plot itself 
 was not fully put out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffinsagent
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  I finally loaded the game last night and played it through to the early AM. The game's new race's 
 are a nice add on as well as the new flying units and maps. The game does not have the same "POP" 
 and awe like the original Dawn of War does, but nevertheless is still really fun to play. The sound 
 is excellent but the graphics are lacking and cut scenes are few to none. I really enjoyed the 
 story line in the original single player game and the graphics at the time were amazing. I would 
 rate the game a lot higher if the graphics and single player story line were better. They simply 
 took the same engine as all there other games have used and added some new units in addition to 
 the World Conquest map. So instead of being a singular story line like the previous games, you 
 have a choice in which planet locations can be attacked. 
  
  In future games I would like to see better customizing controls to not only change the colors but 
 change the armor as well look of the vehicles as well as you can in the table top miniature games. 
 
  
  I purchased the game based solely on the fact that I love the Warhammer universe and own all the 
 previous Warhammer PC games as well. I'm glad I made the purchase and the price was right. Even 
 though this is more of an expansion, it does not require the original Dawn of War game to play. 
 
  
  - Jeff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  I was a GW fanboy for years, until I "grew up" and spending 80% of my income on miniatures became 
 impossible. I still love the imagery and characters, though, so Dawn of War was like a gift from 
 the gods that allowed me to enjoy things again without having to shell out unrealistic amounts 
 of cash.
  
  I blundered across Soulstorm a week ago and waited with anticipation until I could go pick it up 
 this Wednesday. The Dark Eldar demo had already showed me that the air units were lacklustre and 
 boring, but what I really wanted to see was the campaign. Dark Crusade blew me away and reading 
 about multiple planets had me all set up to be even more impressed...
  
  Welcome to Buzzkill.
  
  Someone really screwed the pooch on this one. Don't get me wrong, it 
 is still every bit as fun as its predecessors... it just isn't any better. 
  
  There is so very little about Soulstorm's campaign that is different than Dark Crusades. You are 
 still fighting over territories that control of sometimes earns you a honor guard unit or some 
 ability... but, for the most part, they are the exact same units and the exact same abilities. 
 The fact that these territories are spread over 4 planets and 3 moons is a superficial trait, since 
 it plays the most minimal of roles in the strategy of the campaign. And, though I haven't actually 
 counted and compared, Soulstorm doesn't seem to have than many more territories than DC did.
  
  As a sidenote here, I could accept longer load times that this planetary scale map incurs IF 
 there was some entertaining value to it. There isn't. Increased load times, however small, for 
 no gain are major sin in my book.
  
  Other forces may be different, but the Space Marine Commander's available Wargear has also only 
 received superficial alteration. Oh, he gets a Crozius Arcanum-looking weapon named after Rogal 
 Dorn instead of a power sword... um... yay? You still have two selections to increase melee damange, 
 two to increase range, one to resist ranged damage, one to resist melee damage, one to speed movement, 
 one to greatly boost health, etc... Awesome, I get to buff my commander and make him look prettier. 
 Tactically, it matters little.
  
  I have only cleared the planet I started on, eliminating both the Orks and Tau as of last night. 
 I think that accounts for 9 or 10 territories. And none of them felt any different than any previous 
 DoW single player map and certainly not any different than playing DC. I did notice more maps that 
 were open, rather than presenting immediate choke points to defend your starting position and a 
 succession of bottlenecks to advance through towards the enemy. The AI is a breath of fresh air, 
 however small. It seems a bit smarter, even meaner, than it was in DC.
  
  Nothing about the units feels very different, though I have admittedly only played the Space Marines 
 so far and the limited Dark Eldar demo. As previously mentioned, the air units are a joke. They 
 just perpetually hover, even whenever this makes no sense, and ignore all terrain features. Wow. 
 How innovative. I would have preferred calling in airstrikes from off the map to a seemingly over-hyped 
 "new unit type".
  
  Performance-wise, the afformentioned horrid load time getting into the campaign map is atrocious. 
 Even when just visiting menus like Commander, Reinforce, Archive, or Save it sometimes hangs for 
 a few seconds. Battle maps load faster than they did for me in DC and the after battle "cleanup" 
 is faster as well. The audio, particular the monologues after defeating another faction, likewise 
 do not suffer the stutter that I experienced with Dark Crusade.
  
  This may frighten, even insult, some fans... but I have never played a single multiplayer game 
 of Dawn of War against a human opponent. I just don't have the time. That explained, I can't offer 
 any criticism of multiplayer beyond eventual discussion about the habits of the AI on different 
 difficulty settings.
  
  Overall, Soulstorm is at least as good as Dark Crusade but since it isn't any better, my opinion 
 of it drops slightly. It is still Dawn of War and it is still a great game... but it could have, 
 should have, been another step of awesome. I don't know if Iron Lore closing its doors had anything 
 to do with this, maybe they just didn't have the oomphf they needed to meet my expectations under 
 their other burdens. I hope whoever, if anyone, picks up Dawn of War next can raise the bar and 
 give me that same feeling of impressiveness that I felt the first time I loaded Dawn of War... 
 and again the first time I played a turn of Dark Crusade's campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gibmeistah
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  If it were a stand alone game it would be great but it IS an expansion so we have to look past 
 the already great game engine. Not much different, the races were designed better this time i think. 
 The air units is a complete waste, dont bother building them, the Tau Barracuda for example is 
 too damn expensive for a piece a **** and takes 4 vehicle cap, i'd rather do something silly and 
 build 4 devilfishes instead of an aircraft. And the most dissapointing was how they made the aircraft, 
 it looks like they are hoovering in air and have tons o' turning rate so they become quite shaky.
 
  This could very well be a mod instead of an expansion but there is really only one thing that 
 keeps this being an expansion. The campaign. It is much alike the Dark Crusade campaign, the company 
 promised us a HUGE campaign being given 4 planets to conquest... Umm.... it is like a teeny bit larger 
 than the dark crusade campaign. The good thing is the wargear system tho, quite a cleaver one. 
 If this was a standalone game (given thought that all nine races are in it, atleast for me :P)
 
  i would give it a rating of 9.5. But i dont think this is special. This expansion could have been 
 so much more, but sadly, as companies usually do at times, let ppl down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paintbuster0001
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Let me just say this first: I was a huge fan of DC and loved the single and multiplayer. Soulstorm 
 doesn't really change the Dawn of War formula at all. 
  
  The Campaign mode is just like DC but instead of one planet, there are 4 and a couple moons. Unfortunately 
 some details were sacrificed in order to encompass such a large campaign. It's become more similar 
 to a board game and on the overview, unlike the colorful moving commanders we had in DC, in Soulstorm 
 they've been reduced down to a symbol and an arrow. This isn't necessarily a bad thing, but it 
 makes it a little less colorful than the previous games. The new racial bonuses are great and add 
 more fun to the campaign as well as making strategy for taking down each race different and fun 
 to figure out. The only complaint i have thus far is the lack of a story at the very start. There's 
 no openinig sequence to each race's campaign, which was a bummer to me. Each race's story is summed 
 up in the opening video. The only other complaint is that loading is excruciating at times. Its 
 a large game, and the loading time suffers sometimes because of it. I haven't played it enough 
 to attempt to take down a race, but the story line for those encounters seems to be intact. So 
 i give the campaign an 8.5 out of 10
  
  Multiplayer is still the frenzied bloodbath we've all come to love. This is truly the best part 
 of the game. It is unchanged from DC with the additions of the new races and units, but they make 
 it ten times more fun. with 9 races to choose fun, multiplayer is always different each time you 
 play it. The only down side to this game are some balance issues. With the addition of Soul essence 
 and faith, this gives the Sisters and Dark Eldar and edge over the other armies. Their abilities 
 (especially the Dark Eldar) are a little TOO powerful and make it a little unbalanced for the other 
 races. They can wipe out all your infantry with a well placed soulstorm or acid cloud then run 
 you down with their vehicles. These balance issues, as with the previous games, should be fixed 
 when patches are released.
  
  Many people have also been wondering about the new air units. They can be found in your vehicle 
 strucuture and usually don't require much extra to be built. Contorl over air units is the same 
 as any other unit, they only difference is that they can travel over anything. They are not so 
 much air unist as hovering tanks really, but they are fun to use, strafing enemy bases is of so 
 much fun. They can also be used to open up choke points on the map because they are not restricted 
 by mountains and the like. The new races are fun to play as well. Both are fun to play and also 
 look pretty cool.
  
  Overall a great expansion that takes the formula used in Dark Crusade and makes it much bigger. 
 Nothing terribly new to be found here, but if you love Dawn of War you'll be sure to have a great 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kubilius
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  This is probably more of a question than a review.
  I've played for a short period older releases and yesterday I installed the Soulstorm and I still 
 can't figure out what's the big buzz about this game. Graphics are pretty much OK, sounds is realy 
 pretty good, but when we go to general gameplay it's just the same as it was back in 1995 - build 
 some stuff, upgrade some stuff, blow your opponent up. Well there's also capture-the-strategic-point 
 thingy as well, which isn't so innovative as it was in previous releases and many many other games. 
 Now what I realy don't like is the camera. It generaly sux or I haven't found a way to tilt it 
 in a fancy way - you can zoom in a bit, zoom out a bit and that's it. 
  Main question for me is how is it better than Supreme Commander, C&C, World in Conflict, Sins of 
 Solar Empire or any other recent strategy release? Is it just me who can't find some menu option 
 to make this game cool or what's wrong with all the people loving this game so much? I'll go look 
 for their USP's today after work, but most probably there's gonna be an uninstall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Unlike the first Dawn of War this game lacks what Dark Crusade also lacked, story. While the game 
 lacks in story, the expanded game play more than makes up for it.
  
  The new flying units are tastefully put in. They act as any other vehicle when it comes to who 
 can shoot who and how much damage except that now they can get their faster and more maneuverable. 
 This makes a huge difference in game play. A hit and run is with these units is effective and devastating.
 
  
  The larger strategy map is a blast to play on and seems more expanded and unraveled than the strategy 
 map in Dark Crusade. Bonuses are a little more interesting too.
  
  If you were a fan of Dark Crusade and you want more of that, then dive right in you're buying the 
 right game. It's still as addictive as ever. Just don't expect to leave with the same satisfaction 
 as the original Dawn of War. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JHessick
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I can't quite agree with the previous reviews. Although I love the Dawn of War Series, particularly 
 DC, I find this game to be rather lackluster compared to the other games.
  
  The campaign seemed like a good idea to me in concept; take DC and make it bigger. I was expecting 
 multiple planets, each one similar to the original DC planet. Instead I feel like they simply split 
 the DC campaign up over multiple planets, changing very little. Because they used the exact same, 
 nonscrolling view from the DC campaign, the map is incredibly intricate, forcing them to lose overall 
 detail (no more army avatars, just triangles, non-detailed planets) . Also, because we're dealing 
 with planets and not one land mass, most of the main campaign screen is filled with space, causing 
 the actual warzones to be miniscule. I would have loved the ability to zoom in on a single planet.
 
  
  The battles themselves, at least to me, seem to have lost a lot of polish. It just has the feel 
 that it was taken apart, stripped down, and then rebuilt to the detriment of the program. Some 
 of the organization has been reworked and is nonsensical. why were the kroot soldiers moved from 
 the kroot barracks to the tau barracks? I don't understand what was so pressing as to make that 
 kind of change. Also, the units "speak" a lot more than in the last game, especially in battle. 
 This might seem like a good thing (hey, more personality) , but when there is only one line, repeated 
 over and over, it gets annoying. I do have to not that the ai seems to be more on the ball than 
 in previous games. I'll see how true that is as I play more
  
  Also, the loading time for everything is incredibly long (note I'm using a downloaded version and 
 not the retail dvd version, so this might be different) . I don't see why it takes thirty seconds 
 to go from the main screen, after clicking on campaign, to get to the screen asking whether I want 
 to start a new game or load an old game. What is causing the slowdown?
  
  I have only used one new army, the sisters of battle, and I have some definite complaints in the 
 works, but I don't want to cry about balancing when I haven't played them enough. The sisters feel 
 like weird space marines (it was weird for me to see the jumpers are set for distance combat instead 
 of hand to hand, and I learned this after I jumped them into the middle of an imperial guardsman 
 group with plasma guns at the ready)
  
  The air units feel to me like generic units, except with a hover ability like they are perpetually 
 in jump. I was expecting more along the lines of calling in air vehicles. Right now they feel like 
 hovering tanks that are only useful in certain roles (most of the armies already have a specialist 
 in taking down each of the unit types) . 
  
  The story is pretty much gone. To sum up "guardsmen inhabit the area (even though they only control 
 one area) chaos virtually wipes out the imperial guard (even though they too only control one area... 
 not close to the imperial guard) the other armies show up to say hey. There is no beginning story 
 for each army (where's the individual motivation here?) nor is there any witty repartee between 
 the army leaders. There is nothing to connect me to these armies or characters. I know many people 
 prefer more fighting as opposed to more story, so I won't necessarily hold this against relic, 
 they are giving the audience what they want. I just miss chaos' humorous snide remarks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pnferris
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  It didn't take long for me to realize that this, the 3rd expansion to the franchise, is all I expected 
 it to be. It is essentially Dark Crusade to the power of WAAAAGH! I'm a long time fan of the game, 
 yep, I remember the old days, way back in aught 4! when we didn't have any fancy flyin' contraptions 
 interferin' with yer view of the smoulderin' post-apocalyptic skyline.
  
  I think it's great to play another campaign similar to Dark Crusade, I would have liked a story 
 with cut-scenes like in the original but can't complain about the new maps and strategic options 
 available. Just the fact that there are now 9 unique factions is amazing, and I think many of us 
 take that accomplishment for granted, what other game has successfully done that eh?
  
  I can't comment on the addition of air units yet as I've not used them (maybe that fact is comment 
 enough (-: ) . I like the Sisters, they are like Space Marines but not as tough, they need to compensate 
 with their faith based abilities.
  
  Haven't played the Dark Eldar except for in the demo, where they were way overpowered with great 
 imbalance in their soul powers, hopefully they have been tweaked for this release.
  
  If you are a fan of the series you need to get this game, if you are new and like over-the-top 
 large scale battles, well... you need to get this game too! Have fun with it. Hope to see you online, 
 look for LUUM.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8
  Still gettin the job done nicely you wont be stoppin to take in the eye candy though, nicely detailed 
 units, good animations, gotta love the fatalities of the units lol they really add a lot to the 
 game. Im shocked more RTS's dont add them.
  
  Sound:8 
  pretty much the exact same stuff from all previous War40k games gettin the job done.
  
  General:9
 
  Eh, i love this series of RTS's the battles are fun to actually watch, never boring I hope they 
 keep makin more of these, but some people have commented on the lack of story and yah I gotta agree 
 the foreboding feeling from the first two kinda missing but i guess with all these factions now 
 it would be kind of hard to make a linear story line so they opted for a more simplistic method 
 and it works for the most part. The aerial units well i dont know i guess they are nice to have 
 they can get to places quickly but they kinda feel a lil out of place. I wouldnt really consider 
 them aerial so much as ground support.
  
  BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  In single words and to the point
  
  PROS
  - New interesting units and 2 new factions (plus Air Units)
  - Larger campaign
  - Great variety 
 of factions
  - Thrilling Multiplayer experience
  --------------------------------------------
  --------------------------------------------
 
  CON
  - Most Graphics look OLD (naturally)
  - Single player still feels swallow and repeative like Dark Crusade (Kill all enemy bases- Game 
 over)
  - Some bugs
  - Some units probably need a little better balance
  - Air Units behave like ground vehicles and are useless
  -------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The game in general gave me the impression that it is a MOD of Dark Crusade and not something really 
 new
  
  As a better version of the Dark Crusade i can surely say that it is nice
  BUT
  As a game i can not give it a bigger score as it is nothing really so new for the series and for 
 the genre 
  
  Been there done that
  Score 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIHanTime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  As I see in some reviews of other people complaining about balancing issues, I really don't see 
 any balancing problems. This is the most balanced Dawn of War yet. If you compare it to DC (Dark 
 Crusade) , in DC the Necrons were overpowered, but now in SS (Soulstorm) you will not have that issue.
 
  
  People complain about having nine races in a RTS game. I love having that many, mainly because 
 it takes a while before you fully master one race and once you do that... holy smokes you got 8 
 more to master. It makes you want to play it more.
  
  The 2 new races are great. I don't see a problem with them. Multiplayer is an absolute blast. The 
 AI has increased dramatically. In DC, I used to play on Hard and win with a good challenge. In 
 SS, on standard I'm being crippled to my knees. This gives some awesome replay value as the fact 
 you got a ton of maps and different race vs. race combination along with MULTIPLAYER! Now that 
 is what I call a RTS.
  
  I hope GameSpot doesn't give Soulstorm a bad review, at least a 8.0 would be sufficient, no lower 
 though. As for me, I give it a 9.5. Relic does an awesome job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anotherdrifter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the first Dawn of War this game lacks what Dark Crusade also lacked, story. While the game 
 lacks in story, the expanded game play more than makes up for it.
  
  The new flying units are tastefully put in. They act as any other vehicle when it comes to who 
 can shoot who and how much damage except that now they can get their faster and more maneuverable. 
 This makes a huge difference in game play. A hit and run is with these units is effective and devastating.
 
  
  The larger strategy map is a blast to play on and seems more expanded and unraveled than the strategy 
 map in Dark Crusade. Bonuses are a little more interesting too.
  
  If you were a fan of Dark Crusade and you want more of that, then dive right in you're buying the 
 right game. It's still as addictive as ever. Just don't expect to leave with the same satisfaction 
 as the original Dawn of War. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
