-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer 40,000: Rites of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warhammer40000ritesofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 30, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.6, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 117 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: DreamForge
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jun 30, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
At its heart, Rites of War proves to be fairly enjoyable if you can get past all its many rough 
 edges. 

 Of all the computer games inspired by Games Workshop's Warhammer 40,000 tabletop science-fiction 
 wargame, Rites of War is the first to place the fanatical Imperium of Man in a peripheral role. 
 Suddenly the space marines are the enemy, and the game centers on the proud and mighty Eldar, a 
 fallen race still clinging to life thanks to remarkable technology and limitless courage. Fans 
 of the source material will no doubt appreciate the opportunity posed by Rites of War to take on 
 the Imperium with the Eldar's alien weapons and will be further pleased to learn that they'll face 
 the Tyranid as well, who haven't shown their ugly faces on the computer screen since Space Hulk. 
 Together, these three races are a fascinating bunch, so much so that they clearly influenced their 
 counterparts in Blizzard's wildly popular real-time strategy game Starcraft. Even so, they still 
 can't save Rites of War from feeling like the typical and underwhelming turn-based strategy game 
 that it is.  

 The Eldar may be a mysterious race indeed, but what's especially mysterious about Rites of War is 
 why its system requirements are so steep. The fact is, Rites of War looks like a very old game, 
 largely because it runs on the two-year-old Panzer General II graphics engine, which arguably didn't 
 even look that great for its time. Yet while mediocre graphics are acceptable in the turn-based 
 strategy genre, poor performance is not. You'd think smooth, fast gameplay would be the least a 
 developer could offer, when having to work with an old graphics engine. But you can expect sluggish 
 performance from Rites of War even if you exceed its preposterously high minimum requirements. 

 If you can get it running, you'll find that Rites of War plays more like a wargame and not so much 
 like its source material. Most missions have you moving around 15 units one by one over a hex-based 
 map in an effort to defeat your enemies or claim their territory. The majority of these units can 
 only attack adjacent hexes, at which point the game compares unit stats for initiative, strength, 
 toughness, and so forth to resolve the combat. You'll need a variety of units to succeed; tactical 
 units are useful in any situation but are vulnerable to artillery. Artillery can soften up most 
 any target from long range, although assault units can easily destroy them or most anything else 
 if they can get close enough. Devastator units are especially important, and while slow, their 
 powerful attacks can provide cover fire for their allies. Scouts can see far ahead and attack without 
 fear of retaliation, catching their foes by surprise. You'll also deploy aerial units, war machines, 
 and psykers with their devastating psychic powers. True to its source, Rites of War feels well 
 balanced, and all three of its sides play differently yet are similarly powerful. It's an interesting 
 and effective variation on the Warhammer 40,000 rules, although its combat is regrettably far less 
 visceral than the preceding Warhammer 40,000 strategy games Chaos Gate and Final Liberation.  

 
 Part of the reason is Rites of War just doesn't look or sound very good. Though the game is colorful, 
 and its maps are fairly detailed and cleanly rendered, the unit graphics themselves look sloppy 
 and animate so poorly that you'll wonder whether it's your computer rather than the game that's 
 at fault. If you're very familiar with the pewter Warhammer 40,000 miniatures that the six-dozen-odd 
 units in Rites of War are taken from, then you'll be able to distinguish the game's renderings 
 of a Howling Banshee Exarch from a Dire Avenger without too much trouble. But if you aren't so 
 experienced with the source material, the game's units will utterly fail to convey the detail and 
 charisma that helped make the tabletop wargame so popular. The units aren't shown to scale, either 
 - a fact that will put your ability to suspend disbelief to a serious test. Even behemoths such 
 as the Tyranid Carnifex are reduced to the size of everything else. Consequently, the battles in 
 Rites of War are abstracted so much that you'll need to work hard to convince yourself that some 
 important battle is raging, even more so than you would playing the original game on a table with 
 metal figurines.  

 Rites of War includes a linear campaign of two dozen missions, each of whose scenarios are introduced 
 through a rather strikingly well-acted speech from your commanding officer, the Farseer. Unfortunately, 
 aside from the Farseer's impassioned diatribes against the Eldar's enemies, the campaign is otherwise 
 fairly straightforward, with few twists within the missions themselves and little cohesion between 
 missions. The real incentive to keep playing is that your units gain experience as they fight, 
 becoming noticeably more powerful as they do so. Most Eldar units are promoted to Exarch status 
 once they become sufficiently experienced, turning the once-vulnerable warriors into seemingly 
 invincible warlords.  

 While the experience system is mostly well implemented, it does have certain problems. For one thing, 
 Exarch units are so astonishingly powerful that a lot of the game's strategy is lost once you've 
 amassed a few of them. All but the deadliest artillery fire and most vicious melee attacks are 
 completely shrugged aside, and an Exarch's wounds can be instantly healed by resting for a turn. 
 You'll quickly realize how overpowered these units are and thus why many of the later missions 
 in the game enforce a turn limit, demanding that you accomplish your goal hastily. Furthermore, 
 once your units have attained maximum experience, all of a sudden you've lost that incentive to 
 keep on going with them. And, provided you can keep them alive, your units will max out about two-thirds 
 of the way through the game, making the last portion seem stale. Meanwhile, purchasing new units 
 at this late stage in the campaign is pointless since they'll be nothing more than fodder to the 
 experienced enemy, and will perish long before they gain any experience of their own.  

 Even in spite of these concerns, the Rites of War campaign is fairly enjoyable, with enough variety 
 between missions and enough challenge within them to keep you interested. Since you're limited 
 by the number of units you can deploy in each mission, and invariably not all of your units will 
 survive the course of the campaign, there's even some incentive to play the campaign a second time 
 to try things differently and maybe at a higher difficulty setting. Otherwise, you can play around 
 a dozen stand-alone scenarios against the computer or against up to three other people, and Rites 
 of War also includes an editor that lets you modify starting and victory conditions and such, without 
 actually letting you modify the physical appearance of the available maps. And because the game 
 contains dozens of Eldar, Imperial, and Tyranid units, Rites of War can keep you busy for a good 
 while.  

 As you play, you'll realize that the ultimate purpose of translating Warhammer 40,000 to the computer 
 is at least twofold: The first is to eliminate the time-consuming hassle of physically playing 
 a tabletop wargame. And the second purpose, far more difficult to accomplish, is to express the 
 fiction more vividly through the computer game medium than is feasible on a kitchen table. Rites 
 of War fails in this respect, which is unfortunate since its setup is so inspiring. And because 
 the tabletop game's context is so rich, and because, at its heart, Rites of War proves to be fairly 
 enjoyable if you can get past all its many rough edges, the game finally comes across as a missed 
 opportunity to show off Warhammer 40,000 in all its glory.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xgmx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000 Rites of War is exactly what a turn-based strategy game should be! Despite the 
 game being turn-based, it plays much like real-time. In Rites of War you choose your strike force 
 from a list of units, you unlock new unit types and can get more units and more prestige (though 
 it is called something else) as well, prestige is used to get units. The game boasts a fully jam-packed 
 single player campaign, single player skirmish, as well as hot multiplayer. While the multiplayer 
 is no Battle. net and with MPlayer being defunct, it's pretty hard to play a multiplayer game, but 
 don't let that stop you! I played this game for little over an hour so far and it is already one 
 of my favorite games. This is not the kind of game where you buy it and jump right into multiplayer, 
 since I tried that and failed miserably. The game is extremely complicated, it is probably best 
 that you complete a few campaign missions before you head on out to face other players. Whether 
 you like turn-based strategy or not, you have got to get this game, it is "The 7th best video game 
 ever (1: American Revolutionary War, 2: StarCraft, 3: WarCraft II, 4: Diablo, 5: WarCraft III, 
 6: Diablo II, [b] 7: Warhammer 40,000 Rites of War [/b] , 8: Total Annihilation, 9: SWAT 3, 10: Classic 
 Doom) " -Kevin "xgmx" McDonald. The SS Free rates Rites of War 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  Rites of War is a pretty accurate depiction of playing Warhammer 40K in it's natural environment... 
 without blowing hundreds of dollars on models and investing hours upon hours painting them. So, 
 as a way of getting into the Warhammer universe Rites of War practically provides a public service. 
 For a hex based wargame Rites of War actually looks pretty good. Units are well drawn and easily 
 identifiable and the animations are about as dynamic as any other hex-based wargame of the era. 
 As far as game design goes Rites of War is pretty solid here as well. The campaign follows a compelling 
 story, and you never feel as if you're hung out to dry by a lazy game designer. Completing missions 
 successfully depends on how well you play rather than guessing what the developer wants you to 
 do in a given situation. If you can find it, give Rites of War a shot. It's not the best wargame 
 out there, but it is a fair depiction of what Warhammer 40K is all about. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
