-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/warhammeronline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Public quests are a great idea and a lot of fun.
 Stand-alone scenarios are varied and rewarding.
 Open battles can be wonderfully chaotic.
 Looks and runs great, with few notable bugs .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extreme PVP focus is detrimental to those looking to quest and play solo.
 Crafting is poorly implemented and completely unbalanced.
 Player base is fragmented, even on full servers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,814 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Mythic
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Sep 18, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Engaging player-versus-player combat makes this an online role-playing game to reckon with. 

 
  War, appropriately, is the focus in Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning. Few persistent world, 
 online role-playing game have focused so much on player-versus-player combat or done it this well. 
 Fireballs fly, swords clash, and pet lions pounce as the opposing forces of Order and Destruction 
 pound on each other for server dominance. From open warfare to stand-alone scenarios, there are 
 a number of ways to establish battle superiority, and Warhammer Online consistently offers in-game 
 rewards for your combat prowess, making this game the one-stop shop for all your elf-bashing needs. 
 There are other innovations too, though they take a supporting role: public quests that allow passersby 
 to jump in and join the fray, for example, as well as the excellent Tome of Knowledge, an in-game 
 encyclopedia overflowing with all the information you would ever want.  

           The intense PVP scenarios will keep you on your toes.      

  These original features 
 make Warhammer Online a great game, though this direct focus on PVP combat noticeably detracts 
 from its other facets. Most notably, questing and solo play are unfulfilling compared to other 
 MMOGs; the writing is decent, but in general, the by-the-numbers quests lack flavor and sophistication. 
 The most noticeable issue at play, however, directly relates to player population: During peak 
 hours, you may wait an hour in a server queue, only to discover that the world still feels really 
 empty, even with all these areas for players to congregate and battle. It's the ultimate contradiction: 
 By giving players so many ways and places to hammer each others' skulls, the population has been 
 spread thin. Warhammer Online feels like it was designed for a population much larger than the 
 game actually holds. A good guild, as well as some preparation and organization, will combat this 
 issue to a degree. Perhaps this drawback will change as the population at large gains levels, but 
 for now, the splintering of players makes exploration and questing both feel even more lackluster 
 than they already are.  

  But you came for war, and whether you want to get in the thick of the action or support your groupmates, 
 you'll find that the Warhammer universe is a natural host for your bloodthirst. First, you choose 
 a faction: Order or Destruction (guess which is good and which is evil) . From there, choose an 
 army (Dark Elves, Empire, and so on) and a career. Both sides offer the usual suspects, such as 
 healers and tanks, but there are some nice additions for each class. Engineers can summon a turret 
 to aid them from a distance; Disciples of Khaine siphon health from enemies to heal allies; and 
 sorcerers are capable of dealing heavy damage -- at the risk of killing themselves. Physical customization 
 isn't particularly deep, but various tattoos and other options help distinguish you from the hordes, 
 even if the simple options and visual similarities of various armor sets can sometimes make all 
 players of a particular profession look eerily alike.  

  Warhammer Online makes a superb first impression. From the moment you begin, a starting quest encourages 
 you to participate in one of the game's keystone PVP scenarios. You can join a queue for a level-appropriate 
 scenario from almost anywhere, and once enough players have signed up, you're whisked away to the 
 battlefield. Most of these matches are variants on Capture the Flag, Deathmatch, King of the Hill, 
 and so on -- but with enough twists to make them feel clever. For example, in the Stonetroll Crossing 
 scenario, teams attempt to capture an item called a troll pacifier from the tall plateau at the 
 center of the map and deliver it to three locations to appease the cranky trolls. In others, you 
 may capture control points or take and hold a central platform -- usual stuff to be sure, but with 
 small twists that make each one feel unique. Regardless of which maps you play, most scenarios 
 are chaotic in a good way. You'll always be on the go, from chasing a flag on the move to charging 
 for the opposing healer, and the flurry of colorful spell effects and the din of clanging metal 
 enhance the excitement.  

  Stand-alone scenarios are just one PVP option. The more impactful alternative is to take battlefield 
 objectives and fight through enemy keeps, which in turn earns victory points for your faction; 
 once you have enough points, the opposing faction's main city is vulnerable to attack. Open objectives 
 make for a chaotic good time, whether you and your warband are chasing down a roaming group of 
 marauders or getting behind a turret to bombard foes as they creep closer to the warcamp. You and 
 your buddies can also participate in keep captures, which are essentially multitiered minidungeons 
 in which you fight enemy players and defending mobs on your way to the keep boss. Keep battles 
 are a ton of fun; teams can build siege weapons at specified points outside of the keep, and the 
 resulting encounters are frenzied and intense, especially if a battering ram is involved.  

  Public quests are possibly Warhammer Online's most original offering, and it's one that lets 
 you join impromptu teams as they complete various objectives. Should you encounter one of these 
 open, multipart quests, your heads-up display automatically informs you what stage the ongoing 
 quest is currently at and what needs to be done. Then, you can simply jump into the fray, killing 
 monsters and other non-player enemies. At the end of the quest, a golden treasure chest appears 
 and a dice roll of sorts determines who wins the available loot. The more you contribute, the greater 
 your chance of rolling a higher number. You won't want to join public quests just for the possibility 
 of interesting loot, though: Battles are fun and hectic with enough participants, and many of them 
 end with challenging end-bosses.  

           Public quests are a great idea and fun to participate in.      

  No matter where you 
 choose to kill enemy players and monsters, there is a constant stream of rewards heaped on you. 
 Killing other players earns you renown points, which you use to purchase certain gear and gain 
 renown skills. PVP earns you basic experience as well, but you'll keep securing renown even after 
 you reach the level cap of 40. Completing public quests earns you influence in a particular geographical 
 region, which you can cash in for various items. Even guilds get perks, earning levels that then 
 unlock various enhancements for its members. Warhammer Online's most skillful and subtle reward 
 system, however, comes by way of its all-encompassing encyclopedia, the Tome of Knowledge. The 
 Tome consolidates every piece of in-game information you could possibly hope to access: bestiary, 
 quest details, lore overviews, and a lot more. As you enter new areas, encounter new NPCs or monsters, 
 and accumulate kills, new Tome entries are unlocked and announcements flash on the screen. The 
 most satisfying unlockables are the myriad of titles you can earn and apply to yourself, from elite 
 declarations ("The Fearless") to the humorous ("Ow, My Eye") .     

   

  Using the Tome is a great way to learn the lore and explore the ins and outs of the universe. If 
 you'd rather learn by exploring and participating in the player-versus-environment aspect of Warhammer 
 Online, you'll find it solid but far less enthralling than its fantastic PVP play. The world proper, 
 from Black Crag to Barak Varr, is easy on the eyes but doesn't harbor any surprises. There are 
 some beautiful vistas, from the creepy, sinister Inevitable City to the docked steamer at Mount 
 Bloodhorn. The best regions feel violently off-kilter and very much in the Warhammer mold (or at 
 least, as close as they can get given the game's T rating) . Other areas, such as Avelorn, look 
 fairly sterile and undeveloped, which in turn make certain places feel like a utilitarian vehicle 
 for the delivery of PVP content.  

           Questing and exploration are on the generic side.      

  And, of course, you can perform 
 quests for NPCs, though you won't find many standouts among the standards. Some are funny to read 
 (a goblin saves his own hide by asking you to find alternate food for an orc) , and they're detailed 
 with surprising length in the Tome of Knowledge. But for the most part, questing feels generic, 
 an apparent casualty of the enormous focus on player warfare. The way quests tie into other aspects 
 of the game is pretty nifty, though: A good many of them send you into the middle of open battlefields 
 and public quests, which in turn draws you into the anarchy at hand. You might be focused on finding 
 a quest item, but the only way to get it is to stop and fight with your fellows. This relationship 
 between quests and PVP encourages you to put aside your petty fetch quest for a moment to join 
 the larger skirmish -- which is just as well, considering the battle in progress will be more enjoyable 
 than whatever deed you were performing.  

  Unfortunately, the quest part of the equation ultimately suffers in this intriguing web, particularly 
 when small but perceptible issues are entangled in it. Many of the regions are densely populated 
 with monsters that respawn quickly after defeat -- a great feature if there is a bunch of people 
 participating in the accompanying public quest but an irritation for certain classes when soloing 
 or even in a small group. And excessive exploration can result in reaching your 20-quest limit 
 too quickly, while choosing quests in favor of player combat might cause you to deplete the local 
 supply of quests and still not reach a level appropriate for the next area. At least, the death 
 penalty lessens the annoyance a bit: You'll respawn at a local camp and a healer will remove any 
 lingering effect for a little bit of coin. You can also group up and make your way through various 
 instanced dungeons, which are immune by nature from some of these inconsistencies.  

  If you want to mix things up, you can check out the crafting system: Just don't expect much. While 
 you can choose both a standard craft and a gathering profession, the game does a terrible job of 
 introducing the options and how your choices impact each other. For example, talisman makers are 
 better off if they choose salvaging as their gathering skill, but the lack of a real tutorial means 
 it's easy to make a misguided decision. And at the time of this review, loot drops are full of 
 seeds and short on salvageable items, heavily skewing the game in favor of cultivators. The actual 
 act of crafting an item is painless, however, though the overall system doesn't seem fully fleshed 
 out.  

           The Inevitable City is impressively ominous.      

  Warhammer Online's visuals have a stylized, exaggerated vibe that resonates well, even if it invites 
 inevitable comparisons to other MMOGs. But it's a good look, and the game is obviously intended 
 to run on a large range of computers. The relatively low-polygon count is offset by a broad color 
 palette and subtle textures. The architecture and character models are also exaggerated in just 
 the right ways. And the graphic engine delivers when it counts: The game ran well without meaningful 
 frame rate drops or crashes on a variety of systems. From a technical perspective, you can see 
 where corners were cut: Animations are really choppy when viewed from anywhere but up close, and 
 in the main faction cities, model textures flicker in and out. These and other minor glitches aren't 
 apt to stand in the way of your enjoyment though, and Warhammer Online's visuals are generally 
 delightful. The sound design is good, but none of its aspects rise to the head of the class. The 
 soundtrack suits the fantasy setting, but it doesn't really enhance the experience in any way. 
 In fact, all of Warhammer Online's audio, from spell effects to quest confirmations, sounds fine 
 but unremarkable.  

  This isn't the most well-rounded massively multiplayer online game, but Warhammer Online grabs 
 the tuskgor by the horns, delivering the finest PVP content seen in a traditional persistent world 
 RPG. Questers and explorers may not find what they're looking for, and certain gameplay systems 
 don't mesh as well as they should. Nevertheless, there's more than enough exciting PVP content 
 here to keep newcomers and veterans alike immersed in the perpetually violent tug of war between 
 the forces of Order and Destruction. Or as the Orcs say: Waaagh!     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (317 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: raresilk
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  i first bought it about 6 mo. ago and then got really busy with work and didn't have time to play. 
 but i started up again a few weeks ago and i am hooked. i don't play mmorpg much and have never 
 gotten hooked on one before. this is really doing it. i am into the quests and environment a lot 
 and it does not feel "grindy" even at my low level. also, i am working 9 different characters which 
 i can bounce between, so if i get a little bored i can always switch. 
  
  also i see that there is an imbalance between order and destruction which has apparently been bad 
 for the game. i am playing destruction, and i think they have revised the lore a bit since i first 
 started out to make destruction a more attractive alignment. destruction should be seen as destroying 
 order to bring in a better order, not just destroying for the sake of destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahjeremy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  There are some new ideas here, namely public quests, taking the enemy's city, capturing battle 
 objectives and keeps, and controlling zones.
  
  Unfortunately, the core combat engine is almost exactly the same as World of Warcraft, only it 
 doesn't look quite as fluid or impressive. You are able to sprint around the battle field, constantly 
 running and never stopping, which has always seemed silly and immersion-killing to me. Warriors 
 in full suits of armor should not be able to run around constantly. Attacks are essentially auto-attack 
 or spamming insta abilities non-stop, and there are few positionals or chain attacks (though some 
 exist) . In other words, not a lot of new tactics are possible. Even though the overarching framework 
 has changed, the combat engine itself lends itself to a quite simplistic play style, dare I say 
 it, quite close to what I experienced in Warcraft scenarios, though the balance is better. Powerful 
 abilities don't have long enough cool down times (I'm thinking of my Slayer here) , so if you are 
 squishy (or even if not) prepare to be ganked a lot. Like Dark Age of Camelot, I fear this game 
 is going in the direction of overpowered ranged casters and excessive area of effect damage, coupled 
 with overpowered group healing. Yup, it is also exactly the same problems as DAoC!
  
  Open RVR is generally either a huge gank fest or it is completely dead. A twenty person zerg can 
 steamroll through the opposition one by one, especially if there is a group of melee working together 
 on the same targets. So the enemy zergs jump around capturing while generally avoiding each other. 
 It gets boring quite fast, and there is very little to no 1v1 or 5v5/6v6. Then after you cap an 
 entire zone, the opposition can take it right back within minutes. So there is little sense of 
 lasting accomplishment.
  
  The best gear is too hard to come by because it is based on (very) random drops. Average gear is 
 obtainable by grinding for renown. I don't really like this system, and I feel that "standard" 
 gear for a class should be obtainable through quest lines, not random drops or repetitive renown 
 grinding.
  
  Lastly, the area of effect damage in this game is completely overpowered. I can sit behind a line 
 of friendly tanks with a Slayer or Choppa and spam area of effect MELEE attacks through them into 
 the enemy lines. I mean really, it is just plain silly, unrealistic, and skillless, and it kills 
 the fun for those on the receiving end. Ditto for Bright Wizard.
  
  The PvE is somewhat lacking. Firstly, the enemies just don't look very good, either the textures 
 or the animations: too cartoony and too stiff. Secondly, there are tons of public quests but good 
 luck getting a group for most of them, especially on off hours. Mostly the PQ are dead outside 
 of a few peak hours. And where are the dungeons? I didn't even find any. 
  
  The three main areas are connected together with flight masters, so overall the game has a pretty 
 unrealistic, disconnected feel.
  
  Character customization is very minimal. You will likely meet several characters that look almost 
 exactly the same as yours.
  
  Crafting is pretty lame. Not much to say about it.
  
  My advice is first try the 10 day trial before buying this game. And read over the Warhammer forums 
 to see what people are saying about the RvR and the end game. To me, this game feels like a cross 
 between World of Warcraft mechanics with Dark Age of Camelot structure and a few new things thrown 
 in. Problem is that I wanted something out-of-the-box, but it seems like a mish-mash of mechanics 
 from games that I didn't enjoy that much the first time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrlywtrfall
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:49 am PT
Review:  Man, am I disappointed in Mythic. It goes like this:
  
  The good:
  
  In theory, the game is incredible. Innovations like public questing and open realm vs realm/scenarios 
 are awesome. The classes are not your everyday cookie cutter tanks-mage-rogue-healer, meaning a 
 lot of interesting hybrids. Models and environments are well done. Long time fans of Warhammer 
 universe will have nothing bad to say about the art direction. Oh, and the opening cinematic is 
 pretty awesome :)
  
  The bad:
  
  Animation is so so sloppy. Casting and reset times are broken, just plain broken. World feels like 
 its made of glue (you get stuck in all but the simplest geometry) . Non-public quests are boring. 
 Crafting is silly. The Realm v Realm combat is unbalanced. I mean really unbalanced. The game "feels" 
 empty, especially in certain tiers.
  
  My suggestion is to wait for things to smooth over some more. Maybe it needs another server merger. 
 It has been 7 months and still the game is barely playable. However, Mythic does have a great track 
 record of long term support. If you do wanna play the game because you love (d) Mythic, I seriously 
 suggest waiting till reviews get a little better. If I cant convince you, at the very lest, hit 
 the forums. The class unbalance will leave you possibly gimped and frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  WAR is a MMO from EA and Mythic. The game takes you into the Warhammer Universe with Alot of Classes 
 and 6 races to pick from.
  NOTE: I play a Greenskin on Destruction so i have not played Order so i dont know about them
 
  
  Now this is not the Next WoW Not by a long shot but It does something that WoW didnt do, intraduces 
 RVR ( Realm vs. Realm) Wich is its name. There are quite a few areas where you can do this with 
 a party or just by yourself. Also PVP is a huge thing in the game and as soon as you start its 
 clear why. Its very accessable, even the Noob's get a chance to bring glory to there Faction.
 
  
  PVP Aspect of game- Very Fun ideas wich were executed perfectly. Also even if your Rank 1 you get 
 your stats bumped up to rank 8 so you stand a fighting chance ( so theres know reason to hide under 
 the dinner table ) Also you dont have to go to a person to get into the Q you just click a button 
 and your in and when you get the you can join thing just find a place to sit while you play becuase 
 you come right back there. 
  Cons on PVP- RVR you need to get into at the right time to have a fun enjoyable time on my server 
 its around 8 pm or 2 pm it may vary I say this because the areas are quite big and sometimes it 
 takes awhile to get into a group that will work with you, or find someone to fight.
  
  PvE aspect of the game- Quests are ok but another thing WoW didnt do is PQ or Public Quests wich 
 are quests that earn you XP and Influence wich can be used to buy special items like Armor or Weapons. 
 These happen every 2 mins after one is completed so theres really no prob getting these done. Also 
 the Idea to join a group without being invited just by the host setting the option that people 
 can is a great Idea, Speeds up questing alot faster and its a good way to meet some people.
  Cons of PvE- As said the Quests are pretty bland just talk to people kill something or things and 
 that nature.
  
  Entire Game Cons- The Population is not as big as a game like WoW but alot bigger then other games 
 that are trying to Nab the MMO title.
  
  Overall opinion 8.9- Game has alot of potentional, I wouldnt be surprised if this got a Expansion. 
 But i would be sad if they shut this down sence the guys at Mythic did such a fine job in my opinion. 
 Overall a look for people just wanting to play with others or people takeing a long break from 
 another MMO this the biggest baddest PVPer of them all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkoftheElite
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:33 am PT
Review:  WAR has some innovating features that make this game fun, but lacks what I call a long term commitment. 
 The Public Quests, Instances, and Open Realm vs. Realm and the City Siege are an excellent way 
 to kill time with Guild Options and rewards a plus.
  
  The rest of it seems to be low edge stuff that I like, but takes away from a full experience. It 
 seems that a lack of crafting professions, a lack of Character Personalization, some pretty lame 
 quests, problems with lag and server instability, and no real content that I like or even events 
 that really have much in the way that is useful.
  
  All-in-all, a secondary to primary and nothing more. I will wait another 6 months to a year and 
 see if they make advancements that will make me like this game a little more. More server stability 
 would be nice and toning down the horrid spam of abilities that blind every time I turn around 
 would be nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imkain
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game as I am a fan of the Warhammer universe. However, I started to 
 play the 10-day trial yesterday and could not fall in love with the game. The combat felt tedious 
 and slow, sometimes I would accidentally click on my character, but not be anywhere near them with 
 the mouse pointer. The game would also jitter alot, and my system is not one that jitters alot. 
 To give you an idea, Windows Vista 32-bit, nVidia GTX 295, 4 Gigs of RAM and a Athlon FX-60 dual 
 core processor. I know there is better, but if I can run Crysis at 35-40 FPS... and WoW at 30-60 
 FPS... I'm sure this game would run smooth too. I played for about an hour or two and just couldn't 
 fall in love with it at all. I know that this doesn't say much, but after playing AoC and being 
 let down by that game by similar issues, I decided that World of Warcraft fits my style better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vlaimir_Lem86
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:08 pm PT
Review:  After playing WAR since early access, till the 18th of March (6 months total) , it is obvious that 
 my opinions/viewpoints on this game are as solid as the time that i have spent playing the game. 
 I held off reviewing this game till Patch 1.2, since i made the mistake of Reviewing AoC about 
 a month after release, which, in-turn, backfired. And the game ended up being absolute garbage. 
 
  
  First off, WAR is a fun game. For the casual player. Someone who wants to hop on a couple hours 
 a night, a couple times a week. There is enough "content" in the game to keep someone going on 
 a 10 hour a week gameing schedule. Anything more than that, you will end up seeing the flaws in 
 the lack of endgame content, and end up being basically "bored".
  
  As we all know the game is based around pvp. Scenarios and Open Realm vs. Realm combat is what 
 its all based around. Questing and leveling your character is all meant to be done solo. There 
 are only two "raid" type dungeons (gunbad, and bastion stairs) , that you can actually "raid". And 
 even that can be done with only 6 people, and easily for that matter. There are three "sides" to 
 both of these dungeons, an easy/medium/and hard side. At the end of each "side" there is a 6 man 
 instance that has a final boss. These bosses can be quite tricky at frist, but once you down that 
 certain boss once, a 6 man group with only half a brain could kill the boss. These dungeons are 
 laughable in comparison to dungeons and raids in games like WoW, EQ, or Vanguard.
  
  Questing and getting your toon to 40 can easily be done in about 30 days of "casual" gametime (my 
 first toon to 40 was only 6 days 17 hours gametime.) But once at 40, you will begin to grind renoun 
 ranks, which is your pvp rank, by killing players, capturing keeps and battle objectives, and participating/winning 
 scenarios. The renoun rank caps at 80. But this is where the game falls apart. 
  
  Getting to RR80 is a REDICULOUSLY long grind, of killing players, and flipping keeps. One character/person 
 in particular on the server that i am on (monolith) , is a witch elf, that capped 80 about a month 
 ago. Gameplay time that he spent (at the time he hit 80) was 74 days 18 hours. thats 74 DAYS OF 
 ACTUAL GAMEPLAY. You do the math on the date that the game released to a month ago, and calculate 
 the time he spent ingame everyday (roughly 13 hours, every single day, for 5 months straight) .
 
  
  Moving on the endame pve. PvE endgame consists of 6 man instances. The loot in the instances are 
 needed to gear your character up, but the downside to that is, a 6 man instance can be ran in about 
 2 hours. But the lockout timer on the mobs is 3 days (on the easiest dungeons) . On the more "hardcore" 
 pve dungeons, its 5 days. Now with a game that has dungeons, and random dropped gear, an a dungeon 
 that can be ran in 2-3 hours, with a 5 day lockout timer, is a def problem. 
  
  Endgame pvp consists of takeing keeps/bo's for your faction (destro or order) . Takeing keeps is 
 a complete joke, since a keep can be taken by the opposing faction two minutes later if not defended. 
 And defending a keep is just as lame, all that it consists of is standing in the same spot for 
 however long it takes for them to either take it back, or to wipe and move on to the next keep/bo. 
 Now imagine yourself takeing the same keeps all day long on a saturday or sunday, over and over 
 and over again. yeah, it gets really lame, and after takeing some 400+ keeps on my zealot, it gets 
 even more rediculous to think that i have taken the same keep at least 50 times.
  
  City raiding is even more of a joke. Once you cap two zones and take both fortresses, you moveon 
 to takeing the opposing sides city. But its nothing like anyone had ever exspected. City takes 
 consist of Public quests and scenarios. The public quests give you loot bags for endgame gear (which 
 are really nice) . But in the meantime, you have to fight your opposing faction WHILE doing the 
 PQ for loot. 48v48 is what its suppose to be. Top that with having to do an actual quest, and fight 
 INSANELY hard pve mobs to get your loot. Now if you get far enough to actually down the rediculously 
 hard pve mobs, when the chest drops to pickup your loot, the oppoing force can (and will) camp 
 that chest so noone can get loot. This is, by far, THE WORST endgame content that i have ever seen 
 in an mmo so far, im hopeing noone tops it.
  
  All in all, the game can be fun. Scenarios are fun, but give no loot. The grind for renoun is just 
 so mindless and "so far away" that many have and will quit as time goes on.
  
  Like ive said in the past to many people about this game, PvE games can live with a small players-base. 
 But a game such as Warhammer, that is 90% driven off of actual players and pvp, is destined to 
 fail at the rate that its going. Mythic is even makeing huge strides to get people back into playing, 
 by introduceing new classes into the game. But mind you, these classes were suppose to be in the 
 game at launch.
  
  Final note, my viewpoints and opinions on this game are mine, and mine alone. If you disagree, 
 fine. But for people that look at this review, take it seriously. Becuase i took this game seriously 
 for 6 months. And have 5 lvl 40's, who are all over renoun rank 40 (My iron breaker is Renoun rank 
 67) .
  **LVL 40-Ironbreaker, White Lion, Bright Wizard, Warrior Priest, and Zealot**
  
  
  For those who decide to get the game, or who are playing/still playing, happy hunting folks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benwrong
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Played this in open beta and for a few months after but just could not get into it. I really tried 
 to like Warhammer online but it got boring quick. Played many MMOs over the years and the daily 
 grind fest of questing and leveling in online mmo games has worn me out and just does not appeal 
 to me anymore. Warhammer Online tries a few new things but its still basically just another quest 
 and grind to level just to get better gear game. Not a bad game but just not my cup of tea anymore. 
 These type of games also attract a lot of immature people who make the game seem more like a job 
 sometimes than entertainment. Most people are nice but the jerks ruin the experience for me to 
 even bother. I did like the public quest idea and trying to make PvP feel like it was part of the 
 world around you and getting you involved more but not enough to make it a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigan_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:46 am PT
Review:  Good:
  - Plenty of characters to choose from
  - Characters feel quite balanced overall
  -Public quests are a good idea and are indeed fun to take part in
  - Instanced battlegrounds 
 can be accessed anywhere, and when you have finished you will be where you entered it. A handy 
 feature.
  - Leveling isnt particularly fast but it isn't slow and painful either, they got it just right.
 
  -RvR and sieging towns/castles is challenging and rewarding.
  - PvE quests are pretty nice, specific quests for different races are well thought out.
  - Choice 
 to avoid PvE altogether if players want, but its easier to lvl and you get the most out of the 
 game if you choose to play PvE and PvP
  -Each character has a unique ability, not just each race like in wow.
  
  Bad:
  - Server population, 
 this is the biggest problem, no matter which server you play they are never full and this kills 
 the game a little. You cant do public quests often because of lack of players. Instanced battles 
 also suffer from lack of players.
  - Community - The guilds in this game are not very good to be honest, Nobody talks or really organizes 
 events. There are a few exceptions in the higher lvl guilds, but if your under lvl 30 you will 
 struggle to find any guild that will do events, play together, or even talk.
  - Few bugs and errors about causing random crashing, this might just be me but im sure other people 
 will have issues too.
  
  
  Overall the game is better than WoW in many aspects and I prefer it to WoW. However I fear the 
 lack of a solid community will kill this game. Its almost impossible to get public quests done 
 on certain races (dark elves in particular) even at peak times in the weekend. If you are a fan 
 of MMO's then try the trial , if you are after a solid MMO which benefits PvP then this game is 
 for you. Having said that if you like a good community with full servers a lot, this game is not 
 for you. I often play solo most of the time it is that bad.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GattsTaichou
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 12:47 am PT
Review:  Ok, I know some of you may think - "How could the guy write a review of an MMO RPG after playing 
 only 20 to 40 hours?" Well, these Massively Multiplayer Online games are the kind of games that 
 are - as I have classified this one - highly addictive and they just suck you in. This way, you 
 easily end up playing with it for hundreds of hours or even well beyond that. But in my opinion 
 - and feel free to disagree - around 30 hours is enough to make a sane judgement of a game.
  
  I have played Lineage 2 for quite a while, have tried World of Warcraft and also tried Age 
 of Conan: Hyborian Adventures. Not too many, but again I guess enough to judge or at least compare 
 this to previous names. I am not going to go too deep in the review - I will just try to give you 
 a taste of what the game is like through my looking glass.
  
  The strength of a great on-line game is I guess is it's ability to suck in more and more players. 
 To do thins careful decisions have to be made on not only the style of the game, but on it's system 
 requirements and as it seems on the data of it's arrival - which was a little unfortunate in this 
 case.
  
  Warhammer online is centered around war. The main strength of the game is PvP, or to be a little 
 more precise, RvR where the two realms - Order and Destruction battle against each other. Part 
 of the Achievement system, the whole Renown levels are centered around this, not to mention the 
 very important RvR regions of the map and the so called "Scenarios" that I guess just hit the bull's-eye 
 on massive RvR gameplay.
  
  I have not played too much of the scenarios, but I guess most people would agree that they are 
 definitely one of the most fun to play parts of the game. You can apply to Scenario queues using 
 a red WAR icon on you HUD. There you will given the choice to select from a number of available 
 Scenarios - and when enough players apply for that game, you are teleported to the battlefield, 
 that is kind of like a team dathmatch or a Capture the Flag. It's incredibly fun to play.
  
  There are also a large number of quests in the game. I am only level 9, but I already have 
 an Achievement reward "The Quest Hunter" - that you get when you have completed 100 quests. These 
 achievements you can set as your title in game, and they will appear under your name for all other 
 players to see.
  
  Another unique part of the game is your Book - the Tome of Knowledge that stores everything you 
 can lay your eyes upon. The beasts you have encountered, your achivements, your rewards, the current 
 and closed quests, everything you saw and you unlocked in game. It is kind of fun just to riffle 
 through.
  
  Now for a little technical part. As I said, the game was intended to run on most computers, and 
 you can tell that if you try to play.
  
  The sounds are OK, but nothing special, just as with the graphics.
  The game runs great, but 
 that's that.
  
  Loading times are surprisingly low [maybe it's just my PC, but it's 1 year old already] . After 
 a few clicks I am already in game. Here I could choose a race I wanted to play, and a profession 
 and could do a little customisation that was quite satisfying to my taste. By the way, you can 
 get special dyes in game, with which you can dye your clothes/armor to different colors - another 
 way to customise your character.
  
  The server I joined, that is a core server for beginners was not too overpopulated and if that 
 is considered a popular server, I wonder if the others would feel empty.....
  
  Anyway - I am sure I will spend a lot of time playing this game.
  
  Recommend: I would definitely 
 recommend this game to anyone new to MMOs.
  
  Also Recommend: I would recommend this game to people who are playing or have played other MMOs, 
 and want a taste of a PvP [RvR] oriented RPG.
  
  The game is just centered around WAR... because, you know - WAR never changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terkio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I say "on of the best" MMO I've played to date, and that's just because I was thinking of Dark 
 Age of Camelot, but unfortunately the game has become slightly dated. Enough on DAoC though.
  
  WAR is amazing because it is, like DAoC, a game based on RvR (realm versus realm) and not just 
 PvP (player versus player) . Some will say there is no difference, but those people generally haven't 
 tasted to pure thrill of RvR. The difference is that RvR is not just 1 on 1 fighting and such, 
 but fights against other players that affect the whole world you play in.
  
  The game reaches true brilliance on the perfect balance in between RvR and PvE. It has brought 
 a total revolution in MMOs! The simplest way would be to list them:
  
  Open Parties: In WAR you can just decide to create an open party (which is the default) and have 
 anyone join in to your party. It really stops the whole spending hours /sending and /telling and 
 such to find a party in your area for a simple dead.
  
  PQ (Public Quests) : These quests are not personal quests you pick up from an NPC but quests which 
 you get by entering an area and being involved into a realm event. No new MMO should be allowed 
 to survive without the idea of PQs.
  
  Mix RvR/PvE: WAR will bring you into a world where you need to play against the environment as 
 well as against other players. These two will go hand in hand and a balance of both is fantastic 
 to find. You get to do both really easily with no hassle involved. It's really easy to join into 
 whatever you want: PvE, RvR, PQs.
  
  Seasonal Events: So far the seasonal events have followed one onto the other. These aren't just 
 petty events, they're genuinely fun and you can see that Mythic has actually built RvR scenarios, 
 PvE events as well as RvR challenges every time.
  
  The critics has been that Mythic had not released 4 classes announced at the beginning of the project, 
 but have been released in premier through seasonal events and then to the general public. 4 capitals 
 have not been released as well, but that has not really brought anything down as far as I am concerned.
 
  
  Classes are varied, and most of them are really original and introduce a very interesting gameplay 
 that one will have to master to reach his/her/its peak.
  
  In addition to all this, I have to say that the WAR team has kept everyone well updated and has 
 also listened to the players and incessantly improved the game.
  
  
  All in all, WAR is the probably the best game I have played mainly because of its great RvR environment. 
 The classes are fun, and honestly, you always get really insane action! Forget what you've played 
 before (a part from the really good MMOs like DAoC and AO) and try conquering a realm and maybe 
 invading a capital.
  
  9.5 is just because on an MMO, there is always room for improvement. We'll get to a 10 someday. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sum43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Im Sorry WoW lovers, (nerds) but this game is just like wow but there is actually a point to it. 
 Not doing the same old kill 10 monsters. The RvR and PvP, just by that is better than WoW, WoW 
 just gets boring and reppetive, when this game some parts get boring and Dull but most of the time 
 it is fun, also the communtiy is helpful and nice (unlike wows) . This Game is not perfect, nethier 
 is wow. WoW when you first start out it is so boring, but every time you level it keeps building 
 on to the never ending boredom. This Game looks like it is worth buying. Overall Warhammer Online 
 Age of Reckoning Kick World of Warcrafts Ass. It is hard to believe why 11 million people play 
 it..... Just by these other gameplay and other videos it looks more fun Then WoW better PvP, RvR 
 the PvE is actually fun, And the communtiy is useful and helpful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I had begun tracking Warhammer Online, in on form or the other, since 2006 and built about three 
 years of hype in waiting for the game. I bought the CE when it came out last year ans was first 
 in line to pick it up. I even played int he beta. Now, I don't want to say that I was disappointed, 
 but I didn't get what I thought I was getting out of the most anticipated MMO of 2008. 
  
  MMOs are very difficult to give a rating to only because it is difficult to explore every single 
 facet of their world in a short period of time. It took me a few years of playing before I could 
 even rate WoW for all it was worth. You may understand, then , that I make any kind of player review 
 with a lot of hesitation. I've played a lot of WAR, but I don't think I really came close to seeing 
 it all. 
  
  First off, WAR is a great game and most certainly makes some major improvements in the world of 
 the MMO. Though the character classes fit into the same archetypes that have been around since 
 the stone age, each feels like a very well rounded class with the ability to be self-reliant to 
 one degree or another. Some classes, though, are more self-reliant than others, as always. Healers, 
 most of all the DoK and WP, are probably the most self-reliant for their higher armor, melee damage, 
 and survivability. This is, and always, will be true in any MMO.
  
  However, the wonderful feeling you get form you unique class ends when you play a character that's 
 mirrored in the opposite faction. WPs are mirrored by DoKs, KoTBS are mirrored by Chosen, and so 
 on. It becomes painfully apparent that there's not a whole lot of difference between you and the 
 enemy. In fact, a lot of the mirrored classes share the same exact set of morale abilities and 
 have very similar skills that essentially do the same thing with different names and descriptions. 
 This makes the appeal of rolling a character class in the opposite faction drop dramatically. I 
 rolled a WP to begin with and dabbled into the DoK, for example. When I learned that the DoK functioned 
 in basically the exact manner, all appeal to have two of the exact same healers that just looked 
 different... well it was gone. I think it's worth to call Mythic out on the fact that they advertise 
 (now) 24 unique classes that aren't really unique.
  
  They do this for balance issues, of course. They want every player to have the same ability as 
 their adversaries and have the same shot in winning Mythic's prize feature, RVR. In theory, yeah! 
 But, as is and forever shall be, destruction drew in the best players and order is continuously 
 tromped. Into the ground. Constantly. I mean the only time you can win against Destruction on many 
 servers is in the middle of the day when all the Destruction players are at work or at school, 
 and only a few stragglers are logged in. This was true with WoW too and the horde. This is true 
 with any PvP or RvR game. Bad guys always win! I have to admit, I'm a really good player too. There's 
 no doubt in my mind, I definatly rank up there with skilled players who consistently side with 
 the good guys. I'm surrounded, however, by fools. Fools are always drawn to the 'prettier' races 
 and fail at life miserably! I hate them all!
  
  Some of the credit for this falling goes to Mythic, however. My god, they plugged the awesomeness 
 of the Destruction army like there was no tomorrow, glorifying it into godhood. The same, throughout 
 the game's development, was not done for Order. Paul Barnett, though I think he's fantastic, was 
 the face for this failing and even though he called much of the Order classes "cool", Destruction 
 classes got "they're cool and they're better than everyone else and I think they're fantastic". 
 Who do you think more people will be inclined to play as? The better promoted ones. Exactly. 
 
  
  WAR also doesn't solve one of the fundamental problems of an MMO: GRINDING. It's no so much the 
 levels in this game, because I honestly thought they were fast and easy to get through, but the 
 other aspects like gear grinding, renown grinding, and infamy grinding. Infamy grinding is a prt 
 of the loot system set up for PQs. If you want the best loot available, you gotta get the infamy 
 for it. I will say PQs are WONDERFUL things that add a lot of flavor tot he game, but they are 
 often empty of players and interest, making the solo player grind on his own for the first few 
 stages. Gear grinding will ALWAYS be a problem, I don't know how anyone will ever get beyond it, 
 but renown grinding is by far the WORST. Holy crap. Some of the greatest gear is in obtaining higher 
 renown ranks. To get there is an absolute chore. It's terrible. It takes forever. It's the same 
 maps, with the same players, with Order losing all the time, and a crawling forward to getting 
 one piece of gear every few levels. Did I mention it takes forever? Oh, I'm sure there's plenty 
 of Destruction players who just zoom through it, given that they win all the time, but the Order 
 guys are left with 100 renown out of a possible 3000 after every battle. I couldn't stand doing 
 it. The alternative, however, was Infamy and dungeons, which was just another form of grinding. 
 Ouchers....
  
  Back to the PQs, I do want to say that I adore them despite their faults. The PQ is an open world 
 dungeon, basically, that anyone can join in at any time and take part in very cool plot and boss 
 battles. A lot of the time you can pull out some nice gear as well, and of course the infamy rewards 
 back in town aren't too shabby. Again, you gotta grind the PQs to get there and many times you're 
 gonna be doing it on your own as many people are ranking up so fast that they don't stick around 
 for long.
  
  I just want to point out also, as a matter of personal preference, the LONG text descriptions of 
 simple quests are really annoying. I mean, WAR has some main story-line quests that are really 
 fun and interesting and tie into the next zone or chapter and are worth reading, but they are also 
 mixed in with a lot of little grab and run quests that are pure nonsense to read through. It makes 
 the game drag a bit and, personally, turned me off from reading anything at all. 
  
  RVR is a magnificent thing as well. Taking keeps, when you can take them, and fighting it out is 
 a hell of a lot of fun. It's probably the aspect of the game I enjoyed most. However, it has its 
 drawbacks, especially since you can sloe a keep moments after you claim it if you and your war 
 band just happen to walk away when an enemy war band comes riding by and many times... well... 
 Destruction armies outnumber Order and trump attempts to take keeps and zerg any defenses. Eh...
 
  
  Another great thing about WAR are the live events. These events provide a chance to get together 
 with just about everyone, take part in dungeons, PQs, and other fun, and get rewarded for it. The 
 themes are original and typically lead to some sort of expansion in the game. There's been an event 
 for the addition of the KoTBS and BG, there's going to be one for the Slayer and Choppa, there 
 was a Halloween one, a new years one.... all sorts of stuff. Very fun.
  
  The crafting system... sucks. There's no other way around it. However the economy is super strong 
 and there is very little emphasis on money and auctioning. You won't be dependent on people making 
 potions or enchanting items, and there's not a whole lot of long term value to items players make 
 anyway. Therefore, there's no one hording money and even if there was there wouldn't be much to 
 buy that a player soloing couldn't afford anyway. 
  
  Overall, though the game is great, it feels unfinished. It feels like it was released a year too 
 early and I think the fault of an early release really falls on us as players NAGGING Mythic to 
 death. There was a lot of polish that could have been added to the game that wasn't, but even more 
 that was. My gut feeling is mixed in this regard. My life lesson here is to avoid buying an MMO 
 until a year after it has been out and polished with thousands of players already entwined. This 
 might also be my last fantasy MMO. I can only do this so many times before getting bored, after 
 all. Grinding is no longer a luxury I can afford. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oapik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  There is a whole lot to say about WAR, but I will try to be discrete. The game I must say is one 
 of the best mmorpg's out. In my opinion it does beat World of Warcraft but WOW is a good title 
 with expansions already out and a few years going on where as WAR only has a few months so far. 
 I must say though that WAR is one of the very few mmorpg's out that was ready for launch on it' 
 set date, Not many games do that nowadays." The title is also developed by Mythic which is one 
 of the best developers out and they were the creators of one of the first and best mmorpg's Dark 
 Age of Camelot. When it comes to PVP I must say Mythic shines in that area as well as everything 
 else that makes a good mmorpg. There is a great variety of classes to choose from each of which 
 differ and are interesting. Every class is needed as well so there is no powerful class that can 
 eliminate the others, game balance is very well done in WAR." PVP not only takes place in realm 
 vs realm but in the open world as well and in cities that normally would not be able to be taken 
 over in other games. More details n such can be found at the games website or forums and other 
 info as well. The core gameplay is very well done and it is possible to solo to your final level 
 doing PVE and PVP, just takes time. In all Mythic has done a great job on WAR and its only been 
 out a few months. Out of all the mmorpg's I have played, this is the best one. Other mmorpg's played- 
 Everquest 2, World of warcraft, Star wars galaxies, Age of Conan, Dark age of camelot, Horizons, 
 The Matrix online, City of Heroes, City of Villians, Lord of the rings online, Lineage 2, Final 
 Fantasy online, and another title I can't remember but developed by europeans. As well as all the 
 expansions to these titles. I give it a 9.5 because mmorpgs area always changing and improving. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doraemon1987
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  I had to review this game after giving it a second go.... I first played this game out of extreme 
 boredom... i actually pre-ordered it a couple of days before release and played it on release.
 
  
  *FIRST ENCOUNTER PLAYING WAR*
  
  I played horde and got a blackorc to rank 12 or something.... i admit i didnt really bother to explore 
 or join a guild and by doing so the game felt sooo bland, i admit i liked the public quests but 
 there was soo much more on offer that i didnt even fully get in to..... SO i eventually uninstalled 
 the game, let the rest of my free trial run out and the game was shelved.
  
  *SECOND ENCOUNTER PLAYING WAR*
  
  I wanted to play an MMO that gave me something to do but 
 at the same time didnt waste my life away.... its hard to find an mmo like that, but its also down 
 to the person not just the game to play a MMO "casually". 
  
  So i looked through my previous selection of MMO's and thought; "WAR... i didnt give you much of 
 a chance", so i read up on it on the forums and thought id give it a go.
  
  This time i actually took the time to choose a server that has a good population and balance (important 
 for a game like WAR) and i ended up choosing order - Knight of the blazing sun (kinda like a paladin 
 from d2... uses Buffs for groups, can use sword and shield or two handed sword and is regarded a 
 tank/dps (ish) if you spec yourself correctly.
  
  I played the game by researching the areas i started in, explored my surrounding areas and participated 
 in as much RVR as possible... and i found my self immersed... I done some PvE, Public questing, scenarios 
 and RVR all over the place. 
  
  The ability to join OPEN parties is awesome, u just click a button and it shows you all nearby 
 parties that are open and you just click to join... makes life soo much easier.
  
  *note*
  Ive yet to explore crafting fully but that is apparently being redesigned so ill see what they 
 will come up with.
  
  *** [My Final Thoughts] ***
  
  -The GooD
  
  + A game that doesnt take too much time to get something out of, easy join scenarios and RVR.. that 
 happens almost constantly.
  
  + Nice progression through the game, progressing from tier to tier, each tier seems to add something 
 new and mixes things up a bit
  
  + Isnt impossible or extremely time consuming to LEVEL UP or GEAR UP, which makes the game very 
 accessible
  
  + Many ways to gain some form of experience, EXP, INFLUENCE AND RENOWN... and they all amount to 
 something, eg: gear or skills
  
  + RVR is very diverse, attacking or defending plots of land, sieging or defending forts, capture 
 points, mass pvp... kinda reminds me of my RFO days...
  
  -The BaD
  
  - Takes some time to get into and know what your doing
  
  - Must do some homework about server 
 populations and areas within the game so you are aware of whats going on.... or you'll miss out 
 on sooo many things like my first time around playing WAR
  
  - Wish there were some more graphical options... i know there is a lot on the screen but for more 
 powerful machines a few more "customizable" options would be nice
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trantham
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  I've played since early access launch (and was in the closed beta) and the one thing about WAR 
 that stands out above all others is Mythic's committment to make changes or additions to areas 
 of the game that didn't quite reach community expectations.
  
  I've played almost every major MMO to launch since UO and I'm enjoying this one more than any of 
 the others (yes, even that one which shall not be named.)
  
  There are two gameplay elements that really stand out for me:
  
  (1) WAR makes it extremely 
 fun and easy to group and play with other players. The open party / warband system works extremely 
 well. Additionally, there's no reason NOT to group and it's a lot more fun and enjoyable if you 
 do.
  
  (2) There are several viable ways to advance your character. You can participate in Public Quests, 
 you can complete regular PvE quests and storylines, you can run through one of the dungeons, you 
 can run the battlefield scenarios, you can participate in open RvR combat taking keeps and battlefield 
 objectives and killing the enemy, you can participate in live in-game events, and of course you 
 can just grind mobs if you want to do that for a while. You gain Experience, Renown and / or Influence 
 for everything you do in WAR. There's always a way to play that suits your mood on any given day.
 
  
  The crafting system is unique and fun but currently limited. Mythic has acknowledged this from 
 the start (its an RvR focused game) and they have committed to expanding crafting in the future 
 (I'm not aware of a timetable for this.)
  
  While there are some improvements that could be made to gameplay, WAR is phenomenally fun to play 
 right now and in my opinon 'gets it right'. Mythic actively engages its player base for feedback. 
 If something really needs to change or be modified Mythic has shown that it will make those changes. 
 For me, the best change since launch was the addition of influence gear for participating in each 
 tier of ORvR and the free addition of two more character classes (with two more on the way in March 
 2009) .
  
  In conclusion, if you're a fan of MMOs and like to PvP then I highly recommend this game. I did 
 not like PvP very much prior to WAR and now I can't get enough.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  For many today when you say online game it's synonymous with WoW. It may surprise you though that 
 it is not the ONLY online game in the world, even more surprising is that it's not the only good 
 one either. So enters WAR, a online game of many familiar traits but with many positive upgrades 
 and new ideas.
  
  Graphics - Better than WoW but nothing you could consider up to date by Crysis standards. The overall 
 art direction of the world is rather drab, which can be understood if you know the lore and world 
 that is Warhammer from Games Work Shop. The world is extremely dark, violent and gory. Of course 
 to keep the title rated T this can't translate, so in a attempt to get the point of Warhammer across 
 a drab color palette was used which is fine except for all the gore and violence was left out. 
 The world isn't barren by any means, it just doesn't have any specific land marks worth mentioning.
 
  
  Mechanics - Now this is where WAR truly shines. While the basic core gameplay mirrors WoW rather 
 well, things like Public quests and Open Realm Versus Realm bring the quality to a entirely different 
 level. Public quests are stationary area quests, simply by entering the area you become a participant 
 in the quest. What makes them so enjoyable is the dynamics, the first public quest in the Empire 
 realm is my favorite so far. The end of this PQ is wrapped up by a giant troll (and I do mean giant) 
 rampaging through the forest to meet you and the others doing the quest, tosses trees like paper 
 as he does so. This large scale is something entertaining as well as fun to play. The ORvR (or 
 Open Realm versus Realm) is also quite nice, there are core areas in the major zones which just 
 by entering like the PQ you are flagged and become active in the Player versus Player world, the 
 game continues though unlike the WoW PvP instances. You can get quests from NPCs that involve the 
 ORvR area but don't require you to actually interact with the PvP element. No worries though, Instances 
 still do exsist and are quite fun aswell. The shrunk size of the instances compared to the ORvR 
 means that matches are much faster though not as large, since ORvR has no size restriction. Finally 
 the fact that level Experience is gained in PvP is a nice touch, meaning that you don't have to 
 level up and then go play PvP, you can just jump right in and ride it straight through it you like.
 
  
  Controls - Standard to any other decent MMO, of course being on the computer they can be mapped 
 to any way you like.
  
  Audio - The sound to this game is rather average, having little positive high lights and few to 
 none negatives. Nothing truly sounds unique in this game, but the range is just large enough that 
 nothing sounds completely the same. The lack of a decent soundtrack is rather sad, but nothing 
 huge as very few MMOs boast a decent sound track anyway.
  
  Final Thoughts
  So as it dwindles down it comes to this, if you're tired of WoW and want something familiar but 
 different this is what you're looking for. If you are looking to get into something new and figure 
 that WoW won't work since almost everyone playing it is level maxed and you don't want to play 
 a MMO alone, this should work rather well. Many of the servers have a good count on them even during 
 low population hours. 
  Some notable mark downs though would be the lack of non- Player vs. Player gameplay. While the 
 world is ripe with monsters and demons to slay and gain exp from, it's obvious that it wasn't a 
 major desire in the game. Quests are rather bland and repetitive and the lack of Dungeons all together 
 is rather weak, public quests obviously try to make up for this and while they are great fun it 
 can sometimes be a chore just to find enough people to do it once. This isn't to say slaying monsters 
 isn't fun but as with any MMO the lack of dynamic NPC combat gets tiresome. Finally the lack of 
 Professions is shocking, while many MMOs today offer an array of skills to forge items and weapons 
 WAR only has two major professions. Taliman creation and Potion creation, to support these two 
 skills there are three collection skills. The strangest being Scavenging, while the other two collect 
 the main parts for making Talisman or Potions this one collects the little side parts needed for 
 them. So instead of collecting a main plant for a potion, it will help you collect things like 
 dirt to grow the plant or water to make the potion. All in all though it's a great game worth a 
 try, if you're looking to move from WoW or start something new it's a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Warhammer Online might as well be called a darker version of any of its fantasy-heroic-questing 
 cousins (be they World of Warcraft, or everquest 2, or what have you) , because the game really 
 doesn't bring much new to the table.
  
  Here, you have your classic case of two sides of players vying for dominance. Sound familiar? I 
 thought so.
  
  In order to be a part of this battle, you choose a class and race and gender. In terms of classes, 
 the usual suspects certainly apply-mages, priests, warriors, archers, rogues by another names-all 
 the classic stuff you'd expect, though they're certainly tweaked to mesh with the fabulous Warhammer 
 universe (of which I am an avid fan) .
  
  Regardless, some might say that this it's quite alright to stick to expectation, and maybe they're 
 right, because the races do seem to add a different vibe to things (I can't think of another race 
 in an MMO that's as interesting as Chaos [not that I played them during my time] ) .
  
  But herein lays one problem. The races of Destruction are so interesting, that population imbalances 
 arose, to such a grievous extent that the run of the mill dwarves, elves, and humans just couldn't 
 keep up. And in a game that stakes its claim on player-versus-player combat, one sided battles 
 aren't exactly the best thing.
  
  What's more, open world PVP never really seems to happen as much as it should. It's set up to, 
 sure, but most of the time, you'll be fighting in an arena-esque local, which is fine for a nice 
 team deathmatch with very little strategy-but there's still got to be something bigger than that 
 out there, and, to my mind, there wasn't (at least, not on a consistent basis) . 
  Of course, the combat isn't terribly special, think World of Warcraft and throw in a few less interesting 
 animations and you've got the idea.
  
  The main problem though, that I have with this game-and any other adventure-fantasy MMO-is the 
 endlessly needful quests, and the sheer BOREDOM that derive from there. There's no voice-overs 
 for general text, and no real personality to many of the quests (barring the hilarious Greenskin 
 area) , so there isn't really any good feeling besides "ho-hum, another kill/fetch/defend/escort 
 quest to do". 
  
  The highly touted public quests aren't much better either, I must confess. 
  Sure, they happen 
 on the fly, and you need others to complete them, but they roll-over and restart every 2 minutes, 
 and at that rate, you can never feel like you've accomplished anything real by killing that Giant, 
 because, you'll be saying "Oh, look, there's the Giant, back again and againand again"
  Now, I guess my problem is that I'm a fan of realism to some extent a fan of in-world progress-In 
 other words, I want to feel like I made a difference in the game and for my money, and you never 
 feel that here.
  
  I will say though, that a very welcome re-addition to the genre was a return of experience points 
 and item drops for player-kills. That'll help stave off the boring quest-grind awhile, but make 
 no mistake, you'll be wrung through the gears anyway out of necessity. 
  
  Finally, I'd like to bring up a major issue with the game as well, and that's the lack of customization. 
 
  
  In character creation you have only a few faces, a few skin tones, a small number of hairstyles, 
 scars, accessories-it's all nice, but it's also all limited. There's just not enough choice, and 
 coupling this with the fact that so many items look the same for their respective level ranges, 
 and you can see why not even a custom armour-colour feature (with the option of only a handful 
 of colours) can save this character-creation mess.
  
  In the end, WAR is decent, but it's not striking. I do feel as though it fails on more levels than 
 it succeeds on, but I use the term 'fail' when I should say, 'renders passably', because the game 
 does nothing horribly, but, passably. If you're a gamer like me though, you expected a lot more 
 than you got from this, and passably certainly won't foot a 15$ a month bill, that gives you a 
 world in which you feel un-influential, unimportant, and wholly un-unique. 
  
  
  I never thought such a phrase would make sense, but it does here:
  Warhammer Online has a certain 
 style, but it has no soul 
  
  Or rather, no spirit of its own, that draws you in and makes you feel like you're treading new 
 ground- because you're not. 
  
  In WAR, you're on the same old path, only with a new coat of paint, and while WAR is a solid effort 
 it really shines a light on how stale the MMO genre is getting, as the innovations here are few 
 and far between.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirkel28
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  This could have been a great game with some of the nice ideas they have in it, but the lack of 
 vision with design and development of characters ruins the game. You can tell many aspects of the 
 game was a rush job to make release. 
  
  There is so much that can be said but I will just break it down into Good and Bad points.
  
 
  Good points (+)
  + Graphics look nice, lots of detail.
  + Quick in and out of PvP, mainly the Scenarios (providing you on are a populated enough server)
 
  + Game is pretty fun and well designed the first Tier1 (rank 1-11)
  + You can cancel you account at any time.
  
  Bad points (-)
  
  - Game gets worse the closer 
 you get to Rank 40
  - Far too much CC (stuns, roots, etc) by rank 40
  - End game has been broke, crashing, poorly designed.
  - The ORvR the main selling point of the 
 game the game is poorly thought out, and is more of a PvE swap objectives game in a PvP zone.
 
  - Realm population is imbalanced on most servers towards destruction.
  - Majority of servers are very empty and makes the world empty with nothing going on.
  - Class 
 balance is always an issue.
  - Gear sets are incomplete, poorly thought out stats wise, and many of the graphics on the gear 
 all look the same.
  - Game world is not immersive, feels more like individual sandboxes just connected together, with 
 no real reason to go anywhere other than very dull PvE quests.
  - Just a general lack of content.
  - Not worth $15 a month by any means, maybe $0-$5 a month.
 
  
  I'm probably leaving out stuff, but you get the point. If you get the game cheap you will probably 
 enjoy the first month of play, then eventually you will realize what poor effort was put into the 
 rest of the game.
  
  Most people reviewing this game a 9 or high probably haven't played it long enough to give a real 
 review. Same goes for AoC and all the original high reviews it got.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huftsk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 6:49 am PT
Review:  I find this game, thus all its flaws to be a solid contribution to us who excite at Player VS Player 
 gameplay. 
  IMO I think PvE players will find this game repetitive and boring. With even worse diversety of 
 appearance than WoW itemisation. + for paint possibility, but thats it. Most careers tend to finally 
 look the same.
  Graphics are good but nothing like LOTRO or AOC, WAR has its bugs, its occational crashes and several 
 strange bugs. But in the end this doesn't matter.
  Its all about RvR, open RvR where hundreds of players engage to retake Keeps and land. Scenario 
 (instanced PvP) with small blast off capture the flag.
  And the bonus, it all gains XP.
  I also find after playing this game for a while now, that most players have a more mature tone 
 in chat etc. Not many you noob etc... Strangly the darkest MMO out there makes people wanna help 
 eachother be good, rather than push them down in the dirt.
  The player quests are good too (out in nature PvE "instance") But its nothing like the RvR.
  
 
  Dunno what more to say, only this is a real good game with lots of fun for the right gameplayer.
 
  
  Huftsk out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aloen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 9:06 am PT
Review:  For a very long time, Warhammer Online was to be the holy grail of all things Massive, the internet 
 juggernaut that would crush the imperial World of Warcraft franchise. Whoever thought that was 
 stupid. Warhammer Online is not WoW. Sure, it has borrowed a great deal from that venerable title, 
 a strong User Interface, great support for customization via addons, great stylistic graphics, 
 and intense gameplay. 
  
  It has improved on WoW in various ways. PvP is now tighter, with instances that you can queue into 
 at any point, and that dump you out exactly where you entered them (a great improvement) . There 
 are more PvP zones, focusing on all levels, and the balance between characters is better (though 
 it is still unbalanced - keep in mind WoW has been out for nearly half a decade now, and WAR is 
 quickly becoming a balanced game) . The action is faster, though the deaths take longer (one shotting 
 is no longer possible) , and even healers feel like they are adding to the cause as more than just 
 "heal bots". 
  
  For PvE there is the typically level grind, spiced up with "Player Quests" - raid type activities 
 which don't require a raid (or even a seperate instance - they occur outside) . Zones are overflowing 
 with quests and they do a great job of leading you from one quest hub to the next. In addition, 
 quests now outline sections of the map to let you know where best to hunt for the objectives, a 
 welcome addition that gives you a hint, but doesn't lead you by the nose in alot of instances. 
 
  
  Where does WAR fail? It's decentralized. There are only 2 main cities as of this writing - Altdorf 
 for order and The Inevitable City for destruction. They are in no way as easily accessed as the 
 World of Warcraft cities, but they fulfill the same functions as auction houses and guild registrar. 
 They should be centralized hubs, but they fail at this task because, while they are both huge and 
 have a number of interesting attractions (there are innumerable quests inside the cities themselves) , 
 they feel removed from everything. They feel like (and are) keeps, designed as RvR areas more than 
 as living, breathing urban areas. In addition, there are few other real "urban" areas in the world, 
 and you jump from quest hub to quest hub, which mostly involves a tent or two and a handful of 
 pc's and don't have the same charm or gathering power as a Goldshire or Lights Hope Chapel. 
  
  War is an excellent game, with it's own style, feel, and purpose, but if you're looking for 
 a WoW clone, there is already one on the market. It's called World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InflictedOwned
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The game is great. The classes are all evenly matched, with none being too overpowered (there still 
 some that need to be nerfed) . The RvR (aka PvP) is great. It pits a numerous number of players 
 against each other, taking objectives and castles (aka keeps) . I've had up to about 40v40 people 
 in one area, which sometimes gets to the point of unbearable lag, gets very fun and very hexic 
 (typo alert) . If you don't want huge battles like that, you can always do scenarios which puts 
 about 12 on 12 people for 15 minutes, capturing certain objectives or holding a certain item, or 
 a capture the flag sort of game. For what it is, this game is great. If you want a perfect game, 
 wait another month for the bugs/glitches to be fixed.
  
  If you're still curious about buying this game, send me a message for a trial, or if I can't give 
 any more out, just check the forums.
  
  If you also want to know more about the game, the forums can occasionally be helpful. Or send me 
 a message. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyymatter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  I have played WoW since the beginning and left for a couple reasons. The main reason is PvP or 
 RvR. I find the ease to slip into battle against people is so much easier and you can jump in right 
 after creating your character. No running for 15 minutes to a specific location to enter a que. 
 No longer flying for 15 minutes at a time. Just jump in and start killing. I like the questing 
 that I don't spend an hour farming for something for a quest. If you kill it it drops in WAR. If 
 you need 10 you kill 10, not 100. You don't have to be a part of a group if you don't want to to 
 participate in a group quest. It is better if you do but, if you want to play hermit that is fine 
 too. This is for solo people as well at the party animal. I will miss WoW after years of play but, 
 WAR is all action all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuggaloZero
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This game really did have great potential, and does do a few things right, unfortunately, Mythic 
 made some poor choices. Though the PvP is great, the player base became too dependent on scenarios 
 to level up, leaving the PvE areas empty except for a few people who most likely arent interested 
 in doing the same pq's or normal quests. Scenarios became the "grinding" that Mythic wanted to 
 leave out of this MMO. 
  
  Not only did scenarios divide the population, but Mythic created too many servers when they were 
 un-necessary, driving the population even further apart. Now, not even the highest population servers 
 have a "High" population rating at the server selection screen at peak hours, and only a handful 
 have a "medium" sized population playing at peak hours. Simply put, unless you're in a scenario 
 or there's a open-RvR warband (which is actually more likely now with rewards for open-RvR, one 
 of Mythic's better decisions, imo) the game world will seem (and be) empty.
  
  They did do a great job with RvR and are doing a good job at improving it, but this comes a tad 
 bit too late really. And very thankfully, unlike WoW, combat doesnt rely almost entirely upon items: 
 if you know how to play your class and have skill there's a much better chance you'll win a fight 
 one vs one. That's not to say items dont factor into the gameplay, but it's not even close to being 
 as bad as WoW (sorry WoW fans, but that is how combat usually plays out in WoW: who has the better 
 gear Instead of who has more skill) Sadly, Mythic's poor handling of the game's population and 
 making scenarios the best source of xp has lead to this MMO being a boring grindfest. Maybe if 
 they fix these problems, specifically returning the first letter "M" in the phrase MMORPG to this 
 game, then I'll reactivate my account. But in it's current form, other games are slightly more 
 deserving of my hard earned cash (what can I say, even my love for Mythic for creating DAoC can't 
 make me love every game they make) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oflow
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'll start off by saying that I actually enjoyed this game for a good few months. I have 
 played a number of MMOs and I am a big fan of the genre and I was really looking forward to WAR 
 since it was supposed to break the mold that so many MMOs have fallen into. (Trying to be like 
 WoW)
  
  I am also not some fanboy of any particular MMO or a particular faction. Generally when I play 
 an MMO I try to enjoy all aspects of the game and usually wind up leveling characters to cap on 
 all factions just to get the full experience of the game and a better understanding of the mechanics 
 as well.
  
  I came to this game after having left WoW about a year ago and fresh off of quitting Age of Conan 
 which really didnt live up to its promises. I had high expectations for WAR from jump which will 
 sort of show through in this review.
  
  Overall, WAR did a lot of things right and if you enjoy RvR (i. e. pvp) I would purchase this game. 
 Its worth the cost even if you just play if for a few months which is what I did. I still have 
 an active account, but I have cancelled my sub because I have pretty much reached the endgame and 
 I'm starting to get bored with the overall limited scope presented for endgame content. (More of 
 which I will discuss later)
  
  When you first get into WAR, the game is very fun and a fresh change from the more-pve oriented 
 WoW. Graphically, the game looks amazing. Word of caution though, this game has higher system requirements 
 than WoW, and a low-end old pc that can play WoW wont run WAR in an enjoyable state. 
  
  You can level via RvR and all of the classes are fun in their own way. I personally leveled a Black 
 Orc to 40, an Ironbreaker to 34, a Squig Herder to 25 and various alts to 20 or so on both factions. 
 Initially there were major class imblances, but Mythic has done a good job balancing for the most 
 part. I wont get into which faction is better than the other. Many people often complain but all 
 in all the game is somewhat balanced. (Order players gripe that Destruction has better aoe CC which 
 gives them the advantage in the endgame, Destruction players argue Order has better ranged dps 
 which gives them an advantage in Keep seiges, blah blah, IMHO the game is balanced well enough 
 to where if you have skill you can overcome your faction's shortcomings)
  
  For the first two tiers the game is very enjoyable and if the entire game had the essence of the 
 first two tiers this game would be a great game. 
  
  But (and theres always a but) WAR does suffer from a few major problems. I know the game is still 
 relatively new, but there are a number of issues that cause the game to be not very fun:
  
  1. The first major issue is the chat interface is very cumbersome, and causes a strange phenomenon 
 where hardly any people actually talk in game. To a person that enjoys the social aspect of MMOs, 
 this is almost gamebreaking as a new player, as the game is designed to allow you to pretty much 
 level to cap solo so often you can play for days and never actually even talk to another player. 
 I understand this can be alleviated by joining a guild, but overall, I personally think this is 
 one of the major flaws in the game that I dont understand how they allowed to actually go live. 
 Granted, Mythic does take player feedback seriously and have worked to make changes to the chat 
 interface, but the akward silence in game has kind of become the standard so even after the fixes, 
 most people dont really use the chat. Often I would join warbands (raid groups) that were doing 
 PQs and we would have 20+ people working on the encounter and no one even spoke.
  
  2. The Public Quest, Influence and crontribution system is flawed. In the lower tiers the PQs are 
 fun, but they made them so you can grind the influence by repeating the 1st stages of the PQs over 
 and over and still receive the elite rewards, so when leveling up most people dont bother finishing 
 the PQs (which actually become decent pve encoutners often if you finish them to the end) they 
 just grind stage 1 over and over then leave. The way the game works each zone has area influence 
 which when completed goes toward a zone wide contribution system that eventually looks down a zone 
 and allows you to move to the next zone. Eventually after locking down all the zones and taking 
 all the keeps and battlefield objectives you eventually reach the other factions capitol city where 
 you can sack the city and kill their faction leader. The problem comes in from the fact that the 
 way contribution works, the actually loot distribution for taking a keep is just generated randomly 
 (a change is coming with the next patch) so a person just standing around doing nothing can get 
 a major reward after showing up and standing there for 10 minutes after the other 40+ people have 
 been fighting to take the keeps for 2+ hours. On top of this, the system doesnt allow people to 
 pass on the loot so often the same people get all of the same loot over and over which makes it 
 hard to actually set goals as far as advancing your character is concerned since the odds of actually 
 getting loot are slim to none and random in keep seiges.
  
  3. The endgame forces you to PVE. The way the current system works, the game has endgame dungeons 
 which ramp up based on gear. You basically have to have the full set gear from the prior level 
 dungeons to actually be able to complete the next set of dungeons, since the gear has wards which 
 reduce the damage that boss mobs are capable of producing. Basically each ward lowers down their 
 damage output by a certain percentage which starts out at 250%, down to 100% which makes the boss 
 a normal mob. So if you go into a dungeon without the proper warded gear its impossible to defeat 
 the bosses there because you will be fighting a boss thats hitting for 250% damage. 
  
  Now the problem is the only way to get some of these set pieces is to get the 1st place rewards 
 from keep seiges, which often never happens since the contribution system is random as I stated 
 earlier. I have personally participated in 30+ keep seiges and have never won a gold bag. 
  
  The way guilds often work around this is by raiding keeps a late night hours, basically making 
 a keep seige which is supposed to be the highlight of the RvR system into a PvE fight verses the 
 npcs and keep lord, since in odd hours real life enemy players may not show up. So the flaw is 
 the highlight of the game which is supposed to be RvR is reduced to boring repetitive dungeon crawling 
 or actually avoiding RvR to be able to take a keep so you can get gear.
  
  To give them credit, Mythic is addressing the contribution issue in an upcoming patch.
  
  4. 
 The game does have a few coding issues. Many abilities in the game are bugged due to server side 
 lag issues. IMHO the biggest issue with balance is caused by the fact that many abilities arent 
 working as intended because of these lag issues.
  
  5. The crafting system is very basic and could use some fine tuning.
  
  To be fair, WAR does 
 get a lot of things right though:
  
  1. The RvR in this game is outstanding and group pvp is very fun and well done. After playing WAR 
 for a few months I recently returned to WoW to try out WotLK and the pvp in WoW seems like child's 
 play compared to the fast paced action in WAR. WAR really shines in the fact that you actually 
 do have large scale battles with 40-100+ players on both sides which requires a lot of group coordination, 
 unlike WoW which is mostly just ganking in the open world outside of BGs and arenas.
  
  2. WAR gets rid of a lot of tedious annoyances from former mmos like death penalties, eatting/drinking, 
 travelling downtime, repairing gear. Its pretty much run and gun.
  
  3. The class design is very original and the game mechanics are innovative. Tanks can tank in RvR, 
 healers have to deal damage to actually heal more effectively, the support classes like Magus and 
 Engineer have unique abilities.
  
  
  To be quite honest, after trying out WotLK, I found that Blizzard actually 'stole' many of the 
 new additions they added in WotLK from WAR. The achievement system is pretty much a rip of the 
 Tome of Knowledge, Wintergrasp is pretty much a rip of the RvR lakes in WAR, the Death Knight has 
 many abilities that are blatant rips from WAR (like the fetch ability of the White Lion/Marauders) 
 even many of the character models look just like characters from Chaos.
  
  That said, all in all WAR is a good game, it big flaw is that it doesnt have enough to keep people 
 playing for the long run. there are just so many times you can run the same scenarios over and 
 over and so many times you can do seige the same boring keep layout before you get pretty bored. 
 Even leveling alts gets bored because even if you are in different starting zones, your characters 
 are all doing the same things over and over again.
  
  WAR is a good game and if you like pvp I would give it a try. I also commend Mythic for actually 
 interacting with the player base and making changes based on the player feedback but overall the 
 game just needs more things to do to keep you interested. The big flaw like I said is that you 
 can hit a wall and have no real way to make progress with your character except just from blind 
 luck, which in the long run wont hold that many people's attention. Eventually anything gets boring 
 and the rest of the game world in WAR just doesnt currently offer its players enough alternatives 
 when the dungeons are on 3-day lockout timers and the keep seiges just offer rinse and repeat generic 
 layouts.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike12348
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  game was good, untill 40 hit 40 all you could do was pvp which only order could win with there 
 over powerd bright wizards i think it turned out bad beacuse of not enugh people working there 
 and bad funding i like the warhammer story lines .
  the start of the game was so mutch more fun and engaging than the hole game - lots of the starting 
 areyas you started out attacking forts and the rest of the game your killing hummines or boars 
 or something
  pvp was good except when overpowerd thing would turn the tide of battle
  and when there was no pvp it wasnt fun
  and pve was crap
  PQs were crazy andinstences were 
 short and easy ( im not sure if thats a good thing or a bad thing beacuse i liked the 10 mans in 
 kara and how chalenging it was if you wernt geared.
  overall it was good for like a month and one of the patches made it lag so mutch you couldent get 
 items out of the PQs
  and (i could be reapeting alot) - (it feels like i am) it requierd no skillat all
  and lots of 
 the pvp was ninja and ninja back
  keeps were a good idea but if there is like 5 order you cant take the keep and its a lag fest just 
 with like 5 full groups of people........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inextremo88
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  After playing several years World of Warcraft I was really looking forward for this game. For the 
 last 1year I focused in PvP and got bored of grinding the same 3 bgs and 2 arenas for gear that 
 would be replaced in the next 3 months anyway.
  WAR sounded excactly like what I was looking for. And it didn't dissapoint me.
  
  What fascinates 
 me in War is how well the devs managed to include everybody from newbie 1lvl player to mmo veteran 
 in the ever-going battle of the Warhammer Universe.
  Your options to level you char are 'limitless' compared to other mmos.. If you like PVP you can 
 join the battlegrounds and lvl from 1-40 by just doing those, or you could combine BGs with ORVR, 
 kiep sieges, epic 80+ vs 80+ battles
  or in case you are more of an explorer you could lvl by questing alone and some pvp ocasionly.
 
  
  Another thing i like are the rewards and abilities you are getting throught out you life in war.. 
 
  Most quests rewards are armor pieces, weapons or amulets for your armor cash included which gives 
 you a reason to try pve aswell.. 
  where else for every 2 levels in WoW you are getting a bunch of upgrades for your abilities in 
 WAR every one or two levels
  you are getting new abilities, morale abilities, or tactics. Your character is more like a puzzle 
 that is coming together piece by piece and with every new ability you see the new options in gameplay 
 and new ways to achieve things, in this case to kill your opponents.
  
  Besides what I was looking for was a game to give me some happy times without having to sucrifice 
 my soul for it. In WAR i can log for 30mins do 2+ BG's gain 30k xp and 5k+ renown, and get an armor 
 piece for my collection.. Even when I got some hours to kill War has enough things to offer.. RVR, 
 hour long kiep sieges, some basic, but fun enough, dungeons, and i never have to sacrifice my lvling 
 for any of those things as i always gain xp.. 
  
  The bad side of WAR shined at me when my server was splited to soon to lower queue times in the 
 first month. GOA the operator in Europe decided to open too many servers and duplicate some too 
 soon for the European release.. That way the server I play my main ended up having low population. 
 
  As WAR is a RVR/PVP focused game, the low pop destroyed the good image of this game.
  Another thing is balance between factions. this game is about the war.. If the server's population 
 is unbalanced, there can't be a war.. 
  
  BUT from november GOA is offering transfers from low pop servers to medium populated ones, which 
 made WAR again one of the best MMORPGS
  in my eyes.
  
  As for the bugs that some reviews/forums are crying about.. with the latest 1.1 (a, b, c, d) patches 
 the game is running better then ever before. (I managed to
  run the game on P4 3.0ghz 2gb ram and a medieval hercules ati radeon 9500 pro 128mb ram, i don't 
 recommend it though) ... And some of the design flaws are also fixed by now. (see warhammeronline. com 
 under news) .
  
  So if you are a PVP oriented gamer, that can and want's to work in groups i can only recommend 
 this game. It's a must for every mmo player that likes
  PVP and wants to go a lvl up.
  But be aware this game is not for solists. If you decide to give this game a serious try.. find 
 a good guild on a med to full server and you want regret your choise :) ( or roll a witch hunter 
 or witch elf :p) ... and one more thing, take it slow.. don't rush to max lvl.. enjoy each aspect 
 of this game.. and by the time you hit 40, most people will, and you will enjoy the end content 
 as it is ment to be and with more stuff to do as 1.2patch seems to be one of those content patches 
 they promised.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morph_sa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  When the title was nearing release, and after reading the early previews, I was a little sceptical. 
 Player vs Player didn't really appeal to me and I really just wanted a roleplaying experience where 
 I could immerse myself in the warhammer universe. For the first few weeks I avoided the RVR (realm 
 vs realm - where player vs player combat occurs) zones and just quested (PVE) and explored and 
 kept to myself. However I slowly felt myself being drawn into the player vs player experience and 
 it eventually got to a point where I was addicted and logging on every day purely to enter the 
 RVR zone and fight. My wife plays too and is a very casual gamer, and not competitive at all. She 
 too found herself drawn to the RVR zones after some time, and for her this is now one of the most 
 enjoyable experiences of the game.
  
  You can choose to side with either order or destruction when you choose a server, and each side 
 has 3 races each with 4 classes to choose from. The orcs and dwarves only have 3 classes, but a 
 fourth will be added soon I am sure. Once in the game, you travel from camp to camp as you level 
 up and progress through the storyline. Each camp has various personalities that offer quests and 
 it is these quests that make up the PVE (player vs environment) portion of the game. You can easily 
 find groups and seemlessly join or leave these parties, or solo the quests and thus proceed through 
 the storyline while gaining XP and levelling at the same time. Monsters drop loot and gold and 
 so far its your standard fare for a roleplaying game. 
  
  The maps are huge and interlinked and one can also spend hours exploring every nook and cranny, 
 looking for hidden unlocks, lairs and dungeons. Scattered throughout each map are Public Quests 
 (PQs) . And it is here the game gets more creative. These are areas where multiple players are required 
 to finish some task such as stopping a group of cultists complete some evil task etc (or helping 
 them if you're destruction) . The PQ is divided into multiple stages, each stage getting harder 
 to complete. Once the last stage is completed and the boss is destroyed, the game calculates what 
 contribution each player made to completing the PQ and ranks everyone accordingly. A random dice 
 roll completes the ranking system and loot is then distributed. What makes this system so great 
 is that in addition to earning regular XP, you also earn influence points for each chapter where 
 you complete PQs and there are basic, advanced and elite rewards in each chapter for earning a 
 certain amount of influence. This coupled with the loot bags earned for finishing high in the rankings 
 ensures you always have ready access to good equipment and gear. It takes away alot of the grind 
 associated with these types of games where you spend hours and hours defeating mobs hoping for 
 a good loot drop, which may never happen.
  
  The game is divided into 4 tiers, and as mentioned, maps from tier 1 flow smoothly into maps from 
 tier 2 etc. Each map has a clearly marked area designated as the RVR zone. Each tier corresponds 
 to a range of character levels, roughly 1-10 for tier 1, 11-20 tier 2, 21-30 tier 3 and 31-40 for 
 tier 4. There is some overlap at the extremes of the ranges but characters are forced to move on 
 at ranks 12, 22 and 32. Higher level characters can return to the lower level PVE tiers as long 
 as they remain outside the RVR zones. If you do enter a zone you are ranked too high to enter, 
 you are turned into a chicken. Sometimes there are even whole chicken fights organised, quite amusing. 
 The RVR zones are where the majority of player vs player combat occurs. There are objective markers 
 in these zones and capturing and holding these objectives adds victory points to the side of order 
 or destruction and aids the overall war effort. From tier 2 onwards there are also keeps which 
 act as magnets for sometimes huge battles where the side of order and destruction wrestle for their 
 control. Holding objectives adds a certain amount of gurad NPCs to the keep as well. Capturing 
 a keep has a reward system similar to a PQ where once the lord is defeated, players are ranked 
 and loot is distributed. There is also a seperate influence system which rewards RVR participation 
 and the rewards for filling up the influence bar are some of the best equipment for that tier a 
 player can get.
  
  This also brings us to the last form of XP a player can get, which is renown. Renown is earned 
 by killing enemy players and capturing objectives and keeps. It determines to a large degree the 
 level of equipment your character can equip and your regular level cannot exceed your renown level 
 by more than a few levels. There are also seperate skills which you can purchase based on your 
 renown level.
  
  In addition to the regular quests offered at towns and camps there are dungeons and lairs scattered 
 about with their own bosses and rewards. It is here that one of my complaints arises. Most lairs 
 and dungeons are for characters of level 40 (which is the highes level in the game currently) . 
 I would have liked more lairs and dungeons for lower level characters (I think there are 2 in total 
 for players lower than rank 40) . There are also titles which you can unlock, by defeating certain 
 champions, chancing across a discovery in a remote area of the map etc. Some are impressive "Carnage 
 Incarnate" (for completing a specific armor set) and others silly "Aaahhhh" (for dying from falling 
 off mountains etc too many times) . You could spend hours just exploring and chasing these down.
 
  
  The game is very immersive, I walked into a bar in Altdorf on the docks and had a 'wow' moment 
 when I saw two stalwarts from the Warhammer universe standing there, none other than Gotrek and 
 Felix.
  
  The game is still young and there are of course still minor bugs and glitches which the team is 
 working hard to remedy, but overall the game is quite stable. I would say with regard to system 
 requirements that one could get away with having an average system and an average graphics card 
 and still run the game quite smoothly, but it is absolutely a requirement to have at least 3 GB 
 of RAM, preferably 4 GB. The framerates and lag get very choppy in large RVR combat and a trip 
 to a capital city is impossible with less than 3 GB of RAM.
  
  I have been playing for 3 months now and neither myself, my wife or our friends who are playing 
 are bored yet, still logging on every night and looking forward to that next RVR skirmish or PQ 
 to complete. Knowing how to get that desired piece of equipment gives you a target to aim towards 
 and takes alot of the grind of equipping your character out the game, which is a great thing as 
 grinds are repetitive and contribute towards a game's early retirement for alot of players. 
  
  It's a game I can highly recommend and easily the best roleplaying game I have played to date. 
 Certainly a must for any Warhammer universe fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaikon7
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  + RVR, a lots of player versus player action. Now If you ever loved big battles and a lots of fights 
 with huge groups doing outdoor RVR (PVP) This game is most likely for you.
  + Siege Raiding Attacking the keeps taking them aswell defending them for awards, a new addon for 
 mmo, excellent at first very enjoyable through leveling gets kinda old and tired some in the end
 
  + Experience from RVR simply amazing, you have so wide choices how to level up without have to 
 quest all the time, doing RVR gives you experience.
  + Humorous voices and comments for characters that can make you smile.
  + Less grind intense 
 to obtain decent gear.
  
  now lets go down to bad side of the game.
  
  - A lots of bugs, game was published way too early and can be really annoying at times.
  
  
 The game is far for being perfect, but its decent and enjoyable and still grows in time. Overall 
 the game is still broken in many ways that needs to be fixed.
  
  A nice refreshment to play sometimes but can get boring once in a while because of lack of content 
 for Hardcore gamers. A casual friendly and team based game that takes everybodys effort to be victorious! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what im talking to =) i allways buy those new pc games 
 and try them.. i mostly try to big only the best of them or average pc game. And now in the review.
 
  
  Graphic 7/10
  Nice characters graphic and cool color full enviroment.. still need something more?
  
  Sounds 
 7/10
  not good, not a bad.. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Very easy controls.. but someone maybe got problems if they never player mmorpg games before.. 
 easy spell using and easy overal gameplay.. u will enjoy it
  
  GameValue 8/10
  u will play this longer than single player games.. but when u hit lvl20 u start losing focus.. its 
 start to get boring : ( but if u are "hardcore" player.. u continue playing =) not bad but something 
 missing.. if u looking good pvp rpg game.. this is for u.. and pls Take Open RvR server.. there 
 is more players ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Try playing it for about 3 months. You'll find out how destitute any consistant fun is in this 
 game and be bored out of your mind most of the time. The games RvR concept sounds great but in 
 practice, if no one is logged in you have nothing to do. The games single player is simply dull. 
 
  The scenario queue was unreliable in those first 3 months and still broken. Get ready to wait for 
 hours or play the same scenario over and over while the game includes 8 others for that specific 
 level tier.
  
  As with most MMO's, your game time will be dependant on what your guild or friends are doing. I've 
 spoken to over a dozen people in a dozen different guilds who had 90% of their roster quit the 
 game after the first paid month. 
  
  If you quit World of Warcraft and are looking for something new, you'll find this is a wolf in 
 sheeps clothing. Don't waste your time. It might be worth playing in another 6 months or so when 
 they add things and fix the scenario system. But what good does a fixed scenario queue (pvp queue) 
 do when the game has lost so many players already? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Alphamale
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok, to start off, i have played both World of Warcraft, and Warhammer online. Personally i like 
 WoW better, but this bulletin has nothing to do with that.
  
  This game is a really fun immersive MMORPG, that is a fact. It is a little embarrassing to tell 
 people when they ask you if u play WoW, that you play this. Don't let that stop you from experiencing 
 this game. it is a very great game with wonderful multiplayer action, BUT i is a little buggy, 
 as well as rough inparts. The glitches are not what drove me away from the game, but even with 
 the in-game version of questhelper, i have had troubles getting lost and just straying from objectives 
 on purpose. there is just not enough fun in this game to keep going after a couple lv 20's. It 
 definately gets old playing the same class.
  
  Just because i have had these problems, doesn't mean everyone else does. In the future i do believe 
 this will be a great game some day. I hope this helped and did not push anyone away from WAR as 
 it is a pretty fun game in general.
  
  Goodbye, and i hope to see you in WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonderac
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  I was hesitant to get this game since I played DAoC, I really wasn't sure if they would keep it 
 as balanced between PVE and PVP. I'm a PVE player and while unfortunately the game forces (yes 
 forces) you to PVP, it offers many methods with some great rewards. I've played RPG online games 
 from The Realm, Everquest, DAoC, Warcraft, and LoTRO, the creators of Warhammer learned from them 
 all. Each aspect, especially crafting (which is getting even better) , is a polished and well tweaked 
 combination of it's predecessors. The graphics are intense, although the NPCs do "chatter/spam" 
 a little much, the story is solid and flows nicely. Downside thou, if you are in a guild or play 
 with a bunch of friends, then fall behind in level it can be extremely difficult to catch up, but 
 not impossible. There are class and public quest balance issues which they are working to resolve, 
 and in some of these areas they are doing pretty good. The addition of the Live Events was very 
 nice, since you don't have to hope to be in the right place at the right time to encounter something 
 special. The newest patch clears up a lot of issues, and adds in even more things that the other 
 games have/had but even better (like linking to the chat window, now you can link pretty much everything, 
 and being able to right click on the chat window player's name to get a list of options is very 
 nice) . I'm glad they are reducing the number of "repetitive" objectives (usually killing 100 of 
 this, which is now down to 50, not perfect but a definite improvement) , and tweaking each tier's 
 public quests so you don't have to wait hours for enough people to show-up to complete it. Warbanding 
 is great, it's really nothing more than the ability to join multiple groups, without being majorly 
 penalized in doing so. The scenarios are a very nice addition to the need to PVP, so it's not just 
 some huge open area you hope not to get ganked in, and they have objectives with a time limit so 
 you know where you are, what you need to do and are not going to be stuck hours doing it. Class 
 balancing... eh, not the best for sure, but it's relatively new, and each change does help to bring 
 everything in line (no matter how much it might upset players who are of that class) . I rarely 
 see the updates as being "nerfed" like in past games, just referred to as poor choices or "dang 
 it". It's a growing game, still in a really newborn state, if you have the patience and understanding 
 (especially that even if a "negative" change is made, there is a large possibility a "positive" 
 one will come along in time) then there is little frustration. My guild is strong is PVP, but I'm 
 still able to enjoy my PVE and accept that there are times I have to pit my wits against a real 
 player in PVP (limited wits for me, but I keep trying and am learning constantly) . The level breaks 
 do hurt a little bit, my father jumped ahead of me because of work, and I'm having a difficult 
 time catching up. OH! And I'll tell you know, keep your renown in line with your level, I'm still 
 banging my head against the keyboard for not doing so, but with scenarios I'm getting them together 
 pretty quickly. Oh and the first time you become a chicken (how I won't ruin, keep it a surprise) 
 your sides will hurt from laughing. This game is going to definitely grow and rival War of Warcraft, 
 the current leader in this classification. Play it, you will enjoy it, and be ready for changes 
 and growth... you'll never know what surprise will sneak up on you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akr67
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  At this time, WAR is very awkward and inconsistent. For every good thing about it, there is something 
 bringing it down or holding it back from being a great game.
  
  There are many keeps to siege and objectives to capture in the game world. It is really, really 
 fun. Unfortunately, the big difference in reward vs effort drive many to look for undefended keeps 
 to take rather than fight the defenders. Others avoid sieges altogether and farm scenarios all 
 day (instanced off battlegrounds) . This isn't to say that ORvR never happens, only much less often 
 than many would like it to.
  
  The combat itself feels awkward. While there are certainly a great verity of interesting spells 
 and attacks, the animations, spell effects often out of sync. Some spells are very high in detail 
 and have great sounds while there are may that have no special sound or animation other than a 
 "hnngh" sound made by the character. The AI and pathfinding is also very awkward. Mobs tend to 
 follow players for incredibly long times, often running through objects or vertically up hills.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are also very inconsistent. It is impossible to maintain a steady framerate 
 as some areas like foests and beaches simply cut your performance in half, regardless of the graphic 
 settings. Some areas in the game are very pretty and are real eye candy while others are simple 
 poorly modeled and textured in comparison (cliffs. stones, mountains. some terrain) . The most disappointing 
 feature is the lack of customization. It is very basic and lacking in features.
  
  When it comes to PvE, there is just the right amount of content the game. From public quests to 
 dungeons, lairs, achievements, tradeskills and epic quest chains. WAR has more than enough to keep 
 you entertained while you level up and reach endgame. Immersion is terrific and the robust tome 
 of knowledge contains huge amounts of lore and reading material as well as other features such 
 as stats, achievements, rewards and titles.
  
  In contrast to all other PvE content, the tradeskills are very disappointing at best. Material 
 gathering is inconsistent as you have no choice but to grind mobs for random drops rather than 
 gathering what you need. The idea behind crafting is definitely an interesting one, to mix and 
 match for different results. Unfortunately this lack of direction makes it difficult to know what 
 materials you need or just what you are going to end up with.
  
  Overall, WAR is a good game, definitely the strongest mmo when it comes to RvR/PvP although PvE 
 fans may be pleasantly surprised as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cidawo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  WAR takes place in Games Workshops Warhammer world. It is one of the most rich universe in story 
 content to date. And WAR is happy to share it with you in their Tomb of knowledge. A book that 
 records everything you do in the game from monsters you slain to fun trivial stuff you encountered.
 
  
  WAR brings to the table what most mmorpgs have been lacking, the objective to let the players just 
 have pure fun instead of only trying to get the player base addicted by various means.
  
  It comes to a near flooded marked dominated by 1 single title (WoW) and injects new and fresh material 
 that took wow years to apply to their own game and they only did it to match WAR.
  
  The game takes on a stylized graphic with high quality and high details. The game however is run 
 on a old game engine used for daoc and it is noticeable even thou they freshed it up a lot for 
 this title.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSF_Valkyrie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I played the game for about 4 months. I managed to get a 40 and a bunch of 20's. In all fairness 
 I'm not a huge pvp'er but I really did like the pvp action in this one at first. As you get to 
 the higher levels you get stuck fighting in the same couple battlegrounds and it gets really boring 
 fast. Keep battles are ok, unless your pc is average then you'll lag like mad. I would save your 
 money and wait for the next big thing. I'm not saying it was a complete waste of time, I just wish 
 it had more to offer which it does not.
  
  Difficulty: 5 -6 : It wasn't a very difficult game to pick up and go. The PvE is pretty basic and 
 most of it can be soloed. The PvP is pretty basic too and doesn't take much to do well both sides 
 are pretty balanced.
  
  Playability: 5: This is where the game falls short. If you get to 40 and expect a lot to do... 
 you'll be mistaken. There is very little to do at 40... pvp. pvp some more then pvp more until 
 you're eyes pop out. Not very fun. Start a new character and do it all over again... no thanks.
 
  
  Graphics: 8-9: pretty amazing in this department. The armor design was great from tier 1 up to 
 4 however I did notice that most of it was pretty basic it felt like there was maybe 4-5 sets for 
 each class and that was it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icym
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  In an industry where developers are trying to be the next WoW rather than a great MMO, WAR comes 
 in and does it right. WAR takes a great license from Games Workshop and makes it into a new and 
 innovative MMO that everyone can enjoy. 
  
  Gameplay is easy and fun for casual to hardcore players. You don't have to spend unending hours 
 to gain high level characters to enjoy any aspect of the game. WAR is easy to join up with open 
 groups to have fun in PvP or PvE. No more looking for groups for long periods. Also, innovative 
 public quests allow you to feel a part of the storyline easily along with your friends or guild 
 mates. If you prefer PvP you have options in keep taking in RvR zones, which are always being fought 
 over, or in instanced scenarios. All of which still makes you feel like you're a part of the overall 
 story. 
  
  The game is very user friendly and the interface is easy to use and guide you. The graphics are 
 very cool and new. While its not pushing the limits of your PC, it still looks great. The art design 
 for all the zones look great and has a sense of in-game culture. The lands of elves, dwarves, to 
 humans are all distinct and well designed.
  
  WAR has an incredible amount of objectives, quests, and customization for your character and enjoyment. 
 Its certainly worth your time and, in this economy, your hard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MTV88
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Too often people get bogged down in the process of comparing games, rather than reviewing them 
 on their own merits. Ok, so this game isn't as groundbreaking or ambitious as WoW. 
  
  But who cares.
  
  Groundbreaking games are rarely perfect and are most useful to the industry 
 in that they help to shape or create different genres and cause game developers industry-wide to 
 rethink the way they approach games, and WoW did this.
  
  The result?
  
  A game that, unlike its larger name competitor, allows anybody to jump in and play, and enjoy, 
 the game for short or long periods of time. Not everybody has six hours and big guild to sit through 
 an long-winded instance. And to be honest, not everyone who has that much time on their hands wants 
 to either. WAR allows players to play to their own style and just as importantly - in their own 
 time. I for one, hate sitting through an instance for more than an hour or two. It gets repetitive. 
 I also hate being smashed in PvP by those who can be assed to sit through them. WAR finds the right 
 balance, by separating rewards - in the form of skills AND equipment - into a few categories. Firstly, 
 the three-fold experience is a minor stroke of brilliance. Serving to separate PvP, PvE and instance 
 play effectively. Naturally, if you want to rank yourself among the best players you'll find that 
 all three are important to pursue. However, if PvP doesn't interest you, ignore it. Likewise for 
 the 'public quests' or open instances which allow people to join and leave on the fly and also 
 likewise for the longer, heavier instances.
  
  Good job EA, you've managed to produce a great game is WAR, let's just hope you don't mess it up 
 like Blizzard has destroyed WoW for the casual player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhopper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  The RVR aspect is the best part of the game for me. Attacking towns and castles just feels epic 
 when you are the one storming the gates/walls! I enjoyed every RVR part of the game and could only 
 find some balances issues a few of the scenarios were set up that one side were slightly closer 
 to an objective than the other. Also some of the classes are just better than others while a few 
 classes have no usefulness. These classes just need a patch or update to balance them out. All 
 in all most of the classes are pretty balanced. I believe this game can become one of the best 
 mmorpgs of 2008 once the minor balance issues have been worked out and they release the rest of 
 the classes. I hope everyone can give warhammer online a chance because it is a very interesting 
 game with many of the best elements of the fansty mmo that came before it. It has its mistakes 
 but few games come out prefect in the mmo world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nature-elf
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Online Age Of Reckoning is the first ever P2P game I have ever played.
  
  Usually I just go wikipedia to look for free MMOs... always thought that the games are usually the 
 same but I was gravely mistaken after playing Warhammer Online.
  
  Warhammer Online offers a vast environment that doesn't look repetitive like *cough*Perfect World*cough*. There 
 are mainly 4 types of classes in the game just split into 6 different races... they are the Tankers 
 which are able to soak up lots of damage, Melee DPS which relies on Melee damage, the main difference 
 between the Tankers and Melee DPS is that Tankers are meat shields that doesn't do as much damage 
 as Melee DPS.. but Melee DPS cannot take in a lot of damage... and then there are the Range DPS and 
 also the healers.
  
  Also choosing your side is really important because for example if you wanna join the Destruction 
 Realm... Order realm is out for you... no Order character for you unless you switch server or delete 
 you Destruction Character. 
  
  The game is really easy to get used to despite the lack of a tutorial... so unless you are a real 
 klutz you can probably get used to the controls in about half an hour.
  
  Lots of quest are provided by various NPCs that will include killing X number of enemies or get 
 a particular item etc. .. really just average normal questing that you can find in normal F2P MMOs.
 
  
  So where does the benefit of the P2P comes in... well compared to F2P MMOs... Warhammer hardly lags 
 at all... so there is hardly any time where the enemies will stop reacting and when everything returns 
 to normal you are dead kind of thing.
  
  Secondly is the Public Quest that is introduced in the game.. being able to join a PQ anytime you 
 like... well that is technically true... but seriously... would you want to do the PQ alone or with 
 a group... playing alone is no fun especially when you are going to fight the last boss alone which 
 can get really tough... and because of this PQ hardly have anyone... you will need to go form a party 
 and invite them to play PQ with you... because all the other players usually don't play PQ unless 
 invited.
  
  But RVR is definitely one of the best things Warhammer has introduced. In RVR... you get to join 
 players from your Realm and fight players from the opposing Realm... which means even if you are 
 a level 1 character it is fine because there will be other high leveled character playing along 
 with you. Important thing is everybody must move as a group... otherwise you will surely lose... can't 
 stand it when some random player starts going solo and the whole group just diffuse... because if 
 that happens... the opposing realm will come as a group and take you out one at a time.
  
  Overall a great game to be enjoyed. Really want to compare to WoW but since I didn't play WoW.. I 
 cannot compare it... so to all WoW fans who have never played this game and thinks WAR sucks... than 
 I am sorry you are so pathetic and close minded.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merc_Scar
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning (Or WAR for short) is a MMORPG (Massively
  Multilayer Online Role Playing Game) set in the Warhammer universe. Most MMO games
  focus around 
 PvE (Player VS Environment) and have some PvP (Player VS Player)
  elements, but WAR is pretty much the opposite. Its mainly PvP and has some PvE
  elements with 
 the edition of Realm vs Realm (or faction vs faction, if you are
  unfamiliar with the game) which involves the two realms (or factions) fighting over
  territory 
 on one of the three campaigns, Empire VS Chaos, High Elves vs Dark Elves
  and Dwarfs vs Green Skins.
  
  The two realms are Order and Destruction. Order consists of Empire (humans) , 
 Dwarfs
  and Elves. Destruction consists of Dark Elves, Chaos and Greenskin. There isn't much
  variety 
 race wise, but each race has 3-4 of its own special class so there is a
  plethora of classes to try on each realm. And surprisingly enough, they are all
  pretty balanced 
 for PvP and PvE. Some classes start slow, tho. White Lions are one
  example. They aren't too good at PvP until about level 9.
  
  RvR reminded me of Battlefield 
 2 where two teams are fighting for flags and the more
  flags you have the more influence you have in that area. The goal is to pretty much
  have all 
 the flags captured and you will get bonuses like 5% merchant discount in
  that controlled area. The PvP side, is alot like other games where you join a que
  and wait for 
 the next fight. But, like RvR you get experience and renown for killing
  other players. Renown is something you get for killing players. You have a renown
  rank and everytime 
 you rank up you get a renown point that you can use to get new
  abilities.
  
  The PvE part of the game is well done as well. You can either do quests either by
  your self 
 or with a party, but best part is Public Quests (or PQ's) . Public Quests
  are quests that anyone can come and do at any time and involve killing monsters or
  some sort 
 of event trigger like destroying an alter or tent. By doing these you get
  points that you can use to get new armor, weapons and potions.
  
  The game rarely has any boring 
 moments (besides waiting to respawn in pvp and some
  traveling) , so when you get bored of questing and doing Public Quests you can just
  que up for 
 a scenario or go over to a realm vs realm battleground. Another good
  thing is the game has very few bugs. It feels very finished and and has very few
  bugs for being 
 a new mmo game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehBoognish
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 5, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Like I said, I was looking forward to this title. It had alot of the PvP elements that I was really 
 looking for in a pay per month game that WoW had not delivered. I have been part of 2 different 
 guild breakups in WoW over the "we should focus on PvP, no we should focus on instance questing" 
 crap. Forced PvP was what I thought would be the answer.
  Why am I bummed? To sum it up really quick like, Everyone wanted to be a bad guy. The idea of having 
 giant PvP battles relies on people filling queues from both side before you go into battle. Nobody 
 would play the good guys. I literally waited 3 hours once in que before a battle started. It doesn't 
 matter what side you are on. If your Order (good guys) theres nobody on. If your Destruction (bad 
 guys) you wait in a full queue. Not worth a monthly subscription if theres so much down time waiting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosStar
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  This game is riding on the coat-tails of a huge, world wide and wildly loved IP. It's such a shame 
 that they basically reskinned Dark Age of Camelot and then touted it so pompously. Mark Jacobs 
 is half the stuff wrong with this game. I really wanted to like it, but he's just so pretentious 
 and cocky. He won't even allow servers to be merged because 'that means an MMO is dying' -- even 
 when people are begging to be put together!
  
  Now onto the technical aspects:
  
  Graphics - 3\10. I have a high-end system capable of running Crysis at 40 FPS, amazing cooling, 
 and a really great set of new cutting-edge video drivers. This game doesn't even have an anti-aliasing 
 setting in game, and I still manage to hang around 20 FPS due to a poorly optimized engine.
  
  Gameplay - 2\10. This is probably where I'm going to garner alot of hatred, but this game plays 
 like a slowed-down and clunky World of Warcraft. Yeah, I said it -- because it's true.
  
  Playability - 5\10. The only good part of this game is the server uptime and frequent patches. 
 Unfortunately most of those patches suck. The two new tanks are boring and add nothing truly new 
 to the game. The fact that there's gender restrictions on classes, while lore appropriate -- is 
 stupid.
  
  PvP - 1\10. Honestly, for a game built on PvP, it's very weak. The animations (even post patch) 
 are absolutely terrible, the RvR is not as fun as Wintergrasp in WoW and happens less often due 
 to my server being the husk of a once-played game. It's pretty much generic button mashing and 
 using your most powerful skills, protecting healers etc, just like every other MMO. Scenarios are 
 boring and only about 4 out of 20+ are even used.
  
  PvE - 0\10. I don't even know what to say. The dungeons are the most poorly coded I've ever seen 
 in any MMO, they're absolute garbage. Questing is just WoW-copied grinding with no thought in it, 
 and PQs are abandoned at this point in the game.
  
  Sound\Music - 1\10. This is quite possibly the most generic score I've ever heard. You have your 
 generic forest music, generic city music, generic field music.. gah, it's all bad. It's like the 
 composer from Lord of the Rings got too old to compose and just kept making stuff without thinking. 
 The combat noises are just generic clank clank cling clang sword fighting and poof bang pow pow 
 magic fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerlu
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing WaR for over a month now, rather intensively, and there are many brilliant aspects 
 to this game, that also point to its greatest flaw.
  
  At any given moment you can a) complete quests b) join a public quest if people are around c) jump 
 into a scenario and PVP against the other realm d) do some guild stuff, if your guildies are doing 
 the above.
  
  The gamespot review for this game is dead on, the game mechanics are pretty darn good, the PvP 
 aspect of this game is epic when both sides collide to take or defend a keep... however this seldom 
 happens.
  
  I'm on a med-population server, and the best times to play are when there are live events (i. e. 
 some rewards people can work to get) ... then it's almost as if people take a break from WoW for 
 a while to come play WaR.
  
  What keeps anybody playing is the anticipation of something good to come... and to be honest, most 
 of the time the server *feels* empty... players will converge in scenarios to gain easy XP, but 
 this removes people from the actual game...
  
  So while you're working to get the next level or the next quest item, you're constantly looking 
 for groups that seem so rare to find, you're stuck with this kind of empty feeling... who will I 
 show off my next ability to???
  
  Being in a guild doesn't really solve this problem, because the game is divided into 4 Tiers - 
 so that high level players don't kill low level players, so if you're a few levels behind someone 
 you can't group in the same scenario.
  
  Anyway, this isn't a negative review... WaR needs some more focus, and more people, because when 
 there's lots of people online, it's an epic game... finishing quests, grouping up to do public quests... running 
 into destro players and fighting them along the way.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milo0s
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Online was probably the game i anticipated the most and got let down the most, not due 
 to the actual game, but due to the actual emptiness of it. It's a free MMO where you wonder about 
 doing your own thing, and as most free MMOs ur character looks awesome to begin with BUT, theres 
 no-one there. The fact that theres no free period unless you actually bought the game or have a 
 card which is fair enough, but here down under WAR sells for $80 and the card $40, where WOW sells 
 for 30-40 you get a month for free or you just nab it off a friend and you get 2 weeks for free.
 
  I'm playing on a "High Population" Australian server and some days I'll play for a significant 
 amount of time and will have not communicated with a single soul. 
  I think that's what people are finding whats wrong with the game, but cant put their finger on 
 it. You'll do a bucket load of quests, won't even bother with most PQs you come across (cause theres 
 no-one doing them) and you wont get nothing special at the end of it. You wont get no awesome gear, 
 you haven't done no PQ's or if you have u just killed off the weaker mobs and filled up your influence 
 bar.
  Although, the brightside to the game is the RVR scenarios, i HATED battlefields in WOW no fun at 
 all, it's probably the even level in RVR that makes it fun.
  All in All this game is like an awesome car, but without any gas. Fill it up with people and you'll 
 have a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonztown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Much better now than the begining. The patches are really making a difference. Better than wow 
 now. Went back to wow and it was just the same old slow grind and if you dont have at least a 60, 
 dont bother. I am starting to see that mmo's are only enjoyable when everyone starts out about 
 the same time. Would be nice if levels and playtime didnt determine strenght or effectiveness in 
 these games.
  
  Doesnt anyone remember how freaking fun 1942 was. You logged on and were thrown into the action 
 and battles were won based on skill and not some 12 year olds playtime. Warhammer is somewhat better 
 than Wow at this and the battles of the servers is a nice touch. 
  
  The biggest change since the begining for Warhammer is the ability to transfer to populated servers. 
 Before it was crickets most of the time in the various areas, now you just log on and the action 
 is there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vatech17
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for a month or so, tried a few classes, and i just couldn't fall in love with 
 it, the professions were quite useless and difficult to level, and it could of been myself, but 
 i was not sure what i was going to do when i hit maximum level, i was not sure of what end game 
 content it had, and it was not worth the 15 a month, maybe in a few patches it could be a great 
 game, and i surely will come back, but as for now, i am not willing to keep paying the 15 dollars 
 a month, after i beat the new wow expansion, surely this game will get another chance for me, there 
 are a few things i really did like, i never had to download add-ons, because the game already had 
 a UI that was suitable for me, the questing is very easy to do and i did not have a hard time getting 
 around, the mounts were cool and the graphics are different, darker to be exact, but it is cool, 
 RvR is probably the greatest this game has to offer, but i just do not feel like this game has 
 enough content to make it worth the buy, but if you beat wow, tried guild wars, age of conan, lord 
 of the rings, maybe this game will be worth your time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheekyChester
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Well i have not played a MMORG since WoW (trying not to admit to buying Age of Conan...) this game 
 takes many key aspects from WoW but innovatively add new ideas and content which will keep you 
 happy for hours. The characters and classes are well balanced, the Quests keep you busy but the 
 main focus is on the Public Quests which work very well and the RvR. Last night had a brilliant 
 session with a huge warband battling it out against the Order trying to stop them taking a keep, 
 it involved lots of teamwork, war engines and tactics.... simply brilliant.. 
  There are some bugs which pop up from time to time but nothing as bad as AoC and they do not effect 
 my enjoyment of the game.
  As the Gamespot review states the gathering and crafting side is rather weak but to me this is 
 not an important part of the game. WoW implemented a better system but i got very little from it 
 anyway.
  
  Finally put... buy this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Corinthian
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  -------------
  At first glance, Warhammer Online appears to be a fun game. The graphic contents aren't astounding 
 by any means, in fact, the flat patterns seem a bit dated for the a game released in 2008 considering 
 soem mmorpgs have grass that stirs and trees that shimmer but its sufficient as to not take away 
 from the game either. Trees in Warhammer are a standard four flat patterns set 90 degrees apart 
 much like what was employed in Mythic's Dark Age of Camelot.
  
  For some of the scrimping done on environments, most of the characters are highly detailed models 
 both on the player side and the non-player characters. However, for such focus that is placed on 
 keeps and castles, they are surprisingly bland inside. For the most part, it's a little more amped 
 up then Camelot but not by much.
  
  Sound
  ----------
  A decent attempt at ambient sounds is attempted, no major hiccups and they are appropriate for 
 characters as well as monsters. It's what you'd expect from any mmorpg. There is music but it seems 
 quite spotty for the most part. The bottom line is nothing in the world of sound really jumps out 
 and grabs you.
  
  Gameplay
  ---------------
  Alot of the Warhammer gameplay doesn't set itself apart from stock mmorpgs like WOW, Camelot or 
 Lord of the Rings, almost coming off as a carbon copy where the interface and hot keys are concerned. 
 The only thing that could remotely be labeled unique is the employment of morale bonus attacks 
 that appear far too infrequently to be noteworthy.
  
  Enter the actual in-world gameplay that consists of many concepts that simply do not pan out. The 
 first is the actual war itself which revolves around establishment of control over keeps and warcamps. 
 The main flaw to this philosophy is that keeps are level segregated. Each 10 levels has it's own 
 keep battleground and no one outside those level restrictions is allowed to participate. Should 
 you enter there areas illegally you will find your character transmuted into a chicken with no 
 abilities other than running.
  
  Although a great concept, it falls short due to lower populations in the beginning levels. In fact, 
 Warhammer suffers from this aspect throughout and the issue is exasperated if you find yourself 
 in a lower population server. In fact, after peak hours, you can forget about keep attacks. The 
 same concept is propagated to the PVP instances as well. 
  
  The PVP scenarios show where Warhammer's shortcomings really are as there are tremendous imbalances 
 that lead only to futility and frustration. Any player choosing an archery class might do well 
 to reconsider as they are for the most part sitting ducks, having neither sufficient offense or 
 defense against most of the melee and caster classes. In fact, after playing countless mmorpgs 
 from Everquest, Asheron's Call I, II, City of Heroes, Camelot and Lord of the Rings, I can honestly 
 say this one is at the bottom in terms of anything near realistic game balance. 
  
  It's understandable that as an mmorpg , there should not be perfect balance but on the opposite 
 side there should be some form of blending in which a low offensive character has a high defense. 
 Not so in Warhammer and it's unfortunate because it will end up driving more people away then bringing 
 them in.
  
  The concept of Destruction fighting Order is good in concept but does not come close to the diversity 
 that the three realm competions offered in Dark Age of Camelot which it is obviously patterned 
 after. Whereas three realms tend to even themselves out, a two realm world tends to lean toward 
 population inbalances that don't bode well for those enthusiastic about realm wars
  
  There only two other choices involved in normal gameplay, solo questing and pve scenarios. The 
 questing is standard fare, nothing special. Go kill this and that's about the extent of it. The 
 same holds true for the public scenarios in which players can group together and accomplish objectives 
 in three stages, each stage decidedly harder than the next. 
  
  The first stage is the only possible choice for solo players which has the potential to become 
 quite boring. Again, it's all about the player population because there were many public scenarios 
 that had absolutely no players to draw from at all. 
  
  Taken as a whole, Warhammer suffers from a lack of creativity that isn't apparent in the starter 
 levels but once the ascent toward the higher levels begins, it's clear that what one saw at level 
 1 is what they will see at level 39, one short of the maximum. 
  
  The other glaring shortcoming is that loot drops and the rewards from running public or pvp scenarios. 
 Players advance toward their rewards by the granting of influence that one gets for vanquishing 
 enemies, one lowly creature at a time. For pvp, it's more of the same except for pvp scenarios, 
 you're granted renown rankings that allows you to purchase rewards as well. Unfortunately, this 
 doesn't leave for much variety.
  
  Will Warhammer survive? It's hard to tell at this early stage but the future does not look bright 
 should they continue down this path of blandness. Let's hope they don't because the game wreaks 
 of needing some form of pve instances just to spice things up a bit. For myself, I think I'll wait 
 and see.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRforce97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I played this game since beta and I fell in love with it. The developers have been fixing bugs 
 on a regular schedule and it's making it better. How many mmo's you know will add 2 new classes 
 for free in a patch instead of on an expansion? Yeah I wanted the game to have alil better graphics 
 but compared to other mmo's they are nice and more mature looking. Just compare the way the orcs 
 in WAR look compared to the orcs of WOW. In WAR the characters look more realistic and better looking 
 compared to other fantasy mmo's. People always say it's not as smooth as WOW but you gotta remember 
 this game has only been out for 2 months as in WOW has been out since 2004 and if I recall WOW 
 was almost unplayable when it 1st launched. Yeah the game has a few flaws ( Early weapons and armors 
 look the same, some unbalanced Order toons like those damn BW, and missing some chat options like 
 item links) but no game is perfect and I'm sure Mythic will address these problems as so far they 
 have been listening to their customers. In all this is a very good game if ur tired of a certain 
 MMO or want to do some good PVP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duanetp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  In general the people playing are team oriented, and less jerkish. WAR is not focused on items 
 to create a powerhouse. Each class has it's place in the "warband", where as in WoW any character 
 can be gross -- twinks for example. No rogues and no dueling, the battlegrounds are way better 
 - although a bit boring at tier 1. Not to mention you get xp and item drops from the battlegrounds. 
 The siege warfare is awesome and really adds something extra to be desired. Tired of partying with 
 lame brainers to run an instance? No need in WAR, the instances are public quests where anyone 
 can walk into the area and work toward the goal with a party or alone. If you create an open party 
 anyone can join without having to beg to be let in. When changing areas you are notified of open 
 parties in the area. In the contested zones there are not overlapping quests from each side -- 
 ie. Stranglethorn, Ungoro crater, etc. so you don't have to keep looking over your shoulder or 
 get the a@# that camps low level areas just to piss people off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkown_device
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I have more than a year experience in mmo and what can i tell you after more than 80 hours about 
 this one.
  I often play a free mmo and eventually they end, for example i get 60lvl then no more scenario 
 to play except gather a set of armor and so.. but that come a quick boring than anything.
  What Mythic did is fantastic theirs RVR and PVP system have no match !!!!!!
  It is so Innovate 
 and fun so when you come to bigger lvl you have other ppl to kill and have FUN, except looking 
 for some damn armor set piece like in other lookalike mmo.
  Like i said have play a lot mmo (free:) ) so why buy and pay games like wow or something like that 
 to lose nerve from looking sets nooo
  BUY WARHAMMER and have FUN... (thats what games should be all about ;) )
  
  BTW 9.0 is because 
 graphic.. should be better....
  
  except that pure 10 :)
  
  For all wow player i try free trial its a piece of S_ _ _ !!!!
  better play free mmo like requeim 
 : Bloodymare same exp you have... and dont S _ _ _ on this game its awesome!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Appropriately, the focus of Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning is war. Perhaps one of the few MMORPG's 
 to do so, Warhammer is heavily player versus player oriented, and is one of the fewer to do so 
 successfully. The greatest of this games features is certainly the focus on this, and there-in 
 noticeably separates itself from its competitors.
  
  In Warhammer melee weapons clash, fireballs soar, and hideous Squig creatures pounce on the opposition 
 as the forces of Order and Destruction fight for dominance of their realms. The heroic forces of 
 Order are made of the human Empire, Dwarfs and High Elves. The heinous Destruction side are compromised 
 of Chaos, Greenskins and Dark Elves. From the open world warfare to designated scenario battlegrounds, 
 there are a large deal of ways to establish superiority. 
  
  Warhammer contains other innovations to complement the main ingredients. While soloing through 
 quests is not as memorable nor well made as those in Lord of the Rings Online for example, the 
 addition of Public Quests certainly makes up for it. These are controlled quests that allow passerby's 
 to join the fray and leave as they please. By participating, players may gain certain powerful 
 influential rewards from their specified Rally Masters.
  Another great innovation is the addition of the Tome of Knowledge, essentially an in-game encyclopedia 
 filled to the brim with information. These unique additions can be overshadowed by the focus on 
 player versus player, aptly named Realm versus Realm (or RvR) . However, even the RvR contains its 
 issues. Servers are spread thin, making it seem like the game was designed for a much larger group 
 of people than its current population. To worsen matters, most servers contain a population imbalance, 
 particularly in favor of the Destruction side. Mythic is working hard to flatten out these issues, 
 including free character transfers and bonus' to realms that are population deficient.
  
  Throwing those temporary issues aside, Warhammer offers intense action in their many scenarios 
 that will keep players on edge. There are four Tiers of scenarios, which escalate according to 
 level. The first tier is Rank 1 to 11, the second from 8 to 21 and so on. This continues until 
 the maximum of Rank 40. Each tier presents players with new and exciting scenarios. By participating 
 in these matches, you gain level experience, as well as Renown Rank points which allow you to purchase 
 addition gear.
  
  What makes the RvR scenarios so exhilarating is the great character designs. Every class fits into 
 four basic roles, namely melee DPS, range DPS, tanking and support. Despite fitting into these 
 roles, every class is different and unique in their own way. Order's White Lions use their pet 
 War Lions to ravage their enemies while the bury their axes into their enemies backsides, while 
 Destruction's Marauders shape their arms into grotesque and blasphemous mutations to slaughter 
 their foes.
  
  Warhammer Online offers a great first impression. Player's are thrust into their respective worlds 
 to participate in open world RvR, Public Quests, and Scenarios. Player's can join scenarios where-ever 
 they want. These scenarios range from capture the flags, King of the Hill, Death matches and more. 
 These great battlegrounds offer enough fresh action and great pacing to keep interest for hours 
 to come.
  
  Warhammer is a great MMORPG. Setting a new bar in terms of player versus player combat. Warhammer 
 is not a game without its issues; as current population imbalances and annoying bugs can stint 
 some enjoyment, but with enough time and diligence, Warhammer can quench the thirst for those in 
 need of some serious MMO multiplayer content.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Online is a game that with a patch bringing all the classes up to speed with each other 
 will be excellent. It stands out for its pvp, and has a great system for Group Quests. There are 
 three zones each split into four tiers based on level, and these are where you level and do open 
 pvp, called Realm vs. Realm, or rvr.
  
  When I said that the game being big is a problem, I mean that with the number of things to do, 
 the servers are just not populated enough for a person to be able to rvr, group quest or do scenarios 
 (the game's version of battlegrounds) and frankly, the game does not have enough experience to 
 make single player questing rewarding in either exp. points or gear. The game rewards social activity, 
 which is good, but does not influence it the correct way. The way RvR is set up, there is no exp 
 gain for defending a keep, which is currently a problem. There are also many distinct advantages 
 for certain classes, which is a little bit disheartening for people who did not know about which 
 classes were best before playing the game, such as me. I certainly would have rolled differently 
 had the info on Warhammer's website not been so misleading.
  
  The game does do pvp very well though. Collision detection makes it very strategic, and allows 
 for someone who is fully protection tank to make a big difference. Overall, this game could use 
 some polishing, but it shouldn't be expected to perform at WoW standards just yet, so I am waiting 
 very patiently and am very optimistic with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpalberg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I've been into MMOs for awhile now. I started with AC2 and got stuck on WoW for awhile. I was just 
 starting to get bored of Warcraft when I heard of this game. It sounded perfect for me, a PvP based 
 MMO. There were a lot of other ideas that Mythic was planning on implementing that sounded great 
 too, such as PQs. Unfortunately the game didn't turn out to be as good as I was hoping for. The 
 game never really hooked me. I think one of the reasons for this was the lack of a community. This 
 is where I feel Warhammer Online suffers the most. I ran into very few people in the world, which 
 made open world RvR pretty boring. This happened to me on one of the most populated servers as 
 well, Dark Crag. Noone really does the PQs either, most players will grind out hundreds of mobs 
 from the first stage of the PQ and move onto another until they obtain their rep. gear. The result 
 is that you never get to any of the fun/group oriented later stages. Another thing I didn't like 
 was that people generally stuck to only 1 of the many scenarios at each tier. This made leveling 
 via PvP EXTREMELY repetitive and boring. Lastly, I was REALLY looking forward to city leveling. 
 But why would you even bother with city quests the way they set it up? When you complete a quest 
 in the city, you aren't awarded any individual reputation. You also have no idea just how much 
 you are contributing to the overall improvement of the area. This might be okay for some people, 
 but for me, it seemed like a waste of time when I could be out grinding renown/exp. in scenarios. 
 Anyways this game is still extremely young and I'm sure Mythic will improve on the overall experience 
 with updates, but until then, I'm going to be waiting on GoW2 as I just finished playing through 
 Dead Space, it's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmerk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  First thing I want to start out with I am an vetran MMO player. I play FWG, starwars galaxies, 
 city of heros, guild wars, WoW, RF online. I played WoW since it first came out, and until the 
 new realase of WoW's expac. This game improves itself every day I play it. When I play WoW and 
 they put a patch they get rid of something that was really helpful. In Warhammer I really enjoy 
 the focus of the game. Mythic actually listens to the public. Unlike Blizzard where you have to 
 post it on their "formus" that they never check. I love the graphics and everything about Warhammer. 
 And for all those Mythic haters this game is NOT for old, outdated computers. If your too stuipd 
 to adjust your graphics to the NEW MMO then this is not a game for you. Warcraft came out 4 years 
 ago people, 4 years so that means anyone stuipd enough to try and play Warhammer and their computers 
 cannot support this game then you are plain retarded. If you played WoW over 4 years ago and have 
 not updated your computer I STRONGLY dont recommend this to you. I'm sick and tired of all those 
 people complaing they hate Mythic because they can't play this game. Its not their fault its yours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuwakcai
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  BAD SIDE's
  
  this game looks great in the game, but not the interface, it needs to be polished. etc. the login 
 page looks awwwful, selecting servers and characters page should be improved. The website looks 
 simple and without any guides for new joiners. 
  
  Alot of bugs encountered in the caves, PQ's. They should make scenarios cross server game. (that 
 allows characters from other servers to join in the que and war together) so it wont take hours 
 to que for a game. Hopefully they will improve it soon, so they wont lose customers. i'm putting 
 great hope on this game. 
  
  CHAT system really suks. HOpe they really do soemthing about it real fast. you can only chat with 
 the people in the same region. Other people have no way to see it. 
  
  
  GOOD side's
  
  Leveling through PVP is great. when the server is packed with people . the que is only like 
 3mins. You do not need to grind so much, solo questing is possible and its great for those who 
 doesnt have many friends. 
  
  PQ's is just awwsome . but hard to find a time when many of us meet in the same area doing the 
 same PQ. Story line is nice, its like doing an instance but its done outdoor and anyone can join 
 it. no need to worry looking for parties that requires experience ppl to join in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkaran
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  I wasn't really hyped at all for this game and it was actually a game I didn't wanna pay attention 
 to at all.
  But a friend of mine bought the game and where nowhere to be seen for a week. Starting to wonder 
 where he was I broke into his apartment to find him sitting infront of the screen with a game I 
 didn't recognize.
  At first I was like bleh, doesn't even look that good, but the more I looked at it the more I started 
 to like it. After an evening at my friends place I was totally sold, I just had to get it. (Me who 
 finally broke away from my wow addiction  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConstantinNC
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  For long I have been waiting for something that good, big world, great graphics and diverse environment, 
 lots of various quests with tons of things to do.
  
  One of the things that make this game stands up is the Public Quests and Open RvR, assaulting RvR 
 objective, taking keeps is very enjoyable and immersive, specially when using war weapons, with 
 lots of vivid effects and intense fighting.
  
  The gear also looks great, its detailed and simple at the same time, one thing I liked is that 
 you can dye your gear to the color of your choice anywhere anytime.
  
  Also you have the scenarios, which you can join from anywhere in the world, only to return you 
 back to the same place you was after you finish.
  
  It's a promising game with a great future, if you thinking of an MMO with something new, enjoyable 
 to offer, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdumbchimp
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  A fun game but lacks depth. Would like more class / race choices as well storyline. Graphics are 
 disappointing but they are targeting WoW, so that's no surprise. I know that RvR is the big draw 
 and it is fun in that aspect but compared to some other games (that I won't mention) that had more 
 bugs at their launch I was hoping this game would have a better feeling. Seems way to linear and 
 contained once you get out of the RvR and Public Quests. If RvR and PvP are all you are interested 
 in, this may be the game for you. I'll be waiting for something less like this in the future and 
 more like games that aren't so intent on copying WoW. Yes I know WoW is the best selling game blah 
 blah blah. Best selling doesn't alway mean best. If so then you must all be fans of Britney Spears 
 huh? Depth is always good in a MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullinsjosiah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  First off, it's not a Wow clone. In all actualality, War was here first. I've bought Wow 3 different 
 times and have nevered renewed my subscription pass the free month. It's not for everyone. But 
 with War, you have something different to do all the time with RVR. It's never the same. I have 
 went from rank 1 to rank 12 without doing more then 10 of the starter quests. So whoever says its 
 point and click repetition, hasn't really played the game for the way it was meant. Everyone who 
 keeps pointing out the things that Wow has better are in denial. They are ADDICTED to World of 
 Warcraft and nothing will ever compare because its not their addiction. Yes, this game isn't Wow, 
 but thats a good thing. Wow is the biggest cookie cutter game I've ever saw. Each of War's classes 
 has something unique to it. The ironbreaker (tank) has grudges which make its attacks stronger when 
 its team mate is attacked. And when the archmage (healer) uses offensive magic its healing spells 
 are stronger and cast faster and vice versa when casting healing spells. And when the bright wizard (MDPS) 
 uses its offensive spells he builds combustion which can hurt you but also makes the spells stronger 
 and can eventually make them do 4 times the damage. So its not the same as other MMO's. Each class 
 has its own unique mechanics. Its a great game. Atleast play it and make your own desicion and 
 not listen to those Wow-addicts who are pissed that they are addicted to a has-been game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagos76
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  I am not reviewing the game I just want to say that 
  
  Gamespots official review :
  
 The Good...
  The Bad... "
  is dead on apart from one unforeseen thing. A few days ago was 
 Warhammers birthday. It became one month old. Now it is no coincidence that all of a sudden servers 
 that had waiting lists of up to 500 (maybe more) all of a sudden appear to be medium if not low 
 populated. Now normally I would say hey its ok the have all forgoten to go and renew their game 
 subscriptions .... now 6-7 days after the sudden drop in population one can begin to see some problems 
 with this game. You see it was created with one thing in mind: WAR... ALOT OF IT ... And on a HUGE 
 scale. This means that there are quests and whole areas and aspects of the game that require Lots 
 and Lots of people ... guess what no people ... no party.
  I belong to guild in game that durring the first 15 days of the game managed to get 170 members 
 on a single english server, and it was a greek only guild... now if we are luck we can fill a party 
 of 6 to go questing. You see the has disapointed a lot of people, for reasons that I am not quite 
 sure . the game seems to me a very good WOW clone maybe even better. 
  Anyways it seems logical that sometime next month Mythic will start merging servers andthe initial 
 thrust of the game will be gone. Will it stand the test of time or will it empty out a little after 
 Xmas? 
  
  we shall see... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whome9900
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  The only real problems with quests and bugs didn't come out until Tier 4, the lower ones where 
 very well designed. Some problems with the balance of classes for the RvR, but that depends as 
 much on the individual who doesn't know the class or how to play the scenario. The PvE of the game 
 is alot of fun, especially if you like to emerse in the story line. The tome unlocks and rewards 
 are nice addition to the game as well as the trophy system, its nice to have additions to your 
 armor that makes it unique from everybody elses look. The renown system is nice addition, but the 
 game does focus more on the PvP aspect of the game especially once you reach lvl 40. With the new 
 addition of classes that had been removed from the launch, it sure to impact the balance on the 
 servers from those that favor Destro to Order and the other way of course. If you have couple of 
 friends I think their queuing system for the scenarios is a lot of fun, its also alot of fun to 
 work through the Public Quest area's together, especially if you imerse yourself in the story line. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuki
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  I've been playing World of Warcraft since January of 2006 and since then I've beta tested and played 
 a number of competing massively multiplayer games and Warhammer Online is the first to actually 
 get close to being worth mentioning. Its sad but true, blizzard have simply built the perfect game 
 and its only going to get better over time so the best thing anyone can really say about any new 
 mmo is that its got some neat stuff and is a nice temporary distraction from wow.
  
  And war, most certainly is the first to 'almost' be as good as wow. At least in some aspects but 
 at the end of the day we all know blizzard basically owns the mmo market.
  
  Right away I liked the overall art style and look of the game over wows but then I am a tabletop 
 Warhammer fan so the world has always been special to me. Every race in game is well represented; 
 the orc quest areas in particular are quite fun and hilarious at times.
  
  The combat works well, and actually having to worry about player to player collision adds some 
 nice depth to the realm verses realm situations but if like me you're not into pvp so much it wont 
 really effect your opinion.
  
  Most of the classes are fun to play but then that's kind of where the game starts to get problems. 
 See unlike wow this is yet another mmo where each class doesn't quite feel unique enough.
  
  Mythic claim that the 4 classes left out of the initial release weren't unique enough, which 
 is a worry considering how similar the classes that remained in game feel.
  
  Ranged dps does ranged damage, melee does melee, healers heal and tanks tank. Maybe things change 
 in the higher levels but from my experience, leveling one melee class felt exactly the same as 
 leveling another melee class.
  
  And that brings me to yet more repetition, the quests. Heck the entire pve system is just one big 
 repetitious system of doing the exact same two things a thousand times over. You are either clicking 
 on items on the ground or killing things. I'm serious that's ALL you do in pve in war.
  
  In wow you have kill quests, escort quests, quests that involve following npcs, quests to bomb 
 things from the sky, so on and so forth. Variation; wow has it, war doesn't.
  
  I understand that warhammer online is a player verses player focused game but when the majority 
 of your player base isn't going to be doing that most of the time there's going to be a few issues 
 should you not work hard enough on making it compelling. I went in to this game expecting some 
 kind of awesome lore filled experience and instead all I get is 12 year olds wanting to kill me 
 and buckets of the same crap.
  
  So yeah maybe I'm not the kind of gamer suited to this game, pvp isn't my cup of tea but I figured 
 the game would still be fun if I didn't do so much of that. Guess I was wrong because by level 
 24 I was bored out of my mind. All I could think was 'man I need to get back to wow asap'.
  
  Not much else to say really, the idea of the pqs is nice and works well because it's so convenient 
 but really, blizzard had similar features in wow long ago, they just never took off. So if anything 
 good comes from war I know that at least a few of its ideas will make it into wow sooner or later. 
 In fact some are already in it, like achievements.
  And when lich king launches it will also have the ability to allow players to que for battle grounds 
 anywhere in the world just like war. In fact blizzard is even revamping pvp in wow to allow players 
 to level from it, they're also adding more world based pvp areas, again, just like war. War's unique 
 feature set is getting smaller and smaller. It won't be long until everything good in it is in 
 some form in wow and the only people still playing are the hardcore fans and the wow haters. Still 
 good luck to them, they'll need it.
  
  It's a shame that warhammer online turned out so, disappointing for me and my friends. We were 
 all planning on quitting wow for it but I guess that didn't happen. I guess you should only believe 
 so much of what developers promise you. Paul Barnett of Mythic Studios talked about alot of cool 
 things a year or so ago that were planned for war.
  
  Like dynamic quest tracking, hidden secret areas for example. Neither of those things made it into 
 the game. Honestly I just don't think anyone should bother making fantasy mmos anymore. Blizzard 
 are always going to be better and lets face it gamers can only play one mmo at a time, why would 
 they play the second or third best ones when they can play the best of the best?
  
  While I realize war probably will stand on its own legs for a while, I can't exactly see it lasting 
 like wow. Nothing is like wow. Wow is a cultural and social phenomenon for our generation, nothing 
 can compare to it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgguide
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I know every MMO has to be under this big WOW microscope but he main option of this game was to 
 put the fun back into MMO's. This game is fun right off the bat. The casual player will love the 
 fact he doesn't have to wait til he is max level to get into raid parties and quests that "feel" 
 high level while still in the newbie area. 
  
  They have made finding a group easier than any other MMO with the open party system that tells 
 you which chapter a group is at and how far away they are. You just join it and check the group 
 out and decide if you want to continue with it. The game really has a team work feeling to it.
 
  
  People want to complain that this does this and this doesn't do that and this is broken and that 
 is broken..... whatever.
  
  The game is fun to play and that should be anyone's bottom line. If you are into fun MMO's then 
 buy it. If every little detail keeps you awake at night then stick with WOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I'll be quick here. The mechanics are nothing new, the player classes have the same roles other 
 games have offered before. There's very little new here.
  
  On the mechanics end of the spectrum, nothing stands out drastically.
  
  What DOES stand out 
 in warhammer, is player cooperation.
  
  And, the game itself deserves alot of praise for this. In games like AoC, which almost feels like 
 a single player RPG at times, and Warcraft, where the only coop gameplay is raids that brings out 
 the most mercenary of self serving players... many aspects of Warhammer encourage cooperative gameplay 
 to suceed, and do it in very innovative ways.
  
  The public quests, which many before have talked about, are the biggest contribution to this. since 
 good loot can be had from this, it often encourages people to team up for the objective in front 
 of them. Notice I said "encourages" rather than "force" players to group up. Groups of players 
 can often keep eachother alive better, and achieve better contribution scores toward the event 
 than solo players, contributing to a better bonus being added to their final loot rolls. Sure, 
 single players can handle things just fine, and even in their case, they tend to play cooperatively, 
 watch out for other players, and help keep them alive.
  
  Also, on RvR servers, there are many areas where quests occur in contested zones, and taking over 
 these zones makes solo questing easier. This also encourages players to team up, beat the hell 
 out of the enemy, heal their teammates, and play together to achieve a common objective.
  
  Lastly, helping out other players helps your personal renown score, which also opens up more gear 
 to be had.
  
  Now, I know I've cited alot of self serving reasons for this cooperation, but since almost every 
 aspect of the game involves cooperative play, it affects the game world in a very positive way...
 
  
  ... often traveling solo, players get random help from strangers if they get in trouble. And, sure, 
 ganking is still a fun way for asshats with confidence issues to pass the time they have far too 
 much of, but if other players are around, expect some awesome and extended world PvP to ensue from 
 these scenerios.
  
  What I'm getting at is this... people play MMO's to PLAY WITH OTHER PEOPLE. And no game I have ever 
 played has encouraged people to play together more than Warhammer. Some of these part time allegiances 
 are merely fun ways to pass the time, others form lasting bonds with some very good people. But, 
 make no mistake, it is Warhammer's execution and careful attention to event and world participation 
 that encourages this cooperative and public gameplay, which generates a more positive and helpful 
 attitude from the player base at large than most other games.
  
  And, these steps to encourage cooperation makes the game fun, makes the time playing with other 
 people rewarding rather than a begrudged experience in a self serving attempt to get loot, and 
 get people playing together from step one, which ensures that people will play together for a long 
 time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: modai119
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  First let me give you the Pros and Cons.
  
  Pros
  - Public Quests
  - Tome of Knowledge
  - Variety of classes
  - PvP (RvR, scenarios, keep sieges included)
  
 
  Cons
  - RDPS makes MDPS obsolete in T3, T4
  - Every class has at least 1 CC move (So in T3 or T4 when your a melee class expect to get stun, 
 knockdown, knockback, snare, etc. if you don't have a pocket healer)
  - Repetitive scenarios (T1 Nordenwatch, T2 Mourkain Temple, T3 Tor Anroc, T4 Serpents Passage)
 
  - City raids consists of series of quests limited to 48vs48 players
  - Poor graphics (Armour/weapons lacks detail, poor animations, environments and cities looks too 
 empty)
  - No real PvP rewards (Except stuff you get with your renown rank)
  - Quests aren't as fun as it was in T1
  - Auto snared when your 3-5% of your HP (Getting out 
 of combat is hard since you have to be at least 300-500ft away from the fight to regen)
  
  Yes, I know there's tons of cons but don't let that turn you off. This game is great compared to 
 other MMOs thats already on the market. I've been playing since release and stop my Marauder at 
 33 since I couldn't take the CCs anymore. I started a Magus and love it. 
  
  At first when the game was released it was crowded, but fun. PQs, Rvr, and all of the T1 scenarios 
 were populated to make the game enjoyable. At T2 PQs were getting more and more interesting ("Tearing 
 the Portal" ftw!!) But once you hit T3 and T4, thats when the game kinda hits a dead end. The XP 
 from quests was giving too little (6-8k) for taking up 20 min of traveling around, while you can 
 do Tor Anroc/Serpents Passage for a average of 10k per 7-15min. Don't worry though, they fixed 
 the XP gain for quests but doing scenarios still gives a lot more...
  
  After a month while this game progressed lower tier RvR and PQs aren't as active as they were (T3 
 PQs are basically deserted most of the times) . Keep sieges are one sided and offers no real reward 
 for defenders, the offense team has to deal with the PURE luck contribution roll system. (You can 
 be contributing the most and roll a 1 compared to the guy that sat afk almost entirely leeching 
 xp/renown hitting stuff once in a while and roll a 1000) City raids are a series of quests like 
 grab X amount of crates kill X amount of guards etc. like PQs.
  
  The game is fun but not ground breaking. The PvP is great but needs work, given its been out a 
 month and content patches are heading our way. If you want a MMO to tide you over to whatever you 
 want to play next this is the game to play till then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsunami_pt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, Warhammer Online as been a big disapointment for me. I was not hoping for a game to make 
 quit WoW. I know that's impossible, and tbh, that was not what I was looking for. What was I looking 
 for was for a game on an enviorement that I apreciated, with a interesting concept.
  
  But what I found was a un-polished game, that clearly does not stad for the hype generated. This 
 game was not ready for launch, and it is not as good as it should, no matter what fanboys are talking 
 about. So, for now, I'm leaving this game, now that my free month is coming to an end. But I do 
 plan to come back later, because I do like the general concept and feeling of it.
  
  
  So, to make it simple reading, these are some of the things that made me quit War:
  
  - STUTTERING! 
 - this is what annoys me the most. I clearly have a good computer, with a recent 8800gt card. It's 
 not the cream of the crop nowadays, I know, but it 'is way up the minimum requirements. BUT, no 
 matter what I do (and I tried a lot of things) , the game has a constant lag and stuttering feeling. 
 It is just not smooth! And, ffs, this game aint no Crysis, so it should not be so heavy on requirements! 
 We clearly deserve an extra layer of polish there.
  
  - Mob lag - So, I'm playing my SW, wondering around in the fields. I see a mob and atack him. What 
 happens most of the time? Well the mob receives the 1st atack, turns around and look at me, turns 
 back to where he was looking, looks again to me and starts running towards me. And in the next 
 second, it's like he blinks and is on me, atacking me! That drives me crazy, and I know, for a 
 fact, that I'm not the only one suffering from such an issue.
  
  - Professions - whoever designed this game's professions? They suck and are boring as hell! 2 min 
 watching a seed grow? WTF??? Mythic should have played more safe and should have done something 
 close to WoW's professions. That way, professions would have a decent use, instead of the dullness 
 they are.
  
  - Public Quests are not that good - So, you all know what a PQ is. You enter a zone where a quest 
 is taking place. Everybody can participate on it, and it's divided in 3 phases: kill a lot of easy 
 mobs; kill a few of hard mobs; kill one or two bosses. Well, the concept is interesting. But... 
 I never finished a PQ. In fact, just for once I reached the 3rd stage, and even so we failed to 
 kill the boss, because we lacked a tank. It's not that fun as it should be, and most ppl tend to 
 ignore the teamwork.
  
  - No grinding? I dont think so... - One of the flags that Mything wave at us was the fact that 
 this is a MMORPG where we wouldnt need to grind. Well... you know about the public quests? By doing 
 them, there is a kind of reputation bar, that you climb by killing mobs related to that quest. 
 That bar is divided in 3 lvls, and whenever you reach one of those levels, you can unlock a potion 
 or a piece of gear. It's called influence. I call it (using WoW terminology) reputation. Well, 
 you can just ignore the public quest, and keep killing the mobs from the 1st phase till you reach 
 the 3rd lvl. of the bar. What do you call the act of continuously killing mobs to achieve a goal/reward? 
 I dunno about you, but I call it grinding.
  
  - Is this really and MMO? - because... allmost no one is talking in this game! Why didnt Mythic 
 implemented a general chat? There is only a zone chat. So, in Chrace, for instance, I cant talk 
 to someone 1 min away from me, because it's in a diferent zone then mine, despite we're being the 
 both on Chrace! WHY???? And why are so few ppl playing this? There are too much low populated servers. 
 Maybe there are TOO MANY servers, dont you think? Mythic/EA were too ambicious. Maybe there should 
 have been a lot less servers, so that the player database wouldnt be so spreaded, imo. (Talking 
 about Europe, btw. Dont know how is it on the States)
  
  - Small things - like, u jump down a cliff and you lose some energy. There's not a sense of falling. 
 A simple sound like a "Ugh!" would be enough. The only thing I see is a red number above my head. 
 And using chopters to travel between zones? LAME!
  
  - A pvp oriented game. Nice. Now... where is the PVP? - What about logging in the game, queueing 
 for Scenarios (BG's) , playing for 3 hours and logging out with not even doing a single scenario 
 or seing a diferent faction player. Yey... such fun I'm having here... And whenever I actually 
 enter a Scenario, it's ALLWAYS Nordenwatch. I only did Blighted Isle once, and I never did Gates 
 of Ekrund. Why ppl? Is there even any reason for me to continue to T2 and T3 areas?
  
  - Dull PVE. LAME! - So... You know how in WoW, some quests made you go back and forth the same 
 place a couple of times? Well, this games just keeps us waling back and forth a LOT more. Blizzard's 
 game seems better and better now... Talking about Chrace, for instance: what about walking back 
 and forth between the siege and the "safe" zone 3 times, because of 3 chained quests? Man... so 
 boring...
  
  
  Well, I could still complain about some smaller issues, but there's no point in it. The thing is, 
 I like the feeling of the game. I want it to be better. I want to have fun with it. This game had 
 the chance to build a solid player base. Many people are bored with WoW and wanted more. But the 
 thing is... Mythic failed to score with the goal wide open. Tbh, I'm having more fun just with 
 WoW's patch 3.0.2 that I had with War on the past weeks. WOTLK will be the nail in the coffin in 
 War. I do intend to come back, when the game is actually finished. Because... It is not. Maybe 
 EA rushed the launch to take advantage of bored WoW's players. But the thing is... It was not a 
 good move.
  
  http://www. eurogamer. net/article. php? article_id=262177 gives me hope though. Specially the "Mythic 
 is also working to improve the performance of the game on lower-spec PCs." 
  
  I want this game to be good. I want it to be fun. I'll be back in some months, guys. Hope the game 
 is fixed till then. But for know, I'll just lvl my Hunter to 80 and have fun on the better MMORPG 
 there is. And War is NOT that MMO... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trjc
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 21, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  While interesting in its design; introducing some new ideas into the MMORPG genre; Warhammer Online 
 makes some fundamental mistakes in its implementation that are likely to drive away players.
  
  The release was reasonably uneventful, although nowhere near the hyped "perfect release" being 
 claimed in interviews. The game has many bugs; none major (at least none that I have experienced) , 
 but all are a nuisance to game play. Sadly, there isn't a patch / hot fix that goes by without 
 claiming that these bugs are fixed -- yet, they always re-occur and do so at the same rate they 
 were occurring previously. Of biggest impact are those bugs that are most likely associated with 
 communications between servers and players, and those associated with processor overload. Teleportation 
 of targets (due to missed updates on positions) ; "out of range" and "can't see the target" messages 
 when the target is immediately adjacent to you (probably due to de-synchronization between clients 
 and servers, also due to missed messages) ; skills that don't function even when the hot button 
 is active; hot buttons that may take ten clicks to activate (deadly during PvP) ; temporary freezing 
 of the client; and lag spikes; these all occur on a quad-core test rig with 4 Gbyes of memory and 
 a top-notch 512Mb graphics card running on a very high-speed connection. That is, the problems 
 are not due to the gaming rig.
  
  While none of these bugs are major, they occur sufficently often that they are a major nuisance 
 to game players.
  
  This review is being written after playing 4 different classes; 1 Destruction and 3 Order; on different 
 servers with different rule sets. Since it has only been a month since release, these classes have 
 only been played up through Tier 2. Through that level of play, it can be concluded that the classes 
 are quite well balanced. In any PvP-centric game, there will always be complaints about class imbalance. 
 However, the destruction character plays exactly like -- and I do mean EXACTLY like -- one of the 
 Order characters. I presume that this is generally the case across the board. For every Order class, 
 there is a corresponding Destruction class. They differ in trivial ways, but not in their main 
 play style. I could presume that they deviate more as the levels go up, but I really have to suspect 
 that they don't.
  
  I have found that many of the skills and class attributes don't make much difference to the ability 
 of the class. That's a disappointment. Upping various statistics on the character through gear 
 and talismans also seems to make little difference. For a PvP game where it is not desirable to 
 have other players one-shotting lower level players, this is probably to be expected -- especially 
 considering the abortive PvP gankfest that preceded Warhammer Online -- Age of Conan. Yet, one 
 would expect that tweaking statistics would make a bit more difference than it does. Part of this 
 is the fact that players are automatically increased in level in PvP areas to improve game balance; 
 in so doing, they are not increased in their skills, just hitpoints. But, this is also one of the 
 problems; since many of the skills earned as a player levels are very situational, gaining a level 
 makes little difference in PvP when opponents are leveled up automatically. The only difference 
 between two players who have been automatically leveled up is the skills they've actually earned 
 -- but if the skills don't do much or are highly situational, then that difference disappears.
 
  
  Warhammer Online also makes a mistake that was first most obvious in Lord of the Rings Online; 
 excessive distribtuion of the player base across too many areas. Lord of the Rings Online was exceptional 
 to play in the early levels and initial zones right after the game release because players were 
 concentrated in their starting zones. After players became more and more dispersed over all the 
 zones, it became impossible to form groups. Turbine's answer was to make game play more solo-oriented; 
 not the best solution to a MMORPG paradigm. This problem haunts Lord of the Rings Online to this 
 day. Warhammer Online has less distribution of players over zones, but has more distribution of 
 players over activities (e. g., regular quests, public quests, PvP scenarios, realm PvP) . Almost 
 all the quests are soloable; meaning that Mythic recognized that the purpose of PvE in a PvP game 
 is just to help players level up. Automatic groups are available for public quests; however, across 
 4 different characters playing extensively for a month, I have only TWICE been in groups with enough 
 players to even be able to take down the final bosses of public quests. Shortly after release, 
 Mythic made the second and third stage bosses of public quests tougher to preclude farming; I predict 
 they'll reverse that decision when it becomes clear that now nobody except established guilds can 
 take these bosses down -- which is completely contrary to the whole idea of public quests.
  
  People are too dispersed. There aren't that many people on servers as it is since Mythic has 
 to constrain server populations in order to support PvP. Low population servers and even medium 
 population servers, however, are poor for PvP; all players can do is participate in the PvP scenarios 
 because realm Vs realm PvP is essentially nonexistent. Surprisingly, Mythic has attempted to further 
 distribute the player base to preclude queues; but, quite frankly, there are just too many servers 
 with most players concentrated on a few. Mythic needs to move players off of the low population 
 servers to form at least medium population servers in order to have a decent player base at all. 
 In this case, the Wizards of Warcraft release model makes more sense: release with too FEW servers 
 and add more as they are needed. Visions of grandeur, releasing with too many servers, makes no 
 sense for PvP games.
  
  The biggest problem with Warhammer Online is simply that it does not "grab you". The graphics are 
 not that good. The animations are not that good (elves running, for instance, look awful) . The 
 quests are not that challenging or exciting. The area design is not that stimulating. The cartoonish 
 feel detracts from everything. The PvP is quite good, even stimulating, but not good enough to 
 hold you in the game. There are enough shortcomings -- features that were not quite at release 
 level when the game was released -- to be an annoyance. Add to that the lack of forums, such that 
 you can't even complain or grouse about things, and the usual poor attitude one finds with so-called 
 customer service these days, and it leads to enough dissatisfaction that many players will not 
 resubscribe after their initial month is up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FearMeLess
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good for new comers such as me. This game is amazing and really fun. I've never 
 played wow because of how out dated it was, but man I must admit that from the videos and what 
 my friends say about WoW, I think WAR is capable of taming the WoW beast in terms of subscribers. 
 I think this game desrves a 10 because of my new experience, so take as you will.
  The only problem I see with the game is the lack of players. usually when I run around the pq areas 
 I barely see any of my order commardes to help with the pq I'm doing. Still many bugs, but doesn't 
 really bother me, I do hope however; that they fix these bugs as soon as possible.
  All in all I think WAR deserves a good score regardless what Gamespot says and I'm really loving 
 the gameplay, but thats just my opinion in terms of a noob
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathfromgun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I've been a WoW player since the European launch, and I didn't expect anything to be able to compete 
 with it for a long time, especially WAR. I was convinced that it was going to be a failure of a 
 game, or suffer from surge of new users due to hype at launch, after which people would stop playing. 
 I never expected anything from WAR, and happily I can say I was wrong.
  Firstly, WAR is not WoW. It has been influenced by WoW in many ways, but it's almost impossible 
 to find an MMO that hasn't by now. WAR is an innovator in it's own right, just as WoW was, but 
 in more subtle ways.
  When you first start WAR, the first decision you need to take is which class to play. Although 
 the four traditional archetypes found in MMORPGs are present here, each is not stuck to a set role. 
 Each class has a unique take on gameplay mechanics, and each are fun to play.
  You will be thrown straight into the conflict at the heart of WAR - the battle between Order and 
 Destruction. Among the first NPCs you are asked to kill are those of the other faction, and there 
 are quest givers which encourage you to participate in the PvP instanced battles from Rank 1.
 
  When you begin to fight, you will realise that WAR is very fast paced - action points regenerate 
 almost instantly if you don't use an ability, fights are short and brutal, and there is no downtime 
 after a fight.
  Even thought many call WAR purely PvP focused, the PvE is also well-done, although not as much 
 so as the PvP.
  Lastly, WAR is also nice in the visual and audio department. The art design is fantastic, and there 
 are many nice effects, although the quality of the animation plummets as you move further away 
 from things. The music sounds epic, and the ambient sounds are convincing and naturally placed.
 
  To sum up, WAR is simply fun. If you are someone who is looking for a new MMO, or are fed up with 
 WoW's now-stale gameplay, you wouldn't regret picking up WAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airman1027
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  So far I am having a blast playing. It definately has something for you whenever you log in. If 
 you want PVP its there and quick, if you want PVE its there and quick and everywhere. Definately 
 fun, only drawback might be a limited scenario menu of areas to conquer but I am not bored yet. 
 Can play for a couple hours of it at a time easy without getting tired. Classes are a bit limited 
 but overall the game is just fun....
  
  I look forward to playing this for a while and I can see some great opportunities for player generated 
 scenarios, etc... such as with Day of Defeat or other map types. That would be a fun addition.
 
  
  The overall graphic quality is decent, game runs very well also on a resonably new computer. You 
 dont need a super computer to run this game.
  
  I am not sure that it will keep my interest for years, but fun, really fun right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Badbob5
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I find this game extremely satisfying. Leveling is not the ordeal the it was in WoW. Mounts are 
 very affordable. There is nothing I don't like about this game. The only issue that I have with 
 this game is that there are issues with lag and that there are still issues that need to be fixed. 
 But what else can be expected in the first few months of an MMO. With that said, such issues are 
 few and far between. This game is amazing. I cannot recomend it enough. I heard some complaints 
 that there wsa not enough time spent on questing and the PvE aspect of the game. I found it to 
 be the opposite in fact. The tome of knowledge gives grinding a purpose. The hard to get titles, 
 when attained, make them all the more satisfying to have. The game gave the lore of Warhammer its 
 full justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  I only played two classes a White Lion (Level 32) and Disciple of Khaine (level 10) . Im not very 
 into making Alts until I get my first character (White Lion) to level cap. So far what ive seen 
 in the game I am enjoying very much. I mostly just PvP since ive been craving it since my last 
 days in Dark Age of Camelot. Here is what I think of the game:
  
  PvE- The PvE quests are pretty mcuh what you see in every MMORPG. Go here kill X this , go back 
 for reward or Go here pick up/search X get reward and another quest. The PvE quests I did seem 
 like the same old quests from other MMORPGS so nothing special but no reason to drive you away 
 from the game unless your looking for new and improved quests.
  
  PvP- This games PvP (RvR) is really REALLY fun. Theres quests for PvP to go scout X are or go kill 
 X number of players. Sometimes the kill quests are class specific which takes some time but not 
 to much. There is Keep battles which remind me a lot of Dark Age of Camelot but not the same but 
 still good. Theres Scenarios which you could join at anytime and load right into a PvP battle ground 
 and in there there is objectives such as capture enemy flag or camps. Doing the objectives will 
 get your points and there first to 500 win or the team that has the highest points when the 15minute 
 timer ends. Overall the PvP in this game is the best I have ever seen since Dark Age of Camelot.
 
  
  Classes- This game has a great amount of classes that are all unique and good. There is some balance 
 issues but nothing that bad.
  
  Public Quests- I love them , tho sometimes I hate them. Cause they are very fun to do and give 
 good rewards. Tho sometimes they get in your way for doing other quests. Every Public quest has 
 a timer sand its pretty short so there easy to get into from the beginning. I think they were a 
 great thing foer this game.
  
  
  Overall- If you enjoyed Dark Age of Camelot you should really like this game. If you are looking 
 for some great PvP this is your game. If your only looking for PVE this game may be for you and 
 may not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid-poker1973
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  After the abysmal Age of Conan... I was praying to the gaming gods that Warhammer Online delivered 
 on the hype to be the next "World of Warcraft".
  
  I'm a diehard WoW-head, been playing since launch and have had very few negatives to say about 
 the game... other than... after 4 years, the same old same old has gotten monotonous.
  
  BUT.
  
  I'm here to talk about Warhammer NOT WoW.... so lets get to it.
  
  Here's the good... The 
 game play from the start is immersive. I found myself addicted within the first 10 minutes. The 
 interface is not only beautiful, but user friendly.
  
  The graphics are splendid... the audio follows suit.
  
  Content is right on the money, as far 
 as low level game content goes (I've only achieved Rank 10 with two different toons.)
  
  The crafting is unique and just the right amount of challenge to make it more of a conquest than 
 a grind to level you crafting and gathering skills.
  
  There is MUCH more good to talk about than bad when it comes to WAR... I haven't even cracked the 
 MAGNIFICENT RVR (PVP aspect to the game) THE Public Quests is probably one of the most genious 
 new concepts in the PvP gaming experience in the RPGMMO yet. HOORAH!
  
  The reward system in PvP is spectacular!!
  
  On the down side...
  
  Don't expect to blast 
 through levels like you do in other MMO's. 40 is the current level cap and if the leveling slowdown 
 at 10 is any indication of leveling, plan on it taking a while to reach level 40 for you casual 
 gamers.
  
  Minor stability issues can be frustrating. Not nearly as bad as some other games... won't mention 
 any (AoC) names, but still it gets frustrating.
  
  All in all... run out and buy WAR if your're looking for something fresh... other than the WoW grind. 
 You'll fall in love simply with the PvP... Brilliantly done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gooeykat
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  As it stands right now, the game is broken up into three main areas.
  
  - PVE and Public Quests
  - RVR
  - Scenarios
  
  The last one is killing the first two. Scenarios 
 (think battlegrounds in WoW) is where most people go when they want PVP at the moment. You can 
 que into a Scenario at any time or place. Mythic, since launching the game, have added added additional 
 features to make it even easier for players que into any Scenario in their current Tier. They also 
 have now made it possible que up for all of them at the same time.
  
  The result, most of the player population is going in and out of gameworld most of the time. This 
 IMO kills the game experience, kills the game world and is killing Public Quests and RvR, both 
 of which are empty. Not only are they empty, the world is pretty much empty. The chat channel is 
 silent most of the time. Be sure to join a guild, otherwise you will never talk to anyone.
  
  Most people just hang out in the hubs and wait to que up for a scenario with the occasional 
 PQ or RVR. This is a far cry from the epic battles that were promoted. And so far, Mythic has not 
 realized this problem. In fact they seem to be encouraging it based on their latest patches. My 
 first free month is up in a few days and won't be renewing but will be watching to see if any changes 
 are made.
  
  This game has the potential to be epic, as it stands right now, it's broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGOmen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Note: Please do not rate until you fully read everything; this goes for both agreeing and disagreeing. 
 I don't want trolls who just hate the game for the heck of it nor do I want recruiters just putting 
 a thumbs down when they didn't even read it themselves.
  
  
  This review will have three parts to it:
  
  -Reviewing sections of the game (based on personal 
 gameplay and forum discussions for feedback before being posted) .
  
  -Reading what people on the forum have to say (based on what people thought what was wrong about 
 it instead of just saying they hate it) .
  
  -Personal Comments.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  
  No Socialization - The chating 
 system is so poorly set up that you'll be seeing it change quite often as you move around; that 
 doesn't at all help matters that there is almost no socialization in this game. The only time I 
 get whispers or /tells as some people know them is when a gold farming is advertising his site 
 every five minutes and the ignore function is "ignoring" my requests to put said person on it. 
 It was a bugged function for quite a while during live even though it's probably fixed by now... 
 But the damage was done as the same people kept on advertising on the same names and with the same 
 sites. There was also no easy way to report them as you had to go through the whole process with 
 the menu instead of just right clicking on their name.
  
  Public Quests - While a good idea to implement (though not the first MMO or game to do so) they 
 were poorly placed and too spread out for anyone to see anyone else trying to do them as the game 
 has progress; even in the first tier in the game it has become scarce. There are quite a few of 
 them as well as they are all over the place with no real incentive to do them as you could just 
 grind normal monsters of each public quest to get a full bar for the rewards. What's the point 
 in fighting several stages of a public quest or spending hours for people to do it with you just 
 for a crappy green that most likely doesn't relate to your class at all? Though I managed to do 
 most in the first tier I just decided to grind as it was much faster and much easier to do when 
 I was waiting for the ques over and over again to do the same thing over and over again.
  
  
  Scenarios - Which brings me to the scenarios.... I'd much rather just be playing Savage 2 or 
 Tribes or Unreal Tournament.... Or even Halo for that matter and have no ques whatsoever for the 
 same experiece.... Nay for a less stressful experience. Many a time I have found myself saying 
 outloud "man I'm bored" when actually IN a scenario for the hundreth time. Heck... By the forth 
 time it's just completely boring what with the uninspired combat system as opposed to these other 
 free PvP games that provide scenarios in a much better way and grander scale. They try to make 
 it an even playing field but it never is; even if people are boosted to rank eight there will always 
 be a group of rank 11s out there whom are in a group (what with rank 11 being the max rank in the 
 first tier of scenarios, just using it as an example) . Nothing balanced about that at all as opposed 
 to the before mentioned FREE games.
  
  Renown - Oh, I really want to spend all my time in ques and waste time on the "world map" doing 
 quests and the like. Honestly, who wouldn't pay each month for this? To get PvP gear is to be leet; 
 actually, it's the only way to get gear period, at least in the beginning tiers of the game. 
 
  
  EXP: Honestly, what's the point of doing quests or grinding when you are able to get so much expierence 
 from scenarios and killing other players in them? There is none. It's just something to do to hide 
 that fact that the game is solely dedicated around scenarios at least in the beginning and so that 
 people who have been online gaming since it started won't realize what the game really is at the 
 core.
  
  Bugs: Nothing more to say in this part other than the fact they rushed this game too fast; it should've 
 been a late 2009 release with the amount of bugs it has but to be fair they're patching at an okay 
 rate of time. But still, as I read on a forum post, this genre is about 11-12 years old now (with 
 Ultima Online having it's 11th birthday and me having a ten year account  _ ;) and people are expecting 
 full releases of games and not just a mish-mash of bugs that could've been worked out if serious 
 effort and time was put into it. There is no excuse for a rushed job from a buyer point of view, 
 albeit maybe one from a business point, but in general people aren't going to stand for it much 
 longer to be the laughing stalks of all the genres with their bugged games that they have to pay 
 for each month.
  
  Emotes - There is no ability to sit or to even walk? Well then.... I guess I'll run to someone 
 two feet ahead of me just to talk to them and make a custom emote to sit even though I'll just 
 still be standing. Yay me.
  
  Collector's Edition: The collector's edition was a big disappointment for me; I like the box contents 
 but the in game stuff was a waste of money if that's all you intended to get it for. The "extra" 
 faces were almost all bad save for the orc's metal face.... But I guess if less people use them 
 it makes them even more "exclusive". There's a silver lining in most things if you're able to find 
 it.
  
  Graphics: There are areas in Warhammer that seem uninspired Graphics wise; but for the most part 
 I did enjoy exploring areas such as the Greenskin areas and trying to act the part of a Black Orc: 
 "Wez are da biggest an' da baddest! Gut dese worthless gitz an' show dem da might of the WAAAAAGHHH!" 
 and so on.
  
  Combat: This game has tremendously boring combat. Well, to be fair I only played the Witchhunter, 
 the Black Orc, Swordmaster, and the Disciple of Khaine. But they all felt like the same combat 
 system no matter what their "charge ups" were appropriately named. Whether it was getting five 
 acquisition points to do a finishing move, three balance positions after attacking three times 
 to perform a final dance attack, or "da good plan" or "da best plan" as the Black Orc charge ups 
 were.... It all ended in performing an attack that used those charge ups after getting them. It's 
 hard to believe anyone could honestly not see that at the core they are all the exact same and 
 it became apparent to me after leveling so many classes; they all felt the same in some strange 
 way.
  
  Resource Hog: I've a 2.4 dual core processor, 3GBs of RAM, and SLI 9600 x2 cards and I still found 
 it difficult to switch between websites and the game for casual entertainment while I was waiting 
 for "entertainment" with the scenarios. It was either that this game was poorly made or.... Well, 
 that's just about the only conclusion I could come up with when it comes to its scripting and programming.
 
  
  PvE: Very poor; the public quests are disappointing, the combat system is a bore, and basically 
 the PvE that was done is just a mish mash of quests where the pinpointed where you need to go on 
 the map to finish it while you are waiting for the que to fight in a scenario that gets repetative 
 after the fourth or fifth time playing it; there's very little reason to even play order nowadays 
 due to tremendous lack of balance as gestalt11, a five star elite member with 3204 posts says "... Playing 
 order is pointless. Therefore the game is pointless unless you are destruction and only want to 
 PvE. And on many servers its just plain boring." (Full post in the forum section of this review) .
 
  
  This game has a long way to go if it is to survive through the trials of the coming years; it doesn't 
 help matters much that EA is it's benefactor either. They said they would keep out of it but it's 
 EA; they say things. The fact that the public quests are so spread apart is a typical Ultima Online 
 move they pulled what is releasing too many expansions and lands too quickly and spliting a community 
 in whole; their influence is no doubt showing in some way.
  
  If people really want to swear by this game then it's their own prerogative.... But I've seen many 
 a person shout out "Waaagh" after playing a week of this game.... Though it wasn't a warcry; it 
 was just a cry.
  
  --------------------
  
  
  Foreign Forum Posts (What other people think) .
  
  mmorpg. com WAR forum
  
  Most of these 
 people are five stars or four stars on the forum.
  
  
  Newhopes:
  I find the pvp in war extremely weak and boring 9 time out of 10 you can tell who's going to win 
 before it's even begun, the system also has the same weakness as WOWs pvp with melee completely 
 dominating the game.
  
  
  
  OP gestalt11:
  Many criticisms of this game are frankly quite wrong and woefully misinformed, saying its just 
 like WoW or that PvE is all handed to you. Etc Etc.
  
  Those are not the reasons. I am pretty sure I will not subscribe because:
  
  With the recent 
 taking of Altdorf and the 2 other very close calls i realized the RvR is currently basically broken. 
 Further 90% of destruction are in complete denial about this and simply lord it over the other 
 side as much as possible.
  
  Realm imbalance. Most server are extremely unbalanced and there is very little recourse for the 
 unbalanced realm. In addition RvR is directly affected by PvE things like PQ. 
  
  Population problems. Many servers have extremely low population and are basically a shell of a 
 game. If the game is a 9 on hihg population its a 4 on low pop. Some of the servers in most dire 
 need were completely ignored in the last run of "fixes"
  
  T4 PvP is messed up for classes. A couple class match ups like Marauder to White Lion are way off.
 
  
  T4 RvR bugs. Zone control and and bugged keeps are borked. Order can barely make it to the first 
 unlock if at all. Destro does it three tiems as fast with the same setup.
  
  T3 and above is a horrible PvE grind without PvP scenario xp. Even with the recent changes it is 
 not any better.
  
  Everyone of these issues benefits Destruction. Playing Order is pointless. Therefore the game is 
 pointless unless you are destruction and only want to PvE. And on many servers its just plain boring.
 
  
  If they fix the zone control bugs and fix the insta-gib aoe in t4 and you roll on a server that 
 by some miracle has decently balanced populations across most playtimes then the game can be a 
 lot of fun.
  
  However that is a lot of "IF"s. I don't pay for a game with that many "if"s. Mark Jacobs responses 
 to these things on the VN boards, while honest, do not leave me with any confidence that anything 
 other than possibly the zone control bugs will get fixed or changed anytime soon.
  
  
  
  Ghist:
  Weaknesses of WAR are Chat interface needs total rework, actually hampers the community 
 feel. Mail system is obnoxious. Lag is always an issue with the lag correction being non-existant. 
 Graphics are relatively retro. PVE is a simple design given its there to tie in different PVP zones. 
 Class Balance still needs work. Order/Destruction balance has too much effect on servers. Crafting 
 is an afterthought.
  
  
  
  Teala
  Sooner or later the developers and the publishers will wake up and realize that this is no long 
 a new genre and that the people that they are targeting to play their games will not play them 
 if they are not good games right out of the box.
  
  
  
  Kyleran
  You sound a lot like me OP, former DAOC player looking for DAOC 2, similiar game but improved.
 
  WAR is definitely not that game. Sure, it might make some folks happy, but those who really loved 
 DAOC for what it was won't more often than not. (IMO) . 
  
  Mythic's attempt to make the game fun by making everything easy, friendly and with little grind 
 basically built a shooter inside an MMO world. 
  
  I know some people think this is the greatest thing ever, but not me.
  
  
  
  NeonShadow
 
  Funny seeing people tell the OP that this game isn't for him. Notice him saying that he's played 
 DAoC for 7 years? This game was supposed to be for him. This game was supposed to be the next step 
 for DAoC players. Instead it's a casual game for ex-WoW and FPS players.
  
  
  
  Tikovoo:
  ... unfinished rush job and nasty repetition.
  
  I agree it's terrible.
  
  We 
 can only pray it will get better and i am sure it will maybe by 2010.
  
  
  
  Three2six
  This game has to be in the top 5 most boring, least intelligent and biggest let down 
 I have ever played. And I've played nearly everything. This game makes WoW look difficult. Asian 
 Hack N Slash games are even more challenging. But, the game being 3 year old friendly isn't why 
 I dislike it. EVERYTHING is bugged in one way or another. The game is probably a year from being 
 tuned to finish. There are still items in the game for classes that have long since been removed 
 from the game. 
  
  Quests make you choose a reward even if there is only 1 reward. Boss mobs sometimes run off only 
 to come back fully healed. Targetting system is unreliable. blah blah blah... I could go on and 
 on mentioning every aspect of the game. Scenerios, bugged... Guild system, bugged.... Alliance 
 system, bugged... Your mastery tree gives bonus to abilities 3 levels before you can even get the 
 ability to take advantage of the bonus. WHAT?!?!? 
  
  The community, you ask? How is the community? Let's just say, it seems that most of the gimps from 
 WoW who have never played an MMO besides WoW are now playing WAR.
  
  Anyway, I'm just a tad let down by this game. Especially after waiting for 3 years and being a 
 7 year DAoC player.
  
  I understand there will be a few of you that disagree and will choose to try and insult me in your 
 clever little ways. Feel free but the fact remains, WAR is weak. It doesn't compare to WoW in PvE 
 content and is laughable compared to DAoC in RvR. LAUGHABLE!!
  
  
  
  Clada:
  I think a lot of people are feeling this way, the amount of threads that bring up much of what 
 you say is scary.
  
  
  
  Maseloc:
  could't agree more.
  
  
  
  Astralgeth:
  Fair assessment.
  
  -------------------------------------------
  
  It's hard to believe 
 that so many people could swear to a game that promotes a rage that occured almost fifteen (15) 
 years ago in the gaming community. What am I talking about?
  
  Starsiege Tribes.
  
  That game had up to 100 V 100 battles where everyone had the same gear available to them and NO 
 ques whatsoever. Well, that's essentially warhammer but with a popular brand name, a world map 
 to pass the time with doing quests that their world map shows you where to go so you actually do 
 them, and then lo and behold it's time for another scenario. Yet another difference is this time 
 you have to pay $15 a month for this craze in addition to having less people in it and some twenty 
 different classes that are all oddly similar to one another except for the fact one might get "acquisition" 
 points as opposed to "balance" points or soul points and THEN use their skills. What grand replayability 
 that has!
  
  Warhammer has a great lore but this game in its current state is a mockery of our intellect in 
 paying for monthly games and it seems that thus far only the ancient veterans of online gaming 
 know this to be true. You could seriously just download an Unreal Tournament demo and get the same 
 experience as all of these scenarios with no ques and people to talk with as opposed to waiting 
 in a que and doing quests by yourself and just hoping everyone knows what they heck they're doing 
 when you finally get into a scenario setting.
  
  Do I just say this to be spiteful? Certainly not; as I actually did what I'm preaching and reinstalled 
 both tribes and unreal tournament and played them all night after getting tired of the boring scenarios 
 I had to do to get renown and progress. What I found was that I had a TREMENDOUS amount of fun 
 just playing a game and not WORRYING about all of this crap while paying $15 a month just for that 
 same worry!
  
  Worse yet they offer a great amount of EXP for doing this ques which pretty much makes me just 
 want to sign up for them and level up again and again and not do any quests at all; in fact I wouldn't 
 of if they hadn't given me the exact location in which to do said quests. But in the end I just 
 started playing ANOTHER game while playing this one, which is a bad sign all together.
  
  In the end, if you want a game that is JUST LIKE War Online then look up Savage 2: A tortured Soul.
 
  
  It only costs $29.99 but has free online play and provides BETTER PvP action what with you having 
 one commander building a base for you while you and your comrades try to raise or capture enemy 
 bases/territory respectfully on many more maps. It even has better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordtorka
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Its amazing how the only people that ever talk about this game are the extremes (they either hate 
 wow and want it to die, or they are wow fanboys) . Its either this game is horrible and generic 
 or its so much better than wow in every way... no
  
  Iv played wow for more time than id like to admit and i gave this game a pretty fair shot, im still 
 playing as a matter of fact. Let me just say... they are the same game... thats all there is to it...
 
  
  WAR's RVR is completely different than WOW's PVP... often stated... no... how can anyone be that retarded 
 that they think that... clearly they have never played wow if thats what they think... any RVR i 
 have ever taken place in has been exactly like wow. The RVR scenarios are just like BattleGrounds. 
 Granted they are diffrent like AV is different from EOTS, you could take any RVR scenario from 
 WAR and put it into WOW and nobody would know the difference. Each scenario is just another version 
 of ctf or territories.. and in each one you try to get more points and kill enemy players... its 
 all the same...
  
  
  the PVE of both games is pretty much the same too, do quests, kill stuff, get lewt, level... same 
 old same old... granted the Public Quest idea is really cool and alot of fun, but PQs alone are 
 not a good reason to consider this game any "worse" than wow.
  
  As far as how pretty they are and the GUI of each... IMO wow's graphics are better, because of wow's 
 "cartoony" look it could have been released five years from now and still look the same.. as it 
 was intended... WARS graphics however, went for a more "realistic" look.. and because if this i think 
 it looks more like it was made two or three years ago. The GUIs of both the games are very similar, 
 but honestly is there any other form factor that would be as informative and useful than the one 
 that almost ever MMO uses right now?... no... there isnt...
  
  
  So.. overall... they are the same game... only wow comes out ahead because they have the time/feedback/expansions 
 under their belts... in a few years if WAR is still going strong im sure it was have all of those 
 too so its not that big of a deal... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: space_surf
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Everyone will love this game, from old school mmo'ers to newcomers. Everything is well done. It's 
 so adicting that u can't stop playing, when u check the time u realize how fast the hours have 
 passed and we know what that means lol.
  
  - Smoothest mmo launch ever;
  - Nice graphics, not too heavy allowing many more computers to run the game well;
  - Nice sounds 
 and music, fit well into the Warhammer theme.
  - You can PVP since lvl 1, and it gives you nice exp. points, there's even repeatable pvp quests 
 that give you even more exp. points! and you're working your way up the Renown Rank too which gives 
 u new abilities and rewards that u can't get otherwise;
  - Public Quests are awesome, i call them mini-fast-outside-instances (: , easy to finish and each 
 of them gives you a diferent nice armor/weapon item;
  - Guilds have their own level/rank too, as the Guild rank goes up you unlock lots of nice stuff 
 for your Guild.
  
  I could go on and on and on with so many cool things this game has, but i won't cause i wanna get 
 back to play lol! bai hf! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerhi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I, like many people, think that the pvp in WoW is absolutely rubish, This is a game which doesn't 
 have that problem, the rvr is great, you get a LOT of xp, you could basicaly grind your way through 
 the game by doing rvr,.
  
  I also like the different looks between different classes. In WoW you can't really tell the difference 
 between a paladin and a warior during the early levels (if your the same race) . In this game the 
 profesion have a great diversity of looks between them.
  
  The game is different all the time, depending on which class you play, unlike in WoW, where there 
 are fixed classes which can be used in a number of races, this game has many different classes 
 in different races.
  
  I personaly recomend this game if you hated the pvp in WoW, but I know I will go back to WoW when 
 Lich King is released, and I know lots of other people that will. I think this game will die soon, 
 like CoH, even though it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slaide69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is back to the basics a little like when a PvE geared person could be just as effective 
 as PvP geared in WoW (pre-BC) . I actually miss those days but with Warhammers core focus on PvP 
 and RvR with PvE as a backdrop I lost interest quickly. The games abilities are spot on though 
 you can play a tank and stay a tank whether you PvP or PvE example: (Swordmaster = Taunt forces 
 target to attack you if target doesnt attack next 3 hits will be at 30% increased dmg) (Shadowwarrior 
 = Distracting shot lowers threat with target if target attacks will be at 1/2 dmg) . Last 1 was 
 a DPS class I know I was just further illustrating my point about how PvE abilities have PvP qualities 
 to them.
  
  My problem came with 2 MMO's, 3 consoles, and 2 handhelds as a gamer I'm stretched. It was WoW 
 or War I chose WoW. I prefer more of a PvE style game and War's PvE bored the heck out of me and 
 PvP in doses is fine but constant tends to wear me down as well. 
  
  In conclusion if you want PvP go with Warhammer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekon
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Online is a solid & stable mmo that looks good and runs smoothly. Its initially fun to 
 play but it rapidly becomes extremely boring due to its simplicity and ridiculously flawed game 
 design.
  
  Character customisation is very limited but fortunately the character models do look rather good. 
 I think the idea was that you are supposed to be a "soldier" in part of an army rather than a unique 
 hero...... but this is in fact a complete cop-out because the game is actually just another linear 
 themepark mmo exactly like WoW except its nowhere near as well done as that game
  
  Like the review stated, the PvE quests are incredibly boring and tedious.... even more so than other 
 mmos and thats saying something. Then again I have yet to come across an mmo that actually makes 
 playing against the computer interesting. Why do people login to an online game populated with 
 thousands of players just to fight the computer and its dumb minions with their low AI? The mind 
 boggles. However the AI of the mobs in WAR is incredibly poor even by mmos standards.
  
  Anyway I think Warhammer would have been a MUCH better game if it had focused entirely on RvR. 
 They should have ditched the PvE questing crap completely because lets face we've seen it all before 
 and it never gets any more exciting does it. The scenarios (mini battlegrounds) are fun but unfortunately 
 because they provide a quick-fix solution for PvP action, it means that a large majority of the 
 players spend all of their time jumping between PvE & scenarios instead of participating in the 
 open RvR conflict..... which totally detracts from what Warhammer should be all about.
  
  However this is not the players fault as they are simply playing the game the way Mythic designed 
 it. Reaching the next level is pretty much the only vaguely meaningful thing you can do in WAR. 
 Most people dont care about the RvR conflict because they can just grind through their levels in 
 the scenarios. Why spend hours wandering around an empty landscape looking for someone to fight 
 when you can jump into a scenario and get some action straight away? As a result many players are 
 finding that the RvR areas are deserted half the time. Mythic should have seen this coming a mile 
 off but they were obviously so heavily focused on copying WoW that they forgot what their game 
 was supposed to achieve...... as a result WAR doesnt achieve anything very well
  
  Its crazy that Mythic have managed to design this game so badly. What sort of company makes a game 
 about a war and yet designs it so that the players dont have any reason to participate in it? No-one 
 cares about the conflict because as this is a level-grinding game its the only thing players really 
 focus on. Afterall why should anyone bother taking a keep when there is nothing to be gained by 
 doing so and when they level up they will have to move onto the next tier anyway
  
  Basicly WAR is a big let down. Mythic sold it as an RvR game but it is actually just a crappy PvE 
 game with pointless & uninspired RvR playpens thrown in as an afterthought. It tries to appeal 
 to too many different play styles and gives people no real incentive to get involved in the RvR. 
 In fact I realised after two weeks that there was no real incentive for playing the game at all. 
 I quit playing before my subscription expired because logging in was just too painful.
  
  Spend your money on something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexkx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  After hearing many podcasts about the easy to get into PvP, or RvR as they want to call it, I finally 
 gave in and had to give this game a go myself.
  
  the relatively standard bits of MMOs are there - those things that make you feel like the company 
 is sucking your soul:
  
  -making you stare at a running animation
  -killing 200 boars and delivering their hides
  -moving icons around
  -reading about crafting 
 formulas
  -reading and hearing people talk about nerfing and flavor of the month
  
  
  However... this game looks great, it has an intensely deep amount of lore to build upon, and it 
 has very captivating Evil vs Good team based combat - that somewhat resembles Heretic 2 team deathmatch/CTF 
 + Diablo persistent character customization. 
  
  This game took the best of WoW, added some BF2, and brought to animation a lot of cool, funny Warhammer 
 lore that is over 20 years old!
  
  Definitely worth a try, but remember to bring a friend or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMunster80
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, I want to preface my review by saying that. It is a good game, unfortunatly it 
 is not exactly what I am looking for in my next presciption for my MMO addiction.
  
  THE GOOD:
  -RvR is kick butt, well designed portion of the game allowing for even the most non 
 pvp oriented player to get into the thick of things.
  -Public Quests or PQs are an awesome addition to the MMO scene, just find an area where one is 
 going on and bam you are in it to win it
  -Wide variety of classes based on classic MMO archetypes i. e. melee healer, ranged healers, caster 
 healers
  -Collision detection in RvR, useful for tactics
  -Decent world design (linear but easy to get used to)
  -The feeling of war is everywhere
  -Evolving 
 guild system
  
  THE BAD:
  -Unbalanced populations leaning towards Destruction due to better avatar design on the Destruction 
 side
  -Missing 4 classes, no empire/dark elf tank, no dwarf/greenskin melee DPSer
  -RvR keeps have to much of a PvE feel mixed in with RvR due to keep lords, this wouldn't be as 
 bad if say the defenders of a keep would get a buff and it would be pure RvR (just IMO this is 
 definently not a universally agreed on point)
  -PvE questing and dungeons are lacking at best, same old same old from every other WoW clone out 
 there
  -server populations in general, alot of times I feel like I am playing this MMO alone
  
  To 
 summarize this is a quality RvR/PvP experience and if that is what you are looking for you will 
 find it unfortunatly you will have to trudge through the lackluster WoW clone PvE system to get 
 it and no you can't really level with just RvR. If you try you will get rid of this game quickly 
 because leveling will be way to slow. I bought this game hoping it would be different, it wasn't 
 really. It is solid but I have had enough of non-sandbox games. WoW filled that niche for me and 
 now I am just looking forward to some of the new stuff coming out. I would say buy it and try it 
 if you like PvP if not wait till the price goes down. If you are looking for something other than 
 WoW this isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brother_Tevis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I've just loved this game so far. Absolutely loved it. It's got a great PvP system, allowing for 
 you to always get right into the action if that's what you're looking for. The classes and their 
 unique systems are wonderful, and a very clever addition. I've been playing almost everyday since 
 I got it, and I'm having a blast. The classes allow for any type of RPG player to find their niche 
 and excel within it. Granted, it does have some problems. Naturally, bugs, however they've had 
 a very, very clean launch so far. They also have a very easy to use bug report system, and patch 
 often. The talent system is a little dull, they're not so much trees, as poles. The game is VERY 
 PvP/RvR oriented. Without doing RvR and scenarios, you'll miss out on a lot of leveling and good 
 gear. Playing with your own realm is also sort of forced on you with Public Quests, mind you, I 
 love them. I think they're a great feature. However, you almost have to do them. Doing them gets 
 you a great deal of experience, and some very helpful gear, so not doing them puts you at a distinct 
 disadvantage. And depending on your server it can be incredibly difficult to get some of them done, 
 do to a lack of players in the area. Overall, the game is very good. It improves in lots of places 
 that other MMO's have built upon, and creates new and innovative features as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St33lblad3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I have played many other Warhammer and Warhammer40k games and this new MMORPG is just what I needed 
 to for fill my own personal need to become a Chaos Chosen.
  
  Lots of people think that every MMORPG that came out after World of Warcraft is just a World of 
 Warcraft remake, well WAR is definitely not that, although it has some features that WoW has but 
 they are more advanced then the ones in WoW. The biggest thing that separates WAR from WoW is WAR's 
 lore, which I really like. Anorther thing that separates WAR from almost every other MMORPG is 
 the Public Quests, which are quests that every one in the marked area can do and receive influence, 
 xp, and rewards. It is almost impossible for you to grind in this game if you wanted to due to 
 the lack of Xp you get for killing random monsters over and over. WAR has a high probability of 
 catching up or even passing WoW in number of players the future, IMO.
  
  
  WAR may have some glitches and issues but that is all due to how new the game is and ever since 
 I purchased WAR they have a new patch almost every day.
  
  
  If your a WoW player who has been bored with WoW for awhile now you should definitely try out Warhammer 
 Online, I my self am a X WoW player and I enjoy WAR way more then WoW.
  
  Gameplay - Highly addictive, fun, and NO GRINDING!
  Graphics - Decent, better then WoW's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riptorn
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  First of all for all the people comparing this to wow, wow runs a heck of alot smoother and just 
 looks better, the PvE in wow is much betterand more organized in fact wow itself is much more organized 
 then war. war seems a bit compressed and confusing. public quests are a nice idea but do get repetitive 
 after awhile, same with the scenarios- take over this hill, run to this castle then your thrown 
 out to the main area again huh! If you want PvP done properly play Guild Wars or go back in time 
 and play shadow Bane (that game of course had its own set of problems) .
  this is not a bad game although i did like 
  AOC better i just did not have the computer to effectively 
 play that game but it did have better graphics and combat.
  All in all not a terrible game just does not hold my interest , will try again in 6 months when 
 patches come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duke006
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  
  Warhammer Online is for anyone who has ever played WoW, reached the end and said, "This is what 
 I have been playing to reach?" If the grind of WoW and lack of PvP emphasis is what you have always 
 hated, Warhammer delivers 110% in terms of a remedy for that.
  
  I do NOT recommend WAR for those who are pleasantly happy with hours of raiding and doing PvE only 
 game content in their MMO. WAR's motto is "War is Everywhere!" and by "war" they mean PvP! Many 
 quests throw you into PvP, and you can begin fighting nearly as soon as you create your character. 
 Not to mention, RvR/PvP scenarios are actually one of the most viable ways to level your character 
 currently - yes, finally an MMO where you are rewarded the same (if not more) for PvP'ing.
  
  The ability to actually capture and control keeps and your enemies capital city offers something 
 that very few games have offered. WoW gave us PvP, but with little to no actual influence in the 
 game world. WAR lets you fly your guilds banner from the walls of a captured keep and display your 
 name with pride!
  
  This said, there are bugs to be fixed and itemization issues currently - but much smoother and 
 better server stability than when WoW launched. The mailbox lag is another main issue right now, 
 but it seems that the core elements of the game are solid... give it a patch or two and the other 
 things will fall into place.
  
  One final note to be made - I have been laughing at how many people have complained with the way 
 the game looks. With due respect and fairness to WoW, WAR (with the right system specs) wins hands 
 down. Currently, you have to turn on Anti-Aliasing yourself through your video card (since it's 
 not supported in game yet) With tons of people being able to join the fray in open-RvR environments, 
 you are going to need to make some upgrades to your system. -the game can be played just fine with 
 lower settings, just don't expect it to look great.
  
  Warhammer Online is perhaps an 8.5 in the MMORPG community, but in the hearts of the true warriors... 
 it's a 10 in the MMOPVP community! Waaagh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShimmerMan
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  Everything outside PVP is ZZzzzzZ. There's a complete lack of orginality in the game world. Every 
 tier and zone looks the same. Just the aesthetics are different. IE Grass here, snow over there, 
 green trees here, black trees over there, warcamp with orcs here, warcamp with elves over there. 
 I think Mythic just copied and pasted one tier into 16 tiers and then changed the textures. There's 
 no motivation at all for exploration. Because if you've seen one tier you've pretty much seen them 
 all. 
  
  PVE whilst not being terrible is unorginal. It's WOW pve but without the interesting scenery and 
 seamless area transition which didn't break up immersion. There's no dungeons so there's no way 
 to actually group up with people and socialise. And there's no social hubs. the game world does 
 not feel majestic because everything is segregated into tiers which leads to a unfathomable sense 
 of organization but also seperation. MOBS are mostly all the same. IE Oppising races with a few 
 random mobs thrown in here and there.
  
  Itimization is boring. Everyone looks the same. And there's a lack of items to actually pick and 
 choose from and customize your character with.
  
  Visually the game is sub par. Especially in the animations department. One aspect I enjoyed of 
 WOW was watching PVP videos. But I don't see this really taking off with WAR, as the presentation 
 of this game is fairly abysmal. WAR pvp videos are just not visually pleasing to watch.
  
  PVP is fun.. But again even PVP has its faults. All through t2, 95% of the time all that was played 
 was Mourkhan Temple. T3 = TA. It is enjoyable tp PVP but at the moment this is simply WOW arena. 
 RVR? from what I've seen of Outside RVR it was overhyped big time.
  
  Music, there's a complete lack of music in this video game which only contributes to lack of immersion. 
 To sum it up imagine watching LOTR without any music at all. 
  
  Anyway /rant off. The game needs a very content packed expansion imo to make it interesting to 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcook42
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I will recognize and appreciate some new and wonderful concepts, like the ease of getting in on 
 some group action or RvR content. And it ran smoothly, and seemed not to be riddled with bugs the 
 way new mmo's often are. 
  
  That said, I just performed a massive PC upgrade, and I cannot communicate how disappointed I am 
 by the game's graphics. For the same reason I quit WoW at level 5, I will probably be doing the 
 same here. I did not just purchase 2 new GTX 260's so that I could run this game at 400 fps... 
 I want to put those puppies to work! The good news is that it will probably run on the average 
 Joe's computer, which was probably Mythic's intent, but for the PC power-user it's hard not to 
 be angry about the decade old graphics. Sure the art design is there, and I understand not all 
 games have to be photo-realistic, but they could have pushed things a bit more in my opinion.
 
  
  Anyways, I'll be giving it another 2-3 weeks, but end-game raiding in AoC is SOOO FUN and the graphics 
 are as good as it gets for MMO's. AoC is no Crysis either, but compared to Wow-hammer it is.
  
  If you are unsure about which to play, AoC or WAR, I'd have to recommend AoC.
  
  See you 
 in Hybornia! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaaz69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Let's get it out of the way, yes WAR has a lot of similarities to WoW, but that it's mainly superficial. 
 WAR's UI and overall art design are pretty uncanny to that of WoW's, but the game play starts to 
 take a different direction.
  
  Where WoW is heavily based on PvE and gear, WAR is heavily based on PvP (RvR) and less on gear. 
 There is a PvE element in WAR for those that don't wish to participate in RvR event's, but avoiding 
 RvR completely is unavoidable as some quests force players into RvR areas. The good news, or bad 
 news depending on how one would like to look at it is that dying in RvR (or PvE for that matter) 
 isn't punishing so it's not a complete turn off to the novice. 
  
  Where as gear in WoW contains all sorts of crazy stats and can make a player almost God like, gear 
 in WAR mainly consists of resistances to various types of damage. Gear, is also easily attainable 
 through various means of PvP, PvE, PQ's. Players don't need to spend hours raiding or grinding 
 away for that one piece of armor that may or may not drop. Again, that may or may not be something 
 a player likes, depending on their play style.
  
  A lot of criticism has been directed at the WAR's graphics and I'll have to agree. Even with the 
 graphics cranked up, they still appear to be at a low resolution and Mythic has stated that it 
 is for performance issues and to reduce lag in areas that may contain heavy RvR battles. This I 
 can understand, to a point, but I still think they could crank up the eye candy a little without 
 losing in performance.
  
  WAR's game play can be a hit or miss at times and for those that are use to other MMO's, it may 
 take some getting use to. PvE just seems as a means to get ones character up to par for RvR. While 
 some of the quests have pretty good story lines, overall it can seem uninspired at times and a 
 little mundane. The battle animations also leave a little bit to be desired as characters seem 
 a little stiff and there is a lot less eye candy compared to other MMO's. Where PvE may be a little 
 lacking RvR more than makes up for it. RvR is divided up into to Tiers 1-4 and each map contains 
 a Tier RvR area that contains battle objectives and/or a siege tower that contains renown merchants, 
 where players may buy gear and ability upgrades. The different factions duke it out for control 
 of these areas that grant different bonuses to the faction that controls them. The only issue with 
 this is that a majority of the time it has the LotRO monster play effect, where one faction seizes 
 areas when the other faction is not around. Though there are times when both factions are in the 
 area and that's when battles are their most fun.
  
  WAR isn't for everyone and it definitely has it's slow points, but overall it's great fun if only 
 for the RvR aspect of the game. For those that are tired of the epic gear grind and want a game 
 that actually provides "war", then I would highly recommend giving this game a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that the fun is directly proportional to the amount of players in game. 
 At peak times it's great because you can get into RvR senarios to break up the PVE boredom. If 
 you happen to play during off hours then you'll likely be bored to tears. Senarios just don't queue 
 up so you'll be forced to PVE all the time. And without doing the senarios you won't get renown 
 so you won't be able to buy ANYTHING from a vendor. And PQs without a group is super tedious. Sure, 
 the rewards are nice but there's no chance of beating the stage 3 boss alone unless you are a much 
 higher level. And by then the reward probably isn't worth it. 
  
  Another thing that bugs me is that the world seems empty of other players. I may run into a few 
 others but it certainly doesn't feel "massively multiplayer". Compund that with a lack of global 
 chat and you can't even have a conversation with other players. So the world really DOES seem empty. 
 At least with other games you knew other people were playing and could socialize easier. 
  
  So, either make sure you play at peak times or pick a high pop server. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenowns
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  I am going to go over Warhammer Online along with comments and rebutals.
  
  Many are saying that they stole everything from WOW. Ok all you WOW fanboys. Then WOW stole everything 
 from EQ. Uh Oh! Did you ever think of that?
  
  Some say that the graphics are outdated. Uh. They are better then WOW and you don't complain about 
 those graphics.
  
  Then you talk about bugs and such. GET FOR REAL. Did you play WOW at launch. WAY more problems. 
 There launch was pathetic. Yet you are complaining about this launch? This lauch is very good for 
 an mmo.
  
  The fact is this. You are attempting to compare a game that just launched with a game that has 
 been out for a long time and has had TIME to work on their HORRIBLE bugs that they had at launch.
 
  
  Warhammer Online is a very good game. Better then WOW in every aspect I can think of. If they work 
 on the bugs that they have then this game is going to take off!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldyspud
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  I wanted WAR to be my WoW killer, so I bought it and played it for as long as I could stand it, 
 and that was about level 9. I tried a few characters, and it just didn't do anything for me. I 
 may go back and play it for a bit longer, but it's not a game that will immerse you like WoW did... 
 and I really hate WoW.
  
  This game will always be compared to WoW as will any other MMORPG. So don't try and say it shouldn't 
 be compared to it, because for one, WAR took a lot from WoW as WoW took a lot from other games. 
 They are all very alike.
  
  Anyway, WAR offers some interesting ideas. Such as community quests where there is an area that 
 has an event and everyone can join in. Whoever contributes the most is able to get a roll... it 
 probably won't be you though, unless your a higher level than everyone else. It's still fun to 
 do these as some of them get pretty crazy with lots of people around... I'm not sure how it is 
 on other servers but the one I was on had tons of people at each one of these. So I had some fun 
 with it.
  
  Questing is kind of a bore, much like WoW is as well. It all ties in and you are taken to different 
 areas or sent to others, so it has a nice transition to get you in the right direction. But it 
 feels empty, zombie like, nothing really happens at all. You go to an area and you'll kill a bunch 
 of mobs standing around... just like WoW. Something I did like were more community events in each 
 area, where you can stick around to complete and get rewards much like repuatation in WoW. It was 
 nice to see that even in the lower level areas. It still doesn't feel worthwhile at that point 
 because you'll be ditching it in a few levels which are very quick to gain.
  
  The PvP is okay... it's not nearly as well thought out as a WoW battleground. I played something 
 a lot like Halo's territory game where you hold nodes until you win. Kind of like Arathi Basin 
 as well. You can't go Rambo though, because you'll get slaughtered. The class imbalances are ridiculous 
 at this time so it's pretty much a team game or die. There is no 1v1 like WoW. Which just proves 
 that the controls in WoW are far superior. Also, from a distance, when you see people fighting 
 each other the animation becomes terrible, and it looks like a south park cartoon. Paper dolls... 
 it really detracts from the immersion. 
  
  A good thing about the PvP (a. k. a scenarios) is you can accept the quest from anywhere and go about 
 questing, and be returned to wherever you were. Unlike WoW where you'll be put in the city you 
 were queued. 
  
  The controls in this game at the levels I was at is pretty much a stand and click, it isn't at 
 all like WoW where you can stun, kite, or root. I may have to gain some more levels to be fair, 
 so I can't really comment, I don't have that many skills and I can't say whether you can kite, 
 stun, or root at this point... however PvP doesn't show much promise either at the lower levels. 
 I will need to get to a level high enough to review the control scheme fairly.
  
  Which is a real chore considering the lifelessness of chat and the willingness to group. It's a 
 multiplayer game, yet everyone is running around soloing. I don't have any friends who play because 
 they are all still enjoying WoW for some reason... can't say I blame them, since nothing offer 
 the quality of WoW yet they all seem to charge the same monthly cost.
  
  WAR suffers from dated graphics, and the usual gameplay. The ability to do community quests aren't 
 going to be enough to sway people at this point, and RvR was something already done in DAoC. Only 
 time will tell how well this works at the higher levels, but I'm pretty sure the lower levels will 
 leave community quests barren and not many will be able to complete these. Everyone is rushing 
 to the highest level, and that's pretty much it. I don't see this game taking a huge chunk of WoW 
 players, I see it borrowing them for awhile.
  
  Why pay for something with less quality when you can play WoW, a very refined game with an amazing 
 control scheme unique to each character (mostly) ? WAR is worth a try, but you probably won't be 
 playing it past the 30 day trial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fakhashouf
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  I do not know what is all the hype about; game graphics is like 5 years old, game play is too sloooooooooooooooow, 
 some classes are really boring with not much verity (dps, healer, tank) , the questing in this game 
 is really boring (unfulfilling PvE content and some what no social interaction) , the only thing 
 going for this game is PvP and it is not the actual fighting that is nice or balanced, but the 
 way they integrated RvR in the game.
  
  What I am really trying to say for a game that has just copied so much from other games, and only 
 improved on the RvR side they could have spent some more time on making the PvE side interesting 
 to play and the graphics more appealing (it is really ugly the only way it looks nice is if you 
 play with the green skin  ) , I am not against cartoon style after all that is what War 
 universe is, but it should have been much darker and more visually appealing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: svns_reaper
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  There's not a lot I can say that hasn't been said already. I was pleasantly surprised at the cool 
 options the game has. Even though you grind it somehow doesn't feel like an awful grind. You can 
 que up the pvp scenarios anywhere anytime and when it's your turn jump right in. When you're done 
 it pops you right back where you were. You get tons (if not most) of your xp from participating. 
 One thing I would note is that if you're on a low pop server some of the areas will be kind of 
 dead. You may want to go for a high pop server. Also it seems a lot more people rolled destruction 
 this time although my server seems fairly balanced. If you need a new mmo check it out for sure.
 
  Yeah it kind of looks wow-ish but it is better graphically. The crafting system kinda stinks and 
 needs work as well as the terrible chat system. I don't see many flaws in this game that can't 
 be easily fixed in up coming patches except for the population thing. So tell you're friends and 
 get 'em over here. This game is definitely better with more people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vargre666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I started playing WAR in closed beta, and ill admit; I was seriously disappointed. I thought 
 it was lacking in so many ways, so many elements were there, but they didnt measure up to all the 
 hype. Then the game went live, and my boxed special edition came. And everything changed. 
  
  First, on a purely asthetic level, the boxed edition blew my mind. It weighs like 10lbs. It 
 came with two gorgeously illustrated books, hardcover. A Warhammer Mini combo of some Greenskins. 
 The discs, of course. And it all fit into this massive box that looks like some ancient, bronze 
 fitted tome. Nuff said. 
  
  Gameplay. WAR is RvR. It makes every other MMO pale in comparison. Ill log on to play a couple 
 battles (you CAN do that. Theres no massive wait to get into the battlegrounds. And you can join 
 in and be a valid fighter from lvl 2 on.) but then I notice two hours have passed and Ive not even 
 noticed. What makes it so addictive? Its a challenge. You wont go into WAR and find some character 
 that is just unkillable, simply because of its class. Or some uber epic'd out player who spends 
 20 out of 24 hours a day raiding and has the most leet gear in the game and can stomp through 5-6 
 players at a time. It just doesnt happen. The game is so well balanced that every single character 
 is a viable and formidable foe. Especially now that they have made the bg's cross realm. In the 
 beginning you had to fly to different realms in order to fight in different bg's. Dark Elves couldnt 
 fight with Chaos allies unless they flew there. THis led to some problems. WAR isnt perfect, and 
 one of those imperfections lies in the balance of the characters within races. Dark Elves simply 
 SUCK at healing. Historically, this makes sense. Gamewise, it kinda sucks. Dark Elves also lost 
 their one and only meatshield, the Black Guard. (And for that, shame on you Mythic and EA. That 
 was a STUPID move.) However Dark Elves absolutly rule on DPS, with the Witch Elves being damage 
 dealers extraordinaire. Chaos on the other hand, has some serious armour and decent heals, decent 
 dps but nothing that stands out. (In fact, in Destruction, i would say Chaos has the most balanced 
 classes.) Combine the two and youve got some major warbands set up for RvR. Add in heavy tanks 
 like Black Orks, support classes like the Gobbo Shaman or Squig Herder... your set. And with the 
 cross realm rvr now, thats how it always ends up. 
  
  And the battles, they are totally intense. Yes, occassionally you get stomped or stomp, but 9/10 
 times the battles run so bloody close your glued to the screen. Take your eyes off for a moment 
 and suddenly your down 50 points. And it just gets better with every tier. Tier one was great. 
 Tier two is amazing. Tier three... Oi...
  
  That being said, WAR IS RvR. I mean, thats where they put all their eggs, and it shows. I havent 
 actually teamed up for a quest yet. I havent had to, aside from public quests; which are a cool 
 idea in their own right, but its basically a 3 phase quest. The first one is a grind, the 2nd usually 
 an objective and the last a boss fight. Same thing, different stories. Whats cool is that do enough 
 of them and you get some really nice loot, plus the chance to get some REALLY nice loot. Theyre 
 nice editions, and they add to the over all feel of the game, but it just comes down to RvR. If 
 you dont like it, give it a chance. You havent experienced pvp like WAR before, I promise. And 
 if you find you still dont like it, then WAR isnt the game for you. But i have a feeling that 90% 
 of the people that give WAR a chance are going to stick with it. It may not topple WoW from its 
 10 Billion people served throne, but I dont know if that was even the intent in the first place. 
 WAR is for adults, it truly is. It has more character, more action, more vitality and intelligence, 
 Its simply not a kids game any way you look at it. So let WoW have its following. New Kids on the 
 Block had theirs too. Ill stick with Slayer and Maiden, and WAR forever and always. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightopposition
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game converted me to being a big fan of PvP in an MMO. Dynamic and very satisfying, I don't 
 feel bored or grindy almost ever. There are very few bugs, almost none impacting my game play in 
 any substatial way.
  
  If you are not sure you like PvP, try this game - it is the best to be had in any MMO (and better 
 then many other genres, too) . 
  
  A warning, however. The addiction potential for this game is very, very high. Enjoyable playing, 
 not spending hours trying to get to the Raid or Quest that is fun, is the norm. In that sense it 
 is refreshing and new when contrasted with other MMOs that require a lot of tedium to reach the 
 'juicy parts.'
  
  Oh yes, I should mention - the amount stuff to spend gold on is very limited. That means, you are 
 not forced to grind for gold heavily and can just continue taking Keeps, killing the other guy 
 and questing to get all the money you need. Maybe Mythic will add more 'stuff' later when lots 
 of people are at cap. For now, it's very welcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaspiazu
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Graphics are very nice, not as cartoony as "the game that shall not be named". Think it as gritty 
 meets silly. 
  
  Sound is ok. Although it wished there was a better environmental music. 
  
  The interface is 
 really easy and very user friendly even if you are not familiar with MMOs.
  
  The PVE content is very nice. PQs are a latest breakthrough! Highly entertaining. They involve 
 a lot of teamwork. They are like mini-raids open to anyone. Also, regular quests are decent and 
 polished. Most content is grind-free. The tome of knowledge is a great addition to this game. Its 
 like your characters resume with all the achievements, kills, perks, etc
  
  The RvR (pvp) content is where this game shines over any other MMO out there!. Great scenarios, 
 highly entertaining and competitive. No more one-shot kills or button smashing! Open RvR Battlegrounds, 
 Keeps raiding, skirmishes... WAR never stops! If you dont like PvP before, trust me: you will love 
 RVR in this game!
  
  In sum, I think this game deserves a better Gamespot score, 8.5 is way too low! Give me a break, 
 the same score AoC got??!!. Dont take me wrong, but this game is far superior than AoC, so at 
 least have some criteria and give him a 9.0. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benvdp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  The first thing I would like to address are some of the common complaints that have been levelled 
 at this game.
  
  1. Bugs
  
  Its an MMO bugs are part of the game. Every MMO has them and its near impossible to eliminate them 
 all. Even number one game WoW has this issue and its 4 years old. Mythic are hot fixing issue with 
 great speed. Plus I find that user are bad at upgrading there drivers which can be the reason for 
 theses bugs.
  
  2. Community
  
  I have been part of the War community for a long while. On the whole people are kind and helpful. 
 Really you get what you put into a community. 
  
  3. Balance
  
  Yes Destruction are the most popular side my a good bit. This does affect open PvP. Its too early 
 to call if this will break the game but it is very important for the end game. 
  
  Classes are balanced but based on teams and working together. The game encourage you to help each 
 other. Also it is possible for a good team to stop a much bigger force.
  
  Plus points:
  
  1. Warhammer world is beautifully realised and great fun to quest in. As a warhammer fan this 
 is brillant. 
  
  2. The public quests and regular quest are great fun. Also the interface and game experience has 
 been improved over other MMO. The grindy nature of MMO is gone and replace with variety through 
 PVP and PVE that is easy to jump into. AS proof of the PVE enjoyment my GF doesn't like to PvP 
 and she is really enjoying the PVE game. 
  
  3. Final point RVR is so much fun. Keeps and scenarios are just a blast and the hours just disappear 
 while your playing. 
  
  This game isn't perfect but no game is. If you enjoy MMO's or a fan of Warhammer definitely check 
 it out. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: solaskaze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the great stuff about this game: 
  1) Outstanding RvR integration. Now that you can join any scenario from anywhere (well, almost) , 
 and with keeps and points to steal in RvR sections of the map, there's always a RvR choice around 
 the corner.
  2) Public Quests - great concept: simple quests send you to public quests areas, where, if enough 
 people are there (you don't have to be in a group already) ... you can chip in and help fight through 
 3 stages of ever-increasing-in-difficulty mobs ... if you win the last stage, the top contributors 
 get rewards. This is an alternative to instanced dungeons ... where, in games like WoW, request 
 queues/summoning stones served a similar purpose. 
  
  Now for the bad:
  1) The graphics are slow, and look outdated - much slower, and far more outdated - compared to 
 games like AoC (which has its own problems) . I ran (past tense) AoC at 25-45 fps high quality. 
 Warhammer runs at about 1 fps or worse in some places, or worse, on balanced settings, with no 
 effects other than my party.
  2) There are some critical bugs, that show up, say 20% of the time, in scenarios: since almost 
 all scenarios are pretty much flag bearer scenarios (capture the flag, kill the flag bearer, etc.) , 
 it is critical to know who is the flag bearer... 20% of the time, the vertical "light" column is 
 not rendered, and/or the map showing its location is never updated (stone troll's crossing is the 
 worst) . If you are on the losing side when this bug happens, your side is pretty much guaranteed 
 to lose: see point 3 below
  3) The player intelligence/skill level on average is the lowest I've seen - this shows up in the 
 scenarios, where ppl can't follow the flag, ignore the flag, run off to enemy camp with the skull 
 rather than run to theirs (inexplicable) , never bother to heal the flag carrier, etc. etc. I can 
 only guess part of the reason: the game gives little opportunity for ppl "not so skilled" to hone 
 their party skills - its either scenarios (total chaos, few learn) , or PQ (no real careful 6-man 
 parties to help hone the skills of weaker ppl) .
  4) There are a few bugs? or unfair players skills which make RvR a joke. Cases:
  -I hope it was 
 a bug or exploited item, but 3 times (as a swordmaster) , I ran into a Destro witch each about 3 
 levels lower than me. I was dead before she had lost even 1/8 of her hp (and no, there wasn't a 
 healer nearby) . It was these particular cases, not all
  -For the same class, they can stealth ... 7 times in RvR scenarios, in part thanks to lag, but 
 also to bugs ... a witch elf stole the flag while stealthed, and remained stealthed, until about 
 100ft away from the steal point. - part of this is due to server lag:
  -Swordmasters are given mid-teens a new, what was supposed to be, a level-setting morale skill: 
 you, AND your opponent, are frozen in place (i. e. healer or mage, etc. can't escape) . This skill, 
 and a few others, are destroyed by lag: all good ppl that need to, jump around like beans on crack. 
 This freeze skill takes time to cast, AND there's lag ... which means most of the time, you freeze 
 yourself outside of melee range, and become a pin cushion instead of the unstoppable force you 
 just increased and used morale for. In a game where lag, even on the best of days, is guaranteed 
 ... such a skill is misguided. There are many class skills that suffer like this, especially for 
 tanks who must be near their opponent. It even comes into play in movement: unlike WoW, where ppl 
 can't block you, here they can. blocking detection is done on the *client* side, yet hitting your 
 target is done *server* side, which is a complete ruin of enjoyment - your target is in front of 
 you, *blocking* you, yet attacks say "target out of range". Once the sync occurs, you then see 
 your target 100s of feet ahead - it's complete nonsense
  5) quests (non-public quests) are as boring as they come. In any game. There is next to no variety 
 at all, and 90% of the quests deliver no reward, either (just XP) .
  6) The community is spread way too thin, and the sides unbalanced. thin = you will rarely find 
 enough people showing up to complete Public Quests (for example) , queue times for scenarios can 
 also be long - very long. sides unbalanced = I visited 12 servers several times ... and it is almost 
 never that Order owns any keep. Any zone. This is bad for both sides, as Destro has pretty much 
 nothing to do (and Order can't seem to organize a single guild to take a keep - it does happen, 
 but maybe once a week, at best) . Evidence of the problem is no public: Mythic is now incentivizing 
 people to play Order with renown and xp bonuses
  7) I was pretty much hoping for updated RvR characters and play style .. but even Mythic admits 
 - right there on the screen - that all these classes are either "tanks", "dps", or "healers" ... 
 the difference between a goblin shaman, a archmage, is minimal at the core play style for that 
 class. or the difference between a engineer and archer (one would think an archer and engineer 
 couldn't be more different. they are not) ... really, just the name of key skills has changed. There 
 are of course differences, but they are not game changing at all
  
  The score of this game goes up by at least one once Mythic solves some of the keys bugs, and figures 
 out how to even out the community (maybe a few server consolidations and improvements)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suddard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it simple. WAR is solid fun. 
  It runs well. Despite what I hear and read on some forums, I personally have NO problems running 
 WAR. Granted I have an above average rig. E8400, 4gig 800mhz ram, and an Nvidia 260 gtx. 
  The graphics are good, not great. They are cartoony. So if that is not your thing, don't bother. 
 I have forced some graphics options w/ my nvidia tool set that were not included in game. What's 
 there looks sharp and well done. 
  PVE is good, not great. The game does a great job of easing you into the PVP parts. Public Quests 
 are fun and good for pugs. Basically, you goto an area that has an ongoing quest w/ atleast 3 stages. 
 The first stage can be solo'd the others you will need a group.
  Scenarios are a nice diversion and have great exp. World PVP is really awsome if you can find the 
 action.
  If you like PVP, or are interested in trying it, like I was, i think WAR is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brindlefox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  It is a straight forward WoW-like MMO as far as PvE and character skills etc. Not that there is 
 anything wrong with that. It does not require that massive end-game/dungeon raiding like WoW so 
 that is a plus. The scenarios ruin the world PvP aspect. It is just mini-game after mini-game. 
 Scenarios ruin world-PvP and that is too bad. 
  
  Overall it is a decent game but not what I was looking for. I crave the full tilt world based PvP 
 that was so good in DaoC. Unfortunately, i do not see that ever happening in this game due to the 
 mechanics of scenarios.
  
  Also, i find the PvE to be mostly dull. The idea of the public quest is good, but most of them 
 are just repeats of the same thing (kill 100 normal monsters, kill 5 champion monsters, kill 1 
 hero) . And, at least on my server, after the first few chapters, seldom have enough players in 
 Pug's to complete the Public Quest. A good idea, but can stand a little more variety and balance 
 for group size. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xathar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  I found the game to be highly addictive from the start and was pulled in. I enjoyed being tossed 
 right into the RvR scenarios and being boosted to a higher level so you were on a more level playing 
 field. The additional ability to queue up and join the scenarios from anywhere in the lands was 
 a great addition, which let me continue to quest and enjoy the story while enjoying the RvR scenarios. 
 The queue times for the RVR scenarios can be a bit long, which tends to be annoying if you want 
 to jump into some PVP action. The last patch which lets me queue for any of the areas scenarios 
 was also a huge addition.
  
  The "open" RVR areas are fun when you can find people participating in them. Most times there is 
 no one around or there will be a large contingent of one faction and none or few of the other, 
 making it extremely unbalanced. In the end, it ends up being a few people running back to the big 
 NPCs in the area to hide when they get low on health and playing a constant game of chicken, trying 
 to get the other group to come in too close and pull those NPCs.
  
  The questing is exciting and fun and the storyline is amazing. Some of the quests can be a bit 
 difficult depending on your class and there is definitely a disparity in how quickly you can finish 
 them. This is to be expected a bit, even though they tanks do more damage and healers do more damage 
 than traditional MMORPGS.
  
  The Public Quest (PQ) system is a bit disappointing. Now, having said this, I'm not sure how they 
 could change it. I find it very entertaining and fun to participate in, however even on the server 
 I am on, which is high population for both factions, I can rarely find people to participate in 
 the PQs. It seems to be a requirement for most of them that you have a tank and a healer, sometimes 
 multiples. If there are only a few of you out running around questing it is oftentimes impossible 
 to find the people to participate and complete these. They touted these as being great and just 
 being able to run in and help out, but this is not the case. If you want to do these, you'll end 
 up having to do what you do in the other games, spend time asking in chat for a group to complete 
 it. 
  
  The cities in the game are absolutely amazing. It's a bit disappointing that there are only 2, 
 one for Destruction and one for Order, but they are laid out very nicely and have a lot to do within. 
 The cities are huge and actually have the feel of a real city, with people milling about and performing 
 actions constantly.
  
  Overall, I only find the game average. From a PVP standpoint I think it is amazing, but I really 
 didn't want to level mostly from the PVP, I wanted to do that on the side while leveling and enjoying 
 the storyline and quests. It seems like I end up putting more time into the PVP though because 
 I can't find people to do the PQs, where the decent rewards are, and I run out of quests to do. 
 The PQs and the open RVR being as problematic as they are have really taken a lot of the fun I 
 was having away from WAR for the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sethneill
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  Finally a game that is more adult and stops childish WoW with its cartoon, cookie cutter crap, 
 no end in site grindfest. It is laughable that WoW kids (cause they are all stupid kids, who do 
 nothing more than now just use it to chat with friends) that they want P v BORING E! since PVE 
 in wow has nothing to do with anything but smashing cartoon characters and pray for a drop with 
 a ratio of 1 to 65! (i know ive been there, sad for me yes, since i actually play that game but 
 at least i can say my fill of the game and not BS it)
  With the statement noted above i wished it was a WoW killer and in some respects it was but WoW 
 will still be around big as ever.
  On another note (this is FACT) WoW was actually supposed to be Warhammer. U see back in the day 
 Warhammer was going with Blizzard to make a brand new game but they didnt like blizzards ideas 
 so they (WarHammer) pulled the plug and didnt give them the rights to make it. So instead Blizzard 
 took EVERYTHING from WarHammer tweaked it made it cartoon fun and pooped out WoW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gihrenzabi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  This is a game that took a tremendous chance in banking *everything* on PvP, or RvR (Realm versus 
 Realm) content. There are a set of variables that a successful, large-scale PvP game is going to 
 need, and the chances taken in the game design threaten the existence of these variables and may 
 ultimately decide whether or not WAR can ever live up to its potential.
  
  RvR is made easily-accessible as one can queue up for PvP scenarios from anywhere in the game world. 
 The RvR scenarios are fun so far - they're traditional, but not to their detriment. It is so much 
 more convenient to engage in these scenarios that you'll find yourself doing so far more often 
 than you might in other, more conventional MMOs, and the classes so far seem balanced with no overall 
 "game-breakers" in the mix. WAR also adjusts your stats slightly upon entering a scenario in order 
 to make both sides more balanced to one another, so you don't need to worry too much about leveling 
 up before getting involved in the action.
  
  Each area of the game (known as a Tier) also features an "open RvR" area, clearly set apart from 
 the rest of the Tier, where you're flagged for RvR moments upon entering the area and within which 
 there are battlefield objectives to fight over. Control over these open RvR areas is essential 
 to determining which side controls the Tier, and Tier control can give you slight but meaningful 
 bonuses to how much experience you may earn, how much things cost you from Merchants, and how much 
 money you make selling things back to them.
  
  RvR activity earns you both traditional experience points, and is also the sole provider of Reknown 
 points which unlock both abilities and access to gear that NPCs at "warcamps" will train you in 
 or dole out to you respectively. You level up in Rank (WARspeak for "level") both in the traditional 
 sense and also in your Reknown standing (you can be Rank 11, and Reknown Rank 7, for example) .
 
  
  What does one do when waiting to be loaded up into an RvR scenario, or when the open RvR areas 
 are devoid of players? The number one answer would have to be: Public Quests.
  
  The Public Quest system is truly brilliant - you literally stumble into them as you explore the 
 game world. The one solid advantage to taking traditional quests is that they may lead you into 
 PQ areas. When you do, the title of the quest appears right in the middle of your screen and a 
 completion tracker is added to your UI while you're in the PQ area. The tracker tells you precisely 
 what it is you have to do.
  
  When the PQ is over, a loot box appears and the highest-scoring players involved in the quest can 
 reach into the box and remove a bag which gives you many choices of potential reward, though usually 
 only one or two are worth consideration. Most of the gear you're awarded through a PQ loot box 
 is better than quest gear, so you can get the equipment you need strictly through PQs. Show up 
 late to the scenario and just sit tight, help finish it off, and begin it again with the next group 
 and the game favors you for the loot handout when you've finished your second run-through.
  
  You also gain Influence points through participation in PQs, which also leads to getting gear 
 from "Rally Master" NPCs who are always nearby at any major respawn point. 
  
  PQs and RvR scenarios can therefore provide all the experience points and gear you need to progress 
 through the gamewhich leads us into the remainder of the PvE content in WAR. It is pretty much 
 an afterthought, and this is where the game design becomes problematic.
  
  One can level without doing any traditional quests whatsoever if they choose not to do so.
  You 
 will rarely find groups attending to PvE quests in WAR - if you're doing them chances are you're 
 doing them solo. Luckily the quests aren't challenging at all so if PvE is your bag you won't be 
 prevented from carrying it out on account of being by yourself, but it does begin to bring the 
 "massively multiplayer" label into question when you're wandering around by yourself.
  
  This lackluster PvE environment can threaten the viability of some of the Public Quests. If a PQ 
 happens to be located in a less-trafficked portion of the game world, good luck finding a group 
 to complete the quest with - and groups are an absolute necessity for the bosses at the end of 
 a PQ.
  
  As stated, the game world is divided into Tiers. Each Tier is split into two halves, corresponding 
 to the beginner's area for one of the two races in that part of the game world (the factions are 
 broken up into opposing pairs) , and each Tier roughly corresponds with ten Ranks' worth of progression. 
 Tier 1 is Ranks 1 - 11, for example. 
  
  After Tier 11 certain areas of the Tier 1 areas become inaccessible to you (the game turns you 
 into a chicken if you wander into any portion of the map in which killing players from the other 
 side is possible and you're too powerful for that area such that your opponents would be easy targets. 
 Yes, a chicken. Literally.) So, if you level too quickly, you don't get to see the entire map in 
 that Tier.
  
  There will also be areas of your Tier which are woefully under populated simply because players 
 do not need to do any of the quests in that area in order to Rank up. I began play as a Greenskin 
 where Mount Bloodhorn is the opening half of Tier 1. You can level up to Rank 11 strictly within 
 Mount Bloodhorn. If you follow the path of the traditional PvE quests the natural quest progression 
 does eventually lead to Ekrund, the "other half" of your Tier 1 area.
  
  Chances are by the time you get there, however, you're already high enough in Rank such that there 
 are places you're not allowed to go without turning into the aforementioned chicken and you really 
 don't *need* to engage in the remaining Tier 1 quests in Ekrund as the experience and gear they 
 give you is already dropping into the "not worth my time" category. Thus, it's more worth it to 
 hop into Tier 2 where the rewards and risks will be more appreciable... and you miss all the content 
 in the other half of your Tier 1 area. 
  
  Large portions of the game world are also utterly devoid of content. It's almost as though the 
 designers intended to put something there but just ran out of time. Early attempts at exploration 
 may prove so unsatisfying that players won't bother later on, when there might actually be things 
 worth investigating.
  
  Quests are incredibly easy as the map shows you PRECISELY where you need to go in order to complete 
 them, but this also leads to another reason why you'll never need to explore the game world, and 
 could become very boring for players who want a PvE experience.
  
  Perhaps these voids of content and straightforwardness of questing might be more palatable if there 
 were actually people to chat with, but social interaction is utterly absent in WAR. Even the major 
 capital for Destruction is extremely "quiet" chat-wise. What ought to be a hub of social activity 
 even this early in the life of any MMO is a sea of NPCs with an occasional player running on a 
 quick errand before jumping back into the game world proper.
  
  The silence in the chat window is almost palpable as one wanders through the game world. While 
 it's refreshing on the one hand, it again calls the "MM" part of the "MMO" label into question. 
 Where's the community?
  
  A group of players don't need to be formally "grouped up" in order to complete a PQ or an RvR scenario 
 (at least not the Tier 1 scenarios, and Tier 2 scenarios are currently bugged such that I cannot 
 report on them) . You simply wander into them and join the fray. While this is, again, innovative 
 and rewarding, there's no motivation to actually *stay* with the groups of people you encounter 
 in these PQs or scenarios. Once the quest or scenario is over, the group of players scatters to 
 the four winds. 
  
  Anyone giving WAR a try, who enjoys PvE and the sense of community an MMO can bring, may find themselves 
 getting very bored, very early, and this is when one must consider the risks Mythic took in designing 
 a game which depends so much on high server population.
  
  The endgame of WAR is an assault on the enemy capital city: Altdorf for Order and The Inevitable 
 City for Destruction. In order to make either capital available to be attacked, either side in 
 the war must conquer a certain number of other, lower-level fortresses, securing a path to the 
 enemy stronghold.
  
  If players are not encouraged to form relationships with one another, then the endgame may become 
 a simply untenable proposition. It will ostensibly take large numbers of either faction to secure 
 the necessary precursors to an attack on the enemy capital and take considerable coordination to 
 actually win such a final battle. The game simple does not internally encourage this level of organization. 
 Guilds will become the lifeblood of WAR, but the game doesn't create the sort of environment which 
 fosters their creation due to the lack of social interaction.
  
  The endgame will therefore come down to how many guilds from *other* MMOs decide to step into WAR 
 as a unit and try the game out. This dependence on bleed over from competitors is an interesting 
 conundrum, as in my experience only the most massive of guilds or gaming clans can afford to concentrate 
 their time and energy into more than one MMO and actually make an appreciable impact on the game 
 world.
  
  Between unfulfilling PvE content and the lack of social interaction WAR may see early drop-out 
 rates high enough to bleed enough players from the game to make early server consolidation an absolute 
 necessity in order to provide the critical mass of players needed to fuel PQs and to make the endgame 
 tenable. We'll have to wait and see, and hope that the lack of polish on the game and the feeling 
 that it was rushed out of development (and it does have to be said that it's amazing that three 
 years still may constitute "rushed" for any game) don't hurt the chances of a game which, with 
 a little more care in the PvE design, may have stood to be a long-term and successful addition 
 to the current stable of MMOs on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamms1384
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for Warhammer for a long time and I am happy with the result, however it is 
 not the perfect MMO. It delivers an A+ for the PvP gamer. Hell, most players would argue that just 
 doing scenarios levels you up faster than doing the quests! But that in turn, really takes away 
 from the PvE element of the game. People that are tired of WoW and love PvP should be playing this 
 game. It is tons of fun and the scenarios blow WoWs BGs out of the water. But since it has such 
 a high PvP (RvR) focus, the PvE element often feels dull. Myself, I am more of a PvE gamer so I 
 will be going back to WoW once the exp hits. I recommend all gamers just to take their playstyle 
 into consideration to decide which game they would rather play.
  
  Oh and one final point, don't even bother with this games tradeskills. Completely useless. 
  
 
  Anyways, enjoy War. If you are a PvP gamer, it is very easy to look past the lack of pve focus 
 because you will be having so much fun! This games PvP will keep their kind playing War for a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamiRDuran
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  I've played WAR up to t4 until i realised that i am wasting my time. Where do i begin? 
  
  Scenarios are nothing more than WOW's horrible battlegrounds. Well there are 6 in t3 but guess 
 what? people play only one (tor anroc) and this is the same case for t4 and serpent's passage. 
 World rvr? well there is none! everybody is grinding the same scenario over and over again. leeching 
 is already apparent. there is currently no reason or motivation to take control of any keeps.
 
  
  Furthermore destruction is overpopulated in every server resulting to 1h+ queues just to log in. 
 There is almost no competition from order when rarely some world rvr takes place.
  
  Combat feels slow and clanky. animations are horrible and usually delayed... Colision detection 
 is causing one of the worst bugs called "teleporting". the healer you just surrounded suddenly 
 teleports 10m away from you. this is a joke.
  
  No matter what you hear class balance needs lot of work! if you visit some unoficial forums you'll 
 see whats really hapenning. Bright wizards nuking down eveything, Witch Elves killing healers in 
 5secs and iron breakers knocking you 50m away. first time in my mmo experience i see characters 
 knocking people 50m away.
  
  Quests are uterly boring and unoriginal. go there kill 10 x mobs then go again kill their leader. 
 this is how 90% of WAR's quests are. respawn rate is crazy as well ruining any sort of immersion 
 you might want to experience. even the developers know how boring they are that they mark their 
 location on the map so you dont waste more time on them.
  Public quests will be dead in matter of weeks, no one will be around that level to help you. i've 
 already noticed that with an alt i made.
  
  So in the end you are going be grinding the same scenario over and over again unti you reach 40 
 and wonder what to do now. i cant see this game going anywhere especially with the realm unbalance 
 as end game is totally dependent on a balanced population of each server. not to mention the fact 
 that hardly anybody talks in the game, its just a bunch of zombies running around...
  
  forget about the leveling experience as Mythic for some "unknown" reason increased the experience 
 you need to level and quests are simply not enough to get you to 40 forcing you to do the same 
 scenario over and over.
  
  The only positives i can think of are the graphics and art style which i found really nice and 
 the easy to use but flexible UI.
  
  this is not the MMO we need, this is the absolute definition of "been there, done that before". 
 i am not going to tell you to wait for the WOTLK. We all know its going to be the same old crap 
 again so dont be hasty to call me a WOW fanboy. We need something fresh, new and innovative. MMORPG 
 genre is going through some really dark times...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I have played 5 other MMOs before this and each of them have the same problem. They all lack a 
 fun factor at one point or another. It generally has to do with content (pr-cu SWG, CoX after max 
 lvl, WoW when you dont have a guild, etc etc) .
  
  I will not debate solo vs grouping. I am for both, I do both, and I have run many guilds in all 
 the MMOs I played. I know whats fun for me, and for people I've talked to over the many years I've 
 played MMOs. While I enjoy a solid story, intense battles, and less focus on timesinks (such as 
 grinding to get faction to get Gear that I need because the community says I do) . When I play a 
 game I want to play, not stand around and think about what would make it better, or wish I could 
 get a group for 3 or more hours.
  
  WAR is not the greatest game ever made, but it will break ground and make alot of PvPrs happy. 
 PvErs wont be as disappointed (imo) as Gamespot would have you believe, however it does currently 
 feel a little lacking in some PvE things but they are slight as far as I've noticed.
  
  I cant do this review like I normally do, as its a game that does take ideas from other games like 
 all MMOs do (WoW, DAoC, EQ) but it adds its own flavor to it that is undeniably cool for a player 
 like myself who doesnt have 6 hours to wait to actually do something.
  
  First off, combat is the norm for MMOs, and very few have tried to innovate it. WAR didnt try, 
 however it did add some cool things to it that may have been used before (I know I have played 
 single player RPGs before with similar concepts) its really fun to use in this. Theres your class 
 skills, normal skills you use to kill stuff like in WoW. Your Morale Skills which can be used once 
 morale is filled (by being in combat as much as possible) to a certain point depending on the skill. 
 There is also Masteries which is similar to WoWs skill trees, although more complicated imo as 
 you get less to work with on it (you get enough though) but what they add seems apt. Truth be told 
 it is very similar to wow but the way they do it is a twist to it. I dont know how to explain but 
 as you add points to a skill tree it increases the power of skills that are part of that tree and 
 you can also get new skills when you put enough points into it. Thats the best I can explain.
 
  
  Next we have maps. The maps in this are done very well. Its not quite all non load between zones 
 like WoW is, but the Zones (im lvl 12 on chapter 7 so far) are huge. They consist of chapters which 
 make up the Public Quests. So far as I can tell each is 4 chapters long. Problem here is (and I 
 hear it will be expanded eventually) the server feels very empty. I play on a medium sized server 
 because I played wow when there were ques, and let me tell you its not cool getting off work then 
 having to wait 3 hours to play. So anyway, sometimes you'll be around alot of ppl other times the 
 world feels empty. The NPCs are apt but not very challenging, the biggest fear really you have 
 is that you'll get into a patrols way and get adds because of that, but soloing is EXTREMELY possible 
 in this and it is alot of fun. I cant really complain to much about the exploration or NPCs AI 
 because of the MMO combat system makes it so AI in MMOs has a long way to go by nature of design, 
 but it is what it is and I enjoy the way WAR does it. It makes you feel powerful every step of 
 the way.
  
  The PQs (public Quests) are what make this game innovative though. Everything else is basic MMO 
 philosophy but the greatest idea to come out of this game for both soloers, and groupers- casuals 
 and hardcores- is PQs. PQs are quite simple and I'm surprised no one has thought of this until 
 now. Anyone in the general area of a PQ chapter quest is automatically shown where the quest is 
 at and what needs to be done to advance. Everyone that participates in all three stages has a chance 
 to roll for a loot box an dthe more participation you do the more chance you have of being the 
 winner. You can solo the first stage of a PQ but you need a group to do all 3 stages and maybe 
 even a warband on some to do the third stage. The cool part to me is you gain influence which you 
 can turn in for rewards. As a soloer I have been able to get all 3 rewards from each PQ quite easily 
 in anywhere from a half hour to a couple of hours (give or take given the level and where your 
 at) . The PvE really does just seem to be driving you to get into the battlegrounds or RvR areas 
 to PvP. Unfortunately like most MMOs people dont always care when an area is taken, but imo not 
 everyone likes to always PvP so thats only going to bother those who PvP 100% of the time. Unfortunately 
 I dont like to PvP 100% of the time, and not many others do either. This can put a damper on the 
 open world PvP if you want to PvP open world and no one is there to do this with you, but generally 
 I've not had any problem with the instanced battlegrounds at all and have been content with those. 
 It all seems comepletely fair and so much fun. There is no turtling, there is no Honor wasting 
 time while no one does the objectives because the objectives are clear and easy to follow while 
 killing the enemy and that makes everyone happy.
  
  Every game has its flaws, new MMOs especially and this one has a few that arent terrible, but some 
 that to me make it rediculous they released it like this. My only gripe is the game will CTD (crash 
 to desktop) for no reason I can see of my computer. The game runs fun, doesnt make my computer 
 hot, lags a little which is no big deal but sometimes (less after a few patches and I'm so happy 
 about that) it will randomly crash and often at the worst possible time. I have gotten used to 
 the opening movie which has to play every single time you restart (great movie, but I cant watch 
 it that many times so I have to skip it but its a little irritating) . Anyway the movie playing 
 isnt a problem, the crashing is and its not an uncommon problem, was more so a problem before (so 
 I have read) , not as bad now but I think its rediculous it can happen so often considering this 
 game isnt a beta it should be stable enough to not crash. Anyway thats my biggest complaint. It 
 doesnt make it not worth getting, and again it happens less now, but still happens, its just irritating.
 
  
  Theres other noticable bugs too, but they are minor. Animations for instance are so bad its noticable, 
 graphics look great but can be extremely laggy at times, skills dont always realize theyre being 
 clicked, more people = more noticable network lag (not to bad but still noticable) , PvP games get 
 really laggy as well, theres some things and areas that feel unfinished (noticably) , and low pop 
 caps that dont make to much sense and I can only assume is due to servers being optimized still.
 
  
  Overall this game is extremely fun to play, but only if you at least like casual PvP. This game 
 is not a PvPrs dream though because not everyone always PvPs open world and regardless of whether 
 your on a PvP server or not (as that only affects whether you have to flag or not as far as I can 
 tell) this wouldnt really change. The PvE feels like a side note and I believe in time it will 
 actually get better but its a solid place to start out and alot of fun to play just to see the 
 world, get gear and if your like me enjoy the story. For an MMO it feels kind of linear but I havent 
 really been bored or unable to do anything so my biggest complaint remains only the CTDs. This 
 game is worth playing whether your a casual or hardcore PvPr. Dont take my word for it though make 
 up your own damn mind.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParaBellum71
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying i hate WoW and love the features that Warhammer provides BUT... Having 
 a different healing, dps, and tank class for almost EVERY race just adds confusion and makes alot 
 of the classes feel inadaquate or watered down because they couldnt come up with anything better. 
 Also theres the few classes that almost EVERYONE rolls. Its not like WoW where youll see 10 hunters 
 to every priest, its more like 25 witch hunters to every Archmage.
  
  Gameplay- Awesome quest structure that makes you feel like youre part of a war. Too many many classes 
 isnt a bad thing (Like in everquest) but when they all feel like crappy hybrids that are nerfed 
 beyond belief it gets bad.
  
  Graphics- Awesome terain, and yes im running on high settings. BUT the game feels INSANLEY RUSHED 
 and the fanboys cant deny it. The fact that simple things are left out and it seems like game support 
 doesnt want to adress these issues. The most out standing is the fact that there is NO BOW STRINGS 
 on any bows or the mountable siege equipment. Your charecter simply grabs onto an invisible string 
 and pulls back on it without any bow-bend. Alot of the abilities have cool flashy features but 
 the games equivilent of a paladin or high elf has a heal that drops frames insanley for some reason (And 
 people spam these in scenarios) . Run animations are a joke for all races. And when you try to do 
 a /emote such as dance it states that your target doesnt want to dance... it should say "Sorry 
 we ran out of funding and couldnt put in any animations that involve a moving charecter."
  
  Sound- Ever take karate? Remember how the teacher would make you scream at every attack you'd 
 dish out? Thats what youre charecter does everytime he take or recieves a hit.
  
  Public quests are a nice feature but if youre in an unpolular area (I. E) dwarfs or just in a low-pop 
 server youll sit there for an hour waiting for another player to join up so you can finish it.... 
 Its either that or wait until you can solo it , but by then the drops are useless. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: troyboy2k
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  First of I want to clarify that RvR is PvP so no one can come here arguing that they are the same 
 thing.
  
  Warhammer is perhaps the most fun MMO I have played since WoW first came out. Sure there isn't 
 a vast solo player experience in the game, but the way they focus on RvR puts WoW PvP to shame. 
 The only people I can think that wont enjoy this game are those who hate PvP to begin with, because 
 they suck at it.
  
  What I love about Warhammer is you have RvR quests, some take you to battlegrounds, others take 
 you to open RvR areas where objectives have to be accomplished, from a simple capture and hold 
 to a siege like senerio where you have to defend a keep. On top of that you gain renown for completing 
 objectives and killing rival factions for a higher renown rank that accesses you to a vendor that 
 sells you decent gear which is more times than not an upgrade.
  
  Biggest complaint I have about Warhammer, is it hasn't really caught on yet. The servers don't 
 seem too populated to the point your lying and waiting for someone on the opposing faction to kill, 
 since some quests require an enemy player's death to complete.
  
  There are also a few bugs, some choppy animation, and the hide/display feature. I have noticed 
 in some of the major cities that the textures are very poor quality at times on NPC and other players. 
 I have also experienced a few game crashes in the many battlegrounds i've been in, where I first 
 enter only to have the program close on me with no explanation. Then again these things could just 
 be my graphics card, but since i get no error messages, i can not know for sure.
  
  Also something that i would like to see added in is better macro scripting, so far macros can only 
 perform one function, so that somewhat annoys me because I like to have one button on my spellbar 
 marco'd to do multiple tasks like in WoW, this however is a minor annoyance that is overcome on 
 how great Warhammer Online is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foursaken_Zeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Love the graphics and a relatively smooth launch compared to other games
  
  The class balance is also encouraging considering how young this game is. I was in WoW for years 
 and this game is what I wished WoW was. I don't pay a monthly fee for an mmo to play PVE against 
 computers, I play mmos to fight other players.
  
  The PVP is fun and you can tell who doesn't know what they're doing and who does.
  
  I found 
 WoW a boring level up with oftentimes poor PvP. I don't want to play against computer controlled 
 mobs I want to kill people in an open world and get rewarded for it. Features such as tanks being 
 able to physically block characters really add a whole new need for tanks, and increased depth 
 in pvp.
  
  Some glitchy animations and a memory leak you will notice after 3 hours of straight play (restart 
 game to fix) are the main problems right now.
  
  Highly recommended for PVP lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomSlick13
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I have played several MMO's and tried most of the new one's. The first few hours with Warhammer 
 were great. As the game play wore on it started to loose its luster. I don't have a high level 
 character. I can't judge the high level content yet. PVP related things are great. Solo questing 
 isn't bad but is nothing great. Crafting is terrible (The game maybe better off without it.) The 
 Warhammer world seems small compared to some of the other MMO's. The good part of that is aimless 
 running in each area isn't very bad (WOW and LOTRO are terrible about the running) . In the long 
 run it could hurt running new characters as you will repeat almost all of the same leveling quests. 
 The graphics are ok (better than WOW) but nothing like LOTRO. Mythic is off to a pretty good start. 
 I think they have the second best MMO out there right now and it should only get better.
  
  So what is #1? I prefer LOTRO as it is a very polished game with lots of things to do.
  
  Note: 
 I have had to stop playing Warhammer over the last several days as the game is crashing on start 
 up. I'm sure they will get it taken care of soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yourtoast
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  THE MOST TRUTHFUL POST READ IF YOU WANT UNBIASED RESULTS
  I was going to put "almost but not quite" as my selection for the statement but thats not true. 
 What everyone has to remember is that this is brand new and a lot of the issues people are having 
 with the game is underpopulation. This just takes time, and if they were smart they would combine 
 every two servers into one and increase their server capacity. for me, it has taken 2 hours to 
 get into a scenario, that is WAY too long.
  
  My main problem with the game is that it seems very unfinished with some aspects. They didn't even 
 put four of the classes in, (two of which i wanted to play as) . Also the PvE, like the GS review 
 said, is very lacking and with the lack of people it is hard to find people to quest with. Some 
 enviroments are amazing then some they just put flat rock in without even adding a texture. But 
 enough about the bad.
  
  It is very fun when you get into the heat of battle and things start going. The spells or abilitys 
 for the most part look really cool, (sorceress' doom bolt make WoW shadow bolt look like something 
 from the 60's) . Some people say same old but it isn't at all. Each race has unique classes, living 
 guilds, SEIGE WEAPONS, it is all very different.
  
  The reason i gave it an 8, even though my reveiw makes it sound bad, is because i know that most 
 of my issues with the game need time to solve. So after like 4-6 months and everything is rocking 
 my only problem will be that the leveling takes WAY too long. I know that the level cap is 40 unlike 
 WoW's original 60 but still the reason a lot of people are leaving is because it doesn't make you 
 feel like you are progressing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMUK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  Warhammer. All the fuss has and is still being made about this. Does it deserve it? Yes and no. 
 No because it feels so unfinished. Despite being in development for a very long time - there are 
 areas where there are still place holders/black boxes, crafting is very limited, and essentially 
 all the quests are the same.
  
  WAR has tried in many ways to clone WOW but in areas where they should have really cloned big time, 
 they didnt. WOW is full of nice touches - You can link to items in the chat bar, for example, or, 
 click on an item and search for it with ease in the Auction house.
  
  WAR has none of these neat features. The Auction house is terrible in design and extremely flawed. 
 It takes some time to master how to actually find anything you want.
  
  Yes -
  It's all about the RvR in WAR - which is exciting and in most cases alot of fun. You earn good 
 XP (and man there is some serious grinding to do) in RvR and with a decent guild, you can really 
 make a difference in the war. 
  
  Running around camps, you actually do feel part of a war. In WOW, you feel so detached from anything 
 to do with the epic struggle but WAR brings it right to you. Whilst I was in a war camp, NPCS would 
 cheer when a control point was captured by real players - excellent stuff.
  
  WAR needs alot of work still and the recent patch hasnt actually fixed anything (the damn EULA STILL 
 needs to be scrolled down to close it every time you log in) but the future is bright.
  
  It wont reach the dizzy numbers of WOW - Blizzard have polished that turd so much that people will 
 find it hard to leave. But if pvp is your thing, WAR is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rem234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  To say this is the best game ever might be a stretch. To say that it is one of the best mmo's on 
 the market is not. This game is one of the best mmos ive ever played.
  
  While some people are going to complain about bugs or say it copies world of warcraft. Note that 
 warcraft borrowed heavily from warhammer, and starcraft from warhammer 40k. NOT THE OTHER WAY AROUND. 
 So judge the game fairly and not just with quotes like "it sucks" on the basis that it has some 
 glitches. Yes those are a minus but were looking at the game as a whole and it does not help a 
 designer unless you explain your reasoning to them. Lastly to quickly get it out of the way, if 
 your at lvl 40 now, then basically to get there you ignored most everything and did quests and 
 grinds... not the game.
  
  Reasoning
  
  Implementation of public quests is a huge bonus, and a unique aspect to mmos. while they do remain 
 consistant, they do offer a challenge for those willing. 
  
  Dealt with item looting very well. You no longer have to roll on crap that is not even for your 
 class when beating a boss thanks to them and their PQs.
  
  Plenty to see and look at and unlock for the people that like that. Tome unlocks provide bonuses 
 to players and a lot of things to keep you preoccupied. 
  
  lots of end game content to do, the cities and the little various dungeons in them are awesome, 
 and there are pretty much no lvl 5 cities at this time so much content remains locked. wich more 
 on the way in patches
  
  Glitches are being addressed on a good time basis. Mythic is actually working hard to address the 
 issues that come up.
  
  lots of means to level,- renown -leveling -guild level -city level. means your never short things 
 to do.
  
  While each class does have a counterpart and the things they do are consistent they are all very 
 unique from one another.
  
  The amount of lore and story, not to mention the areas and the random battles going on always leave 
 you thinking that this is just one part of a massive war that you are taking part in.
  
  There is more but that will have to wait for now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashkilla_basic
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to keep this short but sweet, as you probably know what the game is about already, for 
 the most part. Instead of the typical review style, I'm going to list some of my thoughts about 
 the game, focusing mostly on things you haven't heard often in other reviews.
  A little on my background: I've been playing WAR since the end of closed beta, and I've purchased 
 the game and leveled up to 40 (max level) . I was really looking for a good change from WoW, as 
 I got really sick of WoW and ended my subscription 8 months ago. I knew WAR had some problems before 
 release, but I really tried to remain optimistic. Mythic gave a valiant effort at repairing the 
 game before release, and they were semi-successful, as the game was just a total mess before open 
 beta. It has taken me only a few weeks into release to get sick of this game though. I think it 
 needs another solid year (at least) in development to infuse the game with more variety, content, 
 and polish. Moreso than that, I seriously wonder about some of the design decisions. Without further 
 ado, here is my list of the top 13 things that suck about WAR:
  
  1. The combat system tries to be like World of Warcraft's, but fails. Whereas WoW's combat system 
 is the tightest seen in any MMO to date, WAR's combat system has many glitches and bugs, and feels 
 very sloppy. For example, when you press your skill key when the global cooldown is still in effect, 
 you will see a character animation for that ability, but it won't actually do anything. The animation 
 will continue past the point where you're global cooldown expired, but you have to wait til it 
 finishes before you can activate your ability. This is just one of many problems. A lot of us have 
 been reporting these problems since beta, but they haven't been fixed. This is largely because 
 WAR fanboys have drowned us out, having said "It's perfect!", or "This is not WoW and the combat 
 shouldn't be like WoW's" (somehow implying that the numerous combat bugs are features) .
  
  The buggy combat is by far the worst of the problems, as the feeling of combat is really the nucleus 
 around which the rest of the game coalesces. This also shows a serious lack of polish and indicated 
 that Mythic were overly anxious to get this product out the door. These problems are particularly 
 unacceptable in a game being billed as the ultimate PvP MMO. No competitive PvP gamers are taking 
 this game seriously for this reason.
  
  2. Many of the character animations are too long. They don't sync well with the combat, and some 
 of them extend well into the global cooldown period, which often can exacerbate some of the combat 
 bugs, and gives it an even more unpolished feel.
  
  3. There are almost no dungeons in the game. Those dungeons that do exist are still pretty buggy, 
 not at all fun, and don't even offer great rewards. Public quests were largely implemented to replace 
 dungeons. Public quests can be fun, and give decent loot, but they get old really quickly. There 
 is essentially only one public quest in the game. It goes like so: Phase 1-Kill a lot of easy monsters, 
 Phase 2-Kill a dozen champion monsters (these are like WoW elites) , Phase 3-Tank and spank a boss. 
 There are lots of public quests, but they all follow this formula, occasionally adding an extra 
 phase or some kind of minor twist for variety. These are something like poor-man's dungeons. Dungeons 
 typically give you an intense, epic, unpredictable experience. Public quests are short, completely 
 predictable (as they're all essentially the same) , boring, and easy.
  
  4. In addition to the PQs (public quests) , there is a severe lack of variety and fun anywhere in 
 the PvE game. The mobs are all incredibly easy, and die quickly. With few exceptions, you'll be 
 fighting one at a time, as it's impossible to pull more than one unless they're linked together, 
 which only happens for named quest mobs and such. There are also very few patrols. The patrols 
 that are in the game, follow very linear, straight line, predictable routes, so you'll never be 
 surprised by them. We all remember some of the intense moments soloing in WoW, where we've pulled 
 one too many mobs, then on top of that a patrol comes after us and it becomes a fight for survival. 
 You'll never have any of these moments in WAR. One good thing about WAR's PvE is that you have 
 virtually no downtime, as you'll never see your health dip below 50%, since the mobs are all easy-mode 
 - even in the late game. On the other hand, since there is no challenge whatsoever, it makes the 
 grind even more boring.
  
  There is also little variety in the mobs you fight. You won't see them using unique abilities, 
 heals, etc. very often. Mostly they just run up to you and keep hitting you. That's fine for the 
 first 8 levels or so, but I'd like a little bit of variety after that.
  
  You may be saying, "But wait a minute, this is a PvP game!" Yes, but it's still an MMORPG, and 
 one that is trying to compete with WoW in every facet. Mark Jacobs of Mythic even said that the 
 reason for all of the delays is so that Mythic could get the PvE up to a level found in WoW: TBC. 
 WAR has better PvP, if you can get past the combat issues, but the PvE is nowhere even close to 
 WoW - not even Pre-BC. When WoTLK comes out in a month, WAR's PvE will look downright ancient.
 
  
  5. The UI in this game is sub-par. It is a lot better now than it was at beta, but it still leaves 
 much to be desired. One problem is that your health and action bars routinely disappear. This is 
 really wonderful when you're in the middle of an intense PvP fight and your health bar disappears. 
 Should I heal? Run away? Hell if I know. There is a lack of keymapping and control customization 
 also. The biggest problem is that there's absolutely no way to tell what value your action bar 
 is at. You get a skill that uses 50 action points. Is that half your action bar? 5% of your action 
 bar? There's no way to know because there's no way of knowing how many action points you have, 
 or even how many action points you have when you're at 100%. You can look at your action point 
 bar, but there's no way to equate this visual reference with any actual numbers, even though all 
 of the skills you use relate to the action bar using set numerical values. This is utterly unbelievable. 
 Imagine playing a Mage in WoW and having no idea how much mana you have at any given moment, how 
 much you have at 100%, etc. Totally unacceptable.
  
  6. There is a severe lack of good skills, and of skill variety at all. Look at a skill list for 
 any character. For a dps character, for example, you will see many damage skills, most of which 
 have no differentiation between them. Many skills have a very minor debuff effect, which is really 
 the only difference you'll find. You'll have tons and tons of skills by level 40, yet it feels 
 like you have few because there is lack of any real variety between many of them. Also sorely lacking 
 are the kinds of class-defining abilities that WoW had. The mage in WoW had blink, polymorph, frost 
 nova, ice block, several different kinds of magic (ice, fire, arcane) , and you could change your 
 spec and you'd have almost a completely different class. The closest thing to a mage in WAR is 
 probably the Bright Wizard (or the BW's mirror class on destruction, the sorceress) . The BW, in 
 comparison, has a few minor snares and knockdowns, and only one real crowd control ability, fire 
 cage, which is a root that has a 50% chance of breaking when receiving damage. The only other spells 
 the BW has are fireballs, and variations of different fire damage attacks. That is it - one root, 
 a few snares, and a bunch of pure damage attacks. In WoW, you receive some major abilities at many 
 points throughout the game, and these seem to keep refreshing your class, so it never feels too 
 boring. Also the sheer variety of skills keep WoW fun and exciting. In WAR though it is ALWAYS 
 - *Ding* - "Great, another generic direct damage ability..." There's little to look forward to 
 - no "Sweet, I get to wear plate in two more levels, and get uber skills X, Y, and Z!"
  
  7. There is a severe lack of character customization. The character creation screen is incredibly 
 lacking. I'd say it's on par with WoW's. Even WoW's character customization level was pretty empty, 
 but that was in 2004. This level of character customization is just unacceptable in 2008. It's 
 as if Mythic tried to include exactly the same amount of customization as WoW - they did just enough 
 for it to be passable. As with every aspect of the game, Mythic went just barely far enough, but 
 didn't go the extra mile in making this feature truly good.
  
  WAR implemented something similar to WoW's talent point trees. These are called mastery trees, 
 and are just a half-assed (more like quarter-assed) attempt at mimicking WoW's character skill 
 customization/focus system. In WAR, these aren't really trees, just bars. There are three such 
 bars, and none of them contain any choices at all. In WoW's talent point system, you'd often have 
 to make tough choices within a talent tree. In WAR, the only decision is which bar to stick your 
 points into. For example, if you're a tank, you might get a defensive mastery bar, a single-target 
 dps mastery bar, and an aoe dps bar. Each bar just has 4 active abilities and 3 passive abilities 
 called tactics. The more points you put into a bar, the more abilities you unlock. Like I said, 
 it's just a really lazily-implemented, poorly done, half-assed clone of WoW's talent system.
  
  8. There is a lack of variety in PvP. There are a bunch of keeps to raid, but once you've raided 
 a keep in one Tier, you've raided them all. Keeps are really supposed to be the bread and butter 
 of WAR's much-hyped PvP. Keep battles end up being all about who can bring the biggest zerg. Right 
 now, on most servers, that is destruction, because they outnumber order by 2:1 or 3+:1. This is 
 due largely to the developers hyping up the destruction characters as being very cool, and the 
 order characters being lame, before the game was released. Good job there Mythic. In other games 
 (like WoW) , an outnumbered party can still win in combat because they have so many skills and CC 
 abilities at their disposal, that when timed right, can dramatically alter the battle. WAR generally 
 required much less skill to be good in PvP. There is very little CC, so it comes down to a battle 
 of who's the best at spamming their damage skills (and at fighting the terribly buggy and unpolished 
 combat system) .
  
  Each side only has one castle. Yep, each side spends all of it's time, at end game, defending its 
 own castle and attacking the enemy's only castle. The only other end-game content consists of scenarios 
 (like WoW's battleground) , and a couple of really bad PvE dungeons. The main focus is on the castle 
 sieges though. How many times can you seige the same castle over and over again without getting 
 bored?
  
  9. The WAR engine sucks. It is based on Mythic's outdated DaoC engine. The game's looks are about 
 on par with WoW's, but slightly nicer. Yet while it's graphics are only slightly better, it will 
 bring any system to a crawl during a large scale PvP battle. I'm not flaunting my epeen, but I 
 have a system with a Q6600 processor, vista ultimate, 4 GB of Corsair Dominator, ATI 4850, and 
 cable internet. If I get more than 30 characters in one area, is slows down immensely, becoming 
 almost unplayable in the truly large battles. WoW can handle large battles much, much better than 
 WAR, which is kind of odd, seeing as how WoW is supposed to be PvE-centric and WAR is supposed 
 to be large-scale PvP-centric. Also, you better have a whole lot of RAM. If you're running Vista, 
 you better have at least 4 gigs while running WAR, because it's very resource hungry. 3.5 gigs 
 out of my 4 are used up while running WAR on my fresh Vista install with no other programs running. 
 So again, the graphics would be okay if they were released in 2005, but they're very subpar for 
 the end of 2008. It would be understandable if the the engine could handle tons and tons of players 
 really well, but it's only slightly better at this than Age of Conan, while AoC's graphics are 
 vastly better. Also noticeably absent in WAR are most graphics settings we're all used to. Want 
 to enable AA and AF? Better figure out how to force AA and AF in your drivers...
  
  10. Last, but not least... itemization - a huge part of what makes these games so fun. The color 
 coding system is the same as WoW's (green=uncommon, blue=rare, purple=epic, etc.) . The difference 
 is that you'll be decked out in blues by the time you're level 15. Most people are totally decked 
 out in epics before they even hit level 40. This kind of devalues the whole meaning of epic loot. 
 This game just hands it out like candy, and doesn't make you work for it. You get new loot so often 
 that it takes the fun out of getting new loot. Remember getting that sick purple sword in WoW, 
 and in a single instance you've increased your dps by 30%? Well you'll never get this from WAR. 
 First of all, there are no epic PvE encounters that I know of, so no great gear there. There is 
 the renown system, but renown gear is typically not all that impressive. Second, you cannot craft 
 any equipment. Third, and most importantly, you will completely change out every piece of gear 
 at least once every 3 levels. The result is that you're always bettering yourself incrementally. 
 Every level you'll increase your dps by 5% or so. It is much more exciting to get a new weapon 
 every 8 levels and increase your dps by a whopping amount, like 40%
  
  11. As I touched on above, there is a severe lack of crafting in this game. You get to make potions, 
 or talismans - which are something you put into an item socket. Every one I've seen has a time 
 limit, so the quality of your talisman decides whether it disappears in two hours or two days. 
 Since you can't make any real equipment, and it would be pointless to anyway, since WAR is always 
 throwing new equipment at you, there is basically no player economy. There is an auction house, 
 but even on a good day, you might only find 5 or 6 items for your class. There is extreme specialization 
 in WAR's items. Every single item in the game is class specific, which ends up hurting the item 
 selection at the AH. Again though, there's no real reason to use the AH, as quest, PQ rewards, 
 and renown rewards give you more than enough loot anyway. Sometimes it's nice to take a break from 
 combat and take some time crafting and selling stuff at the auction house in WoW. You'll never 
 have that pleasure in WAR. This is another part of WAR that is totally unacceptable to me. A 2008 
 MMORPG, which is openly challenging WoW, which is backed by EA with almost infinite funds, is released 
 with virtually no crafting whatsoever, and uses an economic model that excludes a player economy!? 
 Are you kidding me?
  
  12. There is a lack of immersion in WAR. The only way to get to other zones is to talk to a flight 
 master. After you talk to the flight master, you're given a loading screen, then you magically 
 appear in the place you want to go. The only zones that are connected are your racial pairing's 
 zones. This all results in a disjointed game world and a feeling of disconnect. Also, if you're 
 a high elf, dark elf, dwarf, or greenskin you won't even be able to defend your capital city in 
 a siege. Nope, Mythic took your capital out (along with several classes) so they could rush WAR 
 out the door ASAP.
  Another gripe I have is that there is only one flight master per zone, so if you want to travel, 
 you might be in for a really long run to the nearest flight master.
  
  Finally, and this effects tiers 1 and 2 the most, since they only have one scenario per racial 
 pairing, if you want to play more than just your own racial pairing's scenario, you have to fly 
 to another race's zone. You will get sick of your own scenario, but then it's a total pain to try 
 to join another one.
  
  13. There is a surprising lack of PvP for a PvP game. I played on an open server, and surprisingly, 
 WoW PvP server's are more open than WAR's. I thought WAR was gonna be everywhere, and that WAR 
 was to be the king of all PvP MMORPGs? I can't go into tiers below my own, unless I want to be 
 turned into a chicken that has 1 HP. This also sucks because I can't go into lower zones to help 
 guildmates level, and I can't go back to unlock tome entries that I missed. It amazed me the WAR, 
 the supposed king of PvP, has such a carebear ruleset compared to WoW, the supposed PvE-centric 
 game.
  
  To sum it up, the biggest problems with this game, on a macro level, are lack of polish, lack of 
 fun in pve, lack of any innovation, and a very severe lack of variety in all aspects of the game. 
 That said, the RvR combat is fun at first, but it gets boring quickly. Also, the buggy and unpolished 
 combat, along with the poorly optimized engine detract from RvR.
  
  An MMORPG released 4 years after WoW should be able to improve on WoW in every way, or most ways, 
 at the very least. It has improved on WoW only in its PvP, while being humbled by WoW in every 
 single other aspect of the game. And with all of its problems, not even the often-touted PvP is 
 as good as it should be. In one month, WoTLK will be released, and will raise the bar even further 
 above WAR's head, while closing the PvP gap. That being said, I really can't recommend WAR to even 
 the most diehard PvP fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Excalibur2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply put... One of a kind AMAZING!!
  
  For all of you out there saying "its just another copy of WoW." 
  
  This game is by far not 
 even close to WoW, so quit comparing, WoW is going down the toilet and running out of its story, 
 Warhammer has been around for 20+ years, and i dont see this game going anywhere but up and positive, 
 its got a LOT of story to tell and this is simply the beginning, every game doesn't come out of 
 the box with no bugs and smooth line perfect gaming, i dont care who made it, published it, or 
 anything. Given time for the Mythic team to work out the bugs and patch things up, and this game 
 will be one of the GREATEST MMO's out there, I would recommend this to anyone who likes to quest, 
 but also likes to just go around and kill the enemy anytime they want, world pvp is a big thing 
 in this game, so you don't ALWAYS have to queue up for a scenario to get some kills and see some 
 action. Terrific Game, Must Play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EMOEVOLUTION
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  All MMORPG's released after World of Warcraft are going to be compared to the quality of WoW. There 
 is no way around that. Warhammer Online does not match up, or surpass the quality of WoW. 
  
  I could go on to talk about graphics, class balance, pvp, but there is no point. Yes, Warhammer 
 has some nice features, but it's really just a typical MMORPG. The play style is not as smooth 
 as World Of Warcraft. Play it for yourself and find out. Some people will enjoy this game, but 
 it won't be a big success 3 years down the road like WoW will still be.
  
  It's a shame because I was looking foreward to some diversity in the MMORPG market, but no one 
 is taking any risks or leaps of originiality.
  
  WoW is just the better game. I gave Warhammer online a 6 because it's average MMORPG that some 
 people will find more appealing than World of Warcraft. And that's understandable. That has to 
 do more with personality. 
  
  Warhammer online is getting some fairly high reviews of 8', 9's. But I just think that comes from 
 early exicement of a new world to explore. And in the mean time people lose track of the big picture.
 
  
  WoW, 8.0 game, because it's good. Warhammer 6.0 game because it's slightly above average.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ariany360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Gamers review -- While PvP and RvR is out of the ordinary, EA made a mistake with an interface 
 that may drains too much juice if you're not having enough Ram memory (if your PC is running under 
 Vista, you will need at least 2ghz)
  
  It is a basic copy of World of Warcraft with slight improvements overall, it does not run smoothly 
 enough right away, but with updates and improvements, it should come around.
  
  If you are used to play Wow, the learning curve is rather short (30 mins to 1 hour) - Worth playing, 
 but lacks improvements -
  
  For people who likes MMOS, but who are not quite the "gamer type", they may want to wait a few 
 months for other MMOs in the making that looks promising.
  
  _________________
  
  _________________
  
  _________________
  
  _________________ 
  
  ________________ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vulfthyr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Warhammer Online. The Age of Reckoning. Apropriately named. For it reckons that, one day, this 
 game will be the next great MMO. Why? Simple. It's fun.
  
  To anyone who says that this is a grind: If PvPing, fun quests and a great world to explore is 
 a grind for you, then I'm sorry mate, you've got the wrong genre.
  
  To anyone that says this game is unbalanced: Is an individual soldier out of an entire army going 
 to be the same to an individual soldier from the oposing army? No. Armies aren't balanced around 
 individuals. That is absurd. People have grown so egocentrical, that they think it is all about 
 them. News flash: It's not! The game is finely balanced around RvR. Realm vs. Realm. This game 
 doesn't have PvP. It has RvR. 
  
  That being said, the cool factor of Destruction (one of the game's sides) is much better than the 
 cool factor of Order (the other side) and, as such, population is a little bit unbalanced, but it'll 
 straighten out during the game's life-span.
  
  Public Quests (PQs) : A great new innovation. As you wonder around, a big headline appears on your 
 screen telling you you've entered a public quest. This quest is now active for everyone in the 
 area. So, if you contribute, it'll update everyone's progress and vice-versa. Each PQ has multiple 
 stages culminating in a boss battle. When it's all done, you get to roll on loot, based on your 
 luck and you're contribution. The more you helped finish the quest, the more chances you get at 
 the loot.
  
  Exploration and the World: This game doesn't have next-gen graphics. This game doesn't need next-gen 
 graphics. The graphics are good. They're better than good. Even though it does follow the art style 
 of it's greatest competitor, it is NOT cartoonish. The world is gritty. And I mean gritty. It has 
 some truly superb and jaw-dropping places. It's details are incredibly deep. It is a pleasure to 
 look at and explore. Don't let anyone tell you otherwise.
  
  The Likeliness to World of Warcraft: This game is NOT like WoW. To everyone that tells you that: 
 Get some info!
  
  WoW is about PvE. This game almost doesn't have PvE and it doesn't need to. That which it has, 
 is solid, and well-rounded, though. It's not alot, but it's there. Your gear will come from RvR.
 
  
  Anyway, back to the point: At first glance, it does look like WoW. Borrowing all the conventional 
 MMO (!!) UI and feel. It's not stealing, it's just smart. 
  
  The lore. It's familiar to WoW. Guess why. Warhammer was first. 25 years ago, Games Workshop created 
 Warhammer Fantasy Battles table-top. It's lore is very similar to Warcraft. Which came 15 years 
 later. You take a guess who stole what.
  
  However, the sides are incredibly deep, you will find alot of snippets of story IF YOU READ THE 
 QUESTS. And you should. They're well written.
  
  As a side note the game does have some minor graphical glitches and bugs, but it is nothing game-breaking. 
 You might not even notice them.
  
  Should you buy this game?
  
  Not if you hate PvP, or, in this case, RvR.
  Not if your tired of MMO's. It is an MMO, don't 
 expect it to be anything else.
  Not if you idolize Warcraft. Face it. Warcraft is a Warhammer rip-off.
  Not if you really want 
 to cling to WoW.
  
  Except for the above points, then yes. Go get this game. And please, play RP. We need good people! 
 :P
  
  All in all: A 9.5 out of 10. You will probably like this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Choguun
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  I bought and played WoW since it came out, have mulitple 70s and have seen almost all the end game 
 instances. That being said i like Warhammer ALOT better. Now before we get into the reasons lets 
 just get something out of the way. I read alot of these reviews and everyone is all like WoW is 
 sooooo much better and stomps War all over the place. Two things come to mind, belive it or not 
 WoW and War are COMPLETELY different. And the 2nd and more important point , war is only 1 month 
 old. Are you really going to compair a game that is one month old to a game that has been around 
 4 years? I remember WoW when it first came out and trust me it wasnt anything near what it is now. 
 Lets see Warhmmer in 4 years worth of patches and then we can talk. Warhammer is all about RvR 
 simple as that, There are PvE but alot of it is geared towards PvP. I like how the game is hard 
 enough but rewards you with good gear within the first 10 lvls. I never had a blue that dropped 
 for me and was worth a dam in the first 10 lvls of WoW, or had a purple drop bc i stomped ass in 
 a PQ. Now i will admit this i havent played end game War which looks cool. But from what i have 
 seen warhammer isnt going to be going anywhere any time soon. you will have your sissy lala's who 
 hate PvP on WoW and you will have ganking a$$holes like me in War. And yes WoW did "steal" some 
 things from warhammer but warhammer stole lore from traditonal fanstay so every one just needs 
 to calm down on that front. No one is orginal anymore. Just stop listening to the hype, stop letting 
 other people make up your mind for you and play the game and see if YOU like it. If not go back 
 to what ever game it is that is worth your 15 dollars. And last thing, if you are rolling order 
 i cant wait to see you on the field :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cirdan86
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game has made no contribution to the MMORPG genre. Nothing innovative. It is just a cheap 
 knockoff of World of Warcraft, like the fake Rolex they sell in BIG APPLE. Oh yeah, should I mention: 
 World of Warcraft came out 4 years ago and is still a better product.
  
  For the graphics: they are pretty bad compared to Age of Conan. About equal to WoW, but i believe 
 that WOW has better graphics due to better animations. Colors are also all washed out in Warhammer.
 
  
  For the sound: I own an azuntech prelude sound card with high end speakers. Let me say that this 
 game sounds like crap compared to its competitors: WoW and AoC.
  
  People complained about the "autoattack" in WoW; It is far worse in Warhammer online. Lack of talents, 
 most abilities are basically the same.
  
  Although, If you are into RP'ing, it may be a great experience for you since it has more RP elements 
 than WOW. But unfortunately, I don't RP. Dungeons and dragons addicts can keep it for themselves.
 
  
  If you do not agree with my review, it is likely that you are trying to convince yourself that 
 Warhammer Online is a great game since you probably bought a 3 month subscription.
  
  Another "fine" release by monster agglomerate EA game. At least, this one doesn't come bundled 
 with SecuROM root kit program. Oh Yea, EA will try to make more money off you: If you buy RED ALERT 
 3, you will get a special item in-game. ROFL.
  
  Overall, its an OK game, it has nothing exceptional and it doesn't stand out of the crowd.
  
 
  On a final note, most EA games are awful beside their console sport games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GravyTable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  World design, the questing system, sound, player vs. player, class mechanics and so on are all 
 well designed and relatively bug-free. Realm stability hasn't really been an issue at all, but 
 there have been a few complaints of high population servers (with occasional queues) having it's 
 players too spread out within the world to really notice at all that the server is, in fact, high 
 population. Given the game's PvP focus this could work to it's detriment. One of my only complaints 
 is regarding poor player and NPC animations (almost exclusively at a distance) , with animations 
 getting more choppy the farther you get from the target. The long and short of it; this is an incredibly 
 enjoyable game-play experience, especially if you're a PvP-motivated player. While it's not perfect 
 or revolutionary, by any means, and it's not an entirely fair comparison, it's probably the best 
 MMO to be released since WoW and even compares well to what WoW has become after four years of 
 polish and refinement. In conclusion, to the emo 3.0 scorers and Mister "this game is not the best 
 game ever released so I'm gunna give it a dismal score"... give it a rest. In my opinion (obviously) 
 any score lower than a 7.0 should, by all means, be disregarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithers22
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  After having one of the smoothest launches in MMO history, (I've been MMO'ing since Ultima Online) 
 Warhammer Online is a PvP player's dream. Finally a game where you get rewarded (EXP, Reknown and 
 Rewards) for participating in PvP Scenarios. In previous games, when your first created your character, 
 all you did was run battlegrounds and such to acquire honor or tokens. Then, once you have grinded 
 forever, you could then use these earnings to purchase a boot or some pants that lasted you a few 
 levels until you had to redo that same process 10 levels later. Totally boring. Well, with WAR 
 you can start PvPing at level 1. Yup, numero uno. But dont worry! When you enter a PvP scenario, 
 the game automatically raises your rank (level) to 8. So you can benefit from the equipment bonuses, 
 the increased ability points and hitpoints that a rank 8 player would have. The only thing that 
 they dont give you is the actual abilities you earn by leveling. Pretty cool huh. Nothing sucks 
 worse than trying to grind EXP and Tokens in WoW but you get flamed for trying it if your too low 
 level for you bracket. (ex. going into WSG at level 11 when everyone else is 19) All those WoW 
 problems with PvP are over. Hallelujah!
  
  Now for the bad points. These are things that can easily be fixed via patches but they kinda "erk" 
 players at the moment. Casters are good but completely suck versus melee. If you even attempt to 
 go toe to toe with someone of the opposite faction, you better pray its another squishy. Melee 
 classes are WAY to over powered. They have SO many debuffs (ex. armor debuffs, hitpoint debuffs, 
 snares, roots, etc) Plus on top of all of this, they have an incredible amount of hitpoints and 
 armor. Their damage is ungodly as well. One point that WoW has over WAR is balance for Casters 
 vs. Melee. Caster roots, snares, fears, etc work ALOT better in WoW. Its very random when a snare 
 or root will work in WAR and there is no Fear in this game. (Warlock players beware) All you have 
 is a simple 10s root ability and some 5s snares. For instance, the Sorcerer. At level 21 (more 
 than half to endgame) he only has one root that randomly catches and when it does, its only a couple 
 of secs. He also has a snare ability but you have to Curse the player (instant cast) then you have 
 to cast a 2s DD spell before the player is snared. By this time you have no time to cast a 3s DD 
 spell (Doombolt) to even effect the opposite player. Remember, melee is WAY overpowered when it 
 comes to DPS and interupting casters. So needless to say, there is really no chance to win against 
 solo melee classes until you are 40. (I'm hoping)
  
  Also, though the names of the classes are completely different from the opposite faction's classes, 
 they are techinally the same thing. For instance, the Bright Wizard (Order) and the Sorcerer (Destruction) . 
 Though their names are different, spell names are different and spell effects are different, they 
 essentially do the same thing. 312 dmg over 9s, 120 dmg with a 3s cast time, etc. All of them are 
 practically the same. Where the issue comes into play is that the ORder classes will get a few 
 exclusive abilities as well as the Destruction. Where it effects us as PvP players is that some 
 of the abilities are of certain types. WHat I mean by this is that the Bright Wizard might get 
 a kick ass DoT ability but the Sorcerer might get a lame AoE ability. Though this may work out 
 great for some situations, some situations it may not. I would personally like to be able to have 
 the same exact spell/ability list for both factions. That way a player is not stuck with a character 
 that is based more on one type a casting and not another. I would personally rather have the DoT 
 more than a AoE since I like to single out and go toe to toe with another player. An AoE just wont 
 do the trick. 
  
  THough there are some quirks, overall its a great experience. Casters are incredibly useful when 
 you are in the background pegging tanks, DPS and healer/caster classes. Its fun to see them have 
 a full health bar then DROP after a DD or 2. Also, AoE's are awesome and REALLY effective if you 
 are in scenarios. Nothing like rooting and AoEing an entire Order battalion and watching them drop 
 one after the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esoteric
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for an MMORPG that's focused on PvP/RvR, this is it. It's fun to play, Public 
 Quests are great, giant keeps to take, lots of ways to play. You can focus on PvE, public quests, 
 scenarios (battlegrounds) , open RvR, or tome unlocks. There's something for everyone, though the 
 focus is RvR.
  
  Hopefully Mythic takes advantage of their great core game and continues to expand and polish it 
 through content-laden free patches and eventually expansions.
  
  It will never have as many people as WoW for one simple reason: someone has to lose in these fights. 
 A lot of WoWers are a PvE only crowd who do not like losing to another real person, ever. It makes 
 them emotionally distraught. So while WAR will never hit the 10 million mark, it will eventually 
 garner a few million if Mythic shows they can continually make the game better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tellfross
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Gamespots review was very fair, if not a bit too generous, but all in all, it got the main points 
 right. 
  
  The good:
  
  The game has some great aspects. Basically I would put it like this, if you are a WoW player that 
 lives in the battlegrounds and thats all you do, then this might be the game for you. You can get 
 in some quick scenario (bg like) games literally as soon as you make your character at level 1 
 (the game buffs you to a minimum level for that scenario) , or do full on keep sieges that take 
 more time and coordination. 
  Money and gear are pretty easy to earn so games come down usually to having the right classes. 
 Its not pve heavy, in fact you can level off pvp alone, but there is still plenty of quests and 
 a few dungeons and hidden boss like mobs. The public quests are very cool if you can get them done. 
 If you have a good system, the game can look pretty good and there are some very good looking and 
 interesting zones. The Tome of Knowledge, which is basically a beefed up quest log/helper is superb 
 and addictive and should be in every mmorpg. The classes, particularly those Destruction side are 
 interesting and fun, and unlike WoW, tanks are extremely useful and key in pvp. The game has an 
 interesting collision detection system so tanks can literally stand in your way.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  One troublesome issue with the game is lag and frequent slowdown. And Im not talking 
 about lag due to internet connection or high server traffic. Some zones in the game are almost 
 unplayable no matter what time of day or night, how many people are on, or how good your computer 
 is. As is to be expected, there is some serious lag in pvp at times. There are also a few bugs 
 affecting everything from the chat system, to game crashes. The game interface has many features, 
 but lacks the polish of WoW but these things come with time. There are also a few class balance 
 issues with some classes, particularly melee's, being too powerful. 
  
  
  The Ugly:
  
  In my experience, the single biggest and most threatening issue to the game which unfortunately 
 I foresaw, is massive realm imbalance. Destruction outnumbers Order about 3:1 on almost every server. 
 Numbers Order side on many servers are so low you cant get any of the public quests or dungeons 
 done, this leads to massive queue times for Destruction players trying to get into pvp, and Destruction 
 often dominates world RvR. Its reminiscent how because of numbers Alliance always had Nagrand on 
 many WoW servers. With a game that is so centered around pvp, and balance, if they dont find a 
 way to address this it might endanger the game because it affects everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valyndir
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  WARHAMMER: AGE OF RECKONING, the new MMORPG brought to us by Mythic, the good people who brought 
 us UO and DaoC and EA, the people famous for milking a game until it's nothing but a dried, whithered 
 husk. Luckily this game comes out strong with a well balanced class system and interesting environments 
 to explore, not to mention plenty of things to kill.
  
  WAR was definitely built for PvP with PvE sometimes feeling like something to do in between player 
 killing. This isn't to say that there isn't a good story behind it or that the quests aren't interesting, 
 it's just that the solo quests you'll end up doing are simple. They're your standard go here kill 
 this tasks with the equipment rewards we've all done a million times, but to say the enemy AI is 
 terrible would be giving it a lot of credit. As far as I've played, you can safely walk up to a 
 mob that should be aggressive, and not have him make a violent move until you're close enough to 
 poke him in the eye. Don't need to worry about adds either, while enemies will flee if low on health, 
 it seems more like a scheme to annoy the player, since they won't round up a posse and come back 
 for you. Lastly, enemies are easy, you can probably take on a group your own level without falling 
 much below half health. Now, to the PvE's credit, every quest has a nicely outlined area where 
 you can find X beast or whatever it is your looking for, cutting down on the pointless wandering 
 portion that can bore so many.
  
  Moving on to the PvP, which is one of the most beautifully put together parts of the game. You 
 can join a PvP queue from anywhere by clicking on a single button, this alone is a vast improvement 
 over certain other MMOs out there. Once you're finished, you'll put back exactly where to left, 
 so if you're mid quest and the PvP timer is up, you can join and not worry about having to trek 
 half the word again to reach your objective. If you're surrounded by enemies or in a dangerous 
 spot there is even the option to wait a minute so you can get to safety then enter the fray. The 
 classes are very nicely balanced, Order and Destruction both have (more or less) the same classes 
 with different names and slightly different abilities. Fortress captures are another great part 
 of the game, since this is a chance for your build to prove its worth and beat the crap out of 
 another with swords, magic and siege weaponry. Keeping a fortress will also give a guild certain 
 buffs and an equivalent to a small city including vendors and such. I can't comment on the city 
 assaults since I have yet to be a player in one.
  
  Another very positive piece of WAR is how nicely it is presented. While the graphics are not what 
 Age of Conan is, they are still quite nice in their own right and very scalable, so those with 
 less than stellar systems should be able to play. The environments are all nicely designed and 
 seem to fit, I didn't find a lot of times where I was moving from lets say, a barren dessert to 
 a lush oasis with no real buffer in between. Finally we have sound, which is well done if a little 
 bit lacking. Everything sounds like it should, you have your nice sword cuts and blasts of energy 
 as well the music is very appropriate, what I noticed is that the ambience was a bit lacking. Birds 
 chirped and such, but I never really got the effect of wind rustling the trees or the ocean brushing 
 against the beach. Since this game is more action based I didn't let this effect the score all 
 that much, but it would have been nice to hear a more immersive environment.
  
  In conclusion, WAR is a step in the right direction with MMORPGs, just maybe not a big enough one. 
 It is certainly worth playing if you're a fan of the genre, even if you dislike PvP, this game 
 more turn you on to it. Right now, the biggest flaw in the game would have to be the gold sellers, 
 you will be spammed, and with the lack of a working ignore button it will get annoying. This however 
 is not enough of a problem for me, if you're getting bored of the status quo MMO out there, give 
 WAR a try and you might be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lithiummonk
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  This game have brought almost nothing new to MMORPG, its like a poor version of World of Warcraft 
 6 years late. Leveling in WoW was fun, cause you would learn the story of WoW. On the other hand, 
 in Warhammer all you do is PvP, cause no one does PvE so you learn jack **** In a few words there 
 is no immersion.
  
  Also, the graphics are bad compared to the Age of Conan who rocked the place and i still think 
 that WoW cartoonish graphics are better.
  
  The game action is slow paced, hiding auto-attack through useless attack abilities. Every characters 
 use the same abilities and same combos to fight, its poorly designed
  
  Although, if you want to RP and not be able to understand your spells cause they are written in 
 orc'shopas style this game is for you, but who does that past 18 years old?
  
  EA is now turning into a Wallmart. Not buying any EA games anymore after this game but sports games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narinu
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  When the game works properly, it's fun. For too many of us it doesn't work even close to properly.
 
  
  With a decent PC, top of the line just under 2 years ago with updated drivers, the game has been 
 a constant source of frustration. Action bars disappear, so do other parts of the UI. I can't use 
 the bolt thrower weapons in scenarios or quests because the aiming reticule is replaced with one 
 of my ability bars. These are just a few examples. Many many small annoyances add up to the point 
 becoming a total downer.
  
  Lag can be horrific, in scenarios and cities. There's no economy, no worthwhile trade skills. And, 
 OMG, there is absolutely no sense of community outside of guilds. Heck, we can't even talk to each 
 other worth beans. Worst of all, it looks like all there will be at level 40 is PVP.
  
  There IS a whole lot to like in the PVP aspect, but questing seems to be tacked on as a time filler. 
 It's a darned good thing there are lots of different careers to choose from, because most people 
 are going to have to have a lot of alts to get their moneys worth out of this game.
  
  If you're a solo player with no connections or guild, looks like you are totally out of luck once 
 you hit the level cap. 
  
  To add insult to injury, Mythic does not even have an official forum for players to air their concerns 
 or their happiness with the game.
  
  I know that most of the media reviews have been glowing, but I suspect that the reviewers are sitting 
 in front of some pretty powerful gaming machines. They don't appear to have experienced the wading-through-jello 
 sensation when umpty seven spells are going off in a scenario.
  
  All in all this is a fairly good, could have been great, game that ultimately fails in too many 
 aspects.
  
  Time will tell if there life after 40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cuddlelump
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  So I've waited awhile to play Warhammer Online, and I have to say, I'm not disappointed at all. 
 The game throws a lot at you from the moment you start playing to whenever you log out. Whether 
 its quests, scenarios, realm vs realm, and/or public quests. There's simply always something to 
 do, and you generally don't have to travel far to find it. Now the games not perfect, but really 
 what MMO is? The regular quests are for the most part, standard kill, gather X number of heads, 
 or courier quests. At least the gathering quests have a 100% drop rate, so you don't have to spend 
 an hour trying to get that last head you've been looking for to drop. Server populations can also 
 cause some issues like the need to wait a few minutes in a queue before being logged in, long wait 
 times on scenarios or being greatly out numbered by the opposing faction. Hopefully these issues 
 will work themselves out over time.
  Crafting is ok, I wont go into it much as I've only really scratched its surface but you can basically 
 make potions or temporary (sometimes permanent) stat buffs for items. If you love crafting you'll 
 probably be disappointed, I never have been so, its not really an issue for me.
  
  Leveling is very easy, since all aspects but crafting get you XP. Yes, that's right, you get XP 
 for killing players, and doing scenarios, and killing keep lords, PQ's, all of it. This means you 
 can choose to level strictly through RvR combat, or just by questing and killing mobs. Obviously 
 a combination is the best approach but you do have a choice. The public quests are great, you can 
 do them over and over again for their individual rewards and each area or chapter offers their 
 own rewards. It is usually possible to get full influence for a chapter without doing the same 
 PQ, as most chapters have at least 2 or 3. Each of these PQ's have multiple stages, the first one 
 usually being something straight forward like kill 100 dwarves, with the following stages usually 
 involving more challenging mobs that spawn and other more varied objectives. Some of the funniest 
 PQ's have Order and Destruction racing against each other to complete the first stage. If people 
 are flagged for RvR or are in an Open RvR realm they can also try to hinder the opposition by attacking 
 the players directly. A blast I must say.
  I haven't gotten to Tier 3 or 4 keep battles yet, but the ones I've been in have been exciting 
 and frantic conflicts. 40 or so people attacking a fortified position with siege weapons while 
 npc's and another 40 players defend it is absolutely crazy and fun, I love it when I get the opportunity. 
 And from what I hear, the Tier 4 (End game RvR) is something like 500 vs 500 or there abouts. I 
 can only imagine the insanity.
  
  Now there are 20 classes in the game spread out over the 6 races. All in all those 20 classes translate 
 into about 10 or 12 different play-styles and game-play mechanics. I'd say overall its pretty well 
 balanced even at the level 20 mark, even though the game's balanced for lvl 40. The 3 archetypes 
 of tank, dps and healer are all very important in their own ways, and lacking in one often leaves 
 you sorely out matched by a more balanced force. Player skill can compensate, but you really do 
 want tanks breaking their groups up and taking the damage since they can survive it, your dps focusing 
 on their squishier dps and healers, and obviously your healers keeping everyone alive. I've never 
 felt underpowered, or that another class was specifically overpowered. Annoying? Yes. Hard to Kill? 
 Yes? But not overpowered.
  
  Warhammer is a fantastic game, while not perfect, its flaws are greatly out-weighted by what it 
 does right. Its full of action, easy to play but still has depth where player skill can turn the 
 tide of battle. From what I've seen them doing as far as patching and from my own experiences in 
 game, I'm confident it'll only get better over time. So if you like Warhammer, Player vs Player 
 gaming, or MMO's in general give it a shot, Warhammer Online is in my opinion worth every penny 
 I spent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praetorian565
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Disclaimer: These are my opinions based on my experiences with the game. If your views are different 
 I perfectly respect that. 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  WAR plays out like your standard MMO with an action bar that contains your abilities and a simple 
 point-to-interact interface. The flow of the game is somewhat slower than WoW but this isn't a 
 bad thing at all, it prevents many of the cheap "one-shots" you often see in WoW PvP and gives 
 classes of the lower end of the DPS spectrum a chance to inflict some pain. Although this does 
 add a positive element to RvR, the slow pace can make PVE questing extremely grinding due to leisurely 
 pace of combat. RvR is also extremely addicting partly due to the collision detection, players 
 can utilize this to form various defensive and offensive strategies.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  While WAR isn't anything revolutionary it still is a decent looking MMO. Character models contain 
 fine detail and armor looks very attractive, the textures are also moderately sharp. Some of the 
 environments look somewhat bland due to the shallow color palette (Troll Country comes to mind) . 
 The graphics would've received a solid 8 but there are some optimization issues. While the game 
 runs just spiffy on my gaming computer, it struggles to maintain decent FPS on my laptop. My laptop 
 has the ability to run newer games on at least medium graphics setting, and there is simply no 
 excuse for this game to run so poorly (3-5 fps in big battles) on the lowest settings. This probably 
 stems from poor support of Mobile GPU drivers and I'm hoping Mythic will find a fix for it.
  
  UI: 9/10
  Clean, easy to use, and easier to customize (without mods) than the WoW UI; this 
 MMO simply has one of the best UI layouts I have ever seen in a MMO. It retains the standard Everquestesque 
 look so there's really nothing new to see here.
  
  Balance: 9/10
  While order tends to have some of the stronger classes the overall balance is very good. No one 
 class is vastly overpowered than the rest.
  
  Grind factor: 5/10 (Higher scores mean less grind) :
  Let me begin by stating that (IN MY OPINION) 
 there is a grind, there is a grind, there is a grind. Quests, RvR, and PQs simply provide too scant 
 experience. While some may argue that one should enjoy the leveling process, there's a point where 
 the sweet satisfaction of leveling is too few and far between. They can easily fix this by 1.) 
 Making quests, PQs, and RvR give more experience or 2.) Lowering the amount of experience it takes 
 to level. Mythic should've transferred focus from standard leveling to renown rank leveling.
  
  Overall: 7.5/10
  Mythics got themselves a great foundation here, much better than WoW's was. 
 This game could earn a solid 9.5 if they fix these issues.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: machineman
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately as it's playing out, it's clear Mythic made some bad decision decisions. 2 weeks 
 into launch we have:
  
  - extremely slow leveling, and no content to carry you past late 20s without literally grinding
 
  
  - no open world pvp to speak of, even on full servers
  
  - scenario (battlegrounds) queues are very long even on full servers.
  
  - players afk in scenarios
 
  
  - world is very linear and doesn't lend itself well to exploration
  
  - pve is extremely limited... not to compare it to WoW, but this feels like freeware compared to 
 WoW.
  
  I prefer to list thing in bullet points, hopefully that helps some of you.
  
  Bottom line is if you are looking for a WoW replacement for whatever reason, this definitely isn't 
 it.
  
  If you are just looking for a new game to check out, this unfortunately isn't worth it either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8360
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:51 am PT
Review:  BEST BEST BEST BEST BEST BEST BEST BEST BEST BEST BEST 
  Simply to admit its the best mmorpg game right now and maybe for good, this game was well made 
 and desgined, wonderful graphics, exteremly excellent gameplay and an exciting feeling.
  
  A must have for all mmorp fans all over the universe.
  dont just sit there buy it right now!
 
  
  forget wow and learn the true meaning of WAR its all about war this game has alot of history than 
 wow, wow stole the idea from the WAR concept, WAR appeared before wow, This game should be more 
 than 8.5 I disagree with GS they should know more to judge this game, I am really disapointed with 
 GS this is a really big embarassment for all MMORPGS out there, they shoul re grade the score asap 
 or I am gonna make a stanpede with all war fans, I think WOW bribed GS for this, DAMN YOU BLIZZARD! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamono141
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I've played through several mmos now and was really hoping for a good experience with Warhammer. 
 WoW has been the top dog for so long I was looking forward to a nice change of pace, or at least 
 scenery. 
  
  The first thing most players will notice when getting into the game is the graphics engine. It 
 is hard to believe that a game released 4 years after WoW can look worse than it. There is no limit 
 to draw distance, but animation frames and texture quality are severely cut when anything is more 
 than 30 or so yards away from you. This translates to seeing players and NPCs off in the distance 
 looking like 2d sprites using Mario Brother animations. 
  
  If you can make it past the graphics engine there is a lot to be had. The character classes are 
 varied and really need to be played to their strengths. Leveling is slow, but you can choose many 
 different paths to exp. It's odd to say this, but this is where the game really lost me. I thought 
 the ability to level through pvp would be a great new twist on a tired formula. The problem here 
 is the only way to efficiently do this is through Warhammer's battlegrounds, which they call scenarios. 
 
  
  This may just be me, but playing through the scenarios feels like doing the same quest over and 
 over again. Except, unlike questing, there is no change of scenery and depending on your group 
 composition you will fail, miserably at times. You queue, hop into the "capture the flag" style 
 game with a hand full of fellow players and go at it. Since this is a pvp centric game most players 
 will pick dps classes. Even tank and healing classes have the ability to do decent dps. As healers 
 and tanks learn the game do not expect them to fulfill their primary roles. The scenarios change 
 throughout the game, but you will find there is really only one good scenario per tier. I leveled 
 completely through pvp, and after a while I got to the point where I just couldn't play more than 
 a couple games at a time. The monotony really was overwhelming. 
  
  Some of you may be thinking, why not just go questing? I did at first, but this grind was even 
 worse than pvp. The quest system is set up so that you never have to read a single word. You run 
 to the NPCs with green things over their heads and press the 'accept' button. Open your map. Run 
 to a red area. Kill stuff or pick up the sparkling thing on the ground. Rinse and repeat. Of course 
 I could have read through the quest text and immersed myself in the world, but why worry about 
 why you're killing stuff, just kill it.
  
  Bugs can be fixed, but if the core game mechanic is boring there isn't much that can be done. In 
 a year or so when the major city sieges begin there may be a reason to pick the game back up. Right 
 now it just isn't worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulvin
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Right from the point of character creation you're in for a surprise, not a pleasant one unfortunately. 
 
  
  My first reaction upon seeing the character creation menu was to make sure that the graphic settings 
 wasn't set at the lowest possible option. To my big surprise it was at high setting. Character 
 creation looks like something that might have been a standard by the time World of Warcraft came 
 out, not something you'd expect from a 2008 release from an experienced MMO creator.
  
  Initially there were some good moments and surprises early on in the game. The world looks a bit 
 better than what character creation might have hinted at, still it looks horrible dated. They have 
 implemented some good ideas, especially public quests looked good and was a refreshing approach 
 to the endless group hunting some games offer. There's also a book with a good encyclopedia together 
 with tasks that can be accomplished for different titles and novelty items.
  
  The public quests seems to fail on the intention on all other servers but the most busy ones, the 
 ones where queue times can be +1 hour. On medium/high populated serves you'll typically end up 
 finding public quests being very "unpublic", you'll simply be the only one around which means you'll 
 not be able to actually complete them.
  
  The chat system is absolutely horrible. All you'll see there is NPC spam. There seems to be very 
 very little interaction from players going on here, this even counts for the two big cities where 
 you'll see many others roaming the streets - not a word from any of them. If you go unguilded you 
 can roam the world for many many hours without ever hearing anything from other players, not even 
 some occasional spam or questions from other players.
  
  There are a few group quests/tasks in the game outside of the public quests. Unfortunately it seems 
 that public quests have created a situation where people simply don't group with others at all.
 
  
  Combat is slow and unresponsive. This aspect of the game feels like a big step down when the game 
 actually has a big focus on PvP/RvR. There are few option to differentiate different classes from 
 eachother, once you learn how a class functions you'll know all the tricks and trades that class 
 has to offer every time you meet one. Combat is also oversimplified.
  
  The good part of the game is the minigames. They're mini battlegrounds where you have different 
 objectives on different maps. If combat had been more engaging, this could have kept the game interresting.
 
  
  Had this game been released 5 years ago, it would have been special and deserving of a much higher 
 score. As soon as the game has settled and the excitement over a new game have died out, expect 
 user reviews to drop down as well unless radical changes are made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: syakila
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Thing is this game has been over hyped. They expected a second coming but instead the scenarios 
 are like WoW bgs and the questing is terribly boring. The PQs while fun when there are others about 
 are an absolute grind to do alone. People say so what you grind in all games except that Warhammer 
 the experience comes trickling down so very slow you want to take a gun and put yourself out of 
 your misery. When many people are around and this is not as frequent as you might imagine as you 
 move to the higher tiers because people are spread out between the three races areas and various 
 PQs within those areas.
  
  The RvR is the only thing this game is worth playing for but even that is a grind. Doing scenarios 
 and open RvR is all about gaining renown so you grind another bar instead. The game is one grind 
 after another . No let up . Well the RvR at least is more fun than the other aspects of this boring 
 game.
  
  Population imbalances are also beginning to cause certain servers where Order is severely outnumbered 
 to feel not like the underdog but merely swamped. You take a keep and half an hour later it is 
 already gone. Destruction is overwhelmingly more popular on almost every server.
  
  The other thing about this game is the world and its graphics fail to deliver a virtual world you 
 can feel yourself get immersed in. It has nothing to do with trying to outdo the graphics in Age 
 of Conan or Vanguard. Poor polygon games like WoW manage to deliver this aspect very well. The 
 artistry in Warhammer is severely lacking making the cardboard world of Warhammer all the more 
 easier to forget and leave . You don't feel attached to your toon nor feel compelled to log on 
 and escape into this other world. I guess some games have talented artist that manage to breath 
 live into a game. This is not an important aspect of gaming as graphics are secondary but it sure 
 helps to make you fall in love with a game that does it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkhashouf
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  If you are lucky to be on a full pvp server then this is the best way to level up. Graphics are 
 worse than world of warcraft, and combat system requires next to no skills. Also latency is not 
 showing so most of the time your casts don't hit the target. Personally I think this is good for 
 ages 12 to 15.
  
  While the pvp mini games are nice concept, the order side is much overpowered in terms of classes, 
 there is basically no balance.
  
  Some nice ideas in the game, but nothing that can keep me on my seat to level up. The characters 
 appear floaty. Some classes have wrong character itemization for the pvp rewards as well (+str 
 for all Magus items) . I think they rushed it to beat WoTLK release but the truth is they should 
 have done more balancing between destruction and order. If this game was release 4 years ago it 
 would have been very nice. but I don't see it offering anything new except the mini games style 
 for now, will see what happens when I hit 40 if I ever do ...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawdogg54
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is the game for PvP.... after this game there is no other game for PvP! World of Warcraft 
 pales in comparison! WoW's pvp system is the worst thing about WoW. So thank the video game gods 
 for WAR because without its revolutionary pvp system I would not be playing a mmorpg right now. 
 I gladdly canceled my WoW account for this game. For all you carebear playing WoW peops out there 
 stop calling this game a WoW clone cuz you know its not true!!!! Dont hate, appreciate!!!
  I for one thank Blizzard for creating World of Warcraft because if it wasnt for World of Warcraft 
 setting the mmorpg standard we wouldnt be getting games like Warhammer Online!
  ALL MMORPG GAMES WILL BE SIMILAR TO WORLD OF WARCRAFT PEOPLE SO GET OVER IT!!!!!! They set the 
 standard for the rest of the industry to follow and set it high! Except in pvp because WoW's pvp 
 system sux!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natd8
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 2, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Online attempts to take a chunk out of World of Warcraft by copying its design and mechanics.
 
  
  If you enjoy wow then you will enjoy war, many aspects are similar, VERY similar, such as combat, 
 looting, questing... etc. However war introduces a few new things, like public questing and scenarios.
 
  
  Personally I did not like wow, and do not like this game, as all it really is, is an upgraded form 
 of wow. The graphics are better yes, but there is no depth, immersion, or real connection to the 
 world in which you play. Not once in the entire week I played did I care about the quest I was 
 on, or how well my faction was doing, the game simply doesn't provide enough elements to get you 
 deeply involved in the story line.
  
  To conclude, this game is great for first timers new to mmo's or WoW fans looking for something 
 new. However if your like me and enjoy a deeper more satisfying experience, like those provided 
 in SWG before the CU, or Planetside, or even Asheron's Call, keep moving, theres nothing for you 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LVscion
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Very fun, and I'm not normally a fan of PVP... Downside - public quests are virtually abandoned, 
 and that wouldn't be an issue except they're impossible to do without at least one full group of 
 players. Twice now I've been asked if I wanted to go to another server because the current one 
 is "full." It doesn't need less players, it needs MORE. 
  
  The problem isn't that people aren't playing the game, it's restrictions the company seems to put 
 on the server size. Lag has never once been an issue for me, and long wait times for scenarios 
 mostly seems to stem from the designers perhaps over-cautious limiting on how many are allowed 
 to run at one time.
  
  If they would lower the caps, and perhaps combine a couple servers into one, this game would become 
 even more fun than it already is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightymonkey1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  -The RvR and PvP aspects of WAR make it what it is. Get's rid of the grind that makes a game into 
 a chore instead of an experience. 
  -Each class is distinctly unique even across factions and each is fun to play.
  -Mythic is improving 
 the game day by day so even though we are not looking at a prime polished MMO right now, I have 
 no doubt that with a little time this game will be slick and solid.
  -The graphics appear much more realistic than a certain predecessor which will not be named.
 
  -Public quests are flat out fun and a great idea overall.
  -Customization of each character is vast so no two characters will be alike.
  -Leveling and simply 
 playing the game are now the fun parts of the game. No more "working" to get to the level cap so 
 you can begin to play the full game. 
  -Even though I haven't experienced late game yet, from what I've heard it is completely innovative 
 and lets the player continue their experience without being repetitive
  
  Now... The Bad:
  
  -Professions can be maddening overall.
  -The game is easy. Doesn't take 
 a rocket scientist to find a quest and what to do when it tells you directly where to go on your 
 map.
  -With the system being more demanding overall it makes it so fewer people can play the game smoothly. 
 I speak from experience. (started with 1 gig of RAM and had to upgrade to 2 gigs just to play)
 
  -zero forums yet. this I'm sure is soon to change however. 
  -There are still graphics and gameplay issues in the game that are being resolved. (the same as 
 any start up MMO)
  -The amount of content can sometimes be overwhelming
  -The social aspect of the game does not seem as close and friendly as other MMO's 
  -The cost 
 of paying for a game that is not yet fully primed. (True of all beginning MMO's, sadly)
  
  
  Overall this is a fantastic game that I plan to play into the year as it progresses and becomes 
 the streamlined product everyone is looking for. For anyone wary about buying WAR, it might not 
 be a bad idea to wait it out a few weeks or months however.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattMyers_5
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  This may not be a W. o. W. pve killer, but this is W. o. W. PvP killer. If you are into MMo pvp, this 
 is the game to buy. With 12 battle grounds and an openfield pvp system that rocks, this is the 
 game to play if you are a person who gets bored killing NPCs over and over.
  
  Unfortuneatly if you are a carebear this is not your game. Public quest aside the raiding just 
 isnt there yet. 
  
  The graphics also trump wow, although the heavey PC requirements might hurt wars sales, considering 
 most casual players wont be able to run WAR. But its worth buying a new computer to see the sexy 
 world of warhammer. 
  
  This is by far the best pvp orientated mmo to date. Warhammer Online will immerse you in a world 
 of conflict the moment you logon and will keep you playing. Go to the store right now and buy this 
 game if you have not already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goofykid17
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  You can tell the developers put a lot of work into this game and tested it thoroughly before release. 
 Warhammer Online: The Age of Reckoning is packed full of content for gamers to play through. It's 
 an immersing environment with a great backstory as well. There is always plenty to do in-game whether 
 it be PvE quests, Public Quests, or RvR. This game really allows gamers to seamlessly go from one 
 thing to the next. The PvP battlefields are actually parts of the map and not some far off place 
 you get magically teleported to. The graphics are great too. The only downside has been the occasional 
 bugs and glitches that come with a new release. They are to be expected. Also, being on a low population 
 server, a lot of areas feel like ghost towns and PQs usually consist of me grinding influence alone. 
 Perhaps more people will join server Gorfang in the future. New patches keep coming out and life 
 is good. Something else to keep in mind is that Mythic left out a lot of content when they released 
 the game. They will be reintroducing this content via patches. I'm also getting sick of these WoW 
 fanboys playing this game for three weeks just after it's released and giving it a crappy review 
 because it's a new game and not WoW-ish enough. Grow up and get over it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StateCop075
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Just as the title says! This is one of the best MMOs I think I have ever played at launch. While 
 the over taking WoW thing may be a stretch or take some time to happen I think it will. This game 
 offers so much more than WoW on so many levels and players are more focused on the WAR effort rather 
 than "what do I get out of it" type of thinking that seems to be the rule in WoW. The game still 
 has a few bugs but what game does not have them at launch? They fix bugs pretty fast and are always 
 updating things. The bottom line is if you love PvP/RvR then this is the game for you. The PVE 
 is catching up as well but I havent got as much PVE so I will reserve comment on that part of the 
 game.
  
  -The public quest are great!
  
  -The RvR is better than any MMO before!
  
  -The guild leveling an new unlocks for the guild is REALLY NICE!
  
  -The ability to /join open 
 parties in your area for quest with out haveing to scream for an invite before helping to kill 
 a mob is so nice. In WoW it was all about tagging up first... screw the other guys...
  
  -People just walk up and trade you items you can use usually without even asking for anything in 
 return. I dont recall that in WoW.. EVER.
  
  - Loots based on your class for killing the end boss of a PQ. It is never loot for another class 
 when you get your loot bag. If you have better then you can choose your reward from inside the 
 bag which also includes a money reward!
  
  I have found my new MMO and do NOT plan to get Wrath of the Lich King! Blizzard was great back 
 in the day but they have lost ties with what people really want. Mythic has their finger on the 
 pulse of todays MMO players. They actually listen to suggestions that people submit and make changes 
 if they are thought to be a good change.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prate20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  WAR IS a great mmo. I got the game last week after seeing the positive feedback from players and 
 websites and have played it in my spare time since. PVP is fun and easy to get into from the earliest 
 levels, and the balance, while not perfect, is very well done. And the way you can level via PVP 
 is a nice touch too, unlocking rewards (armor, weaps, accessories) along the way. PVE is also very 
 good with the addition of the public quest system, gone are the days where you wait for 30 people 
 to get on to do something (hmm... warcraft?) The graphics are better than WOW's, but still behind 
 AOC and LOTRO. The interface is similar to WoW's and other current MMO's out there. I also have 
 read a few reviews about this being tough for comps to run... If you have a machine that can barely 
 run WoW then you will not run this, period. But if you can run a game like AOC or LOTRO you should 
 handle this just fine. And for those who don't like the story, you've heard it before because WoW 
 came up with humans and orcs (1994) after WAR (1987) so now you get the original. As far as this 
 game longevity is concerned, if it is properly marketed (EA is a huge company) and expansions are 
 done so as not to ruin the game, I see this game being one of the top pay to play games, along 
 with WoW and LOTRO, which would make it's future very bright. So is Warhammer for you? Do you like 
 PVP? How about PVE? A solid story and good gameplay? Sick of MMO's that don't deliver on there 
 promises? Sick of the WoW grind? If the answer to any of these is yes, pick up Warhammer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denmon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  I didn't really know if I wanted to buy Warhammer online or not But Im glad I did. It has very 
 good game play. Its smooth and looks good has great questing for solo. I like the public quest and 
 the RVR. Has great Characters to choose from. The story and world are very good. graphics are ok. The 
 game is not without bugs but they are fixable with patches. I have played Warcraft sense the day 
 it came out and I still do. I have beta tested Warhammer online and Warcraft and now am beta testing 
 the Lich King they all have bugs even warcraft has bugs, but thats why they have maintance days. Can 
 I tell you to buy this game? I don't know what you may like so you use your own judgement I did. 
 This is just my opinion of what I liked about the game. I have a Alienware computer with a Nvidia 
 8800GT , 2 geg memory , Intel duo chip set. I love MMO's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johqnox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I've played all the MMO's worth playing. Beta tested quite a few of them (including WoW) . I have 
 to say this game is a ton of fun. Anyone familiar with MMO's will recognize the most obvious elements. 
 Questing for experience and loot. The thing that separates this game from the competition is way 
 the game flows from PVP to PVE so easily. It is possible to level your character from 1 to the 
 level cap of 40 exclusively PVE or PVP or some combination of both. Most people go back and forth. 
 
  
  Mythic is doing a wonderful job of listening to the community concerning game play and bugs and 
 balance issues. I have never seen a company actually listen to the community and respond in public 
 forums to positive and negative feedback in such a constructive manner. It isn't possible to please 
 everyone and there always the negative Nancy's that are never happy. I feel Mythic does a better 
 job than any other company at keeping the community informed of game developments.
  
  Any fan of Dark Ages of Camelot will love this game. WoW players may find it a bit more challenging. 
 There really isn't an "easy mode". You may see some people complaining about class balance, but 
 you will find these players have misunderstood the rock/paper/scissor methodology employed in this 
 game. Every class is capable of holding their own under the right circumstances. Class "A" will 
 typically always be able to beat class "B" but in turn will always get owned by class "C" who just 
 happens to be weak against class "B". I haven't noticed a single class that isn't just plain uber 
 in one area and yet gimp in another. Its the most balanced game play you will find. It encourages 
 group play and is just plain fun.
  
  It's definitely worth your time to check it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman291
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  The first time playing this game was at a friend's house. I got hooked on it in just under 10 minutes 
 of playing. The game is very good but it could use some fixes, but this is typical for any MMORPG. 
 I liked the fact that Mythic in allow the people who prepaid for it was able to go into Open-Beta 
 and test it and give Mythic feed back on the game. I think it proved to be a real vital element 
 for Warhammer Online. I think all game companies who are planning to make a MMORPG should also 
 do this.
  
  In the game I like the new PvP system, RvR, I think it is revolutionary. Also i like that the races 
 had there separate area, but you could also travel to another area. I liked that the races have 
 there own special class, and were fit to be those classes. I also liked that all classes are all 
 very unique, like Engineer (Dwarfs) for example, and Shadow Warrior (High Elfs) both are range oriented, 
 but very different game play; also you wouldn't think to see a Dwarf Shadow Warrior and a High 
 Elf Engineer.
  
  But this game also has not as good qualities, but I think they would mostly be fixed in the next 
 Patch or two. One it has some glitches, and animation issues, sometime you'll get stuck in to simplest 
 of scenarios. Like one time when I was playing on my Dwarf Engineer I was stuck in a door to a 
 furnace, and I had to log off and log back in in order to get unstuck. Also sometimes I would see 
 a MOB (creature) slide, and not because of lag.
  
  Again I say this game is a very good game, but it has some fixes though, but its nothing bad though 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chopit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. They graphics are a bit dated, but the gameplay is highly addictive. The 
 UI is fantastic and easy to modify just the way I want it. The public quests, PvP and RvR are great! 
 There isn't a consistent spam of "LFG" or any difficulty in finding groups to complete anything 
 so far. In addition, the mini-game style of capture the flag and the, overall, multitude of things 
 to do in this game is phenomenal. 
  
  The game is extremely immersive and not just the same old grind I was expecting. The game is outstanding 
 in gameplay, which is most important to me, but is a little graphically dated. The graphics are 
 the only reason I didn't give it a 10.0. It runs with everything on high and smoothly on my medium-range 
 system. If it was just fun factor alone, it would score a 10.0, easily. 
  
  In short, this is the MMO that I've been waiting for, finally! 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imyourdaddy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Warhammer Online is directly focused on RvR (PvP) and Public Quest. Lets be clear, most of the 
 people that are giving WAR an awful rating or either still in Tier 1, like PvE only, not in a guild, 
 or just straight out don't like MMORPG's. First off, yes this game is buggy but, in MMORPG standards, 
 for a launch it went pretty smoothly. In fact, everything wrong with the game can be fixed in the 
 next few patches (they are being fixed as your read this) . Most people can stand the bugs and lack 
 of solo PvE because of the AWESOME PvP Potential this game has.
  
  Off the bat, you can join a Scenario (samething as Battlegrounds to WoW) right after you make your 
 character (Level 1) . Most Party Quest have been taken out for the new Public Quest zones scattered 
 throughout the map. You don't even have to join the party but just have to be in a Public Quest 
 zone. The Loot idea on these Public Quest is Genious and determined by how much u contribute to 
 that quest.
  
  What made me fall in LOVE with this game was when I hit Tier 2, (Level 11+) I assaulted a Castle. 
 I bought ballistas and catapults to seige these massive castles in a 30 vs. 30 RvR battlefield. 
 Almost every afternoon or evening their is a tug of war battle to control the castles in each zone. 
 Sometimes these seiges can last for hours but your not obligated to stay. Although, if your faction 
 owns a caslte which helps you control the zone then you will recieve greater XP and money for that 
 area.
  
  Theirs so many things great about War that I haven't even scratched the surface. If your looking 
 for fast paced MMORPG with massive PvP (RvR) then this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRealUku
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  ok im in a position to review this due to the amount of hours ive put in and almost lvl 40 now 
 , for the comments on this being a wow clone when you only played it for less than 10 hours , stfu 
 , its nothing like wow.
  
  ive played Wow for 2+ years , Aoc till this released , Daoc for 4 years and various other mmorpg's 
 , but this was one i was waiting for as i was a warhammer fan as a kid. 
  
  ok hows it play , interface has alot in common with wow agreed , but this makes it easier to get 
 into.
  graphics are very nice , good scaling , its no AoC but at least a wide range of peeps can play 
 it and on top end machine it looks up to date. first few lvls are pretty easy but as it progresses 
 through tiers the difficulty increases , public quests are genious and when you get into realm 
 vs realm its a joy to play. done a few keep takes and its been great fun. 
  
  critisims are this is a guild based game imo , if your not in a guild then imo its not gonna be 
 as fun , it is a mmorpg after all and thats all about playing with others , dont expect to go out 
 soloing other people as invariably there always in groups , also bug wise theres a few small ones 
 , for release they have done as well as blizzard did , but be aware theres the odd graphical glitch 
 and quest error , nothing too bad though.
  
  im enjoying it more and more and the tome of knowledge is great , you become obsessed with unlocking 
 all the secrets. if you crave more pvp from a fantasy style mmorpg then this is the one to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H_FIRE
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  I wonder why my first review was censored, i don't remember being impolite or offensive in any 
 way whatsoever. People deserve to know the truth!
  
  Now before rushing to the nearby store and buying this game like i did, first of all don't give 
 in to the drawings/pictures displayed on the cover! The real look of the game is far from it. Inside 
 you will find a loony/toony world a la Warner Bros ... similar to wow to some extent (even if it's 
 the other way around) .
  But it's definitely not something you want for your kids just because of the toony aspect , is 
 it? you'd rather have them play baseball on a wii than slash and hack, chop and scavenge the bodies 
 of various monsters in a dark realm. (how does this game qualify for 12+ rating?)
  
  Depth:
  I've played a few other remarkable mmorpgs so far, so i give an honest opinion from my 
 personal experience: 3 years of Final Fantasy XI, 1 year of Guildwars (ongoing) , a few months of 
 Granado Espada (aesthetics ftw!) , on and off weeks of Perfect World, Magic World a. s. o ... And a 
 lifetime of rpgs with highly esteemed titles like the Baldur's Gate saga, Neverwinter Nights saga 
 ... + console (ps2, ps1, ps3, snes, psp) Final Fantasy saga and many many others. One can easily try 
 any of the above-mentioned games and get a true feel of what an RPG must be like. First of all 
 it needs a solid story, that will keep you glued to the chair, with your hand frozen on the mouse, with 
 twists and turns in the storyline, trust and betrayal that will leave you perplex, wanting for more... 
 anyone remember yoshi's betrayal in Baldur's Gate 2?
  In conclusion one can't really compare warhammer online with any normal rpg because they're different 
 genres. Sure, WO has quests but they're mainly point&click+serious travelling between the two only 
 to point&click again. Do you think you can choose from 5-7 answers and your choices will affect 
 the story in any way? Or your allegiance? Think again. If you'd be sent hunting for turtles with 
 the first option, guess what you'd hunt with all the other options (if you choose to take the quest) .
 
  
  Lagfest - serious lag. You need a top-notch pc to withstand the vortex of  
 overlapping each other or suddenly appearing near one another. Don't expect RvR to be a piece of 
 cake if you're going to be as slow as the turtles you hunt. The internet connection probably has 
 a saying too, and the servers seem to get filled to refuse. I didn't see any migrating character 
 options.. yet; they will surely be implemented at some point.
  
  Grindfest ... or you can take the point and click quests. You use the same time to gain ranks.. 
 at least you have a choice.
  
  Visuals : i was stunned by Guildwars, in love with Final Fantasy merely out of the love i had for 
 the entire saga before , amazed by Perfect World.... disappointed by WO . We're in the 21'st century... 
 have some backbone people. If you'll still push the pc to the limits with your game at least do 
 it right! Do it for something that's worth our time!
  
  Audio: Same as above. We could have used some decent music, composers ... inspiration... nothing, 
 i mean nothing is worth listening to in WO. Not even your button mashing to get your specials so 
 you can consider yourself a challenging opponent. Game difficulty : If i get some free time, i'll 
 try to teach my wolf how to play, she knows how to press keys and watch the screen so she should 
 be ok. It's not like there's any min. iq requirement to be good here... The multiplayer part can 
 be seriously challenging and fun in RvR . It's the core of the game and also the only good thing. 
 I was very pleased how people were constantly keeping each other in check by occupying keeps or 
 portals and doing sneaky attacks with the tanks...
  
  Customer support : i bought a limited edition game in Portugal with the benefits of the CE , paid 
 50Euros on it and got only a 30 days online subscription. They never offered any in-game bonuses 
 which were promised on the cover. The same edition is sold in my country without such promises 
 on the cover for 30 Euros.
  
  It's definitely not an improvement to the RPG world. Not worth your money.
  
  If you do decide 
 to dedicate yourselves to it, have an enjoyable experience for as long as it can last.
  
  Peace
  
  H 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFrenchMan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Hours of fun, it rejuvenated my appeal for MMO's. When I started playing warhammer back in beta 
 I was disappointed with the depth and immersion of the surroundings. What a difference a couple 
 of months makes. From the refreshing graphics to the beat of the war drums, the immersion and depth 
 made into the final release. 
  
  There is nothing quite like walking into a new town only to feel the beat of a subwofer gradually 
 get stronger and deeper. 
  
  Constant action between "scenario's", questing, and pvp provide a rich experience. All the little 
 annoyances that are in WoW have been improved upon or eliminated. There are too many to list, but 
 an example of what I'm talking about are the gathering quests. You don't have to loot the gathering 
 items... but simply kill the monster that would typically drop that item. The red circles outlining 
 the quest objectives is another sweet feature... especially the ability to mouse over it and see 
 what quest it is referring too... No thottbot needed. Hooray! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zhern
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  You might be wondering if this game is for you. You will see a lot of people out there that claim 
 this game is better than that game. I usually call them fan boys of the games they are championing. 
 MMORPG games are a taste test, every person has different taste. I usually fall into the best graphics 
 area of MMOs. I like high detailed graphics in games so I can test the capabilities of my home 
 grown PC. That was until I got into the Warhammer beta. During beta, I think I submitted maybe 
 5 errors; I played a lot, not to get ahead, but just to play the game. In all MMOs I have played, 
 I have rushed to get to the end only to be found wanting more. Well in Warhammer I don't feel rushed 
 to just level up. I can explore, go into a scenario, find quest, join a public quest, go PK, attack 
 a keep, work on crafting and be effective at level 5 (yes level 5) . But there is something else 
 that most games can't deliver, the sense of being wanted, or being part of something bigger and 
 making it fun. This game delivers that sense of purpose that other games strive to grab. Community 
 is just like any other game; you have your idiots and your cool guys. The graphics is better than 
 WOW, but not as detailed as AOC, but serve their purpose. There is a minor glitches, but coming 
 from AOC and Vanguard, it is nothing. Travel is fast paced and plenty of places to hide for ambushes 
 or being ambushed. The PvP is there and you will get involved, because the game flows into that 
 direction. You will find yourself doing a quest, when a NPC tells you to go to town and collect 
 an item. Well that town is guarded by enemy NPC guards, and other players. That is where the fun 
 starts. Because if you get the first kill, well you just tasted blood and if you get killed, if 
 you have any backbone, you want revenge. And revenge is very sweet in this game. If your scared 
 of dying, not to worry, because you will die, a lot and then some. All in all, it is a very good 
 game, and one I will be with for along time. For I have found what I have been looking for, a place 
 to call home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harikui
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  Warhammer Online is the latest MMO off the chopping block and it showed up ready to deliver. Going 
 into the final stage of testing this MMO had a lot stacked up against it, specifically all the 
 bad press that many things would be cut to make the release date including classes and end game 
 content. However I'm pleased to say they have still manged to hit a nice balance and concentrated 
 on what was important to get this game out the door. The game is very playable out of the box. 
 So far my favorite feature has been the Tomb of Knowledge that is just an amazing encyclopedia 
 of all your deeds and victories. Keeping track of how many times I get stabbed to death and giving 
 me achievements for it always makes me feel better. Like any other MMO there will be ongoing balancing 
 of the classes but as of right now I don't feel like anything can't be bested by another class. 
 The art direction of this game is fantastic for a fantasy setting, they embrace the concept of 
 WAR at every turn, from flaming windmills to corpses doting landscape. This game is a nice mix 
 of classic realm vs realm concept, and anyone who played Dark Ages of Camelot will appreciate it's 
 return. It takes many ques from other mmo's including WoW but hey take what you can get and run 
 with it. I have a feeling this game will have more more promise ahead and a bright future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDawgSteve420
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  I'll admit, I used to be a former hardcore WoWer. I honestly have no clue how many hours of my 
 life I wasted on that game, but I know it was way more than anyone should. That being said, I give 
 WoW this, its easy to sit down, pick up, and get into, and start meeting people.
  
  I think the last one is the most dissapointing thing about WAR. Call me old fashioned, but I like 
 on MMORPGs being able to chit chat online with people while I play. I like meeting random people 
 to do an instance/scenario with that was bs and have fun while doing the dirty work. The WAR community 
 is missing that in a major way. Even on a highly populated server, there was next to no interaction. 
 I know I wasn't alone either as a few of the people I did manage to chat with said the same things. 
 On top of that, there's not even a friends list to add those people I met to. Add in no official 
 forums, and honestly, even making a guild is just inviting random people in and hope it works out. 
 The lack of community ruins the game, at least for me.
  
  Outside of the lack of community though, it does have some good points. The PQs are something I 
 haven't experienced before (I've only played WoW, CoH, and SWG) . I believe DAoC had those, but never 
 played it, so don't know how it worked. In WAR though, they work great. RvR is also very entertaining. 
 Of course, most everyone seems to play Chaos so its a little unbalanced. As an example, I've yet 
 to have a Phoenix Gate scenario pop, and that's only the 12+ scenario. 
  
  One other issue I have, the graphics are not all that, yet I still have lag when I have all my 
 settings on high. Turn the settings down you say.... why?? My system should more than handle this. 
 A quad core with 4mb of ram and an NVidia 8800 should not have problems with this game, yet the 
 lag is very noticeable. Its not a game killer, more like an annoyance. This is on top of some of 
 the broken quest bugs I've experienced, such as the npc that gives it not giving you the option 
 to turn it in even though he is who you turn it into, happened a few times.
  
  All in all, hey, its a game just starting. If your jumping in with some people, you should have 
 some fun. If your the loner type, you should have some fun. If you like meeting random new people, 
 well, this isn't the place. If you like to group and instance, probably stay away too. If you want 
 some good old fashioned pvp though, definetly check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavyn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:40 am PT
Review:  I'll just get this bit out there first: I am a World of Warcraft player, since launch. I am burnt 
 out and ready for something fresh. Obviously I like the game mechanics of WoW. WAR is very similar, 
 and has virtually no learning curve for any RPG player.
  
  From level 1 the game has been fun. I haven't felt weak ever, even when in RvR scenarios. I am 
 currently at level 13, and I am hooked.
  
  The RvR (pvp) is superior to WoW, hands down. Larger bases, more varied terrain. You also won't 
 get 2-shotted by someone with superior gear. There are mechanics in place to keep high level players 
 from ganking low-level public RvR. I won't ruin the surprise.
  
  You gain experience from PvE and RvR both.
  
  The maps are varied and fun to explore. It is 
 fairly easy to travel to distant areas, regardless of your level.
  
  The graphics are great and will run smoothly on most mid-range computers, ensuring a larger fanbase. 
 If next-gen graphics are really important to you, this may not be your game.) If you are a WoW 
 player this will be a huge upgrade.
  
  The art style is very well done. The opening cinematic alone was almost worth the $50. It made 
 me want to jump right in and start playing.
  
  The Achilles heel of this game is the need of a sizable player base for the best parts to work. 
 If no one is online, you are stuck doing pve. If there are lots of people online, there are a lot 
 of areas for potential RvR (pvp) and the game becomes that much more fun.
  
  I didn't expect I would like WAR but I do. I hope it catches on, because there is huge potential 
 here.
  
  UPDATE: I have lowered my score by a half point, because 3 months later there are still a lot of 
 bugs, and very few announcements from Mythic regarding updates/fixes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mygirls9
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Common people. How can you honestly give good scores to this game. Here is a disclaimer: For this 
 game to work even a little there must be a strong base of people to play with! So in other words 
 those giving good reviews want/need you to play!
  
  The graphics: are plain and glitchy. I am running with 9600gt, granted not the best, but it should 
 more then run this well. But it is so glitchy (even with settings on low) that I think its not 
 my card anymore. And I have to say it, yes, WOW's graphics are better. It is kind of hard to explain, 
 but WOW's graphics seem to pop more or something. It may be a tossup, but those saying this graphics 
 are way better are just tired of seeing WOW's. Can not blaim them, but it does not make their argument 
 true. AOC's graphics are the best by far, though (for comparison) .
  
  The game play: First issue is that the spells are repetative. Second the fights end to fast (like 
 AOC) . I personally do not like fast fights, it does not give you the fealing of accomplishment 
 or finess.
  
  PVP: Yes this is where it shines (somewhat) . But it only works IF you have a high population server. 
 I have played many pvp battles and one or two were actually fun becuase they were balanced. The 
 rest were very much one sided and the losing side just gave up. And the fights were glitchy (like 
 the graphics) and repetative (after a few times) .
  
  Now that this has flopped (and yes, its going the way of AOC, mark my words) and AOC, I guess im 
 hoping for star trek online to wow me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Having tried all the MMOS on the market, i never really found enough to keep me playing and paying. 
 This game however has changed all that, i have even bought another copy of the game for my wifes 
 PC and she has really got into it !!
  
  Dont listen to the the overrated reviews, its not, this game has had far fewer teething problems 
 then most game i have played and i have to say it can only get better as they tweak things. Yeah 
 the graphics are not ground breaking, nor is the combat, however the P V P and R v R gameplay, 
 combined with the Warhammer source of material for this game, just simply lifts this game above 
 all the other mmos.
  
  I am not going to repeat much of what everyone else has said, but i will say i love the public 
 quests and the R v R content, this game is a must buy. Love it, love it, love it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanchez01
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  First off its not perfect... With well over 30 hours of play time i have come to love the game. 
 There have been times in which i would wish they had some of the 'WoW' abilities like the character 
 actions and gear inspection... But what makes this game better then the rest, two things... the 
 Tomb of Knowledge and the graphics.
  
  Now on my aging PC, the graphics are a curse... I run an old P4 3.00GHz HP... I had to buy a new 
 graphics card for this game... and when the game works... A-Maze-ing. And loving this game with 
 the tech handicap i have... i only imagine having newer model... nice. 
  
  The Tomb of Knowledge is a great, notables add to the game that others lacked... I originally thought 
 it to be a waste... something that was a waste my time, aggravate me when need not be, and so on... 
 but instead i enjoy having it... it add some little things that lighten the game up.
  
  Now i do have some bad news with this game, like i said earlier, the game will need a better then 
 average game to play in a way that it was meant to. But the one thing that has ticked me off the 
 most is the game support... I sent a report in almost a week ago.... no word yet... and they say 
 they will reply in 24 hours.. thats a load of bs... but EA game tech support isn't the game... 
 
  
  Its a great game overall, taking the bar up the next level... missing some little things, and excelling 
 in others... the RvR system is remarkable... grade A... the PvE is fun as well... great lure throughout 
 the game... and what, 25years of Warhammer background to boost it.
  
  No game is perfect so i cannot give it a 10... it has some flaws but not enough... plus my flaws 
 are mostly computer caused... 9.0 is my rate... take it or leave it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief115
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Alright time for business. The subject Warhammer online: Age of Reckoning. Ok, the game was highly 
 awaited by many people that had been following it ever since it was announced. Now, I wasn't one 
 of them, I was one of the people looking to get out of Wow and decided to preorder AOC and Warhammer. 
 And, as we all know AOC was well horrible and slow. Now Warhammer gez I'm loving it. It is one 
 of the best addicting games out there, now I'm going to go into my list format :P
  
  Grahpics: Ok now the graphics for Warhammer didn't look to great through beta, but man it is awesome 
 now. I know beta wasn't supposed to be the finished product, but it just shows what Mythic did 
 during beta is all. I does look like Wow in a way, but in no way at the same time. The characters 
 look sorta like characters from Wow but not exactly. The armor and npcs look nothing like Wow everything 
 has a more realistic feel to it. Either way grahpics get a 9/10!
  
  Gameplay: The game for me hasn't really slowed down since I started my chosen and magus. Now the 
 first few quests are of course a little boring but hey its the first few quests. After you reach 
 level 2 your going all over getting badass looking armor and weapons and looting all types of stuff. 
 Now my fav. part of the game so far is the RvR, realm vs realm really pvp in my eyes, and the PQs, 
 public quests. Now PQs are like a big quests that anyone can do, you can hope into one without 
 knowing anything and get loot, it goes by rolls on the loot bags, which contain items to the bags 
 color like green items in green bags etc. You also get influence for being the PQs this gets you 
 armor pots and weapons. You have three stages of influences first is pots second is lower gear 
 then third is high powerful stuff :P.
  
  Overall: Alirhgt overall the game in my view is better then Wow, but then again I don't really 
 think I can say that without reconsidering it since we have all played Wow for a good while. Oh 
 one more thing, and sorry I forgot about this one negative. The max level in Warhammer ,for right 
 now that is, is 40. It's a little low but I did hear the level cap will be raised to 80 at some 
 point with the other classes and major cities being added. Well this game gets a 9.5/10 only because 
 of the level 40 thing. Thanks for reading MC WAAAAGGGHHH!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game has constant action to allow the player gain in rank, collect great items for armor, 
 crafting and gold. It keeps you wanting to continue thru the public quests and the unlimited regular 
 quests, whether it be in your own domain, or other domains, your option. The developers have thought 
 outside the box and I find it very hard to stop playing. I look forward to many yrs of playing 
 this game. The graphics are spectacular and the world is large enough for me to get lost. lol Since 
 the launch, I know Mythic has had some server problems, but I see them working thru those problems 
 and would guess all will be corrected shortly. Some judge a game without thinking about what goes 
 into it, and some players try to play on computers, which cannot handle those graphics. Answer 
 to that is get an upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Being a 2 year Warcraft Vet myself and latly myself and a few freinds have got Tried of Warcrafts 
 Grindfest and Bais Class Developers who seem to ignor some classes and treat others with love.
 
  
  I came across this having heard of its PvP focused gameplay and new ideas that make things intresting. 
 Lemmi firstly say this game is fun and if your looking for a new MMO then go out and get this.
 
  
  The game sadly does have a few short commings. But when was a MMO that has gotten relased not have 
 bugs? or issues?. Mythic sied they are already working on 2 Major content patches and a Expansion. 
 so theres Plenty of room for polish.
  
  the games grahics are firstly very good. Better than warcrafts but not nearly on par with Age of 
 conan. this is both good and bad why? the good is that character models and armour and the game 
 land itself looks great. The bad is that on most larger scale battles the game may lag badly even 
 on higher end computers. forces you to turn the settings down a bit. Hopefuly this will get fixed.
 
  
  The game with it being focused on PvP (player vs player) pits you into a battleground at level 2 
 or so you get good indication what this game is about. and its about 2 fractions (Order of Alliance) 
 & (Forces of Destruction)
  and there both fighting each other in a War. now theres 6 races in total and a bunch of intresting 
 classes. destruction get Dark elvs, Chaos, Green skins, While order get Humans (empire) Dwarfs and 
 high elvs.
  
  and you expect them to play differnt and in that sense you do they each get there own classes and 
 starting areas fighting another race. Say you pick high Elves your main focus will be aginst Dark 
 elvs. Though at any time you can go to a differnt area and fight there.
  
  theres a Total of 40 levels in the game and the time it takes to level to 40 in Warhammer is about 
 the same to 1-60 in Warcraft (Roughly) its gonna be intresting to see how the end game PvP is gonna 
 turn out in the next few months since at the moments its too early to say.
  
  However your main focus while leveling is gonna be the RvR zones in these you have objectives like 
 sieging a castle or taking and gaurding flag zones. These can be pretty intresting when the players 
 get caught up into the fray but at most times i often find myself roaming around without a player 
 in sight, Maby its just me because im used to being a Over populated WoW server.
  
  Sound design in the game is good also. not much to comment on it other than its what most other 
 MMOs sound like. it does have an impressive main menu theme and the Cinimatic is pretty fun to 
 watch.
  
  All in all the game is fun and is what you should expect from a MMO thats been in 3 years development. 
 it has it's issues but they are sure to be fixed. 
  If your comming from warcraft looking for somthing new then you will surly enjoy what WAR has to 
 offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Innovative... the word itself dosn't seem to apply to Warhammer Online when you first get on and 
 this is because it has the feel and look of World of Warcraft, the game that has defined all major 
 MMOs since its launch. Since World of Warcraft MMOs have tried to emulate it in an attempt to pull 
 in millions of players something that WoW also did for the first time ever (the game realy did 
 break the 1+ million player mark) .
  
  So how is Warhammer Online Innovative you may ask? In subtle ways and by taking tried and true 
 game design and building on it moving the MMO style of game foward, one step at a time. So lets 
 get started with some examples:
  
  Battlegrounds/Scenerios: World of Warcraft brought the concept of instanced PvP to the modern MMO 
 players, the concept of a capture the flag, capture and hold style play in a stat based MMO was 
 unheard of on a massive scale (previous attempts at similar styles of gameplay were limited to 
 hard core pvpers) . In comes WO, which makes it easy to join a Scenerio, a simple click is all you 
 need and you can do this from anywhere. Furthermore WO makes PvP meaningful other than just "pwning" 
 your fellow players... PvP kills drop loot, XP and a system of level called Renown (which allows 
 you to buy special skills and armor) . Though the system feels just like WoW's pvp system it is 
 clear that Mythic has spent a great deal of time balancing and optomizing the experience players 
 can literaly PvP when they feel like it in the most spontainious way possible.
  
  Quests: As with all major MMOs WO has quests but it takes them a step further, you have your normal 
 style quests... most of which are soloable by any class, but to spice things up they've created 
 a new system called Public Quests. These are an amazing new twist on an old formula, players in 
 a specific region are given objectives such as killing a type of mob (often a large number of them) , 
 then they may need to protect or attack a location, and in the final stages a boss spawn will attack 
 the players who by this time have grouped up into a Warband (raid) all in the hopes of getting 
 loot. With each objective completed players get influance the more you rack up the better your 
 score at the end of the quest. When the boss mob is dead and done a nice window shows up with the 
 list of all the players who have contributed enough to the quest and the server then rolls randomly 
 (giving bonuses based on the ammount of contribution you gave) often the top 6-8 players will get 
 various grads of "bags" all which when opened will contain loot built for their class. The more 
 you do these PQs the higher your chance is of rolling high and getting a gold or blue bag (two 
 highest grade iteams) . Even if you didn't win anything in the rolls the influance points you earned 
 can be spent on equipment, so in the end its a win win for everyone.
  
  RvR: Mythic is the current master of RvR combat, and this still stays true. Whole regions within 
 a tier of zones are flagged for RvR and when you enter you become pvpable (note you can play the 
 whole game without pvping) . In these regions you'll find control points and keeps. Control points 
 are quick and easy outposts with a few guards, the goal is to kill the guards and take the objective, 
 then you must guard it for two minutes untill your own guards spawn and which point it becomes 
 taken and your team earns the objective (owning objectives leads to control of the zone which in 
 turn gives you bonuses) . Keeps are a bit differnt and require far more players to assault. In an 
 assault players will drop down cannons, battering rams and all sorts of seige equipment in the 
 attempt to take tha castle from the enemy players. The defenders will fire cannons from the walls 
 down at enemies and drop hot oil at the door all in the attmept to break the attacking force. The 
 goal when taking a keep is to kill the lord NPC inside, when this has happened the attackers will 
 randomly roll on various loot bags just like in PQs, so PvP like PvE is a worthy experience to 
 help your character grow... remember you gain XP for every kill you make in PvP.
  
  Overall WO does feel and look like your average WoW clone when you first get on, but after playing 
 it for hours on end you realise that its much more, and contains a fair ammount of depth in comparison. 
 The final goal of any team is to conqure the enemies capital and though I haven't had the chance 
 to assault a captial city yet the concept sound wonderful. Overall WO is a step above WoW and is 
 the first MMO to realy take the WoW formula and move the MMO style forward. If your looking for 
 a new MMO, or just sick of your old one I can assure you WO will please, and just like WoW the 
 graphics are built to play on any upto date PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaqknife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game I thought "Not another Freaking Fantasy RPG MMO". 
  
  I decided to give it a try when my guild decided to make this game their primary portal. I'm glad 
 I did. I haven't had this much fun in an MMO ever! I have played UO, EQ, DAOC, SWG, PS, WWIIOnline, 
 WoW, PotBS, AoC, Jumpgate and EVE. I would say WAR is about 80% RvR and 20% PVE. The PVE part even 
 helps out with the RVR.
  
  From the very moment you log into WAR you are thrown into the middle of a battle. Your race's starting 
 point is under seige and you help them out by completing quests. This is the PVE part of the game. 
 
  
  As you continue along the storyline you come upon your first Public Quest or PQ. This is a really 
 great idea where players all compete during the quest. At the end you get a loot bag if you finished 
 in the top 5 or so.
  The loog bag reward is based on a random roll with an added bonus of how many times you have done 
 the quest.
  
  Eventually the PQ's start to compete with the opposite faction to determine who wins the PQ and 
 eventually the gold loot box (where you get your reward bag) .
  
  Anyone who as played Battlefield or BF2 will recognize Scenarios. These are instanced battles where 
 players compete for various objectives. Some are capture the flag. Some are capture and hold the 
 murder ballor a flag. There is even a Elf scenario that after you touch the flag a nuke spell goes 
 off killing everything within a radious of the flag. The first team to 500 wins the scenario. 
 
  
  The last part is Realm vs Realm. In each zone there are 2 capture points and a Keep or other central 
 objective. Each zone is placed into a Tier. There are at least 2 zones per tier for each faction's 
 race. There are 4 tiers 1-10, 11-20, 21-30, 31-40. If a faction can control the zones then they 
 will have a chance to attack the opposite faction's capital city. 
  
  The capital city is where the Auction Houses and Banks are, amoung other things. Don't worry you 
 cannot loose your stuff if your capital city is sacked but you will loose bonuses and such.
  
  There were a few graphical bugs and sometimes the occasional CTD. But nothing to really complain 
 about for me. Mythic is great about patching the game and they are waging their own WAR on gold 
 farmers.
  
  Death penalties are very minor in this game. You get a 15 minute and 10% debuff to your health 
 that will stack up to 3 times (I think) . You can pay an NPC healer to take is off for about 1-5 
 silver depending on how many you have died.
  
  So if you want something really fun and your on the fence about buying this game; I would say that 
 for me it was money well spent. I will be playing this game for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyneo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  OK first it's like we can; t say nothing bad about this game cause everytime i tried it seam like 
 ea paid the adds to do so so am gonna say that war is a decent mmo but some things miss cause an 
 mmo is gameplay with social interaction and some of those are missing in the game while on gamepay 
 it; s pretty fast and friendly using the book who contain everything is cool tho but while ppaying 
 i feel like am traped into only the zones between the 6 race i wanted to explore more the city 
 are huge tho that was great and great wind effect but i felt like i was repeting my self over and 
 over again while questing am a squid hunter the fight are fast and nice while pvp i was completly 
 unbalanced against some of the other class dueling would be good tho to try a path before pvping 
 all i could say is this game is popular for now and i think it will go on like that i look forward 
 to c is first expension seeing th erest of warhammer universe would be cool cause those graphic 
 are realy decent for an mmo tho good luck guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Basically, Warhammer is Warcraft without the horrible class balance, lack of descent pvp, screwey 
 split gear (pvp vs pve) and totally broken itemization (resilance 4tl) . 
  
  On the other hand, Warhammer seems to lose Warcrafts incredible sense of humor, and over the top 
 intrecate instances.. (as far as I've seen, which admittadly isn't that far into the game) FYI 
 this is not to say that Warhammer doesn't have the same level of polish and shine that Warcraft 
 does... it comes fully equiped with pro polish, fo sur. Just not the same quirky warcraft humor 
 which honestly is a Blizz trademark.
  
  Back on the first hand... Warhammer lives and breaths pvp. Not a ganking, unfair, can't get anything 
 done pvp but a at your own pace when you want all pervasive, this is the reason your playing and 
 it's done well kind of pvp. The cherry on top is that pvp count's toward leveling and there is 
 no split between pvp and pve gear... YEAH! 
  
  On the other hand again... Warhammer has the same why are the bad guys always more popular problem. 
 Which I hope a game eventually just removes by forced side assignment at some point. Although I 
 know the outrage from the community over such a thing would be horrible until they realized how 
 much better pvp was. I digress..
  
  
  Finally, the public quest system and tome of knowledge system of Warhammer are just the total icing 
 on the cake of pvp goodness. Public quests are a blast and in general finding a group to play with 
 and enjoy the content has never been so easy and fun. No more waitting for hours to have the priest 
 drop and your group break up for that instance. No more wondering where all the tanks are... Simply 
 go to an area designated as the pub quest hub and bamb in seconds your in a group of many groups 
 all doing little epic like encounters... Fun and Eze.. a true revolution for MMO's.
  
  ---Read no farther melee types! --------------------
  
  As someone that spent 4 years on a Wow 
 Mage... let me tell you it is really nice to play a Bright Wizard. Sure Im glass but I finnally 
 got a cannon worth a damn!
  I've also tried out healing, tanking and the quirky dwarfen engineering classes which are all a 
 blast... but, being a mage at heart ... I have to say... come and get yer flamin hot ballz you 
 magically inclined maniac's the flame flingin has never been so HOT!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cRaCk-hOr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  Well worth playing far better than most other mmo's. Thou still has a feeling that its not quite 
 complete, lets hope the developers keep working on getting it "just right". Time will tell how 
 the End Game pans out,
  
  It took me a few hours to understand what was going on ( i chose not to use the help tips) , but 
 once I understood it I could tell the game has had a lot of work put into it. The world seems huge 
 and looks true-ly awesome. It didn't feel like it had been rushed onto the market as other games 
 (*cough* AOC) . 
  
  Even with the settings turned down low it looks much better than World of warcaft which has the 
 same style cartoon gfx. However it seemed strange that there is no AA option.
  
  The sounds (at least on the goblin side) can be a little annoying at times and there is a tonne 
 of NPC spam, with a few tweaks to your interface (which is fully customizable) this can all be 
 pretty much removed if you so wish.
  
  
  IF YOU LIKE MMO'S BUY THIS ONE ! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mitchell89
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Having played World of Warcraft, Sar wars galaxies, guild wars, city of heroes/villains and LOTR 
 online, I can say I've been there and done that. But people really have to get used to this fact. 
 Nearly every MMORPG has the same blueprint.
  
  Kill, collect, grind, repeat.
  
  If WAR was just this I've probabl given the gave a 3.0 BUT this game has much more to it. As cliche 
 as it sounds (having read other WAR reviews) tha main drive of WAR is the RVR and boy... is it good! 
 Its what the WOW PvP should be! It's full frontal war with swords clashing against eachother and 
 arrows flying around. It's (if you have a proper warband) utter chaos on the battlefield and this 
 is something I wanted in every single MMORPG I played.
  
  I hear people whine constantly about the graphics and the crashes WAR has. People, get yourselves 
 some proper glasses. This baby looks nothing like WoW. WoW has this cartoony feel to it while WAR 
 looks more realistic. And if you are having crashes than don't blame WAR. Blame your own PC because 
 thats probably where the problem is. This game has never crashed on me and everything runs smooth 
 (and no I dont have the greatest laptop) .
  
  A minor issue is that it isn't perfectly balanced and polished yet but I expect this to happen 
 in the nearby future. So my conclusion is:
  
  WAR has a LOT of potential. We just have to wait till they polish it all. If PvP is something for 
 you, than WAR is your MMORPG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KweztVision
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  This game shows a lot of promise. 
  
  THE GOOD: Starting with a race and having your feuding race in the same map is awesome. Control 
 the area and overrun your enemies town! Devious! Public quests are a welcomed addition. RvR from 
 level 1! SWEET! Pseudo achievement system with the "Tome of Knowledge" is nice if you like the 
 accolades. 
  
  THE BAD: Buttons seem a bit unresponsive at times. Frequent bugs with PvE. But what did you expect? 
 it's a new game and i am sure they'll fix that in future patches. 
  
  If they can deliver with bug fixes and content, it can definitely be top 3 all-time MMO, but unfortunately 
 has a LONG way to go if it plans to be a dethrone the King {World of Warcraft} . 
  
  My rating is strictly for what this game can be, not for what it is at the moment. It is ahead 
 of the curb for sure. But I say try it before you knock it ... you might like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Act4earth
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Anticipation plays weird mind games. There I was waiting for a masterpiece, but sadly, I got a 
 flat, unfinished game that begs the question: why?
  
  World of Warcraft was able to bring users a world full of surprises. Blizzard filled that virtual 
 world with substance and most importantly - CHARACTER. The game ITSELF was an entity all it's own. 
 That's genius. And that is what WAR was trying to compete with.
  
  Unfortunately, WAR feels antiseptic - almost flawed. It seems like an unfinished project, rushed 
 to meet a deadline, a framework to be built upon with patches using our monthly $15 and customer 
 feedback. I'm reluctantly playing a THETA.
  
  Here was an opportunity to create a fantastic world with all the Monty Python cynicism and wit, 
 only to be a skeleton of what could have been. It's a shame. Warhammer is better than this. The 
 character of the brand is NOT reflected in this game at all, to the point where I could be playing 
 Guild Wars and not know the difference. Were I playing WoW, I would surely NEVER have such confusion. 
 I KNOW when I'm playing WoW, and that's the problem with WAR.
  
  The game falls flat in many ways. Here are some:
  
  1. No feeling of environment or sense of 
 presence. What is so special about this world? Where are the "nooks and crannies". The game lacks 
 CHARACTER. A point of view. A unique sense of ownership of the environment.
  
  2. Ridiculous and Inane AI. I can stand there and boringly attack a foe only to have it stand there, 
 hit me once, stand there, and hit me again. Where is the life in the enemy? why doesn't it at least 
 move a little? very odd.
  
  3. Re-spawn rate is to high. I hate to say it, but when I'm done with another boring collection 
 quest, I don't want to be ambushed by another spawn on my way back to my reward. It was boring 
 to kill 25 sprites in the first place, so killing that last one makes me mad.
  
  4. If you are going to be better than WoW, at the VERY least take (borrow) what works from WoW 
 and use it in the game!!! C'mon! Don't make me MISS WoW for the love of God! (which is what happened 
 when I played WAR) . This is like marketing/business 101. Why does Apple make their computer platform 
 Intel based? So users can run PC apps as well as MAC apps on their machine. Why? So you don't need 
 a PC anymore! If I can have better features in WoW, why am I here? (playing WAR)
  
  5. Quest auto-claimer. The one thing I hated about WoW is worse here. Why not make it that when 
 you are done with the quest, it auto-resolves? Why do I have to return to 'homebase' to claim reward? 
 Waste of time! Allow me to virtually auto-resolve a quest on-site and give me a new quest option 
 then and there. Keep the boring stuff for role-play servers. Let THEM trek back and forth for hours. 
 
  
  
  As a tabletop gamer, and avid fan of 40k and Warhammer fantasy, I was intrigued when GW finally 
 decided to reclaim the mantle that Blizzard had so adeptly claimed. Essentially, all that is WoW 
 is in many ways borrowed from Warhammer. From the wacky idiosyncratic characters to the odd beasts, 
 Wow borrowed heavily from Warhammer to deliver a piece of fine consumer art that has yet to be 
 rivaled.
  
  I'm sad with this game. They dropped the ball and rushed out this game. Now, we basically have 
 a Guild Wars clone, but with less character.
  
    edit: for those who tout the PvP aspect, you need to realize that this game is being sold as 
 an MMORPG. PvP ala Halo FPS isn't MMORPG. So, if you hail WAR as a great PvP game, then maybe Mythic 
 & EA should have made it a Halo-esque fantasy shooter rather than a puerile antiseptic MMORPG wannabe.
 
  
  Lastly, for those who say that we should wait for improvement, please! If I pay $80 bucks for a 
 vacuum cleaner, it better be a working vacuum cleaner. The only thing that sucks now in it's current 
 state, is WAR. If it ain't ready, don't release it. Quit paying for improvements with my cash because 
 I simply won't stand for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickcowboyz13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely a wow killer. The pvp system is great, the resurrection thing is easy and fun. 
 The public quests and RvR is all i do cus it is so much fun. As soon as I log on now i Q up for 
 a scenario and run right to the RvR zone fighting for my objective. The death penalty is not bad 
 and the resurrection is just a click and 5 second wait then back to the RvR zone. I have soo much 
 fun playing this game, slaughtering Order, DESTRUCTION FTW. 
  While my friends were checking it out today, seeing if they want to buy it. We fell into conversations 
 of making characters that would work best together in pvp. Later that night I got on my other computer 
 while my brother was checking out WAR and tried to play wow...
  I couldnt even get past the character selection screen. Thinking to myself wheres the fun? I'm 
 gonna hop on and fight npcs, fighting for my life for fear I might have to run back to my corpse 
 as a ghost. I thought of how even if I wanted to pvp in wow that it would just be a giant waste 
 of time, I wouldnt gain exp in it like WAR, or Points for My faction I'd just gain a little bit 
 of points for what? gear that will take another hundred games to get. WAR keeps it exciting and 
 fun.
  The only complaint I have with this game is the communication system right now. Theres no big general 
 chat for talking to everyone in the area (if there is one please someone tell me) . The only other 
 thing, doesnt really affect the game, is the little object bugs. But they are almost nonexistent 
 cus of such pvp brilliance covering it up.
  If you are a person that likes slow pveing and weak pvp system keep playing WoW, but if you want 
 fun fast and exciting RvR and Public quests, for you pve people, then get WAR. 
  Dont listen to the ppl that say "its good, when you are able to play it" Theres plenty of servers. 
 Also if your computer cant handle this then you must have been playing on the lowest settings in 
 WoW cus my computer is bad and it works fine.
  WAR is a incredible game AND IT IS A WOW KILLER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhjsaat
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, I'm fairly disappointed with Warhammer Online.. I don't even find myself logging 
 in to just kick about and do nothing, like I did with Warcraft when I got bored of it.. mostly 
 because the game was easily played in a window without hogging up too many resources, while Warhammer 
 eats up my resources like a monster if I attempt to do anything but play it.
  
  Any how.. my qualms are growing day by day..
  
  1) The Realm WAR reward tipped the scales for 
 me, and I'm quitting the game because of it. Giving all Destruction a Tier 2 city, even though 
 they outnumber Order almost 3-to-1? Yeah.. that's smart. Why don't you destroy your own servers 
 even MORE?
  
  2) This game has a layer of this-is-not-finished lack of polish to it. The animations are either 
 dreary stock or stiff (god that White Lion tail gets to me something fierce..) , the quests are 
 inconsistent and sometimes annoyingly vague (search A GIANT FOREST for a small box!) , the public 
 quests are much the same in terms of inconsistency.
  
  3) The realms, as mentioned in point 1, are just so unbalanced. I don't buy their junk about it 
 the influx of Destruction being "temporary"; they don't seem to realize that Destruction has VASTLY 
 higher quality content than Order. The Inevitable City is insanely less cluttered and much less 
 laggy than Altdorf, greenskins, chaos and dark elves are much more popular than dwarves, humans 
 and high elves, and have better animations (seriously, dwarves are an ass-ugly source of fantasy; 
 they're a niche like) , the quests are more fun on Destruction (high elf vs. dark elves is a big 
 example of this.. heck, all of the pairings are good examples of this) .
  
  4) The lack of forums is crushingly depressing to me. I want to voice my concerns for the game, 
 I want to share my opinions with others, I want to form a big community with my fellow WAR players.. 
 but no, I have to go to sites like this (no offense, Massively. com) or Ten Ton Hammer to voice 
 my opinions in a discussion environment, where the chances of it being read are slim to none.
 
  
  5) The foundation is sound.. the implementation is poor. It's like living in an elaborate mansion 
 made of straw, for lack of a better analogy. There's so much potential, but now the developers 
 seem to be just.. I don't know, really. They're insane, they're living in their own bubble, they 
 think there's nothing wrong. I want this game to be popular and successful, but it's like they 
 don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junwy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Well im gonna try to keep this as short as possible. First off I think this game is great especially 
 if your bored with wow. The graphics are ok , id say its kinda like wow but better. The gameplay 
 for me is where its at. I cant help but feel like this is some sort of hack and slash mmorpg
 I love it" . The game is really fun because there is action all the time. I feel like im in an 
 outdoor raid with the public quests. The public quests have been really enjoyable for me so far. 
 If you dont know about the public quests , ill try to explain. Basically aside from your normal 
 questing there are the public quests where you participate with everyone who is in range and you 
 get rewarded with goods. This pretty much keeps the game fun and the pace flowing, there is not 
 a time yet where i found myself bored. This is pretty much why i like this game so much. I dont 
 find myself running around doing nothing. I love the party system as well. You can participate 
 in so many things , it shows you how many members are within range and you can just join in. This 
 game is definently much more enjoyable for me then wow. In wow you find yourself grinding and flying 
 , and waiting around. In this game there is always something to do and the best part of it is that 
 its fun.. The whole quest journal feature is so organized too , its amazing. Im not a very good 
 at giving reviews are explaining things well but i highly recommend this game to anyone. Best mmorpg 
 out there right now and I dont think wotlk will pull me in. Wow is just plain old for me now and 
 I cant stand the classes anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I hate to give a bad review for this game because it has a lot of potential but there is a lot 
 that I find wrong with it. So let's begin...
  
  The graphics aren't really that great at all. There are quite a few glitches in the system, such 
 as an engineer's acid bomb that sticks to your hand after you use it, and they are all blamed on 
 hardware; don't expect an update.
  There are even more problems like that I have found and they too are blamed on hardware. The way 
 of things seem to be to update as little as possible because people can't look at a patch without 
 seeing dollar signs. This makes me wonder what exactly I am paying them 15 dollars a month for 
 exactly? Apparently nothing. Why, then, would I remain, if ever a Private Server should provide 
 an opportunity to play for free? Good question!
  
  Anyway the game moves very slowly especially when you try to logout or exit. It quite obviously 
 doesn't manage ram or cpu resources very well because it takes me about 3 or 4 minutes to logout, 
 far longer than it took me to login.
  
  That's the programming part of it. The game itself is divided up into 3 armies for each "Faction" 
 they title Order and Destruction. Each army has 3 or 4 classes, and each class has 4 tiers. Each 
 tier is full of random bunny bashing with groups that are non-existent and questionably not very 
 useful (will cover this later in the review) . The map is too small and static for my liking.
  
  There are tanks, DPS, healers, and support healers. Those are the only 3 types you get, and 
 of all those types, only 1 or 2 classes are fairly decent enough to play, depending on who you 
 ask.
  
  People don't talk very much at all because there isn't much of a reason to. Everyone is just grinding 
 and even in a group most of the time people join without warning and don't say a word; no need 
 to do so. If you have any experience outside of that joke called World of Warcraft then you may 
 be disappointed.
  
  There is no limit on the groups. You can have a handful of people form a group then you turn it 
 into a wargroup or whatever they call it, and you can put up to 30 or so people or something. It's 
 completely preposterous. There is no real point to PvPing on Warhammer. Do you have 1 more healer 
 than the enemy? Then you heal faster and thus they will eventually just stop fighting you. It's 
 really as simple as that. It's gank vs gank, no skill required. 
  
  I'm a UO vet. If you are a UO vet, or an AO vet, or any other such type of vet, then for the love 
 of all that is holy; STAY FAR AWAY FROM THIS "GAME". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Cdt
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Really, all these high scores must be from either Mythic workers, diehard fanboys, or people who 
 havent even played it yet, because no real gamer would score this title with a perfect 10! Are 
 you kidding me??
  Game is plagued by bugs, crashes, huge latency, poor graphics, pathetic animations, and so much 
 more.
  Everyone looks the same. When i join in, i have a feeling my toon has been abducted by some alien 
 race putting out clone after clone from some assembly line.
  PvE is notably absent from this game. So in effect, this is just a PvP game, that does nothing 
 new at that. Same spells, same mechanics, everything feels so deja-vu. Except for colision detection, 
 wich i think was a huge mistake. Play a melee, like i did, and youll see.
  Chatting ingame seems to be frowned upon, as there isnt a general chat, and you only get to talk 
 to people in your immediate area. Infact, the game is surprisingly quiet and lifeless.
  Crafting is a total joke. Why waste hundreads of hours and tons of gold, to craft potions you can 
 buy from a vendor, or make charms that last only a few hours??
  Customer support is terrible, there isnt even an official forum to verbalize our thoughts in, 
 we have to resort to a fansite?!? Cmon!!
  Im sorry, but this game will quickly fade away, just like AoC. As soon as the free play month 
 is over, the majority of players will not renew their subscription.
  With Lich King just around the corner, doing everything much smoother and polished, only diehard 
 fanatics will choose to remain in War. Well, good luck to ya...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomt65
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I was never too much of a WOW fan. There was certain features of this game that jump out at me 
 that said "give it a try". I am glad I did. The game is base around good versus evil and you can 
 team up with you follow baddies or gooddie too shoes and bash each other brains out in the r vs 
 r mode (great stuff) .
  Yeah it has the normal quest stuff also... but what really has me hooked is the team vs team feature.
 
  
  There is also a feature called public quest. This is were you walk into an area where everyone 
 teams up to complete the quest. Once done, you are scored on how much you contributed to completing 
 the quest and you are rewarded as such.
  
  This is awesome stuff! Now you can waste more of your life online. I look forward to seeing you 
 in the game.
  
  Now where did I put that loin cloth? :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 28, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes I feel the concept of virtual worlds has been long forgotten. Those old timers who remember 
 the amazing worlds that we could once live our virtual lives would take the game of Warhammer and 
 throw it right down the toilet. That doesn't matter anymore though, as the true makings of a virtual 
 world don't sell units of software, and besides kiddies think the idea is "OMG lame". So instead 
 we are left with another linear MMORPG that pvp nuts along with fan boys will drool over for years 
 to come. I present to youWarhammer: Age of Reckoning.
  
  You should know the drill by now, but in case you don't here is the skinny. You are forced into 
 a limited character creation that give you access to pre-generated classes. I hope you enjoy looking 
 like everyone else in your class, because they should of just as well handed out certified equipment 
 for your clone (oh wait they do) . After creating your "clone" you will start doing tons and tons 
 of boring linear quests marked as: kill x/y, get (insert object here) , and talk to (insert boring 
 dialog filled npc here) . As you can see the MMORPG world has gotten quite intelligent over the 
 years!
  
  Then there is the concept of RvR, which is pretty much a game of domination that you need to pay 
 15 bucks a month for constantly. Be prepared to group with some of the greatest of scum this side 
 of the Internet, as you will find a super array of clueless and greed-filled players to call your 
 allies. In the case that you are lucky enough to find like-minded players, you can form a guild 
 and then pointlessly kill others till you pass out. Woe is the person who fails to find a guild, 
 as this so called virtual world holds little to none in the way of socialization. You almost have 
 to make it a job to squeeze any words out of people, as the zones feel like a silent movie gone 
 sour.
  
  Sure there is public quests, and even some little pointless crafting skills to keep you busy between 
 e-sport matches. Public quests are filled with trigger happy need rollers who could care less about 
 any thought of playing a class role over desire for "phat-l00tz". Crafting is pointless and a shame 
 to players who have done a real crafting system such as Vanguard or Star Wars Galaxies. 
  
  There are tons of bugs. So many bugs I could not even start to count them all. Crash bugs, visual 
 bugs, and memory leaks. For a game that was so hyped you would think they would of made a better 
 launch, but too bad for the consumer who drops $50 on this. Along with all the issues, the game 
 tends to insult the intelligence of long time MMORPG'ers, making them feel lead by the hand in 
 yet another example of virtual worlds gone wrong. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  This game suprised me during release... Although I love WoW the most this game is behind it. War 
 is a good game in many cases. 
  
  The Character customization is good, well in some cases it is, but to me its missing some aspects... 
 Otherwise its cool. The classes are very different not only to factions, but also the races. For 
 example if you choose Dark Elf you can pick from Disiple of Khaine, Witch Elf, or Sorceress. For 
 Greenskins its Black Orcs, Shaman, or Squig Herder. For Chaos there is Chosen, Maurader, Zealot, 
 or Magus. That was the destruction side... Now for the Order, There is High Elves which have White 
 Lions, Blademasters, Shadow Warriors, or Archmage. Then the Dwarves that have Engineers, Ironbreakers, 
 or Runepriests. Last but not least the Empire (Humans) which have the Bright Wizards, Warrior Paladins, 
 or the Witch Hunters. 
  
  The goods: The Characters choice/customization, The different skills for each class, the stating 
 zones, RvR (Well theres some bads for that too) , PQs, Influence Rewards, Titles, Achievements (and 
 you cant say WoW stole this cause WotLK had that before War) , and killing rewards, and much more.
 
  
  The Bads stupid fall damage (you can fall a centimeter and take 100000 damage... thats stupid, 
 Order's Heals are Over Powered as hell and Destruction is doesnt have many healers, PQ roll system 
 sucks, RvR doesnt balance teams, The Interface where it shows your health (the portrait of your 
 character) shows your character to be uglier that he/she really is, well thats about it. 
  
  Warhammer is a good game and deserves a good score which I gave it 9.5/10 GOOD WORK MYTHIC 
 YOUR WORKING LEVEL HAS INCREASED BY 1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmigotti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Trying war out I gotta say it's get a 9.5 not a 10 cause of small problems, it's only been out 
 for like a week. Weeks down the road all these small bugs will be fixed. 
  
  The game play is fun also the RvR [pvp] , 3 different way's to level up, the PQ are awesome when 
 you get to do them with a group, fair and balance nothing seems over powered and alot more. People 
 that think it's another WoW copy "YOUR STUPID," cause this game is nothing like WoW it's so RvR 
 based, plus, you feel that fight back & forth for each faction also everything you do help's the 
 war effort. 
  
  I'm playing a Witch Hunter and I gotta say this class is so.. much fun in RvR cloak run around 
 and sneak up and I know your thinking it's like a rogue in WoW but your wrong, you only have 30 
 sec's to do your opener and trying killing your target. You can't run though bodies anymore so 
 if 4 tanks are blocking the bridge no one can pass them tell they die. Bonus they ban any gold 
 spammers just report them cause they just ruin game play with there crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothlegion
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  one word to describe this mmo is easy and that isnt a bad thing the lvling goes fast the RvR scenarios 
 are awesome and the game all in all is awesome, there are some slight graphical issues, tons of bugs 
 but that is to be expected with a mmo, the game has promise and to be honest this game is going 
 to have challenges with wotlk coming out in less than a month. I can c this game take 2 mil subs 
 if they constantly fix bugs and listen to the community if not this game will fail, the final point 
 i want to make is that if your tired of WoW then go ahead because this game offers a uniqe pvp 
 experience, but if ur not completely fed up with wow stay with wow cus this game isnt really done 
 for another 2-3 months and then the game might be better than wow but then again with wotlk on 
 the horizon can this game stand up i think so but u never know with a mmo its worth a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac6115cd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I've played every MMORPG since Everquest and WAR is one of, if not the, best game. Since WoW is 
 the current leader, I'll base my review on a side-by-side comparison.
  Graphics - the graphics resemble WoW - maybe too cartoonish for some, but with rich colors and 
 vibrant landscapes.
  Quests - The quest system resembles WoWs' - nothing new here, but there are a lot of quests in 
 each region. There are also Public Quests, where, as you enter the quest area, you become part 
 of an unofficial group, where everyone gets credit based on the amount of their contribution. This 
 shows up when the loot is distributed. Public quests also provide Influence and this correlates 
 into selective rewards. This is a vast improvement in that you don't need to waste time LFG - once 
 you try it, you'll be hooked.
  Combat - the combat system is about the same as WoW's.
  RvR - by far the best aspect of the game! Most zones are PvE, which is nice if you want to just 
 focus on questing (PVP servers available) . If you liked the RvR in DAoC, you'll love War's. WoW 
 does not compare, so I'm not even going to try.
  Story - both are very good, but the closest comparison to War's lore is Lord of the Rings it's 
 that immersive.
  Grinding - There really isn't any grinding required. And everything you do contributes to the war, 
 which translates into regional bonuses - additional experience, buffs, etc.
  Endgame - I've played WoW since launch and loved it - but once I reached 60 (then 70) , I was bored 
 - the story kind of died off. I haven't reached max level in War, so I'll leave the endgame review 
 for later.
  OVERALL: WoW was, and still is, a great game; however, War builds on the best of WoW and improves 
 on the weaknesses - certainly worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larrywong
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited about this game when it was released, i didn't take part of the beta's / pre-releases.... 
 in other words, i never saw the game until i recently went to the video store, got the game and 
 after a HUGE patch started playing. I'm also not a big fan of warhammer so i basically bought this 
 game based on the players review that i saw online... i wanted to try something new and i was curious 
 as well :-) .
  
  Well, let me try to explain.... when i started the game i couldn't believe what i was seeing... 
 this game LOOKS TERRIBLE... i mean, i'm not just talking about comparing it with any other game 
 or anything like that... it just looks BAD. I went to the settings to try to see what was going 
 on, and to my surprise the setting were set to "very high", couldn't believe it!!. Initially i 
 tought that it was my video card or computer that was wrong or outdated (i have a 8800GTX) , but 
 then i started to watch videos and screenshots and i realized that THIS was the real game.... couldn't 
 believe it.
  
  Then i started playing.... and to my dismay i found that the combat feels horrible... the timing 
 between the spells is just not right..... it's simply NOT FUN... slow... tedious.. etc...
  
  Then running around... doing quests... the pvp stuff.... after several hours of PAIN... i decided 
 to delete this game from my computer and play something else. I just cancelled my account and i'm 
 not looking bad =)
  
  DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE. This game is not very good. If you compare to other titles it looks very 
 mediocre. I have the feeling that all the people that wrote this "great" reviews of this game are 
 either:
  
  1- Fanboys of the genere "warhammer"
  2- Game enthusiasts that have been looking forward for this game and REALLY want this game to succeed. 
 These people are willing to forgive technical issues with the same like: smoothness of gameplay, 
 animations issues, overall graphics atmosfere, poor sound etc....
  
  When i play a computer game i want to have a great experience... i want to like what i see and 
 the controls are key for that, this game has none of those. The only good thing that i can say 
 about this game is that it's about a interesting universe and that it has a lot of potential. Now, 
 in regards to comparing this game with any other, well it "looks" like WOW but i just doesn't come 
 close in terms of gameplay, graphics and overall immersion factor.. it's something totally different... 
 i just feels so UNFINISHED... UNPOLISHED... . 
  
  If you want to play a good MMO, look somewhere else. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWartongue
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer online is as good as mythic said it was going to be. It is World of Warcrafts skanky 
 little sister who loves to party.
  
  I must admit I haven't put in the required time to truly make a perfect review but I have seen 
 enough to tell you it isn't going to be a Age of Conan with all of the flash in the first few hours 
 of gameplay and no substance throughout. Mythic has to patch a few little issues here and there 
 but for a MMO launch this is a beauty.
  
  Graphics: Nothing too mind blowing but great for it's leniant system requirements so it doesn't 
 lose points here.
  
  Audio: I don't really care about audio too much but it sounds right to me.
  
  Gameplay: Plenty 
 of options for Lvling and a great system overall to spend lots of time with.
  
  Negatives: A few weird glitches and kinda wonky animation. Also the questing isn't very innovative 
 and there isn't much of a social enviroment due to the lack of a general in-game chat at the moment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomama15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  If any of you people have read any of my other reviews, I say, **** you!!! I say that because since 
 most of you brainn dead **** can't possibly comprhend that I'm trying to talk like Yahtzee, most 
 of you hate me, which I dont give to **** about just like the guy I'm trying to spoof.
  
  Either way, back to the review...
  
  When I first heard of "WHO" and looked at it, I thoght, 
 "O, great, another classic franchise about to expererirence "WOW" imitating syndrom. Thats right, 
 it seems that every MMO these days is trying to be or surpass WOW just like WOW did to Everquest.
 
  
  After playing this new clone however, I found that it was alot better and alot more epic than puny 
 WOW.
  
  Thats right, I've opended my cynical and sceptical door to "WHO", now please excuse me while I 
 rape my own Mum.
  
  Please note that Yomama15 does not condone with raping his own MUM, even if him thinking that a 
 WOW clone can surpass the original in almost everyway.
  
  Of course I say almost, the same way "Shadow" could have killed Sonic at any time except lost to 
 the blue "yiff" just because he was'nt taking crack or magic pixy dust, or whatever gives that 
 prickly freak the ability to be a "d-i-c-k"/ Jamaican Guy at the Olympics taking "Flash" level 
 steroids.
  
  If you dont that metaphor, let be put it this way: The game is better in most part than WOW and 
 succeds in almost everyway of being equal to or greter than WOW. It has a great story, massive 
 battles, and epic realm v. s. realm play, while maintaining that Conan level of action and violence 
 that made AoC great.
  
  However, although its a superoir copy than the game its trying to rip off, it ahs alot of the same 
 boring MMO control cliches like slowly recharging meters on attacks and the ability to allow enemies 
 to run faster than your sorrow ass other wise knowed as 'Too Human' syndrome or in words you flammwar 
 junky fanboys can understand, a "D-I-C-K" move.
  
  But hey, I enjoyed it and since I hate WOW more than the red-hot intensity of liquid "fanboy-ism", 
 I'm willing to not be as nit picky as that Herculean god 'Yahtzee'.
  
  I say Herculean, because just like Hercules was Zeus's **** 'Yahtzee' is my ****.
  
  And not 
 just any **** but a hot German Girl who like the taste of my skeet and likes the taste of it better, 
 when I project in her face.
  
  Also, I think Hitler Was write!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osamachase
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  i have been waiting for this game for a long time now and i used to be a WoW freak, but it just 
 got too boring i played too much of it. WAR is just so much fun right on lvl one i had a blast 
 the quest arnt just go kill 50 monsters and come back to me, no its different and its good seeing 
 things blow up first person on artillery. Plus the graphics are just amazing for a game like this. 
 while you questing by ur self or doing public quests with anyone who wants to help u might as well 
 queue for a scenario because its a great experience RvR is great. i recommended this game for sure, 
 i cant stop playing my dwarf engineer, its an intresting class i can build turrets use a rifle 
 and throw grenades, makes us feel a bit in our time;) . and the whole order vs. destrustion thing 
 feel more of a meaning then allinace vs. horde. im really competitive when it comes to rvr its 
 really intense and i know you will love it., ORDER FTW haha join me on Heldenhammer!!!!!!!!!!: P 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Admittedly I am not the biggest fan of MMO's so maybe I am not the best judge. But as far as I 
 have seen in Warhammer Online it appears to be more of the same with a lot less of the flavor.
 
  
  I am huge Warhammer fan and have been playing the table top war game for close to 20 years now, 
 but this game lacks all of the cool flavor that Warhammer has.
  
  I think the biggest problem is that they tried to sue Blizzard many years back for copying their 
 "style". Obviously they didn't succeed, so if they were to do "their" stylized look and colors 
 now, all the players would have just laughed and said that they were just ripping off WoW. Bu all 
 they did was copy WoW in everything except look and world setting.
  
  It does have a more mature theme to the quests, but they are drab. The green skin quests were the 
 only ones that I found to be real enjoyable and funny.
  
  If you are a huge MMO fan who really likes playing with other players then you will most likely 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LakesOfFire
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  
  
  (Disclaimer - Anyone who thinks that my review sounds biased towards EA should take a moment to 
 glance over my Mercs 2 review.)
  
  
  Five ways that WAR redefines MMOs:
  
  
  1) I spent six hours on that one run and I didn't get a damn thing.
  
  The first and most popular 
 complaint I hear from gamers about MMO's is the time it takes to log in, find or build a group 
 that works, travel out to the site and begin to game, replace people who drop out, strategize and 
 get along and negotiate until six hours later, they finally finish to discover that it's 5am and 
 all they got was a costly repair bill. Screw that!
  WAR fixes all this by downplaying the importance of material rewards. Any player can get in on 
 Public Quests and PvP on the battlegrounds with a moment of preparation, no searching for groups, 
 and know that what little treasure drops won't be nearly as good as the influence rewards given 
 to everyone who participates in Public Quests and the Renown rewards sold to players who participate 
 in PvP. With one master stroke, WAR makes the game instantly accessible and equally rewarding.
 
  
  
  2) The box says it's an MMO, but everyone plays alone.
  
  Seriously, what's more contradictory than soloing an MMO? An MMO that creates solo classes and 
 nerfs teamwork, that's what! Solo play in WAR is a hard road to walk, discouraged with instantly-accessible 
 public groups and abilities that become more powerful as the number of allies rises. Warriors have 
 abilities to grant protective bonuses, and spellcasters can even give allies the ability to cast 
 spells of their own. What looks impossible for a dozen individuals is no match for a single team 
 of six strangers. That's exactly what MMO's are supposed to do!
  
  
  3) The ad said I can play a bad guy, but it only lets me choose between a good guy or an ugly good 
 guy.
  
  Too many games out there are marketed as a chance to enjoy the voyeuristic thrill of playing the 
 villain, and the disappointment comes when we find out that our villainous characters aren't really 
 that evil, and they only get to fight other villains. "Overlord", "Blood Omen II", "City of Villains"... 
 They all participated in this deceitful and disappointing shell game. Even in World of Warcraft, 
 the Axis of Evil that opposes the Alliance of humans, elves and dwarves consists of orcs who have 
 turned away from their demonic heritage to pursue peaceful shamanism, minotaurs who live on idyllic 
 mesas and worship nature, trolls that have abandoned cannibalism in favor of capoeria, elves recovering 
 from magic addiction to rebuild their shattered capital, and the undead who have escaped the control 
 of their Lich King to lament their lost lives. This isn't Good vs. Bad - It's Good vs. Emo, and 
 the conflict between the two factions is never as well-rewarded as the battles in which both factions 
 fight against the computer-generated enemies they share. In WAR, the Good Guys are really good, 
 the Bad Guys are really bad, and the two are constantly being thrown into confrontation.
  
  
  4) Every time I start to have fun, some high-level bully ganks me and camps my corpse for no 
 reason but to ruin the game for me.
  
  Even though players are encouraged to PvP combat, the game is carefully designed to provide balance. 
 Low-level characters are boosted slightly when they take to the PvP battlefields, high-level characters 
 are punished for stepping onto low-level battlefields, and even when the numbers are noticeably 
 slanted, there's always two other battlefields in the same level range to move on to. Character 
 death has a fair penalty that doesn't discourage PvP or encourage suicidal tactics, and defeated 
 characters respawn in the middle of heavily-guarded camps.
  PvP is also blessed with all the small and easy fixes that other MMOs have so stubbornly resisted. 
 Characters in PvP turn solid, preventing enemies from simply walking through the metal armor of 
 the front ranks to approach the vulnerable priests and wizards unchallenged. Characters automatically 
 turn to face targets when they attack, defeating the retarded and unrealistic "circle of death" 
 that's frustrated gamers for years. The knights can protect the lighter ranks, the mages do more 
 than shoot the same ol' monotonous ray of death, and the healers get to do more than mash one hotkey 
 over and over... It's actually fun!
  
  
  5) I beat it in three weeks, saw everything and now it's boring.
  
  From Day One, it's clear 
 to players that their cities and societies will be continually growing. WAR honors it's RTS history 
 by establishing guilds that "level" like characters, granting members new abilities and privileges 
 as they grow their guilds. Even the capitol cities level through the efforts of the inhabitants, 
 promising a steady stream of surprises hidden behind locked doors that quietly advise players that 
 "this city needs a high level".
  
  
  Like all games, WAR has improvements to make in performance and technology, but what improvement 
 has been made in just this first week indicates a bright and enjoyable future. This game is an 
 evolution in the right direction, designed for players who have been looking for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drakonus777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  I completely enjoy the game, I just have 2 well maybe 3 questions. 
  
  First, what are the High Elves are smokin'?? If you notice in the character creation the whites 
 of their eyes are very red, no wonder the Dark Elves are so hacked off... the High Elves have all 
 the best wacky tobaccy... LOL!!!
  
  Second, with this whole tier and chicken thing (which is hilarious when you see it happen... LMAO!!!) , 
 if you have a friend that is just starting how can you go back and help them with any quest you 
 may want to help them with so you can just play with them... (you don't need to be in the same party 
 with them to help them just make sure things don't get too squirrely for them) ... if you turn into 
 a chicken you can't help at all. I understand why they did that, but why couldn't they just have 
 it so you turn into a chicken if you start to gank someone?
  
  Third, after you reach lvl 40 is there going to be any long term re-playability??? Just curious 
 especially since you can't go back to the beginning and do any repeatable quest because you'll 
 turn into a chicken?? Face it people even RvR/PvP becomes a grind after awhile. I'm hoping there 
 will be an expansion coming out not to long after the people start finishing the endgame and the 
 excitement of the the RvR/PvP begins to fade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CorpsePit
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  This game...
  Well, first thing's first. Get your graphics settings right. You need to make sure that you force 
 Anti-aliasing, and keep the rest of the settings at a level where you get decent performance. The 
 graphics of this game are really just ambitious.
  (This goes for high end systems as well, I've heard talk that they've not been properly optimised 
 yet.)
  
  Now, let's get to it.
  
  Installing:
  Installing this game is a dream. It tells you what component it is installing at any given time 
 AND it tells you if this particular component might take some time.
  I just thought this was great. 
  After installing, there's a couple of little patches, but nothing 
 major, and they take very little time to download.
  
  Character creation:
  Okay, if you're like me, and you only really like beautiful characters, then you're going to be 
 rather disappointed.
  The characters are, for the most part, ugly. This is mainly because the look of the game is one 
 of realism and grittiness. The forces of Order look quite a bit prettier than the forces of Destruction, 
 but they're only good looking, not pretty. (The high elves come the closest. High elf Males of 
 course.)
  But, having said that, the characters, though ugly, are undeniably cool looking. And it did not 
 take me long to get over how ugly the characters are.
  
  Learning to play:
  For this, I'm going to have to have some second hand input. My first class was a Marauder. This 
 is the most pitifully easy class to play, that I have ever seen. There is absolutely nothing to 
 learn, and, it wasn't until I went through the other classes that I realised, just how complex 
 this game actually is.
  Now, here is where the second hand info comes in.
  Having played a marauder, when I switched to a different class, I instantly noticed a change in 
 the HUD (or UI whichever you prefer) , having chosen a High elf blade master, this was a blue silhouette 
 of a high elf blade master, and when I moused over it I received a tool tip and so had no troubles 
 learning.
  My girlfriend however did not start the game with so disgustingly simple class as I, and did not 
 immediately realise that there were integral pieces of her HUD that she just thought were there 
 to look pretty.
  This game mechanic is not immediately explained by the tutorial help tips. Which means, you really 
 should start by mousing over everything on your screen to see what it is.
  This piece of negligence aside however, the tutorial tips are really quite helpful, and they continue 
 well into the game. They can get annoying for more experienced players of games, but for a new 
 person, they're clear, concise and to the point.
  
  Playing the game:
  Once you've learned to run, you can start to get quests that will start you on your way to anonymous 
 mediocrity. (The relevance of this phrase comes from the fact that you, the player, are in fact 
 not a hero in this world, you're Soldier #2815 and your job is doing what you're told.)
  The quests are pretty stock standard, run here, kill that, but for the most part, they're not long, 
 and, most importantly, they're not the only way to get XP.
  That's right, you get XP from PvP. Or RvR as it's termed in WAR. It's not PvP for the same reasons 
 as outlined in the explanation of anonymous mediocrity. You're not a hero. You are in fact part 
 of a large host of grunts and the goal within this game, is to get together with all of your grunt 
 mates, and go find the enemy and give them a good hiding. But, unlike other games, you can start 
 doing this pretty much straight away.
  One of the first quests you can get, asks you to complete an RvR scenario. It's great. You don't 
 have to do this quest to get XP, but it helps if you're going to do the scenario anyway.
  
  RvR Combat:
  Okay, so, you've decided that you're going to get that bit of XP from that Scenario 
 quest, after all, the quest doesn't say you have to actually WIN the scenario.
  You queue up, and once you're in, you notice some strange words on your screen.
  These words 
 are telling you that your level has been increased while you are in this RvR situation.
  You don't have the abilities of a level 8 character, but by damn, you've got the stats.
  This 
 means, that you can actually COMPETE with the level 8 and 10 players.
  So not only can you fight (effectively) , you can actually aid your team. You're not a burden being 
 level 1.
  But what's really good, is that through out the scenario, you notice that you're getting little 
 purple and little yellow numbers popping up on your screen.
  It turns out, these are little bits of renown (Used for purchasing loot and increasing your RvR 
 ranking) and little bits of Xp (used for leveling and being generally tougher than you were before) .
 
  Now, if you were to try to work your whole way to level 40 (the level cap) doing this, it would 
 be one hell of a grind. BUT, you can queue for a scenario anywhere. Literally. You queue by clicking 
 a button on your HUD.
  So, you can, go do questing, WHILE being queued for a Scenario. Combining RvR and Questing was 
 a great way for the WAR developers to get people involved in all aspects of the game.
  
  Public Questing:
  Okay, so you're queued for a scenario, and you decide, "I'll go do some questing!", 
 you trundle off into the wilderness when you suddenly come upon a group of people franticly hacking 
 at a group of enemy NPCs. Meanwhile, in blue letters on your screen, you are told you've just entered 
 the area of a public quest. (It also tells you what stage the quest is at; public quests having 
 roughly 3 stages) You join in, and what do you know, little blue numbers are popping up on your 
 screen. These are Influence numbers. These are numbers you get to fill your Story Chapter bar, 
 and they're ALSO used for buying loot.
  So, the public quest finishes, but you've not been invited to the party. Awww. Never mind, surely 
 next time you can come back with some friends... Wait a minute, you're actually getting to roll 
 on loot. That's right. If you participate in a public quest in any way, you get the opportunity 
 to roll on loot. The more you participate, the bigger the bonus to your roll. Didn't get any loot? 
 Oh well, guess what, NEXT time you get an even BIGGER bonus.
  I have to say, that public quests are the greatest thing to have ever been invented for MMOs. It 
 means no more waiting around yelling "Oi, LFG." and "Hello, PUG with me!" (You could do this, but 
 there's little point.)
  
  World RvR:
  In addition to Scenarios, you can find areas in the world that are RvR objectives. These may be 
 areas of a town or some such that need to be controlled by Your side. In these areas there are 
 RvR quests, which involve scouting, pillaging, protecting, or simply mercilessly slaughtering enemy 
 players.
  Be warned, in these areas your level is not increased. However, you are warned that you are entering 
 an RvR area and you are given 10 seconds to leave before you get flagged for RvR.
  
  Finally, what I think of it:
  In my opinion, this game is great. It does just about everything 
 right. Sure, there are bugs, and that's why it doesn't get a 10/10 review, and the bugs do cause 
 some issues. But once those are fixed, and I'm sure they will be, this game will be one of the 
 greats. And in all seriousness, I don't think it'll kill wow, but I do imagine it'll cause Wrath 
 of the Lich king some troubles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Wow where do i begin. 
  
  Warhammer Online: Age Of Reckoning is a game which focuses on the conflict between 2 alliances, 
 over 6 races (3 on each side) .
  
  The game is focused around the WAR, and as you've probably heard more then enough, WAR IS EVERYWHERE!
 
  
  Right off the start the game opens up to all mmo players. With a basic easy to use interface, it 
 gives both newcomers and veterans a smooth start.
  
  Story/PVE:
  
  The games story focuses on the war, but actually reading quests and flipping through the handy 
 Tome Of Knowledge will supply the story junkies with enough backstory to drool over. Its cool how 
 the Tome Of Knowledge (TOK) tracks everything you do, gives you special achievements and titles, 
 and opens you up to special quests.
  
  The PvE takes place on huge landscapes, with multiple and varied quest types.
  
  The best part 
 are Public Quests. These are massive quests that players work together to complete and can be joined 
 at anytime, just by walking in the area. If you do well in the Public Quest (PQ) you roll for a 
 prize bag where you can get some goodies, plus a nice load of Influence points which let you buy 
 even more items. There are dozens of these public quests, all with different and unique objectives. 
 These will make you want to stop, and help other players out with a fun task.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are solid and immerse you into a world that will make you feel like 
 your in warhammer. Every location and building delicately designed for fine detail, to match Games 
 Workshop models.
  
  The games graphics however dont raise the bar, or go too far over the top.
  
  This is surprisingly 
 easy to forgive , due to huge battles that almost require the graphics to be average, and insane 
 spell effects.
  
  All spells look different, and when everyone begins to battle, you feel like your in a WAR.
  
 
  Sound:
  
  From every grunt, to every corny line delivered by empire NPC's the sound is amazing.
  
  Here 
 you will find epic music, powerful gun blasts, juicy magic effects, and all those metal sword noises 
 youd expect.
  
  The game sounds great, and really gets you hyped up in the action.
  
  Overall Gameplay:
  
  RVR, period.
  
  Fighting tonnes of players has never been more fun, 
 and Mythic has re-defined working together to win.
  In War, no one fights alone, and warhammer online proves it.
  
  The games combat system is 
 like any other mmo, with a couple twists:
  
  Morale Abilities: The longer you stay in combat , the more moral you build. This allows you to 
 use over the top abilities that can change the battle.
  
  Tactics: Passive skills chosen by you, that assist the way you fight. Tactics can be switched whenever 
 your not fighting, and tactics can most definatly change your entire build. (Build= The way your 
 character plays)
  
  Career Mechanics: Certain career's have special ways to be played, which help them in battle.
 
  
  Example: The High Elf Archmage class.
  
  The more you heal, the more powerful your attack spells are. And same goes for the other way around. 
 The more you use offence, the better you heal.
  
  This is counted on a Ying-Yang symbol which counts up to 5. Once you hit 5 your healing/damage 
 spell will be at its best.
  
  The game focuses around RVR, fighting ALOT of other players, this can be done in a few ways, and 
 can be done at any level.
  
  Scenarios can be entered anywhere, this will queue you for an RVR match that is instanced.
  
 
  You can also do open RVR, where you can run into a red zone marked on you map, and try to capture 
 certain points, and keeps.
  
  And its nice that everything you do, goes towards the overall battle effort.
  
  The idea of 
 the game is to get to tier 4 (Level 40, max level. The game is split into 4 tiers with level caps 
 so the fight is always fair) and fight on the main battle lines, in attempt to reach the other 
 sides main city. And eventually raid it and burn it to the ground. 
  
  Raiding a city will also give you special public quests to do aswell.
  
  There are 6 races, 
 and 20 classes to choose from. And each class has 3 different play styles to master, so you can 
 really put skill into building your character.
  
  This game takes a unique look at crafting, and really makes it different. Still annoying but much 
 better then other games.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  If you had to buy one mmo to play one mmo, this is it.
  It is simply the greatest one ever made. 
 Its is a cross between every mmo to date, plus everything that you could have ever wanted in the 
 mmos to date. It supplies fast fluid action, good PvE and PvP and an experience i believe any will 
 enjoy.
  
  If the word mmo attracts you, then i want you to leave home right now, and buy this.
  
  PS: 
 If your too high level and try to go into a lower level tier, your just a CHICKEN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadMuppet
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I was hyped for this game for nearly a year, voicing my hype on fansites and whatnot. I would not 
 go into this game with as high of expectations as I had.
  
  The combat is fun for a few levels. When you see your combat animations for the first time after 
 killing that ten thousandth boar, you will find it hard to grind again.
  
  The RvR in the game is pretty awesome, I'll admit. A lot of people will use this to make a bad 
 game good, saying "olol if u want PvE go play WoW kk?" - yeah... WoW's PvE is just as bad, first 
 of all. The PvE in WAR is even worse than Dark Age of Camelot's PvE. The story dialogue are essentially 
 all the same; they never do anything different besides 'Kill x' for the quests.
  
  But yes, the RvR is fun. Open RvR is a huge disappointment, but I heard it gets a lot better when 
 you get to Praag [tier 4 anyone?] . The scenarios are the best part, though. You can que for one 
 at level 1 and level up that way. Doing this in later tiers is not recommended, as you'll just 
 be a waste to the team with how stronger the higher levels in your tier are to you. You NEED to 
 PvE; not only to level, but to get the 'good' gear. Gear you get from grinding influence bars all 
 the way up [you'll need to do this] is the best kind in the game. at least in the lower levels. 
 Realm rank gear is okay if you need to balance yourself out with more resist, though, but at the 
 cost of yummy stat boosts.
  
  All the gear looks the same for your class. This may change during tier 4.
  
  The hide cape/helm 
 option only hides it to YOU, but other players still see it.
  
  The chat system is obtrusive to, well, chatting. You get waaay too much unneeded combat/loot text.
 
  
  I'd say the classes in general is the only standable thing in the game. If you are, however, wanting 
 a game sheerly for class diversity, than this game is for you.
  
  I could go on and on... I just really don't suggest this game. And no, I'm not a WoW fanboi - I 
 actually didn't enjoy WoW, but I think it's still a better game than this. You may not trust a 
 level 35 troll rogue on this, but I have other MMOs I've played to the endgame. This is just one 
 of those that never gets better even at endgame.
  
  And you -really- need to play the game passed level 11 to see how bad the leveling is. It's easily 
 fixable by the developers, but it won't get me to play again. It's missing too many small features 
 to really make it an MMO. I'd consider WAR maybe... a half an MMO.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KCgirlgeek1963
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 26, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't think my expectations were unrealistic. I'm not big on just buying in to "game hype." But 
 there were some expectations I think that I did have for WAR, and sadly, those sparse few... were 
 unmet.
  
  I expected a community, yet there was absolutely ZERO chat going on anywhere regarding anything. 
 After the first 4 days of this, I started to wonder if the chat was broken. I tried to talk to 
 some people... just even a simple hello. The game world was swarming with people and yet, it was 
 like playing an MMO that was a single player game. I realize the game is new, but good heavens... this 
 was just absurd.
  
  I expected PvP to be somehow actually innovative. What I got were "scenarios" that were like tiny 
 versions of World of Warcraft's battlegrounds, queue and ALL. /sigh Oh yes, there were definitely 
 MORE of them, but they were not anything even remotely "innovative," in my opinion.
  
  The public quests were a new thing and they were actually fun UNTIL... you realized that you were 
 playing with a bunch of greedy people who would roll "need" on items that dropped DURING the PQ, 
 even on things their class couldn't USE, and they didn't care if it was a huge upgrade for YOU. 
 /another sigh
  
  The keep sieges were fun.... sort of. The quests were sub-par, nothing NEW here, really. 
  
 
  It was cool that everything your realm did contributed to the "betterment" of your realm's main 
 city (The Inevitable City or Altdorf) . That was indeed a nice twist. And the Tome of Knowledge 
 was interesting. 
  
  I still felt like I was just reaching for that next set of renown rank gear, like in any other 
 MMO on the market, just trying to get better so I could survive longer against the other side.
 
  
  Overall the game wasn't BAD. It just didn't "grab me." I felt no real sense of immersion. It felt 
 a little like Unreal Tournament wrapped in an MMO fantasy wrapper. I logged out for the last time 
 recently, and felt... a bit disappointed. Sadly, I don't wake up in the morning anxious to log in 
 and see what's going on or anything. That's not a good sign, in my opinion. I guess the game is 
 just not for ME.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerdude95
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Quick, fun, and still rewarding PvE content, as well as some PvE that takes a bit longer, and is 
 just as fun and rewarding, if not more than, the other PvE content. 
  RvR is by far the best PvP system yet, Scenarios are tons of fun, and only take about 15 minutes, 
 while the Open World RvR is something I could do constantly and not even notice several months 
 pass by. WoW really made the first MMO that was truly A GAME, something that was made to be fun, 
 unlike most MMO's before it. WAR has taken that to a whole new level. Everything I do in this game, 
 I find myself enjoying almost every second of it. They have removed/reduced the things that made 
 WoW less fun, such as death penalties and grinding. But this game is not for raiders. Because there 
 is no raiding. It is the games greatest weakness, and at the same time one of its many strengths. 
 I still plan on trying out Wrath of the Lich King however, as I like WoW a lot, but it just doesnt 
 compare to Warhammer atm.
  *Edit* The 100+ hours spent counts my time in beta
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrriggzz99
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  all i can say is if u like wow or did like wow u will like this 20 times more.. i was playing wow 
 since 04 lately kinda gottan tired of it got warhammer and talk about awesome the quest are great 
 the graphics are great all the classes are great the pve is great with plenty of dungeons to explore 
 also 30 hidden lairs to find through out the world.. tons of pvp action capture the flag death 
 match king of the hill, domination, murder ball, this game seriosly makes wow's boring grind pvp 
 crap looks bad very bad pvp on warhammer online is actually fun.... not so much a grind.. but the 
 cool thing is u get xp from doing pvp wich u can start at lvl 1 this game took me maby a day or 
 so to get me away from wow.. just because the wow addiction but now im trying to get all my wow 
 guildies over here on warhammer there is amazing cities lol forces of order side reminds me allot 
 of alliance and forces of destruction will remind u of horde but thing about warhammer online they 
 did everything wow has done but +++ more anyways one thing this game dose have pretty nice graphics 
 allot better then wow so u will need a pretty nice pc to run it im running a quad core 3gb ram 
 8800gt and runs just right and smooth and good.. so ide say prolly need sumthing about that to get 
 best experiance well thats all.. go to warhammeronline. wikia. com to see lots of good info about 
 the game see ya there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bimble
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Warhammer Online's biggest advertising point is the game's Realm versus Realm action, and fortunately 
 for them it doesn't disappoint. If you have absolutely no interest in PvP, Warhammer is definitely 
 not a game you'll want to pick up - PvP is an integral part of the game almost from the beginning. 
 Even if you have only a casual interest in PvP, though, it's worth trying. The PvP and PvE components 
 in the game complement each other well, with rewards from each benefiting both styles of play. 
 And, more importantly, the PvP is a blast.
  
  The first thing to note is that PvP does not feel tacked-on or like an extra feature in WAR. There 
 are no stats designed just for PvP, and while your tactics will of course change when you're fighting 
 players instead of mobs, I haven't run into any skills yet that are useful in PvE that aren't also 
 useful in PvP (even a tank's taunt is designed to have PvP utility) . The gear you can get from 
 PvP rewards works well in PvE and vice-versa. While PvP has its own ranking system, you also gain 
 regular class experience from PvP battles, so frequent PvPing is just as viable a means of leveling 
 up as constant questing.
  
  PvP is also easy to get into in the course of PvE questing. If you want to jump into a scenario 
 (the more structured form of PvP, where two sides face each other on an instanced map) , you can 
 queue up for a scenario tied to the zone you're in at any time. After a match ends you're put right 
 back where you were in the game world when you entered the match - no NPCs to talk to, and no warping 
 from your quest area back to a city. You can go right back to where you were questing while you 
 re-queue and wait for a new match. There are also several world PvP objectives, including keeps 
 that require larger groups and some organization to seize. There are quests from warcamps that 
 will take you into PvP zones, either to scout objectives or to kill NPCs, so even on servers that 
 aren't open PvP you'll run some risks if you want to complete all PvE quests.
  
  The endgame of WAR is primarily centered around the campaign to capture the other faction's capital 
 city. This takes the form of multiple zones that must be controlled, either through controlling 
 PvP objectives or completing quests. Unlock the zones in the way and you open up access to assault 
 the city's main keeps, which look like a pretty massive undertaking. Get through it all and capture 
 the city's king and your side gets bonuses and access to some of the best gear in the game.
  
  Finally, it's worth noting that there's collision detection between players in PvP, and the 
 skills and maps are designed with that in mind. There are benefits to having tanks in front, and 
 reasons to attack tanks. You can block choke points with tanks and keep healers and ranged DPS 
 behind them, for example. That makes for a much more tactical experience than just zerging the 
 other side and hoping your healers don't die too quickly.
  
  On the regular PvE front, most quests are pretty standard fare. Kill so many mobs, talk to this 
 NPC, put a head on a pike, etc. Item collection quests are a bit nicer than many games in that 
 every kill of a quest mob will yield an item, so no frustration when the random drops don't favor 
 you. The quests are pretty well-written, and objectives are usually clearly marked on your map 
 in the form of red blobs that indicate the general area where you can find an NPC or quest mobs.
 
  
  There are dungeons in the game but not as many as one might be used to from other MMOs. Instead 
 there are numerous Public Quests to be found as you work your way through zones. PQs are areas 
 where everyone nearby contributes to the overall quest completion - kill 50 wolves, break 20 barrels, 
 etc. You gain experience according to your contribution whether you're grouped or not, as well 
 as "influence points" that can be accumulated to earn item rewards for each area. The open party 
 system makes it easy to join a group for these PQs (handy for healers, and for getting healed) , 
 and once the final objective is satisfied everyone who contributed gets a chance to select a loot 
 reward (the chance is weighted based on your contribution, and on how many times you've been through 
 the PQ lately without getting any loot) . It's a nice idea, and it means that even when soloing 
 you can wind up working with other players.
  
  A final PvE feature to note are entries in the Tome of Knowledge. The Tome is a combination lorebook/quest 
 log/achievement log. You unlock entries in a variety of ways, both through PvE and PvP, but for 
 PvE I wanted to point out the Tome unlocks that reward exploration. Scattered through the game 
 world are NPCs you can talk to for surprise Tome unlocks, and there are usable items in obscure 
 corners of zones that do the same. Tome unlocks get you a blurb of lore in your book, but also 
 gets you some experience. Some can also lead to unlocking "tactics", which are bonuses you can 
 tie to a character (like doing extra damage against spiders - you can change active tactics, but 
 only a limited number can be active at a time) . It's a good system for rewarding the sort of players 
 who like to explore every inch of a zone, not just the quest areas.
  
  I won't go into a list of classes and races, but would be remiss if I didn't at least summarize. 
 There are three races per faction, and each has three or four classes specific to that race. Classes 
 are designed according to familiar archetypes (tank, healer, ranged DPS, etc.) . The races on the 
 Order side are "good" and the ones on Destruction are "evil". They play those to the hilt in the 
 quests, though there are occasional quests that hint at some hypocrisy underneath the good facades 
 (like the witch-hunts carried out by the "good" human race to root out Chaos) . The "evil" races 
 are actually pretty evil. So don't look for too many subtleties in the lore, but have fun with 
 the over-the-top nature of some quests (like an early Chaos quest to find a wounded soldier, kill 
 him because he's clearly too weak to live, and bring his sword back so someone else can use it) . 
 Each side also has a race that works a good bit of humor into their quests and skills (dwarves 
 and greenskins) .
  
  Population imbalances are evident, time will tell if those will be corrected or if each server 
 is just going to be stuck with one side being outnumbered by their enemies. Higher server population 
 does mean more frequent scenarios and an easier time getting warbands together to siege keeps, 
 so be aware of that when you choose where to play. I find that even medium population servers can 
 get regular scenarios running, but the population tends to focus on a particular match-up (so the 
 human scenario will run more frequently than the elf scenario or the dwarf/greenskin scenario, 
 since that's where most people will queue up) .
  
  Like all MMOs we've seen so far, there are some bugs and balance issues that will need to be addressed. 
 Unlike some recent MMO releases (*cough* AoC *cough*) , Warhammer Online feels feature-complete 
 and fairly polished. All the hyped features are there on release, so the devs will be free to work 
 on bugs, balancing, and new content.
  
  For my own style of play this is a great game. In WoW (to pick a popular example) I didn't have 
 much to do with PvP because I preferred PvE, and most of the rewards from PvP were aimed at helping 
 just PvP. I also hated that PvP was something I'd commit to instead of PvE while I was doing it, 
 so leveling would be put on hold for a time. That's not the case in Warhammer, so I find myself 
 enjoying PvP a whole lot more. I can do that and PvE interchangeably with little downtime between 
 either, and neither feels like wasted time. Both contribute to your success in the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZacherWol19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  The reason why i didn't give it a ten is because a ten to me is some thing that is so good that 
 im still playing it even though the graphics are 20 years outdated which has never happened.
  The Basics:
  Graphics:
  Better than WoW, worse than AOC. The ground is pixely but the rest 
 looks way better than WoW
  Gameplay:
  Just pure fun, besides the cast a spell and action bar is still going the combat works fine. 
 
  Gameplay (in-depth) "
  Ok so theres 4 basic way to play: Scenarios, Open RvR (which is under populated but fine because 
 it just came out) , Public quest, and questing.
  So pretty much unlike WoW were questing is boring there is always a alternative (that's fun) to 
 grinding and questing
  Questing works well because you rack up a bunch of quest up for each chapter and get all influence 
 rewards and go to next chapter.
  Scenarios are fun because there more fair than WoW's and just better than capturing a flag. All 
 the maps are also the perfect size.
  The Lay down:
  Graphics: 8/10, but i did give WoW a 5/10
  Gameplay:10/10 this game will allow anyone to have 
 hours of intense gameplay for hours on end.
  Even though i had 2 lvl 70's in wow and had racked up over 1,000 gold and had awesome armor and 
 was excited about Wrath of the lich king i still like WAR so much better.
  Thank you for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoction
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok, it may be obvious, but be certain that you pick a full realm if you want to RvR. I have toons 
 on full (near instant queue) and some on medium. The medium population servers nearly never pop 
 for RvR (order side, though Im not sure it matters) . Aside from that, as I said, there's a lot 
 of polish on a game this early into release. Sure there are problems, quest bugs to bushes floating 
 overhead. But lag is at a minimum (on full detail) and it truly gives the feeling of War... The 
 PQ system is a nice touch as well, and a great way to meet folks to quest with in the area (if 
 you're stuck waiting on the RvR queues) ... Also, XP for RvR? Rules. I can't yet comment on the 
 crafting system aside from the fact that the explanation system for crafting Talismans is non-existent, 
 I still don't know what a "fragment" is, but then again, I gave up and went on to other things. 
 This one may just stick around for a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ned^Kelly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Update: Have a lvl40 character now and 2 more in the mid-20's. 
  
  With the recent patches Mythic have added, this game continues to get better and better. 
  
 
  The latest 1.1 patch has really sparked the war in WAR!
  
  If you haven't yet or if you left in the early days of this game, I would reccomend having another 
 look! 
  
  Cheers
  Ned.
  
  :) 
  
  Played through to the end of Tier 3 so far.... and loving it!
  
  Played a White Lion and an 
 Iron Breaker and really enjoy both classes. Melee classes seem to have a real role in RvR, due 
 in no small part to inclusion of Collision Detection in all PvP battles.
  
  Can't review the other classes, but from what my guildies say they are all enjoying their classes 
 also.
  
  Have really enjoyed teaming up with other guilds and forming "Warbands" and attacking enemy fortress 
 and defending our own.
  
  There are a few bugs and some small server issues (I'm not on a server with a Que) , but the game 
 is very polished and ready for the launch. IMHO; WAR could well be (with good follow up patchs 
 and content) in the weeks and months to come - The Best MMO ever!
  
  Can't wait for the tier 4, and end game with sacking city and all that goes with it! The RvR is 
 a great idea and WAR pvp is everything WOW isn't and could hope to be!
  
  I can see a massive advantage to players of each side in working together to achieve goals that 
 benefit all of their side of the the server WAR. This should build really strong communities in 
 WAR.
  
  
  Give it a try, you'll love it I swear! 
  
  Cheers
  Ned
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberhamtaro
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  This game contains all mots of what you want the World of Warcraft and other MMORPGs to have. But 
 there are fews things that they don't have what other good MMORPGS already have...
  
  First thing that impress me is the quest system. The map in the game will highlight the area and 
 states which quests located in the location. Save time and resource from opening game wiki or thottbot 
 and also looks nicer. If you think it's too easy? Well, you can turn this handicap off! 
  
  Public quest is the best of all quest in MMORPG, no drama, no steal kill, no ninja looter, so players 
 can put all their effort into heal the allies or damage the enemies. In the end, it will calculate 
 your effort and let you choose your loot, which quality based on how much effort you put on. 
 
  
  RVR is very similar to WoW battleground, except you can actually get a solid exp, renown points, 
 and influence. So it makes the RVR worthwhile and you may even get to level up along with it. Works 
 pretty well for those who love to pvp.
  
  The downfall of this game is that despite the crappy graphic (a little bit better than Shadowbane, 
 but worst than Lineage. I means the graphic is outdated!) , somehow the gameplay can get a very 
 bad frame rate and stuttering. 
  
  I'm looking forward to their improvement for sure.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIN-dycate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Reviewer's Preface:
  
  I believe Gamespot reviewers have the right answer, experience, then review. There have been many 
 reviews in the first weeks of release, some great and others an assault on character. None of these 
 reviews have really given the game time to sink in to distinguish the game's true rating. Well 
 I won't fall into hypocrisy, so instead I'm going to fairly weigh what can be reviewed. 
  
  The Review:
  
  The Warhammer universe is vast and nearly unrivaled in its back story, en regard 
 to mass of literature. The Black Library has given the developers of Warhammer Online: The Age 
 of Reckoning a lot to work with as well as much more to stand up to. WAR does deliver with a great 
 and rich story; however this alone doesn't necessarily make a great game. Game-play is what really 
 drives a game to greatness or buries it in failure. 
  
  The controls are solid; of course these are the same controls across the majority of games in its 
 class. The controls go hand in hand with the user interface, which again we don't really get anything 
 new here. You are however able to resize and move every item on the interface. As a whole the interface 
 is pretty much on the spot, my only gripes with it lie in the guild window. It is a bit cumbersome 
 to manage allied guilds. Though this is a minor issue and overall, controls and interface are for 
 the most part solid. "But how does the game play?" Well at the time that this was written the game 
 play is with no better word, fun. Taking the player vs. environment, the game only rises above 
 the bar by a hair. Everything you've grown to love AND hate about massive multiplayer online role 
 playing games (MMORPG or MMO for those not living under a rock) . You run around take up quests, 
 go kill things, gather items, and talk to people all in the name of the lazy NPCs (non-player characters) . 
 However strangely this is where the game rises above with its PQ, the strangely addictive Public 
 Quest. Quests that range from three to seven stages involving anyone that happens to wonder by 
 the semi-large area it takes place in. For the most part you don't have to wander the vast world 
 to find them, your old school quests will eventually take you there. There are a handful that are 
 out of the way, but finding them can be very rewarding. The looting system set in place for these 
 large quests is rather intuitive and based on your contribution to the effort, giving you items 
 that cannot be found anywhere else. Not only do you get a nice reward in items, but you also get 
 an achievement for find the hidden PQ which gets stored in your tome of knowledge. Strangely the 
 tome of knowledge does rise as a game of its own. In WAR you receive achievements for practically 
 anything you do and collecting them is half the fun. In example of an achievement, click on yourself 
 100 times and receive the title "Ow My Eye!" or get resurrected 100 times and get "The Reborn." 
 You not only receive titles, you'll receive a compendium of story added to your tome. This is all 
 fine, but the game isn't without its failures. Your NPC enemies aren't very responsive, you could 
 shoot one standing right next his friend (I assume) talking (about who knows what) and that shot 
 enemy will run to you and attack. His friend though will just stand there and keep talking to the 
 place where his friend was. The AI just leaves a lot to be desired; in fact it's just not there.
 
  
  What better AI is there than AI (Actual Intelligence) , well we'll assume other people are intelligent 
 at least to some degree. Player vs. player, PvP or as Mythic Ent. has coined RvR, realm vs realm 
 is where the game really wins one over. The RvR is split up into two categories Scenarios and open 
 RvR. Scenarios are instanced environments which you can join in by simply clicking an icon by your 
 mini-map. These are limited battles with common goals for both sides, i. e. capture the flag, capture 
 and control, keep the artifact, etc. These games are fun short games, pitting you against your 
 rivaling faction. Scenarios aside, you'll also be able to participate in open RvR where you and 
 hundreds upon hundreds of your fellow faction players will be able to wage war against your enemy, 
 take forts, keeps, cannons, etc. Your efforts are not in vain, the victories in these small battles 
 will add to the overall war allowing for invasions of the capital cities. 
  
  The experiences I've had thus far have been for the most part great. The game has delivered with 
 its story, solid controls, great audio effects, special effects, and great RvR. The issues are 
 small and don't really hinder the experience too much. Such flaws; long queue times having to wait 
 to actually play the game depending on your server's population, poor PvE AI, at times Scenarios 
 can be laggy, and few options in crafting professions. Overall the experience has been great, the 
 good does out weigh the bad. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jobadas
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, I love the rvr and they have made MMORPG's more fun. Money in the game doesn't 
 seam to be an issue which is great. You shouldn't have to scrape and save so you can buy your next 
 spell. Wanna level? Just log on and play. Always something new to do and you can jump into rvr 
 when ever you want for the most part. The public quest were a great idea and give you something 
 to do with only a few minutes of time. I am hoping at some point you will have the option to pick 
 your rvr place instead of being put into the same one. I think that will come at higher leves. 
 The fact that you can join rvr at level 2 is great and lets you get your teeth wet, not to mention 
 your sword. Magic users can really do what they are intended to do. You stay the distance or get 
 in close. Try different classes, you will be amazed at the variety the Warhammer has to offer. 
 Good or bad, Holy or Evil, Order or Destruction. There is something here for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waximizer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  Behold Blizzard, Mythic is at the gates :)
  
  And they've done a frickin good job.
  With such a flawless version as we've got here, Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning is gonna please 
 and revolutionise the genre with its brand new elements.
  
  2 sides. 6 races. 20 classes. PvP scenarios from rank (forget your levels) 2. Exclusive RvR system. 
 Exclusive Public Quest system. Possibility of griding it up to rank 40 by killing other players 
 uniquely. Living leveling up guilds. Mounts at rank 20. Huge Tome of Knowledge. Huge bosses. Huge 
 game. A million and a half copies sold.
  
  It's soon going to be 2 weeks I spend on WAR and finally I see by myself the result of thousand 
 hours of development put into work to create this masterpiece. And it's dazzingly looking good.
 
  
  What are you waiting for? This is the WoW killer. Or maybe not :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhungry
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  This has the potential to be a great game, however, it's all in the details, and the details are 
 what kills it.
  
  As of this writing, the minor oversights that abound in this game are a killer. Simple UI bugs 
 such as the chat window resize feature not working right and random repositions of it, unclear 
 chat commands (Why isn't /1 in the list of commands to chat with along with /say, /party, etc?) , 
 no auto-skipping of the intro movie every time, EULA agreements every time you play, the password 
 box doesn't automatically take focus when you start the game (you have to select the user/pw window 
 with the mouse before you can type in it at all!) , a crafting interface that's unclear about what 
 you'll get when you create a talisman, etc... all of these are petty and minor, but added up, they 
 equal less fun.
  
  Even more concerning to me are the areas of realm populations and graphics lag. Playing on a low-pop 
 server (I joined the first one suggested by Mythic to see where this would lead) has been hell 
 trying to get a group of any kind, let alone get in on any RvR action. Even at peak times the wait 
 has been 1/2 hour or more for a Scenario group as a solo player. They really need to combine servers 
 (DAoC and WoW both ended up doing this for similar issues!) or allow characters to wander servers... 
 Guild Wars and CoH did this, and it works wonders. They also need to display CURRENT realm populations 
 rather than totals. Current stats are more useful in deciding which server to play on; a server 
 may be high pop total, but drop to nothing at night (when i'm up usually!) .
  
  In the graphics realm my concerns have shot up dramatically. My system isn't flashy, but it's not 
 a completely inadequate beast either (AMD x2 3800+, 2gigs, nVidia 7600GT) . I can play in the "PvE" 
 world at medium to all high settings with acceptable FPS lag (not much actually) , and the world 
 looks gorgeous. As soon as I join an RvR scenario though, the video lag is astounding and unacceptable, 
 even when I lower to the game's "Balanced" settings. Performance shouldn't have THAT much variance 
 that I have to change all my settings just for RvR combat.
  
  Overall, a well meant and designed game... but it's biting the dust hard for me right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canigia1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  WAR is an impressive MMORPG. Its early to comment on full scale but this game seems so right. It 
 has everything I want. XP from PVP, great lore (way better than WOW- and don't be mistaken WOW 
 was seriously influenced by the warhammer universe which existed 20 years before the first warcraft 
 game came to be) , class balance (at this early stage? YES) the public quests are an awesome idea 
 (although the no lifers who want to reach 40 as soon as possible so they can ejaculate dont play 
 them) , renown points are the real deal and you generally feel you are participating in a great 
 war. you feel that you are fighting. it looks like a lot like WOW though but that's not bad. WOW 
 sells so WAR wants to sell too. But in depth this is a totally different game. It will be head 
 to head with WOW within 2009. 
  Oh and it has customer support. I had a problem today (couldnt log in with a certain char) and 
 I got a personal response in half an hour in my email. Thats impressive if you can consider the 
 200 petitions i made in crappy Age of boring Conan and still after 1 month of quitting it I haven't 
 received a response. WAR can be big. It's risky though because its balance and health is based 
 solely on players. The main problem is that destruction are way more than order (order is though 
 the elite player force- like horde in WOW) . So players do your best for this lovely gem to continue 
 its march. Magus rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digitking
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Decent game but nothing earth shattering or life changing. Couple things I liked and couple of 
 things I hated.
  
  Pros: - Liked the Public Quests and Influence rewards (concerned that in a 2 weeks + starting areas 
 will be empty though) . - Absolutely loved the mini map and quest tracking. - Liked getting experience 
 from RvR and killing other people.
  
  Cons: - Hated Public Quests when there's no one around. I'm a level 16 Witch Hunter and I can't 
 find anyone to do public quests, but they're the only way to get any gear so it's just one long 
 grind each chapter. - Hate not being able to buy/get any gear. I have 7 blues but they're all locked 
 to me : (. - Graphics are nice but the game is really sluggish for me.
  
  MOST ANNOYING THING: I play on a Open RvR server, I did so knowingly. SO WHY DO I HAVE TO CONTINUE 
 ACCEPT THE EULA and Open RVR disclaimer every time I load the game before I can play? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsac122
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  A good WoW alternative for burned out players or PVP oriented players. I urge anyone to at least 
 try this game. 
  
  A long time WoW player, I am awaiting WOLTK. However this game is filling the void just perfectly 
 for me right now. And you know what, it IS good. Really good. Good enough, that Blizzard better 
 be worried. If WOTLK tanks like BC did, they may lose a substantial number to WAR. 
  
  In many ways WAR is a mirror of WOW. PVE wise, combat wise, of course race/class wise. And even 
 the overall look of the game is similar (less cartoony) . There are times when you feel like you 
 are playing an updated version of WoW (IN PVE anyway) . That's not a bad thing either. It is intuitive 
 and easy to use out of the box. Quests are easy to follow and the MAP rocks. 
  
  PVP/RVR is another story. Immediately upon entering the world you are struck by the shear size 
 of everything. You can tell that Mythic envisioned 100 man battles in every nook and cranny of 
 the world. IT IS MASSIVE. For WOW players, most of the world in WAR has the feel of AV. Its a world 
 torn by war and it is massive. You can see for miles (although the draw distance needs work) . The 
 PVP system is an upgrade over wow. The fact that you can level in PVP solely if you choose, is 
 epic. 
  The Combat is a touch slower than WOW. But, at this time it is pretty much balanced. Which is something 
 that WOW never has been able to claim.
  
  It is early but I see a sizable number of PVP oriented WOW players moving to WAR permanently. 
 
  
  Overall an 8.5 in my opinion. Anyway my 2c
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: urkdrengi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Quests, Public Quests, Tome of Knowledge, Dungeons & Lairs, Scenarios, Open RvR - Open World Battle 
 Objectives, Keep Sieges, Capital Sieges and the WARHAMMER Universe...
  
  If you like all of that, any of that, or... chickens, then say goodbye to the old and prepare for 
 FUN. Even with bugs and glitches aplenty, I can't wait until my next play session. After extensively 
 playing just about every major MMO on the market you come to realize these things are just inevitable 
 with something of this complexity. For an initial launch of this scale, WAR has has exceeded my 
 expectations there. If I have faith in one game company, it's Mythic. They are truly passionate 
 about Warhammer, and have displayed a forthrightness among the community the likes of which I've 
 never seen among developers. They are all nuts, and continually earn my respect and patronage.
 
  
  Despite initial content cuts WAR delivers plenty to get started, and it'll only continue to improve 
 for years to come. You can bet on it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatalShot84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Very fun and never a boring moment. Leveling is also a blast. You can quest 
 and when you get bored you can pvp ranging from Scenarios to RVR activities and still gain experience 
 and loot. Not to mention PQ's, which are also a blast. 
  
  Living guilds are also amazing. Your guilds actually have it's own level as well. When you level 
 this up you gain access you merchants only available through guilds as well as loot, skills, tactics, 
 and dungeons. All only reachable through guilds. Don't get me started on guild banners.
  
  For anyone to say this game is WOW then I'm sure you haven't played this game if not much. This 
 game has way to many new idea's to be anything like WoW. The only thing I can compare between the 
 two is they are both great games.
  
  I have done everything in this game other than end game content, which I'm looking very forward 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nodashi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  WAR.
  
  Mythic/EA made everything to make that acronym stick. Why? Because it's the main selling point 
 to the game. And it works.
  
  I'll compare it to WoW. Sorry if it makes you sad, it's the market benchmark.
  
  WoW is a great 
 game. I played it for almost 5 years and it gave me a lot of fun. But the endgame is simply not 
 for me. Raiding can be a blast the first and second time you go somewhere, but having to farm places, 
 scheduke times you cannot go out cause you have to farm instances... it's not simply boring, it's 
 ridiculous.
  
  Now forgive me if you are a hardcore PvEr that loves raids and heroic quests (I'll not add dailies 
 because I seriously doubt ANYONE can defend daily stupidity) ; I should have said it first - WAR 
 is not a PvE game like WoW.
  
  It's not a PvP only game like some claim it to be tough. If they where right it would be WoW all 
 over again too. You farm BGs, grab gear and use it... in BGs.
  
  The elegance in WAR is that the game blends PvP and PvE in a seamless way. There's no difference 
 in PvP and PvE gear, taunts are great in PvP, player kills give XP and loot... it feels much more 
 natural. Even endgme PvE and PvP are linked since both happen in the enemy capital.
  
  The PvE side of the game is weel written and scripted. Being overly simplistic for your time's 
 sake, it's almost like WoW if not by de adition of Public Quests.
  
  I know, you heard about them before, but lemme add this - the mechanic WORKS. I can see almost 
 every MMO from now using some version of this concept because for the FIRST time you can play a 
 RAID without having to prepare and schedule it or spend 6 hours in a capital shouting, hopping 
 someone else also has a lame guild and join you.
  
  (If you don't know what public quests are, please search it at youtube, the game developers can 
 explain much better than me - but it basically makes the quest open for everyone in the area, loot 
 is rolled based on how much you helped and you gain influence to gain some nice gear) .
  
  The RvR areas are nice, keep sieges are great, very entertaning experiences. The PvP side is well 
 covered and has been really well done.
  
  I waited some time to write this review cause I wanted to test things myself, not only hear about 
 them, to testify. So I must say - I never attacked a capital.
  
  That said, it sounds a BLAST.
  
  My best experiences in my 5 years of WoW where:
  outdoors 
 massive PvP, capital raiding (in both offense and defence) and guild vs guild world PvP. The problem 
 is, you usually almost never did that cause there was no prize and everyone want to evolve in MMOs.
 
  
  In WAR all of those are fundamental parts of the endgame.
  
  I'm playing WAR a lot and loving every minute of it. It's very well polished for a recently lauched 
 MMO.
  
  And yes, it deserves the acronym. It is WAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bull_Buchanan
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  While, it's true that Warhammer Online takes few chances with the features it chooses to implement, 
 it's also true that it combines many of the genres most successful ideas and creates one of the 
 more enjoyable experiences available.
  
  Warhammer Online makes it no secret that the game centers around Player vs. Player combat. While 
 games like World of Warcraft have modes like Battlegrounds that are very similar to the Scenarios 
 you'll find in WAR, Mythic takes it a step further by integrating each and every combat directly 
 into the game-world experience, with a constant tug-of-war, for control of the realm. Additionally, 
 everything you accomplish, from Quests, to PvP Kills, Scenarios, and Realm vs Realm combat feed 
 directly into this system, insuring that every player does indeed have an impact on their world 
 and the players within it.
  
  Mythic ensures that players feel obligated to participate in their realm's success by offering 
 a myriad of rewards for accomplishments. When realm objectives are met, every player allied with 
 the objective receives experience and Renown Points, which can be used to purchase class-specific 
 gear. Additionally, as objectives are controlled, the controlling alliance receives bonuses to 
 shop prices, experience, and Renown Points, as well as the ability to obtain special Buffs from 
 NPC Commanders at the objectives.
  
  In short, Warhammer Online doesn't change anything about what an MMO does, but it revolutionizes 
 how and why we do it, making it a breath of fresh air in a saturated market.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nothing420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Great Game!!! I like it better than WoW as for now. I guess it is all the things that WoW did not 
 deliver on a pvp front, and with the casual gamer in mind. The PvP is great and that is all there 
 is to it. I also love the community quests, and how loot is distributed, even if you are not grouped 
 up. I helped an angry giant attack a dwarven castle with several other players. I was not grouped 
 with any of them. When the battle was finished it checks out your battle contribution ( Damage and 
 healing etc) and it gives you an added percent to your loot roll, if you contributed heavily. Then 
 it rolls and you have a good chance on getting some exciting loot, without having to be in a large 
 group. I am a casual gamer that says Warhammer online is pure fun!!! They nailed all the races 
 and classes that you would want to play, while keeping true to the Warhammer universe. RvR is what 
 I have been waiting for, ever since I played DAoC. Go Mythic you have created a very pretty gem. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshS24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  I feel that WAR is a great MMO in my opinion. At first, probably like everyone else, I compared 
 every nook and cranny to World of Warcraft. While doing that I found myself getting frustrated 
 because it wasn't like WoW. Which, after a few hours I realized was totally stupid. Its a different 
 game than WoW, so I started taking it that way and I started to enjoy it. I am hearing a lot of 
 complaints about bugs and ect, but if you remember when Burning Crusade came out, it was freaking 
 HORRIBLE, and that company already had a huge base of players on their MMO for over 3 years, and 
 still had worse problems. And you will see that with Lich King too. Aside from that, this game 
 is just a lot of fun. The public quests are great, it helps out a lot and everyone seems to put 
 their share in. My only gripe is the graphics. It seems like they didn't put all they could into 
 it. WoW's character models and animations (spells, ect) blow this one out of the water. Other than 
 that, I believe this game will challenge WoW in time. But I doubt it will take it over. I'm willing 
 to pay my monthly payments for both because I can get away from each game and go back to the other. 
 I am enjoying the PVE in Warhammer a lot more than WoW, and I am a huge PVPer in WoW, so for me 
 this game is a total hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yenkin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  It is hard to talk about the bad things in Warhammer. Quite frankly the only fault I can find so 
 far in my brief stint playing is the annoying fact that you have to acknowledge the EULA every 
 time you log on. As well as sit through the opening splash screens. You should at least be able 
 to hit Esc after the first time through.
  
  If you have played Wow, EQ, LOTRO and other online role playing game jumping into the game is a 
 breeze. Create a character from one of two sides; select a character race and class. Fill in a 
 few details on how your character should look then hit play. You are popped into your races beginning 
 area, talk to the guy with the book over his head and start playing.
  
  While most of us who play MMORPG, will recognize the usual array of Kill "X", Go Talk to "Y" type 
 of quests in the PvE quest lines of the game. This game is about PvP or in Warhammer terms RvR 
 Realm Vs. Realm. Once you do a couple of beginner quests you are quickly immersed into your first 
 RvR battle. 
  
  Talk about easy to get into unlike wow where you have to find a Battlemaster, here you just click 
 the icon, join the queue and when it is your turn you are teleported to the appropriate instance. 
 Another feature I like when you are done, you are put back to the spot where you joined. 
  
  You can earn renown and experience on the battlefield killing the opposite faction. With enough 
 renown items will open up and you can start equipping your fledgling warrior with better equipment. 
 The third piece of the game is the public quests, what a great idea. 
  
  Public quests are areas where you just walk in and start working on the quest. They are a series 
 of harder and harder encounters eventually leading up to the Ultimate Bad Guy mob. As you play 
 the public quest you accumulate contribution points. If you have a full bar of contribution points 
 when the bad guy drops you get a nice item. The more contribution the nicer the item how cool is 
 that. Not only that you can drop by the Rally Master and pick out an item as well.
  
  There are so many things right with this game I would have trouble giving anything less than 10, 
 however for some reason my Video Card loses its digital signal and resets now and again, not really 
 horrible but can take me out of play for 10  15 seconds while the machine auto detects the card 
 and goes on. This could be a simple driver issue, or I will just go out and upgrade the video card. 
 
  Either way this is a keeper
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangeix
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  I don't get it. In a time where people are so bored of WoW that they would rather spend some extra 
 hours in school or at work. Why at this time would you release another version of WoW?
  
  I mean this game has been hyped for 2 years now or so. 
  Make a good game presenting some new 
 thoughts, a new way of doing things, replace the level system with skills or whatever. Do something 
 new. Show us something we havn't seen before and people will drop WoW in a heartbeat and subscribe 
 to this game instead.
  
  I myself is so bored with games where when mosters are 3 levels higher then you they are insanely 
 hard to kill, but if you just get 1 more level you kill them with ease. 
  And when you become that max level hero you been struggling to become for weeks, and you think 
 that you would be the king of the world, you find that there are still some goblins that are 3 
 levels higher then you and insanely hard to kill.
  But wait arn't those the goblins you killed at level 1 five at the time? Yeah but these are slightly 
 more blueish which obviously makes them all the more powerful, good for them!
  
  
  Anyways here are some + for the game:
  
  +All classes are locked to races. So no gnome warriors 
 in this game.
  
  +There are Public quests which are basicly events that are happening over and over again and depending 
 own how much you participate in these events you get prices from it.
  
  +You can level up in equal or greater rate playing RvR then doing quests or mob grinding.
  
 
  
  And here are some -:
  
  -Same game as WoW, just looks a little different. Wouldn't even say it looks better. Well if you 
 hate that cartoonyness of WoW graphics then i guess this game looks better. Optimized far worse 
 though.
  
  -In a month or so when people have their lvl 40 characters the starting areas in this game will 
 probably be as empty as those in WoW. Meaning no more public quests and RvR.
  
  - EA's policy has never been to make quality games. Well Sims is good but EA are exploiting their 
 fan base by releasing 50 expansions. With one game for once try to make the best game in the world, 
 you got to have the cash by now.
  
  -If you expect the promised revolution, or were pulled in by the hype. Prepare to be disappointed. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezrydyr
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Don't be so cynical that you hold off on checking out the best MMO of the current generation. MMOs 
 crown a King of the market for a few years and then a new generation comes in, improves the genre 
 and takes the old King's place. WoW is the old King; WAR is the new. All hail the new King!
  
  I played Anarchy Online, waiting for the next big thing. SWG came out and sucked. I got cynical, 
 so ignored all the buzz about this new WoW game that was coming out. Then I joined in January after 
 the game had been rolling for a month, learning that all the hype was true.
  
  I burned out on the time sink that WoW endgame raiding became. Who wants to grind mats on your 
 off nights of the week to support the two days you raid every week? 
  
  I tried Tabula Rasa last fall. Great interface, but becomes a 'wait to get a group' to be able 
 to do anything meaningful game at midlevels. Can't log in for half an hour and have a quick break? 
 Forget it. 
  
  Next was Hellgate: London. Fun, playable, but you rn through the content at lvl 30, with 20 levels 
 to go. The answer? Repeat the content. Welcome to the grind. Blech! 
  
  Next? Lords of the Rings Online. Great story line. Good looking game. But, mostly a WoW clone with 
 few significant improvements.
  
  Then AoC comes out. The combat mechanics were awesome, and the first twenty levels were amazing, 
 but that's where that game ends. After that, it's a completely different game, riddled with bugs 
 and a distinct lack of content. So, here I am feeling cynical again.
  
  It's midsummer, WAR is on the horizon, and I'm really cynical about it. I remember writing a forum 
 post about what a piece of junk WAR is going to be because of the shutdown to the beta last year, 
 the partnership with EA, the (perceived) rush to market; and the content that got dropped (the 
 other capital cities for the other races and four classes that needed retuning) . 
  
  All I am thinking is What a disaster this is going to be. Still, I had a preorder of the CE, so 
 I decided to heck out of the preview weekend. I was blown away! The content goes forever. 
  
  The game play is fun from the outset. I don't feel the need to rush through everything to get 
 to the next new thing because there are so many things to explore with the levels I'm at. 
  
  I am not a PvP enthusiast, but have found myself loving the PvP. I don't win everygame, but 
 even the one's where we get crushed go quickly enough that I can get back in to another where I 
 am just as likely to be the crusher than crushee. 
  
  The graphics aren't overpowering; they're not supposed to be. The Devs want to minimize lag issues 
 in big multiplayer events. 
  
  They take the best stuff from other games and make it better, to make the game feel familiar, while 
 adding enough new gameplay elements to make the game feel cutting edge, new, and different. 
  
  This game has had the smoothest start I have ever seen. It has so much content that you will 
 be perpetually finding new and exciting things for a long time to come. The game scales the content 
 so that the game gets more complex as you but, but giving you the basics to tackle the new content. 
 There's even hidden raid bosses for each of the level tiers (1-10, 10-20, etc...) .
  
  The game has a party system that gets people working in groups without even realizing it. You don't 
 have to look for groups forever; just hop into something and you're part of a group whether you 
 realize it or not.
  
  You have three to four variations on each of the familiar class Archetypes, but each one has a 
 different feel to the game play. You can really find the playstyle in the archetype you enjoy best 
 suited to your personal playstyle. 
  
  There is no direct funnel to max level. You can get experience is a number of different ways. So, 
 go with whatever catches your mood on a given day. 
  
  WAR is fun. WAR runs smoothly. WAR is immersive.
  
  You can tell this game came from other 
 gamers who care. What are you waiting for? Get out there and join the WAR! WAAAAGGGGHHH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackerzc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  I do have issues with the thing. First off I'm not bit into fantasy based mmo's, I enjoy sci-fi 
 much more, but even I can get into this game (and have) .
  Yeah there are bugs, I'd expect that with any new MMO (though I believe we shouldn't have to) .
 
  There are places where the game totally falls short on expectations, while others where it really 
 shines. Hopefully the people at Mythic will get off their butts and fix those shortcomings (and 
 do it in a timely manner) . As the game is now it does feel more like a beta (quests that lead to 
 no where, no ability to alt-tab out of the game and then get back in without restarting the game, 
 etc) .
  Oh and the thing that annoys me the most? Having to accept the EULA EVERY TIME you start the game. 
 EVERY TIME!!! You have to scroll through the thing, check a box, and accept it EVERY TIME! It's 
 so annoying and un-needed. I deal with intellectual property law as it related to audio and video, 
 and there is no real reason to be so anal about the EULA. Another annoyance is EA's logo at startup. 
 I now officially hate EA after this game. I was never very fond of them, but now I simply hate 
 them for forcing me to keep their damn logo video file on my system (if you delete it, the updater 
 just puts it back) . Screw EA.
  
  Aside from the above, once you are actually in and playing, it's a lot of fun. I admit I did get 
 sucked in and it's been (mostly) fun. I do compare it to WoW a lot, as it's obvious the developers 
 used a number of WoW systems to base WAR on (things that are time proven and work well) , but there 
 are a few things where Mythic really needed to look at the WoW model a little closer.
  Both games have a similar feel, which I think is why it's easy/fun to get into Warhammer, it feels 
 familiar, but I assure you it is a totally different game unless you are one of those MMO nerds 
 that wants to be all abstract and cut everything down to it's lowest common denominator (which 
 most, but especially WoW fanboys/girls, will) .
  
  My last complaint is that soloing can be hard at times. I play a dark elf sorceresses and I do 
 it alone. Most anything is easy to kill (it's a ranged high DPS class) , but champion level creatures 
 are near impossible to solo after you level up a couple times. Even champion/Hero npcs a couple 
 levels below you. Unless you can tank, or heal, you're screwed for solo play. Same goes for RVR... 
 work as a team or else you will die... a lot. Speaking of RVR, it's one of the areas this game 
 seriously shines. I can't describe how much fun it is, that is, as long as you stick with your 
 group. Go out and try to rambo other players and they will kick your butt back to Narnia or wherever 
 the hell you came from.
  Public Quests are also a lot of fun, and the system is great how it works. A bunch of people try 
 to achieve the same goal (no instances, noting like that, these are open quests that just exist 
 in normal space that ANYONE can be part of, and join in at any time) . The quest records who did 
 what kind of damage/contributed the most, then gives each player a roll of the dice (random chance 
 at adding more points to your score) , and the people with the top scores get a prize (some times 
 really good stuff too) .
  Didn't get anything? That's ok, as long as you are in game you are given a special bonus that will 
 be applied the next time you do the quest. That bonus will just grow and grow until you DO win 
 something. I've never had to do a public quest more than 3 times in order to get a prize. And when 
 I did I was typically in the one or two spot, so the bonus must be fairly good.
  
  I say try it out. You might like it, you might now. I didn't think I would, and only got it to 
 appease my curiosity (then again I can waste $50 and not really care) , but to my surprise I actually 
 liked it and may keep it around a while... at least until something else (maybe Diablo 3) gets 
 my interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rokudan96
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  As an grizzeled old fart of a gamer, its hard not to review a game and not use the phrase "I remember 
 back when..." and not feel like some random body part should fall off and turn to dust. The bonus 
 of this is that you get to see what the biggest failure of each MMO was and how it was improved 
 in each successive game.
  
  Warhammer Online is the next logical step. Some of the problems from WoW is that unless you have 
 been somewhere, you cant fly there. This is fixed by each Tier being locked from flight until you 
 reach a specific level. The downside of this is that you lose that exploratory feel of going from 
 one area to another. The upside is there are no flight paths. No spending your hard earned in game 
 money flying from one area to another that requires 2 bathroom breaks and an in flight movie. Just 
 zones of quests and repeatable quests.
  
  Speaking of quests, the Public quest is a bit of a misnomer but its effective in what its ment 
 to do. In other MMO's, some quests that you got couldnt be done outside of a full party or even 
 a full raid. Public quests replace the party quests, and they are repeatable for fixed loot bags. 
 Plus each chapter has an influence bar that when you fill up you get some better loot. 
  
  What keeps this game from being better than an 8.5 is the fact that its not quite finished yet. 
 You would think that as barebones as the crafting system is, with only 2 major professions and 
 4 minor professions supporting those major professions, that it would be completely fleshed out. 
 Sadly only one of the professions is fleshed out, the other is more Leprosy than funcitonal. The 
 public quests gives no drops for it. The random mobs of monsters give no drops for it. Its a huge 
 money sink to get the level even remotely right.
  
  Where the game does shine is in the Player Vs Player and Realm Vs Realm combat. There is enough 
 balance in PC's so that no class really feels restrictive outside its main ethos. Obviously an 
 archer class isnt going to cast spells, but it can DPS with the best of the tanks and casters. 
 Most casters are a mix of DPS and heal, so you can do which ever one you want to. 
  
  The game also shines in the guild system. In WoW, if you arn't in the right guild and/or don't 
 play at the right time, so much of the game is locked out from you its almost like you are playing 
 only half a game. And the odd dychotomy of the game is that being in a guild is important, but 
 it wont keep you from experiencing the game. Through out the world are keeps that can only be taken 
 by guilds. Once a guild has taken the keep, they are usable by all, but its still up to the guilds 
 to take them. This lets the power gamers be power gamers, the casual gamers be casual gamers, and 
 everyone gets to play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesse1977
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Pro's:
  
  1. I know others have written this game off as a clone of Lotro and Wow but it's not. If you give 
 it time you'll find that it's way more ambitious and has much greater depth then both of the games 
 combined. And I'm saying this as someone who played it for about 10 hours and wasn't really that 
 impressed but when you allow yourself more time to understand the game you'll be simply amazed 
 by the depths they go too. Plus the graphics are much better then wow and a little better then 
 Lotro.
  2. RVR, Public quests, contested zones, and Vast Cities that seem to never end and have endless 
 things to do.
  
  Con's: 
  
  1. The maps are confusing at first but you eventually get use to them.
  2. Bugs. They've done 
 a great job for the most part but there's still launch bugs like every MMO.
  3. You don't chat with people as much since they make it so easy to party up with others that it's 
 almost not needed. Kind of miss the conversations..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikkup
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I went into Warhammer Online not expecting too much especially after the disappointments of AoC 
 and Vanguard. Boy was I pleasantly surprised. At first I wasn't too sure about the game from adventuring 
 around the starting area because the beginning quest are your typical kill this many of this or 
 find that. So I would only play a little bit before going back to the WotLK beta but once I moved 
 outside the starting area and got to experience more the depth of the game and the different areas 
 I have never returned to WotLK beta. I have become totally addicted to this game. It has much more 
 depth than a lot of games I have played recently. One of the little things that I think just help 
 really make this game great is the public quest. I love that you can contribute without having 
 to find a group. The use of reknown points to buy equipment is really a great idea. It makes you 
 care more about progressing the story. I think they have done a lot of things right with this game 
 and I can see myself playing it for some time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenfeen
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Online - Age of Reckoning is a solid gaming experience that I'm fairly certain most to 
 all gamers can find a little corner of to enjoy.
  
  It can be a touch overwhelming the first few levels. It takes a level or two to get the feel of 
 the game design. 
  
  Right out of the gate if you wander a few paces in one direction you can quest and pve, move off 
 in another direction and your in a large public quest zone fighting with or competing against fellows 
 players depending how you see it for npcs that pop with staged objectives. Also move a touch and 
 you can que for your first pvp scenario. Furthermore you gain two or three levels you move slightly 
 down map and your in your first rvr zone. This format of everything being quickly accessable runs 
 throughout the whole game.
  
  This game is well designed for the casual gamer. Everything is within reach in a moments time. 
 Groups are very easy to come by. All groups by default are considered open. So if you need help 
 just click the open group button sort by distance and join. If your running with you buddies and 
 have a closed group you must open party options and actually close it to others. Its a nice twist 
 putting the onus of a whole rival side to work together.
  
  There is a ton of fun classes in this game and many peeps will take forever to leave the early 
 game stages because they will just have to try them all. Its also important that you cannot have 
 an Order character and a Destruction character on the same server. So no logging out and logging 
 back in on the other side to be a part of the bigger zerg.
  
  As fun as this game is there is some rather large flaws IMHO. 
  
  First off the npcs are stupid. 
 I mean so stupid they might be the bottom feeders of the whole mmo world. They are various (good) , 
 rendered well to the art direction (good) , solid animations (good) but dumb. I mean, really stupid 
 dumb. For an example- 5 npcs henchmen surround to protect their leader you need for a quest. So 
 what to do? Ermmm just tap the leader and pull him out, the henchmen will stand there like nothing 
 happens. Theres also some pathing issues and dead mobs that dont drop, therefore the next guy comes 
 along taps and gets a 'this npc is dead' message.
  
  Warhammer's largest flaw is it's need for a very large population to function. Large populations 
 also means que times just to log in. Public quests, rvr, scenarios all fail if your the only one 
 there. Pqs are basically unsoloable to most classes, rvr is dull if your running map to find a 
 fight, scenarios wont que at all. These things are all tied to server population and a balance 
 between Order and Destruction. The good news it is something Mythic is aware of. They do all they 
 can to ease up. But when it comes right down to it, its hard to force players to play their second 
 choice just because of massive que times to get on their preferred character. Example Mythic is 
 really trying to get players to roll more Order characters for server balance. 
  
  A few minor issues- limited bag space, crafting is very shallow. These are minor issues because 
 really its all about the ongoing war.
  
  What about the ongoing war? Its fun as hell. Simple staight forward jump in and go go go.
  
 
  For $49.99 its worth the entry fee. 
  
  Cheers All 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roland123_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I have spent enough time with WAR at this point to know one thing for sure. This game totally rocks! 
 Mythic has delivered on its promises for WAR, and is offering players a streamlined and intense 
 PVP experience starting at lvl 1. If you are looking for an MMO to fill the void that WoW left 
 on your soul, it has finally arrived.
  
  I started beta testing WAR about a year ago, and i have to say the game has come a long way. When 
 i first began testing, there is no doubt that i was not a fan of the game. Fighting seemed clunky 
 and just wasnt fun. PVP seemed very imbalanced and unexciting. There just didnt seem to be any 
 direction to the game. I am happy to say that this all changed about a month ago, and the game 
 has become a very refined experience.
  
  Everything in WAR seems "just right". The time it takes to play a scenario, the time it takes to 
 finish a quest, the time it takes to kill mobs... it all just flows. Honestly, this game screams 
 "casual gamer". "But wait!" you say, "how could that be? I thought this was a hardcore PVP game?" 
 Indeed, this game is a PVP game, designed with PVP gamers in mind. However, do not mix the extreme 
 amounts of time that it takes to get anything done in WoW with what happens in WAR. In WAR, players 
 can easily queue for scenarios, do a little PVPing, and then log out and not feel as though they 
 accomplished nothing. 
  
  Reknown Ranks come fairly quickly in the early stages, and every few reknown ranks are accompanied 
 by a brand new set of gear via a reknown gear merchant. This is where the game clearly defines 
 itself. Rewards do not come by spending hours in the same dungeon doing the same bosses over and 
 over. You do not have to waste your life to get ahead. The game seems designed to give players 
 the best experience in the shortest amount of time. Enemy players are treated just like mobs in 
 game, giving the player both experience and reknown points. As a side bonus, players also drop 
 money when they are killed AND there is a chance at an uncommon to rare item drop. WAR does everything 
 it can from lvl 1 to tell you it is a PVP game that treats PVP like PVE. This is something that 
 i dont think any other game has ever done. You get the excitment and unpredictability of PVP mixed 
 with the rewards and advancement of PVE.
  
  To ease the minds of the hard core gamer in all of us, there is definitely incentive to play this 
 game non-stop. Only dedicated players will achieve the highest reknown levels and receive the best 
 gear. this does not exclude the casual gamers however, because there is always gear to be had from 
 city seiging and player drops. Dedicated players will receive the most prestigous sets of gear 
 through reknown ranks, and they will be rewarded for their persistance.
  
  To switch gears, lets talk a little about PVE. In a word, the PVE in WAR is top notch. The questing 
 system is very reminiscent of WOW, with one key change. When you receive a quest, a red bloodstain 
 will be placed on your map in the general area of where the quest objective is. Gone are the days 
 of searching obscure corners of zones for that one ellusive quest item. WAR tells you general area 
 that the item should be in, and you just have to look around for it. "But what about teh exploration!" 
 This is a valid concern, i agree, however, notice that i said "general area". WAR does not show 
 you EXACTLY where the item resides, it mearly places a fairly large red area around where the item 
 should be, and you still have to look around a bit. If you are confused as to what you are looking 
 for, mearly mouse over the red area, and the game will display the quest objectives for you. Sounds 
 a lot better than wandering aimlessly around looking for things right?
  
  PVE fighting is fast and furious. The pace of battle is definitely faster than WOWs. Mobs die faster, 
 and you typically end up fighting more than just a single mob at a time. Class mechanics work fairly 
 well, every class can contribute meaningfully to a fight. Classes also have fairly distinct roles 
 in the game. This means that there is no "im a shadow priest... i dont heal" happening in this 
 game. Healers are healers first and foremost. While they can do damage, they will never be able 
 to produce the damage that an actual damage class can. In that way, WAR takes its own approach 
 to what it means to be a "hybrid".
  
  Now then, on to a hotly disputed debate, WAR's graphics. In my personal opinion, this game looks 
 GREAT. Character models are detailed and expressive. The art direction definitely benifits from 
 the years of concept art and development produced by Games Workshop on the Warhammer series. Classes 
 look distinct in their specific armor sets. My only real gripe here is that i just wish there were 
 more looks. Basically what you can expect is to look the same for 10 levels at a time, or tiers 
 in WAR's terms. 1-10 has a very specific look per class, as does 11-20 and so on. Another small 
 gripe is the draw distance. Coming over from Age of Conan, the draw distance in WAR is very short. 
 You can expect a similar draw distance to what you see in WOW. Environments are detailed and interesting 
 and reflect the mood of the race that inhabits the area. Greenskin and dwarven areas are going 
 to a lot of wilderness and large stone and wooden buildings, while chaos areas are going to look 
 otherworldly with fleshy, moving trees and darks skies that pulse with energy. The atmosphere in 
 WAR is very appealing.
  
  Now then, you have heard my praises, now lets talk about a few things that are bothersome. WAR 
 does a lot of things right, but there are a few things that damper the experience a little.
  
  First off is server populations. The populations on each server are very sporatic. there are 
 a select few servers with queues of over 600 people waiting to get into the server, and there are 
 other servers with literally only a few hundred players. This is a game that is only as good as 
 its population, so it is bothersome that Mythic has not done a hole lot to spread out the populations 
 at the time of this review.
  
  Next, certain classes seem "less effective" in PVP than others. That is to say, tank classes still 
 seem to not particularly have a role in PVP. With a solid healer, a tank is near impossible to 
 kill in PVP, but then again, tank damage is so low that they are almost a non-factor. Players often 
 take to completely ignoring tanks due to their low DPS. Now on the flip side, in the scenarios 
 where teams have to hold a specific item (ie a flag or artifact) to win, tanks are amazing and 
 extremely effective. In my view however, the fun of PVP comes from actually killing people though, 
 so i do think tanks need some work.
  
  Finally, i know many will not agree with me on this, but the game seems to almost level too fast. 
 It is very feasible for a player to get to lvl 40 in 1-2 weeks of play. Some people like the quick 
 leveling, but to me, it should take ATLEAST a solid month of play to hit maximum level, if not 
 slightly longer. Longer leveling times gives me a better sense of achievement, and definitely extends 
 the life of the game. I fear that the population may reach maximum level much quicker than Mythic 
 intended, and then there will be a significant lul between that time and when an expansion lands, 
 or new content is added.
  
  My last words on this game are thus: this game is worth playing for every MMO gamer out there. 
 It mixes seamless PVE with the absolute best PVP experience you will have in an MMO at this time. 
 The game has a fast pace, and is incredibly rewarding. Mythic is a solid company, and now that 
 it is backed by EA, you know that WAR will have the funding and backing that it requires to be 
 around for the long haul with expansions and additional content. GO BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: po21
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and addicting. PVP is much better then WOW, and the graphic is more detailed compared 
 to WOW, I don't think I'll be going back to playing WOW. There's more content and lore. PQ lets 
 you involved with players and get rewards that gears you up for the next chapter, also helps you 
 gain exp. I like the option to doing normal quest or random PQ with other players.
  
  This game is fun and addicting. PVP is much better then WOW, and the graphic is more detailed compared 
 to WOW, I don't think I'll be going back to playing WOW. There's more content and lore. PQ lets 
 you involved with players and get rewards that gears you up for the next chapter, also helps you 
 gain exp. I like the option to doing normal quest or random PQ with other players
  
  This game is fun and addicting. PVP is much better then WOW, and the graphic is more detailed compared 
 to WOW, I don't think I'll be going back to playing WOW. There's more content and lore. PQ lets 
 you involved with players and get rewards that gears you up for the next chapter, also helps you 
 gain exp. I like the option to doing normal quest or random PQ with other players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  So if u like mmo's and like warhammer look no futher. duh! The game is basically like WoW, its 
 noting very new, the RvR is exacaly like PvP just spelt differently
  
  Not sure: yes not sure, well the leveling system for the first few levels 1 - 10 go fast like CoV/CoH. 
 but from then on 10 - something, its a slow process, much like everquest. so i'm not sure, i really 
 dont mind it, some people might want it easier some might was it harder.
  
  Good: Well its warhammer. The massive book where basically everything you do in the game (i forgot 
 what its called ok) i not the most important thing in the world, its not very useful anyway. The 
 classes are great, many diverse and different classes to choose from, and most play differnet to 
 each other, except for the mage, becasue its a mage. The graphics isnt Crysis nor is it ET. its 
 in the middle of WoW and Age of Conan, u dont need a great pc for it, you could use an everyday 
 computer. The public 3 stage thingo is a pretty kool new feture to the MMO world, its basically 
 a normal place but its an open quest open to anyone who goes into that area, and at the end the 
 top 7 or 8 people get a prize
  
  Bad: picking up from that, the problem is that normally after passing level 8 or 9, the open quest 
 area's are basically for over 24 people, and normally there are tons of people there, and the aim 
 is basically to kill a number of people then free some other people or find important people to 
 kill, then finding a massive healthed boss and killing him. the first one you encounter is already 
 very very hard. also in the later levels, you try to get many kills, but normally the mages with 
 all the AoE spells going will get ALL the kills, which sucks if your a single attack kind of guy/girl. 
 The graphics are too 2006 ish. many in game glitches for now, would be better if they got it all 
 quickly like AoC but its slowly getting there.
  
  Well if you like warhammer like i said or like MMO's, its a great game 4 u. there are tons of servers 
 so you will never get into a massive line and have to wait, unless u choose a very popular server. 
 But all in all to sum it up, WAAAARRRGGGGGGHHHHH!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z_4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  There has been alot of talk about that this game is Hyped and will be a let down just as AoC.
 
  
  I dare to disagree, I have enjoyed every single minute of the game from with aprox 30 playing hours. 
 To keep this review simple I will list the positives and negatives.
  
  Positives: PQ's is a suprisingly fun and easy to participate in, there is almost always someone 
 doing them in your area and they contribute to a healthy and friendly community.
  RvR blows WoW away, really it does. Anyone who doesn't think that just rolled the wrong class. 
 I can't really explain why it's so fun but you have to experience it and since RvR IS the game, 
 well it kind of speaks for itself.
  The enviroment is astounding, simply amazing. I read in a review that there isn't alot of love 
 put into the enviroment but I couldn't disagree more and if you love warhammer lore you will basicly 
 ejaculate by the bare sight of the first hubs. 
  PvE is enjoyable, and since there is hundreds of PQ's and alot of instances you can PvE ONLY if 
 you want to, make sure to roll a core server though.
  Classes are fairly balanced though healers can solo most of the classes they encounter.
  And 
 the best of all, you don't have to grind countless of hours to get content or upgrades, same goes 
 for quests you don't have to kill the same mobs a hundred times to get ONE drop.
  
  Negatives: Glitches and bugs, seeing as you CC mobs they still run after you is kind of irritating 
 after a while, long queues because of the Order / Destruction balance when it comes to Scenarios 
 or BG's as you WoW fan boys might call them.
  Having your game crash because of old graphic drivers, 
  * I use a 9600 gt Nvidia :S
  
  Give 
 this game some more time to polish and I'll give it a 10/10, though I havn't seen the end game 
 yet, but judging from how the lower tiers work and how the RvR areas, scenarios work knowing the 
 higher tiers is just the same deal exept more content I'm pretty sure my love for this game will 
 stay the same.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: czis
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  didnt think it could deliver on all it promised but it did. stable MMO with tons of new ideas that 
 make PvP real fun! while it wont have the player base of WoW the expert and new MMORPG players 
 will find this a much more rewarding game to play. 
  
  the range of character classes surpasses all other MMORPG and each feels unique. the ability to 
 jump right into the action is simple, no more killing rats. its easy to find PvP action right from 
 the start with scenarios, and equally easy to avoid them if that's not your thing.
  
  the graphics have no major oooh or ahh factors but they are sufficient to keep you immersed and 
 excited about playing and exploring. 
  
  the game was designed to be fun and accessible so system requirements arent mind blowing - i was 
 able to play at low settings even on an old ge force 5900 ultra, go figure for a new game!
  the bar has been raised... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faith256
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Sadly I reckon... no pun intended this game wasn't finished at release... heartily sick of WOW and 
 eager to find a replacement, on the surface this is a great game, though sadly a very shallow game, 
 nice questing at low levels but really does not have the feel of achieving anything.
  
  Plenty of potential to grow and evolve, just with 4 days of play I have some immediate annoyances... and 
 yes though I have cancelled WOW I am actually taking breaks from Warhammer to play WOW...
  
  This is just some of the more annoying items that could be fixed... soon I hope.
  
  Time 
 delay between sending mail...20 seconds, you must wait before you can send another mail.
  Mails limited to sending one item.
  There is an auction house mail slot, but no one and I mean 
 no one has a clue where an auction house might be.
  Buy equipment... you must be joking, the only equipment you can buy seems to be for different races, 
 or require a lot of RvR... duh, low lvl grind is long and tedious.
  There are quests going to particular towns, but unless you have been to that town you cannot travel 
 to the town...
  Buy potions... laugh, kind of sad when you the tank and you have to rely on finding potions, so 
 you can get healing... in theory you can make your own... if you ever find a trainer... no one I have 
 spoken to has found a trainer...
  Put items in the bank... what bank.
  Get extra bags... nope, leveling is very slow... the endless grind again... every 10 levels your bags 
 grow slightly... guess how often you run of space.
  Want to follow someone else in your party... nope.
  Crafting is much like Guildwars as is Resource 
 Gathering, lets step back in time rather than go forward... this seriously lets you down... so at 
 least craft your own armour?.. Nope, you can only make Potions and Trinkets... woopi, if you are 
 one of the few people whoever find a crafting trainer that is.
  Resource gathering... rofl... whats the point
  Gold... spend it on what exactly lol
  Auction House, 
 rumoured but no one knows where and if one exists.
  Buy basic items from vendors... nope... the only way you will gear up is the occassional random drop, 
 (and I do mean random most of the time its for a different race and a different class you cannot 
 use.) and completing a quest.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhatRadiation
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I tried so hard not to like it so I wouldn't be disappointed like I was with Conan but they did 
 everything RIGHT! Try It. From the detailed map that shows the general area quests are located 
 to the ridiculously fun Public Quests to the great interface, I just can't find anything to complain 
 about (and I want to b/c I'm a natural complainer) . Yes, they took things from other games (the stuff 
 that everyone likes) , dropped other things, and added in great changes and innovations. Also, for 
 those who like Warhammer the world is so Warhammer it hurts=) By the way, you don't start off killing 
 10 Sickly Wolves or Large Rats... its straight to the Chaos Marauders, Spectral Ghosts & Nurglings!!! 
 You can gain levels from PvE or PvP and their are Rewards for Public Quests, Influence from Towns, 
 Renown from PvP, and World Drops. Character Creation is good and gives enough variety to not see 
 your clone running around every 15 minutes. The crafting system is alot of fun and they did a good 
 job of making them dependent on each other without crippling crafting or making the "dependence" 
 a joke. There are also gathering skills for those who like extra money and don't craft. I could 
 go on forever but trust me... just try it.
  
  Have Fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximaxi4eva2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  When you first start playing this game, its just like any other MMO. Pick up spiders eggs, kill 
 some lame animals, just like WoW. But, once you've struggled your way through the first few levels, 
 this game really starts to shine. Public quests are the first fun thing. Its probabaly the first 
 time anyone has ever had fun in PVE! No dungeoning all night to fight a boss, just join a PQ and 
 pwn some big guys. Then there is PVP. Need I say more? This game features some of the funnest PVP 
 gameplay EVER!! Seiges, massive battles, and not as much lag as AoC! Although, there is one downside, 
 but its tiny. Just say you play a warrior priest, your stuck with your hammer the WHOLE GAME. And 
 you can see which class is which easily but these two things are still okay. Overall, this game 
 is truly a treasure, with Aussie servers already up, and a rapidly growing community, and being 
 slightly cheaper than WoW, I give this game 9.5
  Oh yeah and they got that crazy-hyper english guy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andybeckwith
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Why on earth are people bothered about comparing this game to WoW etc and arguing about how much 
 each copies the other.... we should be rejoicing in the fact that we all have another great MMORPG 
 to play!!!
  
  If you are like me, and have played most of the major MMORPGs you will probably agree that one 
 of the greatest things about them is the new experience. Quite frankly, once I'd got my level 70 
 player in WoW and done the same instance for the 100th time i felt a little drained... that magic 
 had somewhat gone..
  
  And here comes a completely new set of characters to master in new lands fighting new creatures 
 and making new alliances...
  
  This game has clearly been thought about and is made by people that know what they are doing.
 
  
  Its simple... if you enjoy MMORPGs, then you'll love this.
  
  Good work EA Mythic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zarlok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  The biggest draw I have ever have to any MMO has been based on how early the game will capture 
 your attention and engage you in something important.
  
  The moment you enter every action you take assists your side, your realm, in capturing the territory 
 you play in. Beyond that there is the standard kill things to get XP, the wonderful lvl-grind. 
 Hell there is even the skill grinds as well. But the best thing is RvR, no matter what it one-ups 
 all of the previous MMO's. In the RvR battles, you gain EXP, and RvR XP as well. You gain levels 
 and Rank, you are actually encouraged at lower levels to fight against other players in these instances, 
 and it gives a good test-bed early for the kind of class you want to play. 
  
  It has the same skill-tree ideas that WoW brought to the forefront, and the customization behind 
 your character classes. THe other biggest thing I can see is that while there is a slight imbalance, 
 EACH race has its own UNIQUE CLASSES. Yes, in oW I've always wanted to play a Paladin on the side 
 of the Horde, which i got. But really? I think Age of Conan and Warhammer both took this a step 
 farther, it isn't just what side you are on that decides what class you are, but your race is important, 
 albeit warcraft did something similar, they didn't go far enough.
  
  Each class is unique, Dark Elves - Combat Healer, High Elves - Standard Cleric/Healer, Empire - 
 Fiery Doom Mages, Chaos - Summoners, etc.
  
  Speaking of XP, Guilds level up/Rank up. Guilds actually get things for being active, players active 
 within the guild get access to the cooler stuff for those guilds. This game gives the Hardcore 
 players what they want, and the casual players they want, without hindering either group.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, there are some minor issues, balancing and just straight bugs, that 
 can get annoying at times. But it is WAY less buggy than Warcraft was when it first came out, in 
 which I had my game crashing out due to a bug that hapepned int he beginning area the first week. 
 Warhammer surprisingly has very little of those (read: NONE) , and there is one morething that is 
 important. It is an immersive story that makes you feel like you actually have some affect on the 
 world, even if it is miniscule. I can't wait to see if Guilds can get control of castles and see 
 the siege battles that'll start eventually. 
  
  A little bit of everything for everyone. that deserves a 9.0 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wargamer89
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  After testing the game and playing since CE head start, I must say that WoW has a legitimate competitor 
 in WAR. Its fresh take on the way MMOs should work is very entertaining, and this game should not 
 be called a WoW clone. I am playing a Witch Hunter on Crag Rock, and my only beef at this point 
 is queuing from overpopulation, which devs started to handle before the game even launched. The 
 public quests are very entertaining, and RvR is just awesome, and I haven't even raided a city 
 yet. The guild ranking system also creates a sense of accomplishment for actions of the guild. 
 I haven't seen any instances thus far, but have heard complaints about the sewer in Altdorf being 
 buggy. I haven't had too much trouble getting competitive gear so far; the renown ranking system 
 makes it relatively easy for players committed to RvR to keep gear competitive. With regards to 
 imbalance of Order v Destruction, I have seen no such thing. A player in a competitive guild (I'm 
 reppin Anxiety on Crag Rock, CHEA) will not have problems RvRing successfully. In short, this game 
 kicks. Coming from a guy who got sick of WoW before BC came out, this is what you ex-WoWers have 
 been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burlap
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Really fun game, very innovative. Lots of things never seen before in any MMO. Little bit of a 
 learning curve however making it possible for you to level up past areas that are level restrictive 
 because you didn't know about them. RvR seems very well done and the characters seem fairly well 
 balanced. IMHO the crafters might be slightly disappointed since there are few crafting options. 
 No need for forced grouping in order to join in all the fun, but of course it sure makes it easier 
 with a few buddies at your back. A very good selection of professions to chose from, each with 
 a ton of skills to chose from. I don't I've you'll ever lack for something to do as there are plenty 
 of quests, RvR, Public quests to go around.
  The UI is very pleasing and has a layout every gamer will be familiar with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strykarr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  The problem with today's games is that everyone has to compare them to others instead of just playing 
 the game. Already people are comparing to WoW. I play WoW and will continue to play however, I 
 like War and can play knowing that there is a difference between the two. You can really get into 
 War if you can keep away from the mindless comparisons. WoW may have set the standards in some 
 ways and if you can't stay away from the 'WoW is better", then simply stay with WoW. Obviously, 
 if your one that compares everything to the better half, then you will have a hard time finding 
 enjoyment.
  War is fun and the classes stay within the realm of it's genre. I guess I could really go on all 
 day about War but all I truly want to do is get the message across to play with an open mind. WoW 
 set high standards for everyone and if you can't keep an open mind, why bother trying to play anything 
 else. War is no Wow and has every right to live up to it's own great genere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPlow69
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  This game goes into the same category as WoW, but don't be fooled, its not WoW. If you're looking 
 to play a MMO, it really needs the shot along with WoW to make a real decision. Lets face it, playing 
 a MMO, i mean really playing, means you'll be playing the game for a considerate amount of time, 
 and not to regret your shot, play WoW for 1 month, play War for 1 month, that should give you a 
 little taste of what is coming for another hundred of hours. For the game itsefl, great graphics, 
 great gameplay, PvP is fun and refreshing, PQ are a great idea to keep the game alive and fresh, 
 and its a new way of presenting grinding. The game managed to keep the Warhammer table player happy, 
 since it really create the feeling that you're in a war with the other factions. The only thing 
 i didn't much liked was the character creation, i lacked of variety in a certain way since you'll 
 not be able to customize your class with your race. Each race comes with a certain selection of 
 classes. So you'll not be able to be, for example, a dark elf engeneer. Wait before going crazy 
 on this, i know that it really makes sense since it comes from Warhammer (i played the table game 
 for years) so being able to create classes wiht races wouldn't had made any sense, but for a MMO 
 i would had liked to be able to choose more that being a black orc tank... (generic class, i mean 
 that all ocrs you'll see in the game will be the same class) . Still, if you're into Warhammer universe, 
 its your game to play or at least give it a shot, cause it deliver a serious immersive shot. Its 
 not just another WoW clone. Remember, the game (just like with WoW) really starts at the lvl cap, 
 so its kinda hard to review it since i'm not lvl capped in it, but for a first touch to it, i like 
 what i saw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimerGREEN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  As a WoW vet, I came to a point where I was doing battlegrounds and arenas without any possible 
 upgrades for periods of months. The level grind was also unenjoyable after one or two 70s. In WAR 
 I have leveled doing nothing more than pvp scenarios and quests between queues, and there will 
 always be keeps to siege or defend. I've played them all, from UO to Age of Conan and this game's 
 pvp experience will revolutionize all future MMOs. It's still week one and the realm and class 
 balance is great. My computer is 6 years old and under the hardware reccomendations and still hasn't 
 crashed in about 72 hours playing. I don't expect this game to dethrone WoW although it might, 
 but regardless the Warhammer community in itself will sustsain a great and long lasting gaming 
 experience. If you don't care for PVE and live for PVP, you're missing out without this game. I 
 know when games fail and I rarely give a game praise; this one rocks.... nothing more I can say. 
 By the way, sieges are amazingly fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duncan1745a
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Smooth, enjoyful, great art, nice classes. Started without a hitch. There's sex appeal with the 
 characters, not the globby doughboy look of Everquest2. No long loading. I just clicked right on 
 in and the only trouble I am having is trying to decide what character to stay with. I've played 
 everyone and I like each. Feels like all the characters are well matched and each have unique skills. 
 The UI is easy and many custom options. There'a even a logout that Age of Conan does not have. 
 The graphics are of a more mature appearance than the juvenile WOW look of bugsbunny character 
 types. Everquest2 has "gumby" type characters with women in clothing that remind me of upside down 
 icecream cones. And thank God, the women in little clothing aren't running around in highheels 
 seen in all the Japanese multiplayer.
  
  Was disappointed some on the High elves appearance with their clothing of long robes and hair to 
 be only blond or white, with a hint of brown. They seem unisex with their clothing. 
  
  The other non-dwarf class have "Carot Top" hair does that are spiked and jagged and bald that kind 
 of keep you from playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arjan17
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  I have played most MMORPG games starting with Ultima Online wich I quite enjoyed after that Everquest, 
 due to the succes of the last named most games even now to day quite resemble this game. Due to 
 the massive succes of WoW wich has become the standard of MMORPG's even the old ones such as Star 
 Wars Galaxies wich had a brilliant and huge leveling system changed into a more WoW like system 
 utterly ruining the game. Somehow lately most developers start to smell the cash involved in MMORPG's 
 and started making more clones. It somehow seems that they are **** MMORPG games every time they 
 go to the toilet. Basicly most MMORPG's consume a lot of time before you actualy be able to compete 
 with players that play 16/7. I have said it many times before, MMORPG's have become something for 
 unemployed or school skipping children. This game solves a lot of problems. Players that play a 
 lot get obviously rewarded, yet players who do not have many time are able to compete with them. 
 You got plenty of ways of getting your items and to level, YES killing players gives good XP finnaly 
 !! Ofcourse for players that like to do group PVE combat there are plenty of options as well. Sieging 
 feels sorta lame because you have certain build slots for siege weapons and you can only attack 
 the hardpoints, but hey you can actualy siege castles now !! Graphics are sort of dissapointing 
 compared to other new MMORPG's such as AOC, yet this also adds to playability and stability. So 
 far I have been playing like 24 hours in total and only crashed once. Battlegrounds are somewhat 
 congested at rushhours but appart from that I enjoy every moment of it in the game. I have been 
 PVPing in BG's since level 2!. Drawback of this game it has so many options you need a lot of time 
 to find out how it works, yes the basics are quite easy but to master the game will take a lot 
 of time. I am definitly gonna play this game for a long time! Kind regards A MMORPG'er C. V. Ultima 
 Online Everquest
  Asherons call Dark age of Camelot Starw Wars Galaxies
  World of Warcraft Lord of The Rings Online
  Age of Conan Pirates of the Burning Sea
  Tabula 
 Rasa
  Warhammer Online and those I forget to mention :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasper0321
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  My friend got me into this game the day after released. I was a bit skeptical because I learned 
 my lesson from AoC. I don't want to buy an unfinished game again so I let my friend play it first. 
 He convinced me to buy it so I did.
  
  I would say that its one of the best game I bought. I thought I was gonna be left out since I heard 
 from most people that this game is a PVP game and there is no room for PVE. They were wrong. I 
 prefer PVE over PVP but I think this game will change that. From the starting zone (Tier 1) all 
 the way to the higher tiers, there is so much thing to do for a PVE type player. 
  
  The game will introduce PVP through a PVE quest. Now this is not the type of PVP that we are all 
 use to. Warhammer Online added some new twist on their PVP (called RvR) . Each zone has their own 
 RvR area. There are objectives that you need to accomplish. If you successfully accomplish the 
 objective and you are in control of the area. You are given a small buff. The buff will increase 
 the amount you receive whenever you gain Renown Points/Experience, etc. This is helpful because 
 renown points are use to get skills (called Renown Talents [If i remember it right] } .
  
  There are also PVP scenarios in the game. It is a PVP instance where you fight the other faction 
 for an objective. 
  You also gain experience from killing other players. You can join PVP Scenarios even if your character 
 level is low. The game will automatically increase your level (Stats) when you join a scenario to 
 prevent mismatch. This is a fantastic idea if you're going to ask me. They eliminate the level 
 value in PVP. All that matter now is your skill of controlling your character and in some cases, 
 the players gear. Team Coordination is an essential part of this game, but it is still rare and 
 sometimes even impossible to achieve since most players mind there own. 
  
  There are numerous new MMO features that they added into the game. There are also some old features 
 but Warhammer gave it a little twist. 
  
  Overall WAR is surprisingly amazing. Sure its still has bugs and glitches, but What do you expect 
 for a new release? Even other popular MMO has bugs. Its a part of the game. 
  
  Congratulations to the developers. Great Job. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonneymendoza
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  fantastic game. a breath of fresh air away from wow which is just a boring mindless GRIND fest.
 
  
  The game runs well on my p4 3.2ghz pc and the grapics looks slightly better then wow. the storymode 
 is great and so are the quests.
  
  WoW really was a waste of time when i tried it recently. it got boring pretty fast but this has 
 soo many good things that wow does.
  
  give this game a try, you wont be disapointed. wow has had its time. its a ageing game and its 
 time to let WOW go!!!!!
  
  fantastic game. a breath of fresh air away from wow which is just a boring mindless GRIND fest.
 
  
  The game runs well on my p4 3.2ghz pc and the grapics looks slightly better then wow. the storymode 
 is great and so are the quests.
  
  WoW really was a waste of time when i tried it recently. it got boring pretty fast but this has 
 soo many good things that wow does.
  
  give this game a try, you wont be disapointed. wow has had its time. its a ageing game and its 
 time to let WOW go!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trueepower44
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  
  I had originally given this game a higher score but after playing it for over a hundred hours i 
 felt like i had a better perspective on the game. 
  
  The performance of this game is not up to par when you look at the graphics. The graphics are in 
 the same category as WOW graphics which means they aren't that great. The problem the fact that 
 frame rates in WAR are no where near frame rates in WOW. Why is that important? The rvr in this 
 game, its bread and butter may include 80 players plus NPC's. This presents problems with a game 
 that is poorly optimized and is not nearly as optimized as WOW.
  
  Comparing this game to WOW is something you can't get away from. The game's graphics are very comparable 
 a long with the classes and the linear trade skill system. WAR boosts a better rvr system and for 
 that reason i give the game a decent score. But, don't be surprised when you buy the game and can't 
 even run it at 30fps in a keep siege. Until this game is better optimized whenever that happens 
 it will not be great.
  
  Since this game has potential for the future i give it a decent score. The RVR is a blast if you 
 can get into it. The specialization part of your character has a pvp part, normal spec, tactics, 
 and moral abilities. So there is some depth in those two areas. Unfortuntely thats pretty much 
 where the depth ends. The customer support for EA is horrible. They possibly have the worst customer 
 support of any MMO. That is worth considering if you are planning on making this your mmo of the 
 future.
  
  Again, the importance of frame rates in this game is similiar to the high frame rate demand in 
 WOW raids. Frame rates need to be higher maybe even then WOW, because of the amount of people in 
 RVR. It's a disapointing launch overall for WAR it may get better in the future. But, the way the 
 game is optimized atm you should wait and see if that ever happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yummypuppy2002
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total let down for me. Long time player of WOW, I was hoping for something very 
 different, because I was seriously tired of WOW... In some aspects it IS wow, and in many others 
 (story, public quests, RVR, etc...) It is very different, very refreshing!! So there's about 50% 
 of the game which is very very good in my opinion. Where it gets bad, real bad, is that for below 
 average graphics (we're in 2008 now, not in 1999) it uses about 1.2 gigs of memory. You have to 
 scroll through the EULA and check the agree box each and every time you start the game (wow, way 
 to go champs) . The game crashes for many people I play with on many configurations. I hate to say, 
 but I got a recent quad core CPU, 2 gigs of memory, 2 ATI HD4850 in crossfire and 2 Western Digital 
 Raptors in Raid 0 and the game does skip frames on me, seek on the hard disks, and crash... enemy 
 npc's pathing is often broken, npc animations too, light reflections on water are broken most of 
 the time in certain angles. Seriously, I regret every cent I paid for this game right now. And 
 I am not expecting the game to get a lot better anytime soon.
  
  As much as I'm fed up with WOW, I have to admit that Blizzard would never release a game that is 
 THAT buggy. EA should adopt the "When it's ready" guideline, seriously. I guess it's time to get 
 back to offline games! Too bad I can't take that one back to the store.
  
  100 thumbs down... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2kizzle
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Its basically as polished as world of warcraft, but consider:
  Better graphics.
  More classes.
  Better pvp.
  Group quests.
  Open parties.
  Influence rewards (make getting 
 xp more interesting) .
  Outdoor pvp objectives with proper loot.
  Difficult to leech xp / renown
  
  the list goes on. This game is outstanding and well worth 
 the wait.
  Ignore the wow fanboys that have rated this game poorly, anyone who's tried it has agreed its easily 
 the best mmo going around.
  
  This is just some more writing so i make the minimum word requirement, but seriously dont buy wotlk 
 :/ what? one class and 10 more levels ? crazy..... this game is heads up better than wow, and if 
 they were released at the same time, warhammer would be the one in front i guarantee.
  
  It just makes no sense that people haven't jumped on this game yet. These guys actually listen 
 to the players and have made a game for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunnedlor
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I've played many MMOs and lets just say i hate the grind, this game somehow alleviates this problem 
 because its all just downright fun.
  
  As we all know the first 1-10 is boring in most MMOs but Warhammer isn't, you have the option right 
 away to join scenarios or open RvR. To make up for being level 1 it gives you a boost to stats 
 etc. so you're a level 8 of course after you leave the scenario your level 1 again.
  
  Another thing they did was somehow make a tank viable and fun in PvP, the first game i can think 
 of that makes this giant leap. I've been playing a Black Orc and hes really fun, the lore for orcs 
 is awesome.
  
  Ive also played a high elf shadow warrior its your typical ranger except he can switch stances 
 he can use the Ranged stance which increases the range of your bow, also the melee stance which 
 increases your armour and last the close range bow stance this last stance increases your chance 
 to Critically hit.
  
  Of course there are some issues that don't affect game play just graphical issues sometimes your 
 character gets stuck in an action it looks weird but you can fix it by just attacking an opponent.
 
  
  People are really mature on this game and i must say its a welcome change since we dont have morons 
 screaming "OMG you all suxxorz im elite im da best". The only people I've met are the people who 
 accidentally roll need and this can happen to any one but of course some of those people probably 
 did it on purpose :P.
  
  Gear is easy to get and i don't think this game is really focused on gear or dungeons. The game 
 is more based around skill. YES you heard me SKILL. Healers for me a tank are pretty tough to kill 
 but not impossible and usually i can survive against them well until my back up arrives or his 
 does and then the fight turns into an all out brawl.
  
  This game has a few flaws but what game doesn't but the reason it has been given a 10 i would of 
 given it a 9.8, is because the great team at Mythic have released an awesome game and they did 
 something that none of the other MMOs that i have played have done AUSTRALIAN servers based in 
 AUSTRALIA none of that **** like blizzard, heres Australian servers based in America. And damn 
 i nearly went an entire review without ripping on WoW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dg3215
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  I have been playing MMOs for a while and I have to say at launch this game is very stable. Dont 
 believe the fan boys that say it is not. Two things I have noticed that could be fixed is that 
 one the graphics are a little jumpy at times and two targeting just seems off to me.
  
  Gameplay is great be it PVE or RVR (PVP) you can jump right in and feel challeneged but not overwhelmed. 
 I like how the level 1 player can go PVP and not be totaly overpowered because of the way it gives 
 you the level 8 skill set. 
  
  There are many different skill trainers to make up for only 40 levels of skills such as the renown 
 trainer where you get skills for gaining renown points which is gained through PVP and public questing.. 
 Mainly PVP though.
  
  Another great innovation that the game brings are the public quests which allow you to gain influence 
 points and buy various gear from the Rally Vendors, plus the way the loot system works in public 
 quests generally works out fair.
  
  Some folks are saying that the graphics are flawed.. They are not they are great on my alienware 
 laptop obviously not the best I have ever seen but they are also decent on my girlfriends 4 year 
 old dell. The reason they are not state of the art is that restricts sales to people who have high 
 end machines, totally understandable. For all the WOW fanboys yah they are a lot better than WOW 
 so dont even pretend.
  
  The one part of this game I have yet to explore and where it may be lacking a bit is in the crafting. 
 So I will warn the MMO player who really enjoys crafting that this may not be for you but as I 
 have no real experience with it yet please if you see someone saying otherwise listen to them.
 
  
  This game may or may not be a "WOW KILLER" but it is a real fun game and I personaly will be playing 
 this from now on instead of WOW.. I just canceled my XPac preorder from gamestop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s-engel9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Online is a definite homerun of a game. This title is a wonderful playing game with tons 
 of challenge, cool characters and many opportunities to team up and dominate the world Realms! 
 RvR is something to behold in all of it's gritty visceral glory. Absolute Realm control is a very 
 fleeting thing so beware your victories lest you are wiped off the map instantly. Your opponent 
 is neither weak nor stupid and they are sure to marshal their force and launch a counter against 
 you even as you are relishing your most recent conquest. Your choice of character and side matters 
 very little in the overall enjoyment of this game, both sides have plenty of goodness to offer. 
 In fact if you enjoy tanking or prefer something a bit more subtle it all gets blended into one 
 giant destructive powerhouse. The many forms of co-op play available to you is sure to make everyone 
 a happy player. One fact remains very clear, when you do come together with others you will become 
 part of something very good and totally fun to play. WAR is indeed here to stay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mitracia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  So i insert the disk, install, patch and log in. I get to choose a race, of course the greenskins, 
 because Order is for kids dreaming to be heros (Just messing) . I get in the starting area, do a 
 few quests, find it pretty catchy. One that made me giggle was when i got catapulted in the air 
 and reached the wall. The quests are pretty solid for the race, find a dwarf, put him in a barrel, 
 and throw him down, simple as that. 
  
  So i reach level 5, did a few public quests, find them very attractive, especially for the rewards. 
 The players don't talk much, unless you do something wrong. So far in the game i saw a few glitches 
 while fighting, a dwarf firing with his gun a being unable to hurt him in melee combat, even if 
 it doesn't bother me. I got my first skills, the combats get a lot easier, especially with the 
 ''dots''. 
  
  At 10 I jumped to another map, I felt like it was a whole new world (aka aladin ripoff) . The quests 
 weren't as exciting, and the public quests were pretty much dead, but the environment gave some 
 points. I got to choose my career mastery, i chose da'boss to be a supporter in groups and warbands. 
 
  
  After some levels I reached another map and tried the RvR scenarios system. The first few games 
 were easy, destruction would always win, but after some days i noticed that many guilds in the 
 Order were forming and were made specifically to win these matches in a quick and sad way. At this 
 point people will realize the weakness behind each classes and exploit them to win easily... which 
 will be catastrophic... But i guess is was fated to happen, randomly formed groups won't stand 
 after a couple of months.
  
  Right now i'm doing some quests in the Troll Country. Things are getting pretty repetitive, also 
 leveling is a lot harder considering that scenarios can take a lot of time to form up... 
  
  I was in the northern part of the map, the background music changed... Yep a lair is nearby. 
 I noticed some ice platforms and a level 19 troll patroling near them. I thought a lair boss was 
 level 40, maybe i didn't go far enough, still this game me enough curiosity to level and discover 
 what's behind it.
  
  
  As for the review, the game is solid, innovative and great looking. Some things are missing such 
 as the combat bugs, the repetition with some quests and the low population. But these can only 
 be solved with time and a handful of patches. After these are done, we can expect a game that will 
 be much more interesting and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gahzoo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Do not believe people who rate this under an 8, those people are either biased or they cannot run 
 it, (most of the time it is the latter.)
  
  Graphics wise Warhammer is a different style than WoW, I do not get why people bash the graphics, 
 sure it is not the best, but it can run on older PCs. i would give it an 8
  
  
  The sound is typical for an MMO, a good MMO. 9
  
  
  The gameplay is where it is at, with 
 the i think 19-24 classes (including mirror classes, which still have differences) you can find a 
 class to fit your playstyle. The things that make WAR unique is the RvR and Public quests, so far 
 i haven't done too many PQs but I can tell you the ones I have done were pretty good, not amazing 
 but good. RvR is truly awesome, I could go on and on about, which I won't. One thing that is a flaw 
 right now is some animation issues and roots, both of which are hopefully going to be fixed (roots 
 might be fixed idk) i would give it a 10. The quests are like normal MMOs, but with a 100 percent 
 drop rate, i know, the concept that a raptor has a head may confuse you but yes. 10
  
  Overall around an 9 SO FAR, should rise to a steady 9.2-9.6.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostradomas
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  
  First off, i hated the game when i first played the open beta. I didnt like anything about it, 
 and i had just come from WoW. Nothing turned me on about it at all. I played the open beta and 
 figured out which classes were to my preference, and then i put it down and forgot it. I told myself 
 id play again when the headstart began. Well my cousin happened to let me know he was playing which 
 reminded me to play the headstart. So i started again with an open mind, and upon completing the 
 first few quests on my chaos marauder i was pleasantly surprised. I realized that this game in 
 fact was no WoW clone, and upon experiencing scenarios and public quests i realized that it had 
 a lot to offer. The thing that took the cake was the Tome of Knowledge, and all of the unlockables. 
 To me, in an mmo that many people play, being somewhat unique has a lot of value. When i look at 
 all of the unockable titles and status gear, i think about all of the possibilities that players 
 can have to be unique in their own right. I continued playing to lvl 10, and realized that i hadnt 
 actually worried about "getting to lvl 10" it just happened as i progressed through quests that 
 were usually pretty good, while some were standard and not so inventive, they all were up to par. 
 Open RvR is great, better than WoWs pvp for sure since there is no camping.
  
  The Good: Fun unique exprience, geared at more hardcore players, nice visuals despite what most 
 say or think, they really are better than most mmo's out there.
  Very good amount of content. Great PVP and PVE systems.
  Fluid gameplay that plays like a great 
 rpg (massively multiplayer or not) should. 
  
  The Bad: Long queue times, initial bugs (to be expected) quests could have used a tiny bit more 
 innovation, the fact that they couldnt lower the price of the subscription (that i still pay) to 
 bring new standards to mmos.
  
  Final Note: Open your mind, throw out your expectations or un-expectations and just play, play 
 through your first impression, good or bad. Get to lvl 10 and exprience RVR and PQs, if you still 
 dont like it then maybe its not the one for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Review Rig:
  Intel Core 2 Duo E8400 1333FSB
  Vista Ultimate 64bit
  4Gb DDR2 ram 800
  XFX Nvidia 8800 GTS
  
  
  
  Firstly ignore all the reviews from people giving this game 
 a 10 after only 2 days playing - no one really knows how good an MMO is until after its been out 
 at least a year. My review below comes from my first impressions playing since launch. Secondly, 
 I have never played WOW beyond level 10.
  
  
  Getting Started
  
  Out of the box Warhammer comes on 2 DVD's and is a pretty large install weighing in at nearly 12gb. 
 Upon install, there is the inevitable first patch to download which was a further 820mb and look 
 3 hours (presumably because the patch servers are very busy) .
  
  The game manual is pretty poor and tells you very little about the game other than the bare basics, 
 which if you have played an MMO before you will know anyway.
  
  When you finally get up and running, there are 20 classes to choose from across 6 races. The goodies 
 (Order) and the baddies (destruction) are mirror images of each other.
  
  Due to the lack of info in the manual, its a matter of looking at forums and word of mouth in deciding 
 which class to play.
  
  However before doing this you have to choose which server to play on and there is a massive list. 
 Server selection is very important, because you dont want to get to level 30 and then find out 
 the Server is not for you. Again there is very little information about how to select an appropriate 
 server - everything in this game seems to be trial and error.
  
  Once you have selected your race, its on to the character creation screen, but this is certainly 
 no Oblivion or Conan - the options to customise your looks are limited to 10 faces, 10 scars, 10 
 skin tones, 10 eye colours, so pretty much everyone looks the same in the game which is pretty 
 poor for a title coming out in 2008.
  
  Once you get into the game, you start with some PvE in the starter area. There are a number of 
 typical MMO quests - "Go kill 10 (boars) and bring me their hides" etc, but generally the PvE quests 
 are linear and unimaginative.
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  The game interface is very good- one of the best I've seen in an MMO so far.
  
  Generally the 
 graphics are pretty but uninspiring, having similar styled (but better) cartoony artwork to WOW. 
 I was severely diasappointed with the graphics which simply do not compare to more recent MMO's 
 like Conan, Tabula Rasa, Lord of the Rings or Guild Wars. Obviously Mythic have purposefully made 
 a game that is not overly taxing on hardware in an attempt to steal the WOW fanbase who are more 
 likely to have older rigs. 
  
  In addition to most of the characters looking the same, the animations are terrible - combat is 
 slow and clumsy, it really does spoil the fun. Even watching your toon run around is a horror show. 
 It's very similar (if not worse) than WOW in this respect.
  
  Anti-aliasing simply doesnt exist in this game and there are lots of horrible jagged lines. Also 
 there appears to be no gamma/brightness setting and the only way to resolve this is through the 
 Nvidia control panel, which does require some technical knowledge.
  
  What's odd hovever is that the graphics seem to improve when you get out of the PvE realm and enter 
 the RvR (PvP) world.
  
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  With regard to gameplay its your typical MMO fare, although the game is incredibly confusing, and 
 complex in places and you are often left wondering what to do next.
  
  The grouping system is absolutely excellent and it is incredibly easy to find fellows.
  
  The 
 world map is also great - it shows you exactly where to go for your quests, although some would 
 probably say this ruins exploring, I like it a lot.
  
  With regard to combat, as stated above, it is slow and clumsy. The AI in places is terrible. You 
 can often stand next to an enemy for a couple of minutes before he realises you are there and start 
 to attack you. On the otherhand there appears to be a glitch where a mob 100 feet away will teleport 
 next to you and kill you. 
  
  The classes are generally imbalanced as well. For example the sorceror I have rolled is very difficult 
 to play as the casting times on the spells are so long it makes it very difficult to fight. The 
 healer I have rolled has so few decent attacks, it seems the only way to level up at a decent pace 
 is to play in a group, which in turn cuts out most of the solo PvE content.
  
  
  With regard to the community there appears to be virtually no social chat, but this is because 
 the chat zones are so small, but even in a group, people just dont want to seem to talk. This doesnt 
 help when you need a raid leader to explain tactics. It's even difficult to find a guild - no one 
 responds!
  
  This game is really about Realm v Realm play, and given comments I have already made above, it 
 lends me to think that RvR was designed first and the PvE element was bolted on later as an after 
 thought.
  
  RvR is a good concept, split into tiers dependent upon your level, and once there are more players 
 and they level towards the cap, I can see RvR being tonnes of fun. At the moment though there's 
 little happening and its hard to find a fight as most players (on the servers I am on anyway) seem 
 to be concentrating on PvE as levelling in this title is very slow and PvE is the quickest way 
 to rank up to get ready for high tier RvR. Also most players have rolled destruction classes - 
 there are very few Order players so when you attempt RvR it simply doesnt happen as there is no 
 one to fight against so you end up fighting NPC's who are put in place of real players - so in 
 effect its not PvP at all! So if you're buying this game solely for PvP , its not like guild wars 
 where you can just dive in, but you are effectively forced to play the PvE just to rank up.
  
  There is a queue sytem designed top quickly join RVR in a battle ground instance - But it ain't 
 so quick! I've tried it on several occaisions and the wait in line has been well over an hour.
 
  
  
  Other than the the usuaul PvE, there are also scenarios. These are incredibly boring and require 
 you to gring 100 identical looking npc mobs in a group. It takes around 20 minute but the only 
 reasion for doing it is it gives quick xp and a good loot drop from a chest at the end.
  
  Essentially this game gets pretty old fast. You find yourself repeatedly gringing the same mobs 
 day after day either in PvE, Scenarios or RVR (due to lack of human enemy plyers) . Same areas, 
 same mobs, same bore.
  
  Bag space - very few slots - always a problem in MMO's and is particularly bad in this one.
  
 
  
  Crafting is incredibly confusing and is probably the worst Ive ever seen in an MMO.
  
  Auction House - nothing to report - typical set up except people rarely use it as it is quite 
 easy to get decent armour & weapon drops.
  
  Travel - fast travel anywhere in the world via a flightmaster even if you are level one or not 
 visited the area before - ridiculous idea.
  
  Quest log - this is a horror - while the design of the Quest log in the form of a tome is good, 
 there are quests all over the place and this unfortunately is one of those games like Conan which 
 allows you to zip around all over the world map irrespective of your level so you inevitably have 
 a constantly full quest log, and end up deleting half of the quests you have half finished, particulaly 
 if you get bored of the neraby RvR area you have been using. 
  
  
  Sound
  
  Sound leaves a lot to be desired. There is very little background ambient music giving atmosphere 
 to the game. The sound consists of repetitive screams, wails and grunts. Also when running you 
 have the constant sound of your footsteps which is incredibly annoying.
  
  
  
  Stability
  
  Stability is proving to be a problem. If you play in the middle of the night, 
 there are no issues, but over the weekend during the day when server populations are high, I've 
 experienced frequent server disconnects (which in the middle of an RvR fight isnt very good!) and 
 random crashes. This is incredibly frustrating and I found for about 3 hours I simply couldn't 
 play due to server issues.
  
  Another annoying thing about the game is that every time you log in you have to sign the End User 
 Licence Agreement.
  
  
  
  Conclusions
  
  On the whole this is a fair game, certainly worth playing. I don't think it is worth a long term 
 monthly subscription or lifetime purchase. It is certainly not a game for mature players and it 
 pains me to say that it comes across as if the target audience is the 12-16 age bracket - there 
 is simply a lack of seriousness to this title, unlike say Guild Wars, Conan or Lotro. It's a no 
 brainer grind fest. 
  
  I feel it will have a good few years longevity due to the massive Warhammer fan base, but I expect 
 numbers to dwindle quickly, so the community will eventually be left with a hardcore base of Warhammer 
 fans. The first month comes free and you dont have to register your credit card to begin playing. 
 It will be interesting to see how many continue with the game once they have to start paying a 
 monthly sub. 
  
  I suspect if you are a WOW player you will love Warhammer but there are much better MMO's out there.
 
  
  
  Graphics 6
  Sound 6
  Gameplay 6
  Stability 5
  
  Overall 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdVader
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  The game is heavily focused on RvR, we know. However the funny thing is, it's PvE section is alot 
 more engaging than that of World of Warcraft. And trust me RvR, ROCKS. It is the flat out best 
 PvP I have ever experienced. It's fast and easy, you can literally hop in, play a RvR scenario 
 and be done in 15 minutes if you don't have much time to play, and still be satisfied. It isn't 
 like WoW where the best PvP experience is when your character is maxed out, no in Warhammer you 
 will have fun at any level, granted at rank 40 it is extremely fun and more fun than before, doesn't 
 mean that RvR isn't fun at the lower levels. Being a WoW fanboy at one point, I know what its like 
 to think that no other MMO could ever be better. But of course, it happened. Why is it better? 
 The looting system works so well and is extremely fair, the Public Quest system is the best PvE 
 system I've ever seen, and all the classes are balanced ALREADY in the first week of play, and 
 very few bugs exist. There is so much more reasons and I'd like to ask anyone reading this review 
 who is skeptical about the game to scope it out, read about it on Warhammer's website and read 
 about it here at Gamespot. Watch the discussion and watch gameplay videos. You will see how awesome 
 this game is. This game is a must buy for any MMO player or fan, or even someone who wants to get 
 into them, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbath123456
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  it is good well hell it is the best im a fan of warhammer for years and this game is what i was 
 hoping for and more just like the game world of the bord. adfs afd fadf fas da dasdas ddas asddasd 
 dasasd asddas asd dsa das das asd sdsda sda sdaasd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asdds asfdas 
 afdsfa afdsfaf asdf asdf adf adsf adssf the the the the that i ouy yao s f fjdsl fsakl; fkdf sos 
 sod ejrkldf she dsh erheee hell evil th ess fel fdkof fjdi fel the t e dfls ekr o ipi iou hfaskjl 
 fahsdjklf fhdasjkl fhajkld fhasdjkl fhasdkl fhdasklfhasdjklfhasdkl fasdjklhfasdjklf hdjklafhsdakl 
 fajklfh asdklf hasdklfh asdklfhasdjklf adhjkl falkjsd dfjk dfjkl dfjkl j fjkldas dfsjkl sdfjkl 
 sdfjkl sdfjkl jklsdf sdfjkl sdfjkl sdfjkl sdfjkl jklsdf sdfjkl sdfjkl jklsdf sdjkl jklsdf sdfjkl 
 jklsdf sdfjkl jklsdf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MentalRayman75
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  It started off great for two weeks far better than WOW amzing graphics and sound dated animation. 
 Plenty of content.
  
  It's no where near finnished everything you attemt to do has a bug in it.
  
  Extream amount 
 of abusive players and if you report them the support team says they cant do anything about it. 
 If you want online bullying then buy this game.
  
  I was getting bored on the first server as it was getting more empty by the day so I tried a full 
 server and all everyone does is que up for the scenario as it pays far more Xp than everything 
 else in the game. For 30mins doing a quest you get around 2000Xp for doing 15mins of a scenario 
 you get around 10,000 XP. Scenarios are a mini game nothing to do with the Warhammer world itslef 
 its a minimap all on its own for those wanting an arcade style play. It's like Team Fortress 2 
 CTF but with Warhammer characters and weapons only you cant aim its all point and click. Compared 
 to team Fortress 2 it's extreamly boring and repetative. What this does is encourage all to play 
 scenario only so most of the time you cant find a group doing quests or trying to capture a castle 
 the ballance of Xp rewards for the mini game within warhammer has made all the other part of warhammer 
 usless. They all want Xp and fast and so none do quests or atting the other realm.
  
  If you want repetative play, questing on your own, a monthly bill and online bullying then buy this 
 game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorthon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  First off I love the warhammer world, have played the table top and roleplaying game on and off 
 for 20yrs and had very high expectations for this game.
  
  I believe they have captured the spirit of the warhammer world very well, Its one thing to read 
 about the dragon gates, its another thing to see them.
  
  The game is very user friendly, the game is easy to get into (the easiest mmo i have played so 
 far) and Public quests take away the whole lfg need a grp to get gear scenario of every other mmo.
 
  
  Pvp and Rvr is this games strongest points , there are 3 different pvp zones every 10 lvls , so 
 pvp doesnt get stale, and the sieges in Rvr are the most fun i've had in an mmo since I found my 
 paladin could solo the names in lower Guk. There's something very cool about pouring boiling oil 
 on twenty destruction players as they batter down a door.
  
  So if your like MMOs with depth and love the thrill of smiting other players in epic battles then 
 i strongly recommend this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckizard
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  I've played a lot of MMOs over the years and waited a while for this to come out. I was not disappointed 
 in the least, in fact pleasantly surprised. This game has been awesome so far!
  
  Graphics are sweet, smooth, and very refined. Areas are engaging and full of life. Story is immersive 
 and fun. The great variety in how things work has been a great change.
  
  Love the public quests where everyone works together to complete. Love being able to enter an area 
 and enter a group without an invite or lfg. RvR (PvP) is awesome. Can happen in the world or an 
 numerous scenarios (battlegrounds) . Each Tier of each race-group has their own scenario, so 3 in 
 each Tier (Tiers are approx every 10 levels or so) . This makes a great variety in hitting scenarios 
 and having a great time in RvR. Open world RvR has battle objectives, keep sieges, and quests, 
 all adding up to building renown for the group holding the most. 
  
  Tons of classes of play with customization of characters as well as things like dying of gear to 
 complete your customized look. Crafting professions are a nice change without the endless list 
 of recipes to grind away to level. 
  
  Overall, I'm hooked and having an absolute blast with this game. Hopefully will continue to be 
 so engaging and immersive as the years go by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bussell24
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  WAR is possibly one of the greatest mmos out there right now simply because of how it was created. 
 The developers took WOW removed its bad qualities and crammed it full of PvP. Now you may be thinking 
 "why should I be playing a wow clone", my answer is simple: this is not a WOW clone but WOW 2.0. 
 The IP of warhammer is a vast and diverse one. In my opinion it is much better than the WOW IP 
 simple because the Warhammer IP is an archtype in itself. Do you want to know why Orcs are green? 
 It is because 25 years ago when warhammer was being invented the creators decreed that orcs are 
 produced from spores and are fungal. This set in motion the greenness that we know and love today.
 
  I would reccomend this game to just about anyone who has ever thought about playing an MMO. That 
 is why I am giving this game all the cudos it deserves and giving it eight out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweikin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface this entire thing by admitting I was not looking forward to the game. Now, if that 
 then nullifies my entire opinion on it, then I suppose you can stop reading. However, I will also 
 admit that I was thoroughly excited once I got the game. Let me explain...
  
  World of Warcraft has grown stale, thus I am bored. Real Life? No thanks, I'll stick to the fake 
 reality for the time being. I was looking for something different, something new, but still something 
 I could understand. I found that in Warhammer Online. Unfortunately, it suffers from what I call: 
 Korea Syndrome. What is Korea syndrome? Here are the main symptoms:
  
  1. Bland Graphics: no no, I'm not saying the graphics are bad, actually they're somewhat decent. 
 However, the art style, the way the game actually looks, is just ugly and provides nothing enthralling. 
 The parts which are beautiful are so stereotypical they're lame. Oooh, a big statue of a dwarf 
 with... guess what, A HAMMER! Shocking, I know. 
  
  2. Evil vs. Good: I know, the Warhammer universe is based around this, but it feels so overdone. 
 Sure, it's fun being a part of the Bloody Sun Boyz, but it's something I've seen before so many 
 times that it is no longer impressive. Don't get me started on the Chaos, how boring. 
  
  3. Pseudo Realism: That's right, pseudo realism. They try their hardest in making certain aspects 
 of the game realistic, and do a nice job. The Empire look great (except the mages, you guys suck) 
 and even some of the dwarfs look fantastic. Nonetheless, realism only hurts a game... ::cough:: 
 age of conan ::cough:: Do you know what the best aspect of the game is? The orcs and goblins. Why? 
 Because they're the funnest to play... unless you adore black trench coats and Hot Topic pants 
 with those stupid things hanging off.
  
  With all of that said, I must also be honest. I loved the game's quests and the RvR/Scenario's. 
 The only problem I have with them is the obvious: so many of the classes are unpolished while other 
 classes are too good. Dwarf Runepriests don't have to fight to heal, all they have to do is sit 
 back and pop off heal after heal, making it impossible to kill a small group of them. 
  
  So, in all, the game is good. Hell, it's fantastic. Unfortunately, it's not World of Warcrtaft... astitic. 
 Whether you want to admit to it or not, World of Warcraft set a new bar and if only people would 
 look at their example they could meet if not completely destroy WoW right now. Instead, they want 
 to rely on the same thing we've done a million times. Sure, the RvR/PvP in this game is fun, but 
 basing a game around one aspect would be like WoW having only battlegrounds or only raids, not 
 both. I hope the game gets better and proves me wrong, but I have a feeling when November 13th 
 comes, a lot of the servers will be vacant. Then again, maybe I'm wrong, maybe this will be another 
 AoC or LOTRO... congratulations? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supamancam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I personally haven't had so much fun levelling in a game, ever. There's simply never a dull moment. 
 There's your usual questing/exploration, with a lot of variation in both. Then there's Scenarios 
 you can join with a click of a button, team-based instanced battlefield objectives with a short 
 15-minute timer. There're Public Quests, a great innovation where any number of people work together 
 towards a common goal, with loot being divided at the end based partly on contribution and partly 
 on lukc. There's also RvR 'lakes', expansive areas with Objectives to capture and enemies to defeat. 
 All these will give you experience points.
  
  Keeping it short, but my one main gripe with the game is how Mythic's portrayed Destruction to 
 be the winning, dominant side. Whether this is at fault, or merely the fact that the Destruction 
 races look so 'cool', there's a massive population imbalance on almost ever server, in favor of 
 Destruction.
  
  This doesn't matter a bit in Scenarios, since they're set to a certain number of players. In Open 
 RvR, however, it's just not good. There's no real fun in grouping up with a band of 5 friends, 
 walking ten feet into the RvR lake, and stumbling into a ridiculously large 30-man Destruction 
 zerg. On many servers, Destruction owns all the takeable keeps, all the battlefield objectives, 
 and Order stands little to no chance of taking them back in the foreseeable future.
  
  If you're thinking of picking up this game (and I highly recommend it) , please do your part to 
 resolve the balance issues, and roll Order - it's good fun for the most part - all we need now 
 are the numbers to compete with the zerg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwanderson76
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Felt like a WoW clone from the first minute. But not in a bad way. I pre-ordered, got into Open 
 Beta, and got to play maybe 3 hours in three days. Not because I didn't make time for the game. 
 But because the game, for me, is broken... Horribly.
  
  From the server/character selection screen, to in game where the Quest givers don't respond (if 
 their even present at all) . Or being in game a whole 2 minutes then getting kicked out. 
  
  Then, after oh... 2 different 2.5 hr sessions of updateing drivers (that weren't that out of date) 
 and getting everything out of WAR's way, I got 1.5 hrs to play then *BAM* same problem. Waited 
 a half hour, got back in then *BAM AGAIN* just a scant 45 minutes later.
  
  Now, I know you've already said to yourself "This guy just doesn't meet the minimum specs" Wrong...
 
  
  At minimum my PC is at DOUBLE the RECOMENDED specs.
  
  I've asked around and yes, I will admit, I seem to be on of the few that are having this problem. 
 But the number seems to be steadily growing.
  
  Oh, one more thing. I put in a trouble ticket on this over 2 days ago... and not a peep from support.
 
  
  Good Luck, but Buyer Beware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kockm08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is not WoW. I have one request and that is to please play the game past level 
 21. Only then can you start to understand what this game is about. This is directed to all those 
 nay sayers.
  
  I have experienced Tier 4 content (Rank 30-40) . This means 500 on 500 keep sieges in the middle 
 of a massive burning metropolis like Praag. There are siege weapons like oil, battering rams, ballista, 
 ect... This game is all about RvR and anyone in the area can just march on in. The PvP is not instanced 
 except for the Scenarios which are like Battlegrounds except there are like 20 different variations 
 throughout the tiers. Things like muderball where one player grabs the ball and the team protects 
 him. As the time passes they gain points until the opposing team can take it from them. Another 
 simple one is capturing flags and holding them.
  
  The game's launch has been the smoothest I have ever experienced. There are ques, but I believe 
 they are only on the collector's edition head start servers that opened last Sunday. The majority 
 of people want to be on the most populated server. They are slowly increasing the cap of the servers 
 so that they don't crash, and they have gone from having a 700 person que to a max of 100 people 
 at peak hours. I have yet to experience a server crash on my server and have only experienced a 
 maximum down time of 2-3 Hours every other day or so.
  
  There are no game breaking bugs at the moment and unlike AoC the game actually runs well on computers 
 that aren't High End Systems. I compare it to AoC because of how the launch went with another recent 
 MMO. Sure the graphics aren't as good in War, but AoC didn't even run well on top of the line computers 
 when it was released. Please visit the Inevitable City and Tier 4 before you make a judgment as 
 to if it looks like WoW or if it has bad graphics. There is so much detail put into every little 
 thing. Have you actually seen this game played on Max settings? They didn't release any screenshots 
 or videos of Max settings until early September. All beta clients and videos were running on an 
 approximate Medium Settings, there was no option to turn up or down the settings.
  
  The game is based on groups and Warbands aka raids. Leveling in Tier 1 is better solo, but as you 
 progress it is more necessary for you to level in a group. There is actually very little experience 
 lost if a group member joins which encourages cooperation. You gain experience faster the more 
 people you have together. Lets put it this way they intend you to feel like your part of an army 
 not an individual. It is similar to the table top game in the sense that you are just a foot soldier. 
 It requires teamwork to take people down and it is really rare to see people fighting one on one. 
 Healers will always be hard to take down because if hit one their teammates will focus on you and 
 other healers will heal the healer as well. This is all just my experience maybe its because I 
 am always in a coordinated group, but I have noticed that 90% of my enemies are in coordinated 
 groups as well.
  
  Sure the game has balancing issues at the moment I'll give you that, but the developers have stated 
 that they balanced the game for tier 4 RvR. This means 1-30 there are going to be some issues obviously. 
 I just haven't noticed them that much.
  
  The game's PvE is like a story. You have something called the Tome of Knowledge and as you progress 
 through the story you unlock chapters which reveal more about what is going on. It really feels 
 more like an RPG in this sense. You also cannot just level in only your races area. Once you get 
 to about level 14 maybe 15 it is usually a good idea to leave your area and fly to another to do 
 their quests as well. This means going from the Dark Elf Tier 2 to like the Greenskin Tier 2. This 
 is not a long process and only takes about 5 minutes.
  
  There is PvE in this game! There are instances like other games with loot and bosses, and there 
 are something called Public Quests. Public quests are designated to a certain area on the map, 
 and anyone in that area will have that quest as an objective. Ignore it or help, but there are 
 usually something like 3 stages. The first will be for everyone in the area to kill a total of 
 80 of these guys. Once that is done it moves to stage 2 which is timed. It will be like burn the 
 houses down, but they are guarded by "elite" npcs so it requires teamwork. The final stage will 
 be to kill a boss. The boss will require a full group or even a warband to take down depending 
 on the Public Quest. In the end loot is distributed in a giant chest. People who participated are 
 given a rank depending on what they did for the scenario like heal, take damage, do damage, or 
 support people. The person who contributes the most will have +500 to their roll where as someone 
 in 20th place will have none. Everyone will roll and whoever the people are who rolled the highest 
 will be given a loot bag that can contain a green, blue, or even purple depending on the situation 
 that is for your class.
  
  Loot in this game is great sure their are bind on equip items that are found randomly in the world, 
 but most items that are hard to obtain will be usable by anyone because the item will change depending 
 on the class that is looking at it. Almost all of the good loot is handled in the rank rolling 
 system so it awards those who contribute.
  
  I used to play the tabletop game when I was younger so this is something I have been looking forward 
 to. They seem to have done a good job so far and it keeps those people who love Warhammer lore 
 happy. I think this game will do well, and it is and never will be a game that was intended to 
 dethrone WoW. It is its own identity and if it overcomes WoW then great, but if not it does not 
 make this a worse game. People need to keep in mind that the game has only been out on shelves 
 for 2 days and there will be animation bugs or random things that are just annoying but not game 
 breaking. These things will be worked out over time. People forget that when WoW first came out 
 the servers were not even up majority of the time when it was released due to crashing and bugs. 
 WoW has had its development stage plus its live stage to fix and critique the game into what it 
 is now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennellz
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Hello Folks.
  
  Ok here's my review. Let me start by just saying that I have played WoW (World of warcraft) and 
 have done since it started. I would just like to point out that although I think most mmo's struggle 
 to get close to it they all deserve a chance and some playtime, and tbh anything that will bring 
 down WoW so i can play something else is always welcome.
  
  I'll be honest.. I bought into the hype of warhammer online. Why? becasue I'm a gamer.. and i particularly 
 have an interest in mmorpg games. Having played WoW and LotRO (Lord of the rings online) and Final 
 Fantasy XI all at end game level i think i have some knowledge in the area.
  Warhammer online unfortunatly does not deliver the goods to get straight to the point i will devide 
 the next section into the good and the bad so you can see the pros and the cons, so here goes:
 
  
  The Good:
  Party Mode aka grouping up is what you come to expect from an MMO. It's clean and straight forward 
 to figure out as are the chat channels etc
  I particularly like the public quests. These are basically quests in a certain area of the map 
 that open for everyone to participate in whether grouped or not and gain loot based on a personal 
 score. I think that mos MMO's have missed a trick with this idea as i find it a really great idea.
 
  
  Questing is nice and easy. There are alot of similarities between itself and LotRO.. infact it's 
 almost like the questing engine was stolen from LotRO. Which is not a bad thing which is why it's 
 here in the good points.
  The interface is nice and clean, and easy to modify and customise.
  Skilling up and getting the 
 new abilities is easy and straight-foward.
  
  All of the above however are all points i would expect to see from most MMO's
  
  The Bad:
 
  Ok where do i begin. Graphics... hmmm before i bought this game i was like "geez i hope the graphics 
 are as good as WoW.. then i can play it and not feel guilty about not playing WoW" However.. i 
 was very dissapointed. The reason is becasue the NPC'S and pretty much everything in game looks 
 as though it's just been plonked there on the screen with no thought into how it will be viewed 
 by players at all. I read somewhere before buying that everything would look "seemless" but again 
 it was something i bought into and pinned my hopes on.. but after playing i know now that it's 
 not seemless. When you see other player and npc's at a distance they appear 2D and not 3D which 
 is hugely disappointing.
  
  The next graphical problem are the abilities. Every so often when let off a spell you have no idea 
 whether or not you have actually done it.. because sometimes the animation will drop out and not 
 appear on screen.
  
  Professions.. I chose apothecary and cultivation. Cultivation is just so well rubbish.. The gathering 
 of seeds is straightforward but the cultivating take forever and leave you looking at the screen 
 for about 2 minutes waiting to creating something to harvest. So in comparison to Lotro and WoW 
 the professions don't even come close to being as good in terms of crafting times and enjoyment.
 
  apothecary relies on cultivation alot and is just boring and tedius. Although the fun element 
 is there with apothecary it just could have been so much more.
  
  The Summary:
  Just dissapointing. It could have been so much more and to say they have spent year on this game.. 
 it actually looks like they just wripped off lotro and just added a few wow elements but created 
 their own graphics..
  Please please please see through the crap from most of the hard line warhammer fans that will love 
 it no matter what it looks like and plays like and just see it for what it actually is.. and that's 
 just an average MMO that still has not come close to toppling the capitalist pig of WoW. Who will 
 do it?? Lotro came close but not quite and warhammer is behind that so..
  
  Sorry it's a little short.. if i have the option to come back and carry on the review i will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anemovatis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Excellent client stability and performance (You have to force AA, AF and Vsynch to increase graphics 
 quality - #tip use nHancer- ) . Lovely textures and great character models and animations. 
  You will just fall in love with the Public Quests. UI is awesome from my point of view with a great 
 map to track your quests. 
  Haven't tried RvR yet.
  Currently playing with two characters one from Destruction and one from Order and i think this 
 is the best way to experience the game both from its dark side and its bright side.
  Some minor bugs here and there with Looting (hard to get the "looting hand" sometimes) on a target. 
 It kinda needs a little tweaking from the developers. 
  Also there is no EAX support for Vista users with Creative soundcards (using Xfi XtremeMusic) but 
 please correct me if i am wrong with that.
  
  Cannot wait for even more people to join the WAR and make this game even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdkz_2000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  You know how they used to call Everquest Evercrack.... Well we're potentially looking at some WARcrack 
 here.
  
  Just try the game. Every play style has been tweaked to make sure no ones bored and running around 
 without anything to do. Whether you're logging on for 30 minutes or 7 hours, its a blast every 
 time. True it takes someone who has a head on their shoulders to enjoy every aspect of the game, 
 but what game isn't like that? The lore from the tabletop game adds a whole new element to the 
 in game actions. Even though the whole server hasn't reached the level cap at the moment, you can 
 still see what groundwork Mythic set up to have some awesome developer ran game events.
  
  The play style of the game brings benefits from great mmo's like Everquest and Daoc, to some of 
 benefits of WoW. Being a vet of those games made me very skeptical initially, but Mythic has been 
 able to prove that they have a superior product. Way to go guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nevermuse
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  The game offers immersive content that engages both PVP and PVE player alike. Solo and group play 
 is also up to the player as they guide through 3 different realms full of zones appropriate for 
 any level range. Or PVP throughout numerous Scenarios or even open PVP in any of the aforementioned 
 PVE zones.
  
  This game is very easy to get into, and easy to enjoy as it plays off the familiar things that 
 you may be used to from other games. They also add a few new flairs of their own, like the Public 
 Quset system... which is very nice!
  
  Lore wise it is great, and you can pretty much see similarities in some of the lore of games run 
 by the competitors. This is, simply, because they all stole a lot of their lore and ideas from 
 the Warhammer world in the first place!
  
  Overall, I enjoy this game, and hope it will continue to offer timely and meaningful updates for 
 a while to come.
  
  Great job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floydshayvious
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  After months of lack-luster next gen and MMORPG titles, I feel that Warhammer Online is a surprising, 
 visually pleasing, and worth while experience for anyone up for a change. The one consistent negative 
 I have noted about a majority of player problems with this titles are, actually, very inconsistent!
 
  
  There have been complaints about 'NASA quality rigs' not being able to handle this game well, and 
 I'll tell you personally that my machine is almost four years old, running this game on high quality, 
 having no lag pools or spikes that even begin to make the game unplayable, and I can enjoy RVR 
 with so many players on the screen at times it makes my head spin.
  
  I do run XP however, so take that as you may - Vista users.
  
  That out of the way - DONT let 
 performance complaints deter you from giving this new MMORPG a try, because I personally think 
 those issues are not widespread, as complaints are usually the loudest things on any board you 
 can come across.
  
  The game is NOT groundbreaking and it is NOT flawless (no game is) , but it IS different, and to 
 be competing with a giant that has dominated the market for four years it is a welcoming, and well 
 designed change, while still being familiar enough to not have new MMORPG'ers completely lost.
 
  
  Also, I feel this title has a massive potential to grow. As of now, you can expect a decent variety 
 between classes and an engaging play style between archetypes while still having the ability to 
 lay down some hurt in PVE and RVR - no one class is left with the feeling of weakness!
  
  I've got a good feeling about this one, and hope it continues to grow into a stellar title.
  
 
  Congratulations Mythic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aow0526
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  Fun game! Public quests and RVR add quite a bit to the game. Warhammer can stand on it's own in 
 today's market and do well. I like WOW and may still play it especially as I never played PVP aspect 
 of it very much. I stuck to quests and instances in WOW and loved it but I want to see how PVP 
 stacks between the two games. Warhammer easily integrates PVP into the game and makes it a natural 
 extension/blend of PVE. I couldn't imagine playing Warhammer and not participating in PVP and RVR. 
 It's readily accessible and just a plain blast.
  
  Hardware wise my computer finally showed it's age and I had to upgrade. I went from an AMD64 3000+ 
 Athlon, 1Gig RAM, and 128mb Nvidia 6800 video card to Q6600 quad processor Intel, 4 Gigs RAM, and 
 512mb Nvidia 8800GT. Runs smooth as silk now without the stuttering I was getting throughout the 
 beta and the first day of the head start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaidd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  So there are some technical glitches that are completely ironable. You're not going to be wearing 
 a "Breastplate of  There is actually very little in 
 Warhammer Online that screams "look at the unit on ME!!!" But, really, it's a GAME. It's about 
 fun. And Warhammer is just straight-up fun. Sure it might be more simplistic than other offerings 
 on the market in some ways, but once you play for a few hours, you realise that you don't miss 
 these things. It's pretty, hard-hitting, fast, and fun. 
  
  One of the best points of Warhammer is the auto-levelling system. Whenever you enter RvR, your 
 stats (not your abilities, just your stats) are automatically advanced to a level or two below 
 cap for that RvR zone. So at level 1, if you get bored with quests (or even right at sign-on) , 
 you can enter an RvR scenario (as I did) and still get a chance to place in the top 10 for damage. 
 It's fun from day one. No "rush to the endgame, where the fun starts" here. 
  
  True, the PvE element (when held on its own) is weaker than some would like (WTFOMG no raidzlol?!?!?!) 
 but if people would give the RvR system a chance, I think many would come to realise that not all 
 PvP engines are created equal. RvR is not a gank-fest. RvR is a battle. Yes, you die... but unlike 
 some other MMOs, death is actually kinda FUN in War. It's less of a "dammit, now I've gotta run 
 ALL THE WAY BACK..." and more of a "you Black Orc SOB... I'll get you this time!" 
  In short... wargamers, warhammer fans, MMO PvPers, people who defended the Crossroads when you 
 were outnumbered and outleveled; you will LOVE warhammer. It's just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  WHO is slightly different visually and play style. From the get go, the public quests are a welcome 
 excursion. The comparitive instances are available from the onset. The que's are currently long, 
 but that will get better with the addition of servers. Some visual alignment glitches abound, but 
 nothing like AoC which is basically unplayable at times. Have not had a single lockup. Being a 
 WoW player who doesn't really PvP, I find this new RvR and balancing exciting. A level 3 toon can 
 enter an area, get lvl 8 for the timeframe, and duke it out with the opposing side. Graphics aren't 
 great, but better than WoW. Audio is a nice mixture but lacking at times. Overall, cancelling my 
 AoC and will play this alongside WoW. One has to be careful of the respawn rates as they are almost 
 immediate. The difficulty even with this does not pose a problem. When targeting, you are not left 
 to question if you can take them or not since it says effortless, easy, equal, etc. at each onset. 
 Quite a nice launch and Mythic may keep adding content and patches to make it even better. Definately 
 a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Online is the new MMORPG from Games Workshop, which will literally, blow your damn mind!
 
  
  Now, i have played every MMO from Ultima to Everquest to WoW. Im a pretty huge fan of the genre 
 and have spent many all nighters playing. Warhammer Online, is by far, the greatest & funnest MMO.
 
  
  The first question on peoples mind, "Is it better than WoW?".
  Short answer: Hell Yes.
  World Of Warcraft revolutionized the industry, and was truly a phenom 
 in the MMO world. Warhammer Online is nowhere near as revolutionary, but much better.
  
  Lets start from the begging, you all probably know how horrible MMO's are at low levels ( 1 - 15..) . 
 Warhammer Online has none of that, but sticks to the MMO potion. Get this quest, kill X monsters, 
 get your reward. Also, rank = level.
  
  There are 20 classes within 6 races. The Destruction; the evil and dark vs The Order; the good 
 and light. No. Its RvR. The High Elves vs The Dark Elves. The Chaos vs The Empire. The Dwarfs vs 
 The Greenskins. But please, dont pick a simple dwarf. Try out one of the unique, insane Warhammer 
 Online classes. The Sorceress, The Marauder. The Black Orc. The Squid Herder. The White Lion. The 
 Shadow Warrior. Etc. Each class is either a tank, healer, ranged or melee dps, although each class 
 has its own exclusive features. And the girl chars, look pretty dam good. In RvR the battles are 
 very unique because of the classes. Make sure you take a minute to pick your class, know your opponent, 
 and know your features.
  
  At low levels you will encounter alot of PQs, Public Quests. All you have to do is walk into the 
 area and start killing! Where theres about 5 - 30 of you doing 3 stages, kill __ monsters, kill 
 __ elite monsters, kill this extremely hard boss. Then you roll (0.632) and get a (+300) depending 
 on your contribution and a bonus if you didnt win a loot bag last round. You get cool weapons/armour 
 from the loot bags depending on their rarity (lesser, greater, etc) .
  
  Now, theirs some great things about this game. There are TONS of achievement, kill 100 high elves, 
 click on yourself 100 times, kill 10 monsters with under 5% health, and many hundreds more. Which 
 alot of you will love. And another extremely cool thing about this game are the titles. I had about 
 35 of them on my bright wizard in beta, you will get them out of nowhere. Titles mirror the achievements, 
 you get a title for each achievement complete, and you can put it on display under your name. The 
 Crucial Crusher, The ___, Etc. The Tomb Of Knowledge is empty at the beggining, and by meeting 
 new people, going into areas, fighting monsters, etc it gets filled up with alot of great information! 
 Its pretty damn cool.
  
  And also, the game looks absolutely beautiful, and runs like a dream on a basic gaming computer. 
 My living room computer is pretty weak for gaming, and can run this game perfectly without lag. 
 And the characters look absolutely, bloody fantastic!! From The Sorcerress to The Marauder, they 
 look sick.
  
  After about level 10, you will see yourself going to new, beatifull area's. Fighting bigger and 
 cool beasts, and doing harder quests. Dont worry guys, no grinding :D. The PQs will get more insane, 
 etc.
  
  Now, theirs PvP. RvR. Relam vs Relam. This game is all about war, hell, its in the god damn title! 
 WAR (haha i told you) has insane battles. First, theirs the scenario's, you click to get put in 
 que, and you wait. You pick a party to join and battle. There's about 3 flags to "take control 
 off", and its get 500 points or 15 minutes etc. I can tell you, this is a FACT, It **** rules!!! 
 You get RP's and EXP when your around the kill, much more if you contribute or did the kill. Then 
 it tells you all the stats (amount of damage done, healing done, etc) at the end. You can buy some 
 kickass armour/weapons with renown points.
  
  Also, around the city your in there's "castles/ areas" which are controlled by eather Order, or 
 Destuction. The faction that controls the most of the city, controlls the city (on the top right 
 of your menu it will tell you the control bar) . Theres also epic battles at those areas, and you 
 also get RP. Then after ___ seizes the area, its unattackable for a couple minutes, then thee opposing 
 faction can attack it. You gain RvR levels with alot of RP, which is shown beside ur name in RvR 
 areas. At thee end, this game is about WAAARRGG.
  
  You get mastery points after rank/level 11, which you can use in 3 categories depending on your 
 class. They power up the moves that are in that category (Path Of Immulation, Etc) . You get 25 
 points before level 40.
  
  After level 20, it starts getting fantastic, with unbelievable area's, PQs, Monsters, Dungeons, 
 Lairs, Armour, Etc. I'll leave it you to experience it for yourself :P
  
  Also, the community in this game is fantastic. No anoying 12 year olds yelling cuss words randomely 
 at you. Its easy to make friends, find a party (wont need to) and more. Truly a great, mature community.
 
  The level cap in this game is 40. Some of you might think its low, but it really isnt. Like other 
 MMOs, at level 40 theres still soooo much legendary stuff to do. It will take you quite alot of 
 time to achieve, but ul have an extreme amount of fun on your way.
  
  Warhammer Online, is a Massively Multiplayer Online Game that can be played for hundreds/thousand 
 of hours, of continuous extreme fun. It not only lives up to its incredible hype, it far surpasses 
 it. Truly, an insanely phenomenal game.
  
  ( I will add more pictures in the future, and some more text)
  
  
  -----
  
  You guys 
 should really check out video's of this game. Some of the top of my head are the CG  
 Gamespot's Discussion of the game  
 Gamespot's Gameplay Video's, IGN Vids, Trailer, Video Discussions of the game and much more. You 
 guys should definately check out the first two, and the rest if you have time, they are great :D
 
  
  
  -----
  
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  - The gameplay in this game is truly fantastic. The quests in this MMO are very fun, although they 
 do stick to the normal MMO formula (Kill X *insert monster name*) , the combat / spellcasting is 
 extremely fun, also because of thee amount of skills (spells) . This may shock you, but there is 
 no grinding in this game! Although its nothing revolutionary like Ultima, EQ or WoW was, it takes 
 the greatest things of past MMOs, expands on them and adds some great features . The PQs are legendary. 
 The Lairs and Dungeon's are fun. Among other things, the gameplay in this MMO is realy, realy awesome.
 
  
  Graphics 8/10
  - For an MMO, the graphics are very fantastic. But what makes it even better are how the environment, 
 and characters look. There is not that many MMOs i can compare these graphics to except Age of 
 Conan. But comparing this to RPGs and Past MMOs, it looks exceedingly good. But you all should 
 remember, for an MMO, graphics mean nothing, at all. The gameplay, quests, dungeons, fun, grind 
 and replayability accualy matter in this genre. But if you are one of those people that really 
 cares about graphics, and likes the MMO genre, you will surely not be disapointed.
  
  Fun 10/10
  - By far, the most fun iv ever had in an MMO, and thats saying something. Lets start 
 with the basics, the grind. There is no grind in this game. Most of u must be thinking "An MMO 
 without grind! Impossible!" and in most cases, youd be right. The level cap in this game is 40. 
 The combat and monsters in these game are incredibly fun, you will just have tons of fun killing 
 these beautifull, bloody great looking beasts. The PvP, RvR in this game is, just wow. WAR is the 
 most fun part of this legendairy game, this game is all about WAR, and with these unique amazing 
 classes, these massive epic battles will make you fall inlove for the first time.
  
  Replay 10/10
  - Limitless game. Not only dose it stick to the MMO formula, which alows you to 
 play for years and years and thousands and thousands of hours, this MMO has something extra. The 
 Tomb of Knowlage in this game is fantastic!! Many hundreds of Titles, Achievements, Beasery, Chapters, 
 and just so, sooo much more. You will never get bored of this game, theres always so much more 
 to kill, urm i mean do. And ul have an extreme amount of fun while doing it.
  
  Single+Multiplayer 10/10
  - You can easily solo your way to level 40, or do it with people. In 
 Warhammer Online, theres tons of quests for your current level, with map indicators so its definately 
 solo-able. You click a button the top left cornor to show all the open parties, how many people, 
 their rank and how far they are from you in Minutes, which you can join in a click. So its very 
 easy to group up, join a warband or anything. Its an MMO, at its finest.
  
  
  Overall = 10/10
  - This game is thee funnest MMO, it sticks to the old MMO formula but brings 
 the best out of every MMO, Introduces new things and the fantasy universe in this game is great. 
 This game is Phenomenally Amazing. Epic To The Next Level! Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Refreshing to what exist on the market.
  No headache with hardware requirements.
  And it is well streamlined.
  I so far reached level 7 without playing too much.
  The public 
 quest system is great and the pvp battleground clearly borrows from WOW.
  Very refreshing, i like it a lot so far.
  
  Refreshing to what exist on the market.
  No headache 
 with hardware requirements.
  And it is well streamlined.
  I so far reached level 7 without playing too much.
  The public quest system is great and the 
 pvp battleground clearly borrows from WOW.
  Very refreshing, i like it a lot so far.
  
  Refreshing to what exist on the market.
  No headache with hardware requirements.
  And it is 
 well streamlined.
  I so far reached level 7 without playing too much.
  The public quest system is great and the pvp battleground clearly borrows from WOW.
  Very refreshing, 
 i like it a lot so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanduar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 10:30 pm PT
Review:  There is no getting around it. This game will be compared to WoW. But WarCraft, as many may not 
 know, was actually based off of the Warhammer tabletop game. Like many MMOs WAR holds the same 
 kind of addictive single player PVE quests. Where it well outshines WoW is in its PVP. Unlike the 
 waterdowned battle grounds, every moment of WAR, from level 1, is about kicking the butt of the 
 opposing side. Taking many of the same impressive bits of gameplay from Dark Age Of Camelot, Mythic 
 Entertainment has created true large scale PVP in an MMO. The only other MMOs to nearly come close 
 to the amount of PVP in WAR is Star Wars Galaxies. The only MMO that beats it in the amount of 
 PVP is the MMOFPS Planetside. 
  
  If you feel like constantly clicking killing those same NPCs and bragging about killing a computer 
 boss, stick to WoW. If you want to be able to say you beat the living day lights out of groups 
 of other players, come to WAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_powers_1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is by farr the best mmo i have ever played for a while now. i remember in the old days 
 when i use to play wow for hours on end, With all my friend's we would go on and go raiding. well 
 WAR completely wipes wow out of the compitition. I also played age of conan for a little while 
 i got to around level 40 and once again WAR completely destroyed it. The graphics are pretty amazing 
 and the gameplay hopefully will never get old. there are over around 20 class's which means many 
 many MANY more hours of game time. Who ever is looking for an amazing mmo experience i suggest 
 they go and check out  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darktwin1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Before I started playing I didn't really think i would be all about the game due to the heavy PvP 
 emphasis (RvR whatever...) but i love the IP and have been playing wow for years so i figured i 
 should give it a try. I had also heard they had a public quest system that let random people just 
 roll up and join a group working toward mini-raid goals. "That's NOT gonna work" i said. Well, 
 the public quests work perfectly. They are worked into the game in such a way that you come across 
 them as you are moving through zones following your quests. Its not particularly confusing once 
 you do happen upon one as the goals will appear on the top of your screen. Super anal tactical 
 raid gurus who like to figure out every inch of an encounter and scold the tank for not standing 
 in the exact spot he should may not care for this system though. It is pretty chaotic, but that's 
 fine with me. I don't need some psycho guild master screaming, "minus 100 dkp for you !!!". As 
 far as the RvR scenarios they work pretty much like battlegrounds in WoW which is a pretty solid 
 system in my book. Overall i find it to be a very strong game with some really smart innovation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krynspencer17
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Many people have been relating this game to WoW saying it will be a WoW killer and such. This game 
 is worse then WoW was at WoWs release. I've been playing the game for a few days and it is very 
 evident that it was either rushed out or the game itself is just bad. (i believe it was just rushed 
 out) the graphics are pretty good however, things in the distance are very distorted and choppy. 
 (its not my gfx card geforce 8800GT) even up close it still skips a little but it is still bearable. 
 At the moment i dont plan to pick up the game as i only preordered it for 5$ to test it out during 
 the 2 day head start deal. I will probably play this game in a few months when they REALLY work 
 out all the many kinks and by then it should be pretty decent. The concept is great, but the graphics, 
 fighting animation/spells, and some of the game play need to be worked out. Compared to WoW this 
 game doesn't come close unfortunately but it does have a 1 up on WoW considering that it actually 
 has REAL pvp. Which is something WoW is unable to say for itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilweirdo118
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  You can start as a lvl 1 and just pure pvp and lvl up that way might not have as much good but 
 its possible. This game isn't perfect. It has many glitches which would hopefully be fixed in the 
 future. Like the targeting system some times get out of whack and weird model problems. The public 
 quest feature is a great idea but don't count on getting loot every time. The game is good and 
 would continue to get better as time goes by. Comparing this game to WoW, wow is much slower in 
 the beginning (1-14ish) basicly doing things yourself while WAR has you doing a public quest at 
 lvl 3 and you can start getting renown right away. WoW pvp doesn't have has much rewards as WAR 
 does. Lossing a scenario would still give u loads of exp and some renown in WAR. All and all both 
 games are great and both games will get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy8vien
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The game has a lot of potential unfortunately they didn't deliver. I played wow and lotro and I 
 love both games unfortunately for lotro it's very much under rated, if you compare the graphics 
 and gameplay lotro is way better. Considering WAR has been in works for years now you would think 
 it should have been polished well... but it's not. I've seen this hype before ahem!! AoC ahem!! 
 and where is that game now... (flushing) . Oh well there goes my $49+tax= (.. It's not too late but 
 I think the Mythic have to have a plan in bringing new things in a couple of months because this 
 type of game can die easily. One of the major problem in lotro that lead to its demise is it's 
 community, the game is built into having a solid kinship/guild if you don't have a solid one you're 
 screwed that's why in WAR they better improve this issue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicoladen
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Can not say it any more clearly, the game is not ready. In their hurry to get the game on the street 
 and get a player base before the next wow expansion, they forgot to finish the game. 
  
  A few of the problems are lag (massive) , classes are no way ready, bugged mobs, quests and maps, 
 melee classes can hit other players half a mile away, ranged classes are just broken, the game 
 crashes often, you have to accept the terms of the game EVERY single time you log in, chat system 
 seem to be years behind the ones in wow, theres no sense of the social part of an MMO and I could 
 go on.... Oh and dont get me startede about GOA ( the company running the EU servers) just plain 
 amateurs !
  
  Do not buy ths game now, wait about a year and give them time to get the game done. It could be 
 really great, lot of great stuff in there, but not ready to hit the streets.
  
  Sorry for the spelling :o) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sejuhasz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Scroll down for a summary.
  
  
  The Warhammer universe has never failed to please me in terms of lore and history, it's a well 
 placed and sometimes absolutely insane fantasy world, and Warhammer Online uses this fantasy world 
 to it's advantage, because of the lore the sheer number of classes, class options, skill options, 
 attacks and so on are absolutely shocking, whether you're the powerful Elven White Lion or the 
 lone trench coat draped Witch Hunter you'll explore a world of options.
  
  Warhammer Online's graphical quality is very high for an MMO, however the color is somewhat lacking, 
 the environments will feel old within the first few hours and like you've been to every one of 
 them before, everything is a bit too GRIMDARK, though the textures are beautiful.
  
  Warhammer Online's musical score is something to praise, but the sound effects on the other hand 
 aren't. The sounds are half-baked as if somebody muffled every one of them, whether it be gunfire, 
 walking across a stone road, or your blade striking plate mail the sounds will be there, but they'll 
 never quite impress you.
  
  Warhammer Online's gameplay is it's biggest flaw, it borrows from other MMO's but fails to create 
 the same feeling, in Age of Conan everything seemed to flow together as far as quests, you were 
 given orders and you completed them, it wasn't a complex process, but wasn't over simplified either. 
 Warhammer Online's quests are just the same 3 recycled over and over again (A nod to World of Warcraft)
 
  
  Warhammer Online fails so horribly in one area however I docked two points off of it; It's clunky. 
 Everything is clunky, you must face your enemy DIRECTLY, the animations seem like a 3rd of the 
 frames are missing, the action moves don't respond right away, and everything just seems to achingly 
 slow, even when mounted it seems like you should be moving faster.
  
  All in all Warhammer will not even scratch the surface of World of Warcraft, but it will single 
 handedly take down Age of Conan.
  
  World of Warcraft fans, stick around for Lich King.
  
  
  
  Summary: Warhammer Online will never once immerse you, while you have plenty of choices, 
 the graphical and sound elements of the game turn out to be half-baked and repetitive, more so 
 the entire game seems 1/3rd too slow and clunky. 6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corolex
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  I have been hearing about WAR for a very long time, but now that the game has actually released 
 after so many years there is not much there. Upfront playability is more than good, but the game 
 does not seem finished. I know it is early, but after so many years i would expect it to be finished 
 more, at least more customization features, more and better graphic settings, and more space to 
 explore.
  
  The world seems very linear and cut up into zones which does not give you an impression of a vast 
 world that you can explore. Also you dont seem to stand out more than others, but since it is a 
 new game I try not to make this influence my score.
  
  Another problem is the registration issue and non IE compatibility and bugs at the time of launch 
 (for european players) , this makes me question how secure will be the online payment? 
  
  I got the pre-order which was not worth it, but at least I saved money and will not buy the actual 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manchine
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Where to start. I have not done a review for gamespot. This will be a first. 
  
  I think we all know this game is a great game. There is a few minor problems (Pathing is still 
 having some minor problems, Trade Skills need some pep, and Every Faction is not equal.) There 
 are a many great things about this game. Order and destruction sides are pretty much equal. The 
 content and storyline is amazing. Launch had no problems. Realm Vs Realm is fun even for people 
 who normally don't like that sort of thing (me for instance) .
  
  In the end the game is fun. The content is fun. The graphics are below AoC but heck of a lot better 
 then anything out there so far. There is a story to the game. There is endgame material. Will this 
 game out do the suckiness of WoW. In the first year probable not. Will it take a chunk of it, sure 
 will. Will it ever be #1? Who knows. 
  
  The main thing as with all games..... You play the game and have fun and you will have fun with 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLOPPAGE_50
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  An amazing game thus far.. Used many features WoW had and just makes it better, worth the cash 
 and time.
  
  Right off the start, this game delivers PVP, quests, and puts you right into the war, many MMOS 
 don't do this.. and this is a great thing.
  
  RvR is also amazing, a great way to level up also!
  
  Gear isn't hard to get, which is a plus.. 
 and all your spells are cheap (all cost silver upto level 40, don't have to waste endless amount 
 of gold)
  
  Renown is also a great way to get gear, Aslong as you keep checking the Renown Vendor every couple 
 of levels, you will get some nice gear upgrades that will help you in battle.
  
  
  Public quests are also a fantastic feature, anyone can join in and help out.. and it gives everyone 
 an equal chance to win some good loot, A great innovation onto MMOS for sure.
  
  
  Now one can only hope that Mythic continues to build this game up, and it will definately live 
 up to the hype, for a launch so far, it's doing pretty darn well with minimum bugs.
  
  Overall an excellent game so far, and should be tried out by any MMO Fan, even if you're a die 
 hard WoW fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterWolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  I played World of Warcraft since launch and enjoyed it. But then you start to realize that you 
 don't feel epic anymore. You are asked to get mushrooms, and asked to bring back things like 10 
 insect wing (problem is, you kill insects who HAVE wings and yet they don't drop. Which means it 
 could take an hour of killing 40 to 50 bugs to get 10 wings) . Grinding is not fun. 
  
  Soooo what the heck does collecting insect wings have to do with war in a game called World of 
 WARcraft? Nothing. It's just another in a massive series of grind quests. Grind reputation to get 
 items with factions, grind by killing tons of mobs to get cloth to make armor or bandages.
  
  War, no. Fun, no. Addicting, yes.
  
  Now I am playing Warhammer and man, does it feel like 
 everything you do is actually contributing to the WAR. Everything you kill, everything you plunder 
 and burn is for the war effort. The enemy takes your boats, go get them back. The enemy takes your 
 town, go get it back and burn their town to the ground.
  
  I have never been this immersed into a storyline before in a MMO. I am playing a Chosen and feel 
 like an actual walking tank.
  
  The metal on the armor and weapons look amazing, the water is unreal, the quests are engaging and 
 actually make sense.
  
  And people actually work together since our combined efforts fuel our realm's war outcome.
  
 
  Pvp and Rvr are outstanding and there are no twinks to be found. As a Chosen I protect my allies 
 with amazing skills like Hold the Line. Everyone standing behind me takes less damage. 
  
  Glitches? Sure there are such as weirdness in animation when there's a minor lag spike. Some glitches 
 with White Lion pets like pathing and hit zone bugs. But I'm sure they will fix those. Until then, 
 my White Lion is not being played.
  
  In short, I enjoyed WoW for what it was but Warhammer is vastly superior in gameplay, quests, RvR, 
 graphics and immersiveness.
  
  No more wingless bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miskal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  This game is great it is a ton of fun and encourages group combat without having to find a party 
 this game could take out WoW, if and only if it takes away enough player base by WotLK because 
 wow is dead in the water for any endgame player. The PVP if you can get into one is well thought 
 out and amazing. The Graphics and Concept art in the Collectors Edition are breathtaking and Im 
 looking forward to seeing the endgame. How Mythic EA follows up, after WotLK comes out, with new 
 content and expansions will determine the life expectancy of this game. The game is more adult 
 themed then wow which is nice and is richly steeped in the Warhammer culture (which wow is very 
 loosely based on Humans VS Orcs US - 15 January 1994 vs. Warhammer 1983) this is a great game for 
 any tabletop gamer. Worst case senario it is the best thing thing you can spend your time on till 
 WotLK for a WoW fan and for us warhammer fans WAAAAGGGGGHHH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weezheat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  When making a new game now, in the WoW age, many have failed time and time again because they dont 
 understand how to do it. When someone dominates a market, you must look at what they are doing. 
 Grab those ideas, perfect them, expand on them and then add your substance to it. Making it, if 
 you succeed, a superior game. WAR has done just that. WAR grabbed several things from WoW that 
 worked, expanded on them, made them better and added their RvR and PvP into. Making it, all around 
 a SUPERIOR, yes I said SUPERIOR game to WoW in almost every aspect. The PvE is much better leveling, 
 the PvP/RvR is miles away from WoW. The graphics are better, yet accessible. The UI is from WoW, 
 yet fully customizable. There's something for everyone in this game. All in all, try this game. 
 This is, most likely, the best MMO to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zexcel
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  l'll start by saying I previously played wow for probably about nine months before I got sick of 
 the game and worked out I was there for the repetition and the habit rather than what I would consider 
 to be an actual 'fun gaming experience'.
  
  Heck, I even shuddered as I summed up enough strength and courage just to throw the disks and boxes 
 out the first time.
  
  The main problem with wow (as I saw it) was the fundamentals that made up the game. Most of the 
 elements that wow was comprised of were built along the lines of obsessive compulsion.
  
  Leveling was a complete job (that you didn't get paid for) , the community was made up of hyperactive 
 abusive nerds (people you would never sit down with and talk to in real life) and overall the quest 
 system was simply soul stealing (find nine turnips, 3 ears and 12 bars of cheese) and repeat this 
 process 435,000 times until you hit 'said level'... I could feel my brain oozing out by level 56.
 
  
  After getting over the previous MMO aftermath and I assume - a shorter life expectancy - I eventually 
 decided to give Warhammer online a try. Thank heavens that I did!
  
  First up, the art and design is just beautiful and really does present a completely immersive and 
 stunning world (although I will admit upon first playing the game the graphics did seem a tad bit 
 scruffy) . To fix this problem I simply forced my video card to implement AA 16Q and Triple Buffering 
 for a wonderful and smoothed out effect that just enhances this games visuals and makes it look 
 gorgeous. 
  
  Surprisingly the quests are varied and (dare I say it... fun to do) and the PQ and RvR elements 
 are a real evolutionary step forward for an MMO. Don't feel like questing? Then jump into RvR and 
 watch that XP (and your enemies) fly! Thankfully Mythic has some how cracked the code that allows 
 an MMO to be a continuous, fluent and fun filled experience without the excruciating tedium and 
 shear (I wish I was dead) boredom of grinding. Now THAT is an achievement in its self. 
  
  Mix that with a guild system that breaths and grows like an entity though member leveling, a huge 
 array of fantastic gear on offer for those with real skill and a daring attitude and some incredibly 
 intuitive hybrid classes and this game becomes something truly incredible to behold. 
  
  Finally, Don't listen to the Ney Sayers, the pessimists or the Blizzard fan-boys (its seems their 
 attitude is still til' death do us part) . Do yourself a favor and re-roll yourself a new opportunity 
 and join the fun. I guarantee you won't look back.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-ShirtBoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Well it's 19th September already! Warhammer Online (WAR) , as you know is a MMORPG made by Mythic 
 Entertainment and EA Games. Based on 25 Years of history from Warhammer, this game is just as exciting 
 as Paul Barnett advertised it to be.
  
  This review will be based on my experiences with the game as a Level 14 (At time of publication) . 
 Some things you might not agree with but this is based on a Gobbo's point of view.
  
  -Graphics 8/10
  
  Although not the best, for an MMORPG it is second to AoC in my opinion. Some 
 things to spot are the apparent such as texture detail range. The range in which the textures gain 
 the actual detail is rather short and might be quite annoying when you look into the distance only 
 to see low texture detailed mountains.
  
  The Shadows is a good start, although only you actual get a proper shadow while everyone else gets 
 the generic dot on the floor style shadowing.
  
  Skills look rather cool depending on what class you are. The Bright Wizard (Empire Ranged DPS) 
 has nice looking skills except their AOE, which has the apparent effect of the low grade textures.
 
  
  One thing I find very visually appealing is the realism of the arrow arcs, arrows when fired out 
 of the bow of either the Shadow Warrior (High Elf Ranged DPS) or the Squig Herder (Greenskin Ranged 
 DPS) do a nice little arc before hitting their target.
  
  Another thing to mention about graphics is the model detail on equipments. Items are relatively 
 high detailed and look 'cool'. I however, like the capes in the game. They seem to be like those 
 extra long capes and scale nicely to the character models.
  
  -Game Play 9/10
  
  WAR has a special feature that I enjoy, this is their questing. With questing, gone are the 30 
 minute grinds to find an item such as bear paws from bears that are meant to drop 4 of them. (Come 
 on! You've killed the bear, just rip it's paws off!) Every quest will ask you to perform simple 
 tasks that are guaranteed to drop if you kill the right monster.
  
  PvE in general is great, but I've noticed that if I am level 14 trying to kill a level 17 (Challenging 
 at Level 14) it takes me forever to do. However killing it at level 15 (Drops to Equal at level 
 15) is much faster and easier.
  
  PvP is amazing for an MMORPG. Warhammer is a game based on war and very easily ties PvP with PvE 
 while still sticking to the lore of the IP. Pvp might seem somewhat long winded because of the 
 high health characters start off with.
  
  Another interesting feature is Bolstering. This buff will automatically increase your stats depending 
 on what zone you are in to give you a better chance of actually surviving.
  
  -Balance 8/10
  
  Balance issues are present in this game, its not very surprising as they are 
 very hard to get rid of. Ironbreaker (Dwarf Tank) and a Runepriest (Dwarf Support) are nearly invincible. 
 The DPS of the physical ranged damage classes are rather low as compared with their magical counterparts. 
 They both die just as easily in PvP so armour value is of hardly any difference.
  
  With this said might I point out that these issues are not very seriousF and are minor. Actual 
 balancing comparisons should be done at max level but since no one is there yet, I will have to 
 review what I've played so far.
  
  -Music 10/10
  
  Seeing as it was played with a live orchestra, the music is superb and just by listening to the 
 songs being play, it is very easy to identify what the music represents. 
  
  Skill sounds are not annoying and the background music while playing is of perfect amount; enough 
 to have a sense of realism but not enough to annoy you.
  
  -Model Art 9/10
  
  Silhouette of characters are quite good and is quite easy to identify what you're up against or 
 what is charging at you. All the classes have a distinct look to them that helps you indentify, 
 such as the Black Orc's (Greenskin Tank) broad and buff look and the Bright Wizard's (Empire Ranged 
 DPS) fiery hair and body shape.
  
  -Fun 10/10
  
  This game knows how to do everything in moderation. Things don't tend to get frustrating, even 
 dying is not really a big deal and you simply respawn at your nearest camp.
  
  PvP and PvE are good and scenarios have good replayablilty. You can level while PvPing, which is 
 a rare thing to see in games.
  
  Levelling is not very hard and since you can PvP to level, that makes everything rather easy.
 
  
  Features such as influence and renown put more fun into the PvP besides the boring conventional 
 shallow type of PvP, which has PvP because you can, not because you require it.
  
  -Mechanics 9/10
  
  I will explain the mechanics based on the four archetypes: Tank, Melee, 
 Ranged and Support.
  
  Tank
  
  Tanks are actually quite imbalanced. They have a lot of health, a lot of armour and with their 
 DPS option weapon, can dish out huge DPS despite their nature. This can used to your advantage 
 with healers all healing this large unstoppable killing machine. Tanks have a lot of threat increasing 
 skills that make sure the monster focuses on him, and not the healer.
  
  Tanks in this game can hold off multiple mobs while dealing decent damage.
  
  Melee
  
  
 Ideally DPS tanks with less armour but more DPS. These are equipped with skills that are more damage 
 orientated than Tanks. With lower armour, this means they cannot tank and they have no threat increasing 
 skills. Melee DPSers are possibly one of the more effective archetypes in PvP.
  
  Ranged
  
  Ranged DPSers are proficient at aiding the tank as he keeps the monsters off you. Ranged DPSers 
 are spilt into 2 types; Physical, which are the ones that do physical damage (Squig Herder, Engineer, 
 Witch Hunter, and Shadow Warrior) and Caster which are the ones that cast magic (Sorcerer, and 
 Bright Wizard) Both the casters have a risk involved, where they must build up their magic, which 
 in turn allows them to deal more damage at a cost of possibly losing a large chunk of their health 
 because of a backfire. Physical DPSers have a more stable form of DPS but tend to do less damage. 
 No risks such as backfires are experienced as a physical DPS at the cost of reduced DPS. (This 
 might sound quite unfair but let me assure you blowing yourself up while getting ganked is not 
 such a good thing.)
  
  Support
  
  Support characters are healers, or well that's what the word support tends to refer to. In fact 
 these 'Support characters' are effective as DPS just as any other archetype. They have skills relating 
 to keeping people alive and some DPS spells for doing damage. Goblin Shamans (Greenskin Support) 
 have the Mork and Grok mechanic, where their healing spells become more effective as they cast 
 damage spells and vice verse. This makes healing less boring and puts some fun and active playing 
 and strategic planning in it, instead of just pressing the same hotkey a thousand times.
  
  -RvR and Features 10/10
  
  RvR is a very interesting concept, where keeps and points of capture 
 are present in an open PvP zone. Capturing them helps your realm reach the ultimate goal of raiding 
 and sieging the opposite faction's capital. Which leads to killing their leader and getting awesome 
 loot.
  
  Keeps are large fortresses that guilds can capture for the realm; this then gives them a place 
 to meet up like a sort of guild hall type of place. To siege a keep, it acts as a dungeon, where 
 you have to kill levels of guards hired by the guild to defend the keep. This leads to the killing 
 of the Keep Lord and gaining control of the keep for your guild. Keeps will change shape depending 
 who surrently has control of them and it is easily identifiable who actually owns one.
  
  Capture points are less visually appealing then keeps but still hold an important role of aiding 
 the other tiers. This means low level characters can still feel that they are contributing to the 
 overall war effort.
  
  -Total Average 9.5/10
  
  Warhammer Online is definitely a good game and I would suggest it to anyone looking for a MMORPG. 
 You can check out all the classes and additional information at www. warhammeronline. com.
  
  Have Fun!
  
  Sedsigafew
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StSk8ter29
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying i have never played a game of Warhammer Table Top, nor would i ever 
 want to spend all the money to buy myself an army. I am familiar with it, but I am rating this 
 game simply on the basis of gameplay while ignoring the vast history that Warhammer has. I feel 
 that my purpose is to review WAR as a game, not as a series, but let me tell you, it's great.
 
  
  Instead of describing the unique character classes and going through the initial selection, I am 
 going to get right to the point (assuming you know the classes already) and tell you how the game 
 actually plays. The Warhammer world map is separated into three different areas for the factions 
 fighting each other (empire v. s. chaos, Dwarfs v. s. Greenskins, High elves v. s. Dark elves) . This 
 would map roughly shows you where the factions are battling, but it doesn't give you a sense of 
 a truely connected world. What i mean is that you won't see on the world map the towns or roads 
 that connect the battling factions, all the world map does is show you where the battles (in theory) 
 are going on. This is kind of handy if you don't know the lore, but other than that this map only 
 needs a single glance and then is expendible. Fortunately, their are two other maps that give you 
 an idea of where you are, one that shows your particular set of "tiers" (which are areas of combat 
 ordered from left to right and roughly levels 1-10, 11-20, etc.) and one that shows your position 
 in your local tier. These are nice, but once again it doesn't give you any kind of idea of how 
 your set of tiers is connected to rivaling factions besides the world map, and this can be initially 
 confusing.
  
  I think this forces me to say that really my major problem with the game so far has been the lack 
 of a coherant game world. Every tier has a loading screen (which is an average of every ten levels) , 
 which makes it nice considering you don't really have to instance into a new area too much (only 
 3 times in theory moving left to right if you never went backward) . I find that the game is pretty 
 nice in this sense, but still i wished i had more of an idea of how all three "battle areas" connected. 
 On a good note though, every time you go to a flight master you never have to wait to get to your 
 new area while watching yourself fly from one area to another, since it's instanced, you simply 
 see yourself flying off in a gyrocopter and then appear in the town you selected after a short 
 loading screen. Like stated before, the world map was my main issue, but in that it is a relatively 
 minor one and the local maps do such a good job that you know where you are in your set of tiers 
 anyway, which is all you really need to know. 
  
  On to combat though. Besides the differences between the classes, each of them still plays just 
 like any other mmo if you've played one before (besides age of conan) . You select a skill and the 
 character automatically acts it out for you. It may not be new, but really i never felt annoyed 
 by the combat and the system doesn't feel broken or dull at all, so why fix it? In that way the 
 combat seems to slip under my radar and I take it for granted, something that i guess should be 
 taken for good in an MMO.
  
  By far though, it's the way that you use this combat that really makes this game shine. Never have 
 I had so many options for leveling as I do in Warhammer Online. I find it nice that instead of 
 simply going into an area and grinding either monsters or quests i have the ability to do some 
 other things like participating in public quests or completing things in the tome of knowledge. 
 I've always been one for little things to occupy my time with and the Tome of Knowledge is like 
 a candy factory for me in that sense. Sure, its easy to ignore the Tome most of the time (unless 
 you randomly get an achievement, which believe me happens a lot) . But if you decide to sit down 
 and analyze it you will find that the tome is deep with extra things to do and should give any 
 person who's easily bored something to do if they run out of quests in an area.
  
  On to the public quests though. These things are fun but i found myself using them not as a nice 
 fallback if i don't have anything to do (like the tome) , but more as a thing i do when i want to 
 grind gear after i enter a new area. You have three tiers in the "influence" bar, (basic, advanced, 
 and elite) and every time you kill a monster in a public quest you gain influence points and eventually 
 fill up your influence bar to one of the three (what are) diamonds on the bar. For an extremely 
 quick run down, basic usually gets you a potion, advanced gets you a higher level armor piece, 
 and elite gets you a piece of magical armor (in general) . Like stated before, I used public quests 
 as a way to get good armor upon entering a new area, but i never found myself returning to the 
 public quests after that unless one of my regular quests told me to, although they were fun when 
 i participated.
  
  Speaking of quests, I think it's really important to mention here, if short, that i really enjoyed 
 the party creation system in this game. Gone are the days that you have to sit around asking if 
 anyone can help you with a quest. Upon entering an area you can simply open up the social tab and 
 look at the groups in your area to join one. I found this very helpful when most of my time in 
 other games seemed to be spent typing "lfg". It may seem very simple, but it keeps the pace going 
 in a game that should be all about going out there and smashing orcs or dwarfs into oblivion without 
 much pause in-between. 
  
  That brings me to grouping for pvp, and normally here i would go into a description of pvp in this 
 game, but quite frankly, i'm not a pvp person. I've participated in RvR combat when i happened 
 to walk into an area with it for a quest, and i have had fun killing one dark elf i came across, 
 but other than that my experience with PvP in this game has been very limited although it seemed 
 balanced. What i think this says in the end though is that Warhammer Online really is a game for 
 everyone. Never do i find myself in PvE running out of things to do even in a game that's based 
 on war and rivalling factions. It's also worth noting that completing quests, participating in 
 public quests, and completing tome unlocks all contribute to the overall progress my faction is 
 making in the war. So, even if i don't feel like i want to go against other players, i can still 
 feel like i'm contributing to the war effort.
  
  In closing, Warhammer Online is not necessarily too much different from other games in the genre 
 as far as combat and presentation goes, but it does do a lot of things different that makes it 
 just one step above everyone else. It may not be perfect right now but at least it's been stable 
 at launch. With the promise of more capital cities and overall more things to do, I would think 
 you'd be hard pressed not to love Warhammer Online for years to come if your tired of the other 
 games in the genre. Simply put, Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning is a fun game, and it's a fresh 
 diversion into a different fantasy that everyone should try if not get hooked on like i have.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tag599
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  WAR has things I've seen and havn't seen from other MMO's out there. The graphics are beautiful 
 for an MMO, and same for the environments. The PvP is tremendous fun and cleverly put together, 
 same for, my favorite, Public Quests (PQ) ... which are kick ass by the way. 
  
  The Tier system is brilliant in my own opinion, ten levels per-tier, for tiers, all together 40 
 levels...
  Everything isn't so complicated and or jumbled together, it's well organized.
  
  Though, I could do without all the lag and small noticeable bugs. The world seems to be a little 
 smallish to me as well, which is why it's all so organized, I guess?.. I just wish it would of 
 been slightly larger (MMO's do grow in size as time goes by anyway's, so...)
  
  In a nut-shell, WAR is clever, fresh, clean, and a wonderful creation for anyone to try, especially 
 for those MMORPG fans just waiting for something cool to get there hands on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaostree
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  I can't go hardcore into my review so Ill write another one later on. For now, Ill cover what I've 
 seen.
  
  Class Diversity
  
  One of the features that no other game cannot claim fame to is the class diversity. There are 18 
 different classes with 18 different approaches, each with 3 different talent trees to pick and 
 choose from. I've never seen or experienced this before. This means that everytime you want to 
 create a new character, if you choose a different race, you choose a different class. If you choose 
 a different class, you are in for a much different experience. With my terribly bad ADD, this really 
 adds to my appeal. I love the fact that I can switch back and forth for a unique experience each 
 time. 
  
  RVR/PVP and classes
  
  It seems to me, as far as I've come to find out, that each class can be successful in RVR. There 
 are no gimped classes in this game. I can remember when I was playing WOW as a protection specced 
 warrior and I wouldnt dare step into a PVP scenario or arena because I knew it was no use. I couldnt 
 do damage and I couldnt protect against spells. As a matter of fact, the only viability I was able 
 to find, was to take some points out of Prot tree and put them into, I believe the dps tree? so 
 I could get Demoralizing Shout. Then at least the other classes could kill things easier. Not in 
 this game though, Tanks can run in and distract/tank the others, while the healers heal and the 
 dps'ers dps. When I PVP in Warhammer, it feels very similar to the style in which I would raid 
 in WOW.
  
  Quests
  
  There are tons of them and they arent as boring as many say. By the way, what was so interesting 
 about any quests that any other game put out, including WOW? I find quests to be necessary in order 
 to level and that's about all I think of them and in Warhammer, there are plenty to go around. 
 
  
  Fun Factor
  
  Addicting. Totally and utterly addicting. I can't stop playing and when Im not playing, Im thinking 
 about what Im going to do the next time I log on. The thing is, Warhammer decided to go against 
 the grain with it's style. Rather than seperating every aspect of the game so that you could pick 
 and choose, it melds every aspect together, causing a fast, chaotic, unique and very much so, fun 
 environment where anything can happen around the next corner or down the next path. 
  
  Graphics
  
  They are great for the design desired. It's more cartoonish art then realism, but 
 for cartoonish, it's top notch and after playing LOTRO, AoC and Vanguard, I've come to realize 
 that cartoonish art just looks better than the clunky and most of the time, boring realistic graphics. 
 It puts the "fantasy" in MMORPG's whereas more realistic graphics just make the characters seem 
 more like the people you see everyday (minus the axes, blood and attire) .
  
  Soundtrack
  
  SOrry guys, I really never care about the sound. I guess its good.
  
  Final Thoughts
 
  
  If you like PVP, you HAVE to buy this game. If you like a balance of PVP and PVE, you have to buy 
 this game. If you dont like PVP (like me) you HAVE to try this game. It changed my mind... I can't 
 stop my desire to want to RVR/PVP all day rather than quest and level. If you dont like this game, 
 that's fine, it wont be for everyone, but I think that you should try it before taking someone's 
 word. THis game has too much to offer to leave it on the shelf for the next gamer to purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Every MMO player out there knows we're all different with different tastes and we like to do different 
 things, Warhammer Online gives back that option to the players.
  
  If you are the PvE type, there's plenty of it, the quests carry on the Warhammer storyline from 
 level 1, the map tells you where the quests are with markers so no more spending hours looking 
 for them. There's also Public Quests, areas made for everyone to participate, and the more you 
 do the more chances to obtain better items at the end of the PQ not to mention that you get more 
 rewards when you fill the "PQ Meter". There are no dungeons until later on in the game, these are 
 the "raid" places for those that like to do that.
  
  Now if you are a RvR'er, Warhammer Online gives you what you want, RvR areas as soon as the first 
 zone where you can test your mettle with enemies from the other realm, take Objectives and let 
 the world know who owns the zone (yep there's a bar that fills up and gives zone control) . Also 
 if you're not the Epic Battle (or zerg) type, there are Scenarios you can queue for from level 
 1, you gain experience, renown points and money, that's right, you don't need to PvE to level anymore 
 if you want, all you do is RvR your way to level 40.
  
  Then comes equipment, do not fret for every player gets equipment their own way, PvE'ers get them 
 from Public Quests and regular questing (some mobs even drop amazing gear that you have to repair 
 at a merchant) . RvR'ers get their equipment from a Renown Merchant, the more Renown Ranks you obtain 
 via PvP the more gear you can buy, so PvP'ers don't need to touch any PvE if they don't want to.
 
  
  Of course it's much easier to level and equip by doing both things, and that's the beauty of it, 
 flexibility for everyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoldierDuMM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  i play age of conan and i needed to kill 650 monsters to lvl up ... BORING AS HELL
  
  in this game you don't grind and pvp is amazing i love that game the unique leak ! Graphical are 
 bad ... and level up is long
  
  Also you got so many quest and pvp give XP so you can go do so many thing to lvl up ! . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotservice
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  I don't usually write reviews but I really had to say something here this is a great game with 
 tons of content at launch I mean you want PVP you can do that and just that you want PVE you can 
 do that and just that but im not writing this review to tell you about the game because im sure 
 you've read all about it and tons of info about it I just wanna repsond to all these redicious 
 people saying it doesnt have a launch as good as wow and there are some bugs and the graphics arent 
 that great... ok first when WOW launched it was a good game not a great game it had ZERO pvp none 
 .. no reward nothing and no end game except for those silly 5 mans but they improved on it because 
 no game is perfect at launch and second about the graphics .. people cmon games like conan come 
 out and no one plays it because the graphics are to demanding in games like this trust me mythic 
 would make the best graphics you wanted but this is a MMO its about getting the people in there 
 and playing with your friends and making the requirments easy enough so all your friends can play 
 ... give the game a try yeah there are a few bugs but every MMO is like that at launch and this 
 probably has the most content right now at launch then any other MMO at launch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sedran
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Seems to be a nice game, that has been given a lot of thought. Game mechanics are very nice and 
 the game is quite stable considering its the first day of release.
  The RvR part already suffers a bit from most ppl playing the forces of evil, but both sides are 
 pretty cool and it will probably stabalize over time on most realms. Graphics might be a bit disappointing 
 at first, but they run smooth and when you get used to the cooler, darker atmosphere than comparable 
 MMORPGs it seems allright.
  Havent played that many classes yet, but at least the sorceress, ironbreaker, swordmaster, disciple 
 of kaine, warrior priest, witch elf and engineers seems very cool, with many different and unique 
 abilities.
  All in all a promising game, that will probably attract more of the mature players than etc. WoW.
 
  Anyway if you like the genre its definately worth trying Warhammer online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0gueUK
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  I think this game is going to get loads of people leaving warcraft for warhammer. I have been following 
 the release of warhammer since it was mentioned. The game is easy to pick up & the variety of gameplay 
 far exceeds my expectation. Its warcraft & planetside in one amazing game. Wahammer has loads of 
 different scenarios from RVR, Battleground & a huge scale battle. The battleground TIER 4 looks 
 excellent, capture the enemy captial city for points (planetside) or the dungeon side of warhammer (warcraft) 
 play the game at your own pace, still having alot to look forward too. Join a guild & be known 
 throughout the realm. Add charms to your character outfit to show how strong you have become. There 
 is just too much to go into with one review. But its a must buy for any MMO fan. 
  
  Some of the low score comments people are giving is brainless. most of us has played WoW, but people 
 who are scoring this game low out of spite. Do not understand that even when WoW was released it 
 was bugged just like any game.. The only reason WoW got off the floor is because there was no competition. 
 So if you are going to comment this game low then do it for the write reasons not just because 
 it may have a few bugs. I close my case 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenuty
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:34 am PT
Review:  First off I will be honest,
  
  I hated this game, I hated the fact that it "Looked" slow in combat or that it also looks like 
 wow. I would come up with an excuse of why bother when I can still play wow? I was in a world of 
 surprise this from someone who has put so much time into wow.
  
  I will make this as short and simple. This game is the opposite of wow, this game is pvp based 
 with pve in mind and World of warcraft is simply pve based with pvp in mind. Play what you enjoy. 
 The -5 points I gave this game is because of sometimes lack of music or bugs but those can be ironed 
 out since no mmo is perfect! Play this game till end game before you diss it! It's very fun yet 
 complex enough that hardcore players will enjoy it and you will actually feel like you achieve 
 something in a game and having fun, not about getting some gear from being first to kill bosses, 
 just to have it replaced in expansions. It's about WAR!
  
  Update; sep 24 2008
  
  Now I am a level 23 swordmaster and lets share about my experience so far.
  
  Graphics- Not 
 AOC graphics but I force my Nvidia to give me the best and I get really smooth and good graphics. 
 I mean I'am not looking for crysis or expected it lol but iam not a huge nerd over graphics. Judging 
 a book because of its cover is dumb.
  
  Ui- The Ui is of course similar wow, but there is a good amount of customization. I can move my 
 interface anywhere I want, put in macros edit my key layouts ok. Goodbye to 598359830235-23590235 
 mods I use to download lol.
  
  Classes-Total- 10 Classes on both side, 20 All together! I have tried them all the other hell of 
 it to level 5. All I have to say is they are all unique in their own. I have been browsing forums 
 etc for major complains and this is the first time that I did not hear a major complain about the 
 balance and issues about classes and what not. Customization of character is also fun, you can 
 use renown pvp points to spec into your stats, then as you level you also get tree point stats. 
 And Yes, rank 1 rank 2 of the same crappy spell does not exist. You get new spells as you level. 
 Well either that or You get special moves called morale which is like a super move bar from fighting 
 game that you can use every once in a while and tatic bar which is self buffs you can have on you, 
 (Bleed damage on hits etc) and you can switch em around all over. At my level I have seen 4 of 
 the boxes so far.
  
  PVP- Click on the upper right, enter a scenario (Battleground) , Each tier = 1 Scenario, Each race, 
 Scenario So 3 scenario per tiers and during tier 3 increased to 2 I've seen. You level Via PVP, 
 You have an exp bar and a renown bar (Like honor) that goes up with you as you level. Your renown 
 levels up your guild to carry standards, get permission for guild hall for officer meeting entrance 
 all type of good stuff. Also you see that star on your city? Yes that's right your city levels 
 up too as you go through the battle from what I hear at end game. There is also meaning to a city. 
 Public questing, dungeons, etc. Not just about running around hanging by an auctionhouse or just 
 reading a mailbox.
  
  Questing- Questing is fun, sometimes if not you have to do it a few times but yet you are not sitting 
 around calling out in public chat waiting for parties etc. You can open a party and people randomly 
 just drop in and its like sup! Contribute earn loot or rank up in influence points to get a piece 
 of loot from the rally masters.
  
  Almighty Book- There's a book Icon on top of your interface which contains lore, bestiary, chapter 
 stories etc. Usually people who quest could give a damn about what they are are doing, why they 
 are doing this public quest etc. But if you click on this book there are reward options, achievements 
 rank, Lores, Beastiary. All type of stuff that can keep you occupied for hours. Yes achievements 
 are fun when you get the. I have seen players run around naked to earn achievement. I got an Achivement 
 for clicking on myself 1000 times so I put that up.
  
  PVP and PVP and PVP- I have spent a good amount of time the pvp and all I gotta say is it is fantastic. 
 I been through multiple maps and one of the most enjoyable one even though has one bug "Tor Anoc" 
 which is a volcano scenario on tier 3 where you fling players all over the place into volcano etc. 
 Its quite simply, awsome. The only negative review i give about this is that on my server the destruction 
 wouldn't play any other of the scenarios on tier 3 perhaps a cross server scenario might be a good 
 idea sometimes.
  * Also I have done the rvr sieges, Its exciting and fun. Killing a keep lord, getting awsome pvp 
 loot, shooting ballistas at players on the bottom or top, Dumping hot oil as they try to ram the 
 gate. Blocking the front of the castle with my body (Yes characters are ACTUAL collisions in the 
 game that can be bypassed if you jump around em or keep pressing on em if they don't know how it 
 works) *
  
  Sound- The sound and music are mediocre. Its good stuff, though there isn't much music at time.
 
  
  Crafting- Crafting is unique and fun. I run pvp and sometimes hit my craft button, I am a cultivator+ 
 alchemist. Brings up an interface, throw some seeds in, watch it grow like a chia pet. Harvest 
 it throw some tubes in on my alchemy button, throw those chia pets in, make some red bull so on.
 
  
  Oh did i mention Gold seller prevention system which i love? 20 seconds to send mail can be annoying 
 but has so far stopped gold sellers from mass spamming the players. They whisper tells and are 
 immediately as players hit the H button to pull up a box to report bugs, players violations whatever 
 etc. I seen them get added to part of the story, Being hanged on the gallows and what not.
  
  *Btw if you purchase gold, you should push yourself down the stairs littered with glass and 
 aids*-Cyran Simply put gold is so easy to earn. All you buy so far is a mount which is 15 gold 
 at lvl 20. By level 40 you will have earned over 300 gold from what I been told so far.
  
  
  
  Do I enjoy This game? - Yes, if a game is fun, I don't care if the mechanics are the same 
 or different or what not. What are you expecting? Water to be turned into Rock star? This is just 
 a game and should be enjoyed as such.
  
  Will this be the only game I play every day of my life?-
  No I am a gamer and I will play many 
 games while this as my main game.
  
  Will I Play Wraith of the Lich King? - Yes, just to see content. but that's it unless the pvp system 
 is reworked and something amazing is pulled out the @$@
  
  Overall lets face it, people don't have 30 bucks to spend on 2 games a month (Wow) (Warhammer) and 
 juggle both to play. Choose one. This game is fun and doesn't require you to dedicate your entire 
 life to it. I play games for fun and will continue to do so. This is a fun game.
  
  This game has so much potential and hopefully won't end up as age of failure. There are bugs like 
 all new mmos but the ones I seen so far is just one crash one and some graphical glitches here 
 and there but they will be Ironed out, give it time. Try this game out and make your own judgement. 
 Congratulations mythic on a well done game.
  ~Kenuty
  
  
  Months down the road,
  
  
  Great game, but half ass support, worst ideas for updates and balance, and at a very slow paced 
 just drop the ball on this one. The game went from great to MEDIOCRE in no time. I have completely 
 stopped playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fexxe
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  So are you like me, bored to hell with WoW and other MMOs because they didn't offer great PvP and 
 PvE that would reward you for what you like to do?
  
  Then Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning is something for you. The game is innovating in so many 
 ways, take for example the Public Quests, Open Groups, RvR, Victory Points, Trophies, Morale Abilities, 
 Tactics, Tome of Knowledge and much much more!
  
  PvP / RvR is the best thing about this game, because all classes (20) are interesting and fun to 
 play, and no class or classes are overpowered. Everything seems balanced and just works great in 
 massive PvP fights.
  Some of the great things about the PvP is that it's so accessible, thanks to the Open Groups. You 
 join an Open group by simple clicking on a small button near your unit frame, and choose witch 
 group you want to join. It even shows you the type of group (PvE group, RvR Group or if its a Public 
 Quest Group - and how far away from you they are) , and you are all ready to head on to the RvR 
 battlefield and join the fight!
  
  PvE is also so great, I've never come upon an MMO that offered such fun PvE. In all other mmos 
 I've played, PvE was all one big boring quest grind. In WAR, this isn't the case.
  Lets say you just start out in the beginning area for the first time. You then take a lot of new 
 quests. In other games, this would make me go "god dammit, now I have to read all the quest logs 
 to know what to do - and I'm properly going in circles some time before I'll find the right mob 
 to kill". Now you see, in WAR the developers have used their brains:
  So, now you have the 10+ new quests, all you have to do to know where to go is to open up your 
 map, and you will see small or big red circles indicating where you need to go to do your different 
 quests! This is SUCH a great feature, and all other MMOs should have this.
  
  So, now you are running around doing your interesting and fun quests (quests in WAR are really 
 thought through) , and you come upon a PQ (Public Quest) .
  You then automatically get a new quest when you enter the PQ area, and a small box in the upper 
 right corner of the screen tells you what you need to kill / collect. Keep in mind that you can 
 join the PQ group if other players are doing it too, this makes teamwork a lot more easier.
  Now you are killing what ever the PQ tells you too, and as you do, you get a lot of nice XP plus 
 Influence.
  Influence is like Reputation from WoW, only that you don't need nearly as much influence to get 
 your nice rewards.
  So the benefit of doing a PQ is that you get a lot of XP, and you get influence that you can use 
 to get rewards for. There are 3 different rewards you can get: Basic, Advanced and Elite. Basic 
 is often potions ect, Advanced is medium armour / weapons, and elite is great armour / weapons.
 
  AND when the PQ is done, and you have killed the final boss, a big lovely chest drops from the 
 skies, and a roll begins. Now, the more you contributed in the PQ, the better bonus roll you will 
 get. The bonus roll is added to a random roll between 1-1000. Then some loot bags are shown, and 
 if you roll high enough, you might win a White (minor) , Green (lesser) , Blue (Large) or Gold (Massive) 
 loot bag, each containing some stuff that is just for your class / profession. Or you can just 
 take the coin ;)
  
  The game runs smoothly, even in massive RvR fights.
  
  So if you are looking for a new MMO, this sure is a good choice! 
  Awesome PvP / RvR, both open 
 PvP wise, and Scenarios (battleground) wise!
  Awesome PvE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwood84
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Graphics: (8/10)
  If you are playing an MMO, odds are graphics are not your main concern. With everything cranked 
 to max, some of the areas are vastly above other MMO's, save perhaps Age of Conan, while still 
 others are a bit dated. The simplistic art style benifits from good lighting and effects, as well 
 as downright beautiful architecture.
  
  Music / SFX: (10/10)
  WAR is everywhere, and the constant explosions, sword smashing and axe grinding only adds to the 
 experience. The music fits very well.
  
  Controls: (7/10)
  Difficult choice here... some elements of the UI scream for more work, and overall, the game does 
 little to stray from the familiar mmo interface. However, when it does break new ground, it is 
 quite brilliant. For example, being able to completely revamp your UI on the fly INGAME is a great 
 feature. Add to that the abilty to have an offensive and defensive target simultaneously and you 
 start to see Mythics effort shine through its work-in-progress UI.
  
  (M) assive-ity: (10/10)
  Each zone is gigantic, with quests, landmarks and exploration for you 
 to do in every direction. No invisible fences here, what you see is what you get.
  
  (M) ultiplayer-edness (10/10)
  The game does virtually everything you could think of to place 
 an emphasis on group play. Public quests are a brilliant addition to the game... Working together 
 with 5 or 6 complete strangers towards a common goal is easy and fun to do. Double the fun when 
 reaching that common goal summons forth a Hydra monster the size of a schoolbus.
  
  (O) nline-itude
  Smoothest launch of any MMO I've ever seen, and I've been around for many. Is 
 everything working? No, but it certainly doesn't feel "unfinished" at launch. Lag is minimal at 
 best, crippling at its worst.
  
  
  And now, my closing thoughts, ala Jerry Springer:
  
  Choosing an MMO is never an easy decision. Odds are if you are looking at this review, you've 
 given some thought to buying this game. Maybe you've been burned by games in the past, or maybe 
 you're still very much in love with an MMO of your own right now. But here's a thought: WAR is 
 waiting for you, and while its not a "new-game", it certainly feels fresh, exciting and manages 
 to push the envelope in many promising ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebop1225
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  Im not much of one for reviewing games but i just had to comment on WAR never have i played an 
 mmo quite like this one. Now i Could go over the many new and amazing feature this game has and 
 new concepts it has brought to the mmo community but then this review would end up being a small 
 book. Suffice to say the game Has good graphic that honestly seem to be only a little better then 
 World of Warcraft just with a radicly different art style much more dirty real look to things and 
 a good use of darker colors not as bright as World of warcraft or other fantasy mmos. But don't 
 let that mislead you if you are in it for the graphic's this game is more then pretty enough to 
 please. 
  
  Now as for some of the glithces mentioned in previous reviews They are a foot note at best Between 
 the Beta Client And the Full Client i downloaded from D2d today already there are significant a 
 noticeable changes to some of these problems ( Also do keep in mind that Almost every review on 
 Prior to this one is probly based of beta experience played on a beta client where As mine is on 
 both and that does matter ) loads are faster minor graphics issue's are resolved as well as a few 
 other issues such as minor animation problems some clients crash issue and such. Even before these 
 fix's the game was still good enough that i personaly would have tolerated it =P. Now there are 
 still some lag issues sometime but not to the point the game is unplayable which is saying something 
 considering how some mmo's are at launch War's launch is Very impressive and has as of the headstart 
 had very little unscedueled downtime.
  
  Publie Quest, Realm Vs Realm, world RVR, Very solid and rich pve and lore immersive and highly 
 detailed enviorment, fortress sieges, Full fledged wars its a MMO without Equal and a must play 
 for any MMO fan. Do not belive the naysayers this is not one to miss due to someone being picky 
 but hey dont take my word for it try it out for yourself . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanKingNYC
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  After being disappointed by the likes of Tabula Rasa (boring) Age of Conan (Broken never out of 
 beta) Hell Gate London (Complete bugfest) and playing WOW till I'm gray, I must say that WO is 
 breath of fressh air. I didn't have huge expectations (thnx Hellgate) but boy was I surprised. 
 WO is just so much fun to play. The RVR is fantastic and the Public quests are a blast. I like 
 the fact that the game takes you to an (AV) Battlegrounds match and then brings you back to your 
 original spot so that you can continue were you left off. The interface is excellent and grouping 
 is as easy as in WOW. The achievements system for completing quests and discovering areas is pretty 
 neat too. I've encountered some minor graphical bugs such as blurry textures and bugged npcs, but 
 none are a deal breakers. The servers have been stable and there are plenty of players playing. 
 It's unfair to compare this against WOW because WOW has been around for a long time and is established. 
 I get a kick out of typical game haters that make comparisons without even giving the game a chance. 
 A real gamer will enjoy each game for what it is. Now get on and Waaaaaaaghhhhhh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arieles
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  I'm often times harsh on these reviews but I find myself having a difficult time coming up with 
 things that I don't like about Warhammer Online. The game is launching quite smoothly and I've 
 yet to have a crash in over 100 hours of play. There are very few bugs in game as compared especially 
 to other mmorpg launches over the years and overall I'm just having fun. The public questing system 
 is innovative, the ability to join a group in any area just by clicking onscreen and easily joining.. 
 the terrific RVR scenario's.. and I'm not even a huge pvp fan. There are also quests which we have 
 all become quite used to and for me have become quite tedious over the years. The quests are similar 
 to wow with a little less of a trek to complete than some of the ones in Wow were. You also do 
 not *have* to quest to gain levels as you get experience for participating in the rvr scenarios 
 along with some repeatable quests to go along with it. 
  
  If I have to pull something out of the hat as to what I don't like it would be first off the imbalance 
 of destruction to order players. There just really are not enough people playing order. I really 
 wanted to play the destruction side but being a female I was quite limited on female characters 
 that I could actually play on their side so I chose to make Order in the end so I would have more 
 variety as I usually like to level up alts further down the road. It's actually quite refreshing 
 to say "further down the road" because I do actually see myself playing this game for some time. 
 One other thing I think could be annoying would be the wait time to get into the rvr scenarios. 
 If you are new to the game and rolling destruction, your population overload is going to rear it's 
 obvious head when you wait a long time just to get into a scenario.. whereas the Order side gets 
 in quite quickly due to fewer people in queue~ 
  
  Anyway, if you try it out I hope you enjoy it as much as I am so far~ I'm relieved to actually 
 have something new and refreshing to play for a change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevorvdw
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that I really want to like this game. I played the pen and paper Warhammer RPG 
 back in the day... I just find myself forcing myself to keep playing. It just doesn't draw you 
 in and keep you interested. Nothing new here and outdated looking on top of it. Quite disappointed 
 because I was hoping it'd blow me away. Still some strange issues with combat like melee mobs hitting 
 you from 30ft away while running behind you or people firing guns through walls, down a floor around 
 corners and still hitting you. Maybe in a year or so when they patch it up and fix the bugs and 
 add content it'll be better. It looks like it has potential. As I mentioned before it really strikes 
 me as DAOC's successor but its a few years late. If this had come out a few years back I would 
 have been more impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceTheSwift
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game just blew away all of my expectations Preview Weekend, everything was perfect, This game 
 has to have one of the best opening of any MMO to date. Everything is great, no lag, RvR is as 
 intense as ever. PQ's are just awesome guild interface is the best i've seen. WoW-esqe interface 
 is familiar and easy to navigate, the leveling is a decient speed and the classes are pretty well 
 balanced so far. RvR is fun and gets so much better with guilds in the mix, makes almost more personal 
 in a way, the Scenarios are a fun quick way to get Renown (PvP Ranking) and leveling experience. 
 Combat is fast paced and you need to be able to think quick on your feet to make it out alive, 
 no WoW like running out and gunning everyone down in this game. Strategy is key. PvE gets the job 
 done and the quests are definitly not diverse, but hey, I wasnt expecting much in that field. PQ's 
 are fun small instances that take place almost everywhere and is a awesome way to get great gear. 
 Just get this game if you're looking for a fresh, new MMO experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwiswiz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Thank you Mythic and EA. No matter how many WOWFANBOYS knock Warhammer I am truly grateful. Like 
 most of the people I play with I HAVE A LIFE!!!! I hate Twinks! Not because they don't have skill.. 
 some do... but many simply gear out in WOW and that's the end of it. No matter what a modest player 
 does they cannot compete fairly in WOW. The bolstering in WAR is overdue in MMOs and the scenarios 
 queuing from anywhere are terrific. The public quests ROCK! The universe is unique and interesting. 
 I was a long time player of DAOC and as anyone who played that epic game can attest ... RVR IS 
 THE KING OF PVP!.... Period. This game is already a gem and will only get better... after all it 
 is the first couple of weeks after launch and they are taking care of issues that occur. Right 
 now I'm writing this 'cause they are fixing an issue. I don't mind the downtime because it just 
 makes the game solid as an IRONBREAKER for tomorrow :} .
  Love Ya Mythic... Thank the GAMING GODS you did it.
  
  Cya in the WAR!
  WAAAAAGGGHHHHHH!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tristanisdead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  the wow killer is here. no more retarded grinding daily quests cause there is nothing else to do 
 besides sit around shattrath.
  
  despite cutting classes (which WILL be re-introduced) there are a ridiculous amount of options 
 available to you from the get go. 
  
  wanna pve and hate pve? sure, no problem. the tome of knowledge gives you a myriad amount of questing 
 and exploring to keep any non-pvp'er occupied for tons of hours without having to create alts. 
 
  
  wanna pvp and hate pve? sure, no problem. you can level just as fast, if not faster by straight 
 up killing other peeps. combine that with ACTUAL open world pvp (no more running around nagrand 
 waiting for someone) , and a diverse amount of pvp scenarios and any pvp'er will be in heaven.
 
  
  gear is wide and diverse, and still cool looking, without the OMG MY AXE GLOWS BRIGHT PURPLE AND 
 IS 78 TIMES MY HEIGHT effect. spell animations are still a lil slow, but to be expected this early.
 
  
  the sheer amount of objectives, whether it pvp or pve is just incredible. i hated pvp to be honest 
 with you. but WaR does an amazing job of gradually, and kinda date rape pilly way of having you 
 participate in it before you even realize you actually killed or were killed by an opposing player. 
 and it just made me want to kill and be killed more.
  
  the lore is very binding as well. you actually feel a part of the world and that your actions benefit 
 your faction, so you are invested emotionally.
  
  my only problem is the sound. the sound effects are fine, but there is little to no music. most 
 people play with their own tunes goin in the background, but over vent this is kinda impossible, 
 and in game music would be better.
  
  other than that... even if you are a WoW fanboy, do yourself a favor, and get away from the grinding, 
 "elite" retardedness. play WaR
  
  
  WAAAAAGH!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whisp777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  MMORPG that does not seem like a grind or a bore when leveling, this game has it all.
  
  Public quest system is best idea to come along in online gamming in years, and the reward system 
 is very well done.
  
  Graphics are great but could have been a slight bit better.
  
  Sound is on par with online games.
  
  RvR is a blast.
  
  Loved beta, launch was smooth.
 
  
  Very minor hiccups keep this game from a true 10. Little flaws like characters sticking to terrain 
 when jumping and no sounds when receiving tells from friends. Which I am sure will be addressed 
 by future patches.
  
  I've played them all, from Ultima Online, to Everquest, Asheron's Call, Dark Age of Camelot, Anarchy 
 Online, Star Wars Galaxies, Everquest 2 and even World of Warcraft and this game stands tall in 
 the pack. Do not miss it.
  
  All in all just plain fun.
  
  War is upon you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaingun543
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  It's easy to write this game off without a fair trial if you listen to the hordes of Blizzard fanboys. 
 I would take their sentiment with a grain of salt, however, because many of them are convinced 
 that J. R. R Tolkien copied World of Warcraft. 
  
  Mythic said it best: you can't be The Beatles, so you might as well try to be Led Zeppelin.
  
 
  WAR takes many of the good (and mostly inconsequential) features of WoW such as a similar interface 
 (which has been relatively standard since the EQ days) and character movement / flow of ability 
 activation and couples it with a  RvR system.
  
  Many people who are calling WAR a WoW clone are only commenting on these largely trivial and aesthetic 
 similarities; not the actual gameplay. 
  
  But let's just face it, if you're a WoW fanboy no review is going to change your mind, and to quote 
 Yahtzee, if you have fun with WoW you shouldn't let a dissenting opinion get to you. Unless of 
 course there's a niggling doubt in the back of your head that tells you maybe you aren't having 
 as much fun as you want to be having. 
  
  The fact is, WoW has changed everything. We are never going to see a game that is as complex as, 
 say, SWG (EVE comes close but only has one half of the puzzle) . There are certain benchmarks and 
 standards that a company needs to include in their MMO to even hope to compete with WoW. It has 
 to be gear based, it has to have tangible level ups and strict character classes, and it has to 
 have some kind of instanced dungeons.
  
  WAR takes care of these requirements but also attempts to add just a pinch of complexity and depth 
 into the mixture... we'll see if the masses who have been sedated by Blizzard's dumbed down juggernaut 
 will be able to handle even the small dose of innovation that Mythic has brought us with Warhammer 
 Online. 
  
  Game is a blast to play with friends and in my opinion it's a step in the right direction (Away 
 from WoW but not TOO far away just yet) but if you are expecting a Utopian pre WoW MMO -- a throwback 
 to the old school MMO, you will be sadly disappointed. 
  
  A solid 8 for this game. I wouldn't rate World of Warcraft higher than a 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acekid2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  From about four years ago until now, World of Warcraft has had little to no competition in the 
 MMORPG universe. Games have come and gone with interesting titles such as Vanguard, Age of Conan, 
 and of course Guild Wars. However, none of those titles shook things up and made WoW have to compete. 
 Lack of competition breeds apathetic developers, and apathetic developers bring old recycled content. 
 
  
  However, all this is about to change. Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning is a new, although not 
 completely original, MMORPG that improves on everything WoW fails at, and makes what it doesn't 
 fail at even better. Cue WoW fanboy flaming comments.
  
  
  I am not a WAR fanboy. I never have been. I have been looking forward to the game, yes, but only 
 because it showed so much promise to give WoW a kick in the ass and get it back in gear, or give 
 us a brand new addiction by which WoW will sink to 2nd place. Now let's get down to the meat of 
 this review.
  
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  
  The graphics in WAR are really the only gripe many people have about the game, and sometimes rightly 
 so. If you do not like the look of the Warhammer miniatures, it would be stupid to assume something 
 different would come from a game built on that universe. Dwarfs in WAR look like the miniatures, 
 as do the Orcs, Chaos, Empire, High Elves, and Dark Elves. If you do not like the art style, get 
 in line, but don't belittle the game just because it's not your thing. Bottom line, the Mythic 
 crew succeed in creating a semi-photorealistic world which players trundle through in order to 
 achieve maximum rank.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The sounds are something different than WoW, and are high quality and make you feel the game. However, 
 they tend to get repetitive after awhile, and slightly annoying. Maybe varying sound sets for each 
 ability would be nice, but if you're content with hearing the same sort of sounds throughout the 
 game, then more power to ya'. If it gets to you SO bad that you just can't stand it any longer 
 and are about to take your speakers and throw them out the nearest second-story window, turn the 
 sound effects off.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10 
  
  This is where the Mythic crew really earn their pay. Gameplay in this game is incredible, and should 
 be commended and given every award known to mankind. After playing each career for about five minutes 
 (the ones I play regularly more than that, of course) , I want to go back and do it all again. The 
 class mechanics really immerse you into the combat, and give it a tactical sort of spin not found 
 in any other MMORPG on the market. The mechanics are seamlessly integrated into the overall experience, 
 and don't feel separated from the class at all. They are woven into every ability you receive from 
 Rank 1, and continue from there. Combat does feel a little slow at times, but it is something people 
 will get used to after they begin to see the tactical advantage gained with long battles. Long 
 battles mean more strategy, more strategy means more skill is involved, more skill involved is 
 more win. 
  
  Controls: 10/10
  
  Controls are basically standard MMORPG layout. If you play/have played WoW, Guild Wars, City of 
 Heroes/Villains, or even EVE Online the controls will come naturally to you. If you are new to 
 MMO's, the standard MMO controls are, well, standard. It's really hard to find an MMO that doesn't 
 utilize these particular controls.
  
  
  
  Overall: 9.0/10
  
  
  Warhammer Online is an incredible game, and should be given a try by anyone who plays WoW or the 
 like. Keep an open mind to it, and if you're expecting the leveling rate, combat, questing, scenarios, 
 PQ's, and everything else to feel like WoW, you will be sorely disappointed. WAR to WoW is apples 
 to oranges, and it's the apple's time to shine.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Thanks for reading, and I hope it helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cahey
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of MMO's from free ones to pay to play, and I like how the game never stops 
 moving unless you stop moving. They did a really good job on this one. I really do think that this 
 one is going to give WOW a run for it's money. I can't wait to try out other toons, I can't wait 
 to play when I get off work and I can't wait to hit that next rank. I'm hooked. I don't like to 
 tell people what's the best mmo out there, because they are all different, this one is at the top 
 of my list though. The RvR thing is crazy and it keeps people working towards a common goal. I 
 have never really been into the warhammer lore but this game does a really good job of letting 
 you know about it only if you want too, if you just want to play you can, but if you want to really 
 get into and spend time learning about the world you can do that too. Some of my friends play too 
 and you really can get things going and make it fun right off the second you start gathering quests. 
 I say check it out if you like mmo's, like I said, I'm lucky enough to play really any mmo that 
 comes out but this one is definitely worth taking for a spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknyarth
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer Online will not be a WoW killer. It's a fun game, it's got a lot of great features but 
 this does not cater to the casual or new player very well. It's a bit harder, a bit grittier and 
 a bit more brutal. It demands a player catch on quickly and prepare for serious carnage.
  
  The pros of this game outweigh the cons. We have some great graphics that aren't so taxing your 
 computer chokes like an anorexic super model being force fed a ham sandwich... we have some interesting 
 character choices that builds excitement for the next skill or power to learn... there are interesting 
 quests, neat PvP, a brutal world, war and a dash of atmosphere.
  
  They introduced a tome that keeps track of your quests, kills, achievements and a bunch of other 
 cool stuff. This adds some immersion and an addictive quality: you want to unlock those entries 
 and see what they are! They have titles too which also sets it a part.
  
  All these things are awesome. To top it off, it's shockingly fun to play too.
  
  The cons are 
 minor. For the first bit of the game, the only way to differentiate yourself from other players 
 is through the dye system. Beyond that, the clothing doesn't change a whole lot. Weapon models 
 aren't as numerous as one would expect. RvR is a little hard core and there are a lot of quests 
 that sort of nudge you in the direction of doing them. In that respect, it feels a little less 
 voluntary.
  
  Combat is pretty frantic at times and the monsters are clustered together pretty tightly. In anticipation 
 of the game being innundated with players, they have made the spawn rate fast. That's fine when 
 there are lots of people around but if you're there alone, be prepared to enjoy some serious chain 
 pulling (and seeing how high your killing spree can go before you get routed) . 
  
  The starting lands for the Empire felt better than any other part I tried. The Blighted Lands felt 
 like they were just corrals for monsters to linger around in anticipation of violent death (and 
 this is true of many little parts of the zone) . Even with some of the better shows of armies marching 
 and people doing things, there are many moments that feel like something is there simply to give 
 you something to kill.
  
  I overall think that Warhammer Online is a great game that will only get better. I wish that it 
 would've had a better, more solid start like WoW did but who knows how quickly things will be added? 
 With small omissions such as the lack of a human knight class and the scaled down world (missing 
 capital cities) I hope that we'll see these things soon. For now, the lack doesn't seem so strange 
 but I suspect in time it will become more obvious.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone that likes MMOs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocalypso
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this for some time now, every since leaving WoW I've been looking for something 
 similar but that doesn't require the enormous investment of time that WoW does for you to see the 
 high level content. Open beta in Europe was an unmitigated disaster but GOA have rectified that 
 and are striving to better the gaming experience of all of us, so fingers crossed...
  
  All of the beta issues pale in to insignificance when you start to play, the game is brilliant, 
 the world superbly imagined, the public quests are a revelation and the RVR is excellently realised.
 
  
  I think the only concern I have at the moment is that the characters don't have an individual feel 
 to them, now it's still quite early but looking at some of the high level NPC's in the two capital 
 cities they seem to be almost identical in terms of class ie Marauders look the same as do Choosen 
 etc.
  
  However it's a minor gripe and easily overlooked even when you encounter an RvR battle filled with 
 nothing but identical Bright Wizards!
  
  I can't wait to go back there tonight and slaughter the empire.
  
  I'm so pleased they managed 
 to pull it off.
  
  WAAAARGH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millbro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  Its a very good game but at this stage it is still very buggy and not perfect like most of the 
 ppl who reviewed this is. Server lag happens from time to time. Framerates skip while walking in 
 a normal area (not my computer, pretty much have the best computer out right now) . Mobs pathing 
 is off.. Hitting mobs and they just stand there, no flinching or anything. 
  
  But there is alot of good in the game too.. Very fun RvR , having lots of fun playing with a group 
 of my friends in scenarios.. They should put in a few new animations and sound fx tho, kinda gets 
 old hearing the same ones over and over..
  
  Not really sure how anyone could give this a full 10 at its current state. Must of had a time machine 
 and went to the future when all the bugs were fixed and everything was perfect.. Anyway besides 
 that i still enjoy this more then any other mmo out there at the moment.. Just waiting for a nice 
 big patch =)
  
  Over all very good game, that can be fixed into one great mmo.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cam_shaft
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I have been playing warhammer since the closed beta and all the way i have been trying out different 
 classes. unlike WoW it is very clear where a class is weak and where it is strong. everything is 
 pretty much balanced as well. Public Quests are a great feature into the game except if you are 
 trying to do one and nobody is around you are going to have a hell of a hard time. The games RvR 
 (PvP) system allows you to level up by killing other players and it is also faster, At the moment 
 am playing a Dwarf Engineer and he has been my favorite so far, he deals high damage but wont last 
 more than 5 seconds up close. Healers will actually heal in RvR as they get loads of credit for 
 helping with the kill, normally it is as much as what it would be if they killed it. The performance 
 of the game though is poor at times and some people who don't have there PC's up to date with new 
 gear will prolly get low frame rates, the solo concept of the game is easy to understand but when 
 you want to play with friends its complicated because as your race for follow a certain quest line 
 right the way to the end. Overall i think what WAR is a game that any bored level 70 on the verge 
 of stopping should play, it will take a while to get used to the way the game works, but once you 
 got it the game is long lasting awesome fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wyeta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  The Warhammer online beta was one of the best MMO experiences i have ever had. The fun never ended, 
 and just the variety of classes kept me busy learning of new ways to play.
  
  The actual controls and combat gameplay are slightly "stiff", But it is more fun than.... WOW, 
 because the combat is more group oriented.
  
  You have no idea how awesome it is to get 5 of your best friends and then raid objectives in world 
 PvP, and actually have it mean somthing.
  
  If you are a PvE raider you wont like this game, IMO, Its RvR or RvR for the most part. Overall 
 id say Warhammer will make it to be a well-known "mini-WOW" and millions will play it, though im 
 100% sure it wont KILL WOW, that will never happen, and i really dont care if WOW still exists.
 
  
  If your an MMOer and you want the new latest and greatest, get Warhammer. I thought Age of Conan 
 would do good (Even though the beta sucked ass) And MAN was i wrong, Funcom didnt fix a damn thing.
 
  
  At least Mythic will take care of their game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InjaSam
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I love the lore, story, quests, pvp, feeling, gameplay, graphics.... what can 
 i say. Its a blast to play!..
  
  
  .
   short.. too short too.. short 
 too short too short too short too short too short too short too.. short too short.. too short.. 
 too short too .. short too short too short.. too short too short too short.. too short too short 
 too short.. too short too short too short.. too short too short too short too short too short too 
 short too short too short..
  too short.. too short too.. short too short too short too short too short too short too short too 
 short too short too.. short too short too short ... too short too short too short too short too 
 short too short .. too short too short.. too short too short too ... short too short too short too 
 .. short too .. short too short too short too .. short too short.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonymac_1220
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  Long time beta tester, WAR is finally here. On the Graphics/Performance front, the game could be 
 a tad better, but it is extremely stable for launch and the visuals are pretty good too.
  
  On the PvE front WAR offers the standard array of quests, a handful of dungeons and a new innovative 
 feature known as Public Quests. These are scenario based PvE scripts in the open world which any 
 player can take part in. For your contributions to the quest, you earn influence which you can 
 use to buy rewards. Also after the successful completion of each PQ, there are rewards for the 
 top contributors. 
  
  RvR is really where Warhammer shines, I don't feel like going into detail, but if you haven't looked 
 at WAR's RvR system yet, you should. It is amazing what they have done to innovate PvP. Warhammer 
 is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xizle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  A lot of people compare this game to wow. I played wow since it's launch but eventually quit the 
 game because of the grind. Die hard wow fans may not like the game as it is more about pvp and 
 less about end game dungeons. Which personally i prefer as i never had the patience for end game 
 grinding. Enough about the wow comparisons i'm sure you're all sick fo hearing lets get reviewing.
 
  
  Gameplay feels very smooth and the visual effects for spells are great. The classes are fun to 
 play; for once a game has made several unique warrior type clases that have specific qualities 
 and are as fun to play with as the spell casters.
  
  Personally i dont feel the grind as i party up and quest while waiting to join a rvr senario. Once 
 the senario is over i appear exactly where i was when i joined the battlegrounds. I can then re-join 
 the que. I can also take part in some public quests. These are the three ways to level your character. 
 It is so easy to switch between pve, public quest and pvp. This makes the game so enjoyable with 
 no feeling of a grind. This game is great!!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
