-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer 40,000: Chaos Gate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warhammer40000chaosgate/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 23, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.6, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 321 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: Random Games Inc.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warhammer is a complex, vastly entertaining strategy gaming system, and Chaos Gate does full justice 
 to it. 

 When you consider how tough it is to make a good computer conversion of a board game, it's surprising 
 how many decent PC games based upon Warhammer there are. Final Liberation, Dark Omen, Space Hulk, 
 and Shadow of the Horned Rat all did more or less right by this complex series of tabletop wargames 
 created by Games Workshop. Of course, the best Warhammer game, Warcraft, wasn't even really a Warhammer 
 game at all. Some captured the feel of miniature figures battling each other on a 3D landscape 
 better than others, but Chaos Gate finally gets it all right. Where Dark Omen was limited by its 
 real-time gameplay and Final Liberation by its poor figure graphics, Chaos Gate finally delivers 
 a Warhammer game that's just right: decent graphics, flexible gameplay, and an excellent re-creation 
 of the rules that make the table game work so well.  

 Warhammer 40,000: Chaos Gate (the full title) is the third time to the well for Random Games' phased 
 combat engine. First seen in the disappointing Wages of War, it showed a promise that was not wholly 
 fulfilled until its adaptation for SSI's Soldiers at War. Even then, some of its limitations, such 
 as tacky production elements, small maps, no vehicles, no keyboard support, and a screen that obscured 
 a large piece of the map kept it from really shining. Chaos Gate has fixed a lot of these nuisances 
 to deliver one of the few really entertaining turn-based combat games since X-COM.  

 Chaos Gate uses the Warhammer 40,000 rules, units, and storyline. For those unfamiliar with the 
 series, it takes place in a far-distant future in which feudal space marines fight the forces of 
 Chaos using a combination of powered battle armor, exotic weapons, and vehicles. Chaos Gate pits 
 the Ultramarines against the forces of Chaos and their daemon allies. Five-man squads fight on 
 isometric maps in phased combat using weapons ranging from conventional bolters, flamers, and missile 
 launchers, to elaborate close-combat weapons such as the chain fist, power ax, and lightning claws. 

 Special units called "Psykers" use a wide array of psychic attacks, while a handful of armored personnel 
 carriers and one heavily armed dreadnought round out the battlefield units. Unfortunately, you 
 can only play as the Ultramarines, which is a mystifying and pretty unforgivable lapse.   

 The atmosphere is sci-fi gothic, with maps spanning cities, countryside, fortifications, and other 
 regions. Maps are still fairly modest in size, but because this is squad-level close combat, it's 
 not as much of a problem. Fighting can range from valleys, caves, and open fields to house-to-house, 
 room-to-room fighting. The game system has been improved and streamlined since Soldiers at War. 
 There is no longer that large frame blocking one-third of the screen. Important commands such as 
 movement and fire can be done with the mouse, and more complex actions such as tossing grenades, 
 using medikits, selecting a weapon, and opening doors are easily accessible via onscreen buttons. 
 There is still insufficient keyboard support, which remains irritating, but it doesn't take long 
 to get the hang of the system, and once you do it makes for quick and easy strategizing.  

 There are 15 scenarios that can be played individually or as part of a campaign. The campaign simply 
 connects these 15 scenarios into a loose narrative involving the fight against the Chaos Lord Zymran. 
 This canned campaign works better than expected since units accrue experience and become more effective 
 fighters with each scenario. The campaign system also mixes things up by slipping randomized "missions 
 of opportunity" into the mix. In between the fixed scenarios, the system may generate an optional 
 hunt-and-destroy mission, which helps build troop experience. It's not the best solution to a campaign 
 system, but it works well enough.  

 Randomized missions and a full mission editor stretch the value, which is necessary considering 
 the paltry 15 scenarios. You can randomize missions with specific settings that determine the kind 
 of map you'll fight on, object density, mission type, number of units, and other parameters. The 
 full editor is even more powerful, since it places all elements of map creation, objects, units, 
 triggers, and victory requirements in your hands. Four-person multiplayer, supported via IPX and 
 TCP/IP, allows you to choose a map and select exactly which units to use in battle.  

 There's very little to actually complain about in Chaos Gate. The graphics aren't quite as sharp 
 as some other current strategy games, and the voice acting sounds as though it was recorded through 
 a tin can, but these really don't affect the core fun factor of the game. A few more missions, 
 the ability to place your units during a unit placement phase, and the chance to play as Chaos 
 are the only things you could really ask for. Warhammer is a complex, vastly entertaining strategy 
 gaming system, and Chaos Gate does full justice to it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I know it has been more than a decade, but this game still holds a place in my heart for having 
 introduced me to the wonderfully tragic Warhammer 40K universe.
  
  While the background for this game is hardly explained and the story is near forgettable (both 
 of which presented with rather poor movies actually) , the presentation gripped me from the first 
 level.
  
  I was no stranger to turn-based games, having played Fallout and X-Com: Apocalypse (in turn-based 
 mode) , so I wasn't expecting any stellar groundbreaking turn-based gameplay (and there wasn't any) .
 
  
  Yet, the semi-pious soldiers with odd-looking armor suits (on both sides no less) endeared to me 
 right away, even though they clearly hated each other and were trading quite a lot of strong-sounding 
 fire. The graphics of this game weren't exactly groundbreaking during that time, but it does have 
 surprisingly good looking plasma explosions (for that time) , whereas most games of that time merely 
 rendered such explosions like bursts of watercolor.
  
  Since the game borrowed the impressive designs of Space Marine and Traitor Marines, as well as 
 Daemons and the vehicles of both sides, there is nothing much to say about the already understandably 
 impressive looking sprites (for that time) .
  
  Speaking of sounds, the game's weapons were among the best sounding that I have heard during the 
 turn of the millennium. the plasma weapons sounded way more awesome than anything that I had heard 
 at that time and boltgun discharge was very, very beefy.
  
  Watching my Ultramarines carve away at the Word Bearers and pass by their corpses without even 
 looting them (which I initially found odd, but understood after having learned more about Warhammer 
 40K) and then going on to earn experience and become more powerful made me feel very proud of my 
 bada$$ Space Marines. (Even so, I felt that having merely three ranks of experience above Rookie 
 were too few, but after having learned more of the tabletop game and its rules, I understood that 
 this is for gameplay balance.)
  
  I couldn't be sure whether the game used the Rogue Trader edition for the rules and statistics 
 in this game or Random Games developed its own. I found that like Fallout, having high HP or high 
 armor won't mean a thing when your enemy scored a lucky roll and killed my Mighty Hero Terminator 
 with a bolt pistol. That is one major gripe that I have with this game (and many others that used 
 irritating dice rolls) .
  
  (For which I am all the more glad that Relic ditched the randomness of dice throws for more certain 
 RTS damage-dealing conventions for its Dawn of War games.)
  
  Chaos Gate was good, and I am glad SSI recognized that the Warhammer 40K franchise is suitable 
 for conversion into a PC game. After SSI has gone through a few acquisitions and into the grave 
 after Ubisoft, I was very pessimistic about having new Warhammer 40K games for the PC. Fortunately, 
 some fellows at Relic, who may have well played WH40K games before Dawn of War, recognized the 
 franchise's viability as an electronic venture and restarted this niche.
  
  Here's to SSI, for having fathered the first generation of Warhammer 40K electronic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabrina_x05
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Game was out a while ago. But while Gameplay may be limited. It is actually enjoyable and well 
 done mostly.
  
  Going into more detail. Vehicle Combat was exceedingly limited and sometimes hard to control. The 
 ability to damage the environment was good.
  
  Weapons Profiles and Effect during Game was accurate. Sustained Fire Weapons Vs Action Points was 
 done well also. Area of Effect weapons were bugged, All had same Area.
  
  Squad Combat, Experience, Over-watch & Equipment was well done. 
  
  Alas the Multi player Element 
 was done very poorly. No scope for non campain match's. Thus leading to short game life. 
  
  In addition, It is best to search for a patch via Google to hopefully remove some of the game 
 bugs, such as being unable to play on Vista and most XP Systems. It will play on some XP. The Company 
 that made it was taken over, so do not bother with the web site for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InquisitorCrox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Chaos gate was the reason i got my first PC,
  i have been always a warhammer 40k fan but i encountered many difficulties on collective the very 
 expensive army and indexes and find another fan to play.
  Chaos gate brings you the opportunity to command an Ultramarine chapter (happened to be my favourite) 
 as they are chasing chaos lord Zumran and his abominations (happened to be my prefered enemies) in 
 order to return a stolen a valuable relic, the ultramarines are determined to chase him untill 
 the eye of chaos and fight untill the last man standing, unfortunately there no other races to 
 choose or fight, the only choice is fighting as an Ultramarine in the classic board game style, 
 with 3D detailed (for their time) models and all the basic rules of the board game (the game automatically 
 calculates weapon range and hit points letting you enjoy the battle even more) , through many planets 
 on the chase of the chaos lord,
  in the meantime upportunity targets appear and the chapter has the chance to cleanse a few planets 
 in the vicinity of the chaos presence collecting relics all the way and leave fallen brothers behind.
 
  Speaking of fallen brothers, the chapter has a certain numbers of five man groups, you may have 
 the the chance to control up untill 5 groups in some cases, space marines gain experience in the 
 game and become more powerfull and effective, some of them will eventually become capable of wearing 
 the honourable and mighty terminator armor, but if a space marine dies the chapter will have a 
 brother less in its ranks and wont have the chance to replace him within this campaign, you will 
 eventually grow an affection towards them, value them and take spacial care of them minimizing 
 casualties... same goes with the special units (librarians, tech marines and chaplain) that will 
 be eventually unlocked. Chaos Gate it is a huge step forward than the previous Final Liberation 
 title, it was also a turned based game but it manages to capture the 40k gothic atmosphere very 
 well, the music is great using chants of the ultramarines and fairly believable sounds effects, 
 also the visuals were very improved, the game had less vehicles and less epic battles, concentrating 
 on the action.
  The 3D models dont act just like armored chess pawns, each unit has its own animations.
  You 
 dont have to worry about resources, but you do have to worry about ammunition, wich is not unlimited, 
 you will have the chance though to find more ammunition and exotic equipment in most of the missions.
 
  The set up varies from narrow corridors were close quarters battles take place to vast forts were 
 epic battles with large numbers of troops and vehicles involved.
  Unfortunately the game is unplayable today, it doesnt support windowsXP,
  there have been created 
 two patches but they failed to correct the problem...
  if it wasnt for this, the game wouldnt have been forgotten... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddeath72
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Yes the game is for 1998. But it still kicks butt and takes names.
  
  A little buggy on XP operating systems. 
  
  Great game for Warhammer Enthusiest. It is based 
 upon the second edition rules and includes Overwatch. That is the Greatest freaking Feature and 
 i have only ever seen it really as well done on Fallout: Tactics. But that was made years later.
 
  
  The other great feature. Beat Down (for a lack of a better name) The more guys you pile in the more 
 attacks the next one gets..... Great fun watching some UBER Baddy die by 5-6 marines. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
