-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer 40,000: Fire Warrior
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/firewarrior/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.3
Critic Score: 5.4, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 388 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Kuju Entertainment
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Nov 17, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warhammer 40,000: Fire Warrior has exchanged all of the depth and dynamism of the Games Workshop 
 franchise for a shooter-by-numbers approach. 

  Warhammer 40,000 has long deserved a shooter. A veritable cult has grown up around Games Workshop's 
 combat miniatures franchise over the past two decades. Popularity aside, the gritty 41st century 
 universe "where there is only war" is a perfect fit for first-person action. It would be hard to 
 mess up a game that features forces like the Imperium, Dark Eldar, Orks, and Necrons, who are all 
 eternally locked in battle. Yet that's exactly what Kuju Entertainment has done. The British developer, 
 best known for 2001's Microsoft Train Simulator, has exchanged all of the depth and dynamism of 
 the Games Workshop franchise for a shooter-by-numbers approach in Warhammer 40,000: Fire Warrior. 
 This cheap PlayStation 2 port carries none of the punch that can be found in the tabletop game 
 due to a positively antediluvian design that sees you running down an endless succession of corridors 
 hunting for keys.  

          Even Fire Warrior's few outdoor levels feel claustrophobic, since you're never more than 
 a few feet away from a wall.     

  The design never gets beyond ideas that have been kicking around since Wolfenstein 3D and Doom, 
 despite a Halo-esque rechargeable shield, a two-weapon restriction, and a story that turns Warhammer 
 gaming on its head. Instead of playing the usual Imperium space marine, you take the role of Kais, 
 a Tau warrior who takes on the Imperium. This changed focus is somewhat reminiscent of Warhammer 
 40,000: Rites of War, a 1999 wargame where you led the Eldar against the Imperium. At any rate, 
 those who are familiar with the source material will no doubt appreciate the opportunity to venture 
 off the beaten path. More-casual fans, whose main exposure to Warhammer 40,000 comes from playing 
 the Space Hulk tabletop game and its computer adaptations, might be disappointed at not being able 
 to step into space marine armor.  

  Not that this really matters much either way, as the plot in Fire Warrior is so hopelessly muddled 
 that it's hard to tell what's going on until you reach the midway point of the game. Instead of 
 easing you into the story, Kuju immerses you in a war with absolutely no setup at all. You get 
 only a brief, chaotic cutscene that shows the Imperium attacking a Tau settlement, then you're 
 charging through World War I-style trenches excerpted from  All Quiet on the Western Front . You 
 have to know a fair bit about the Warhammer universe to make heads or tails out of what's going 
 on here, although if you can figure out that the bad guys are the ones shooting at you, you  can 
  get by.  

  So there really isn't much to figure out at all. Each of the 21 fairly substantial levels (expect 
 around 15 hours of play, which makes the game much longer than the average shooter these days) 
 runs on tracks, with the final map being as straightforward as the obstacle course and firing range 
 tutorials in the first map. You follow trenches, administration building hallways, ship passages, 
 prison cell blocks, and other narrow corridors from one locked door to another. You only pause 
 to take blue, orange, and magenta keys from corpses. (These keys actually look like those neon 
 glowsticks that kids wave around on the Fourth of July. Come on -- colored keys? In 2003?) Every 
 area carries with it a shut-in vibe, as if the developers were suffering from agoraphobia. Even 
 during the few moments outside, you're usually surrounded by earthen walls so narrow that, theoretically, 
 your soldier could stretch out and touch the opposite sides.  

  Fire Warrior doesn't even get this turn-off-your-brain shooter stuff right. Movement is slightly 
 jerky, most likely because the game wasn't optimized properly in the transition from the PS2. The 
 game feels like a console shooter, as if you're playing with a less-responsive gamepad, even with 
 the standard mouse-and-keyboard setup. (Not that precision matters.) All of the weapons in the 
 game, aside from the scope-equipped rail rifle, are wildly inaccurate beyond a half-dozen paces. 
 Out of every 10 shots, seven will miss, often by ludicrous distances. Before the third level is 
 out, you will envy the marksmanship of stormtroopers. Even when you are on target, the wimpy hardware 
 doesn't do a lot of damage. You can pump half a clip of pulse rifle ammo into common foes, like 
 Imperium guards, and space marines can practically shrug off the rapid-fire autogun. Even worse, 
 there's no "oomph." Most weapons issue nothing but pops and electric bolts, and, as a result, they 
 feel more like tasers than BFGs.  

  Bearing this in mind, it's sort of a good thing that enemies are dumb enough to charge at you. 
 The way-off weaponry isn't too much of a factor because all foes, from the presumably dumb grunts 
 of the Imperial guard to cream-of-the-crop space marines, practically paint bull's-eyes on their 
 chests. At least they sound as stupid as they act, constantly muttering catchphrases like "Nothing 
 detected." and "No activity." This isn't so bad when you're sneaking up on a guard post and haven't 
 been spotted, but it's ridiculous in the midst of a pitched firefight. It's hard to take anything 
 here seriously when a roomful of guards chant a mantra of "It's quiet." while shooting you in the 
 face.  

  Then there are the usual console port concerns. Kuju has moved this game from its natural PS2 platform 
 to the PC with no muss, no fuss. There is no save-on-demand feature, there are just invisible checkpoints 
 spread far apart, thus forcing you to replay long stretches of the game if you're killed in a bad 
 spot. This is a major annoyance in some areas, especially during the lengthy watch towers and diversion 
 levels and when the game gets tough through the middle and latter stages.  

  Additionally, textures haven't been cleaned up, so there are just a dozen or so unconvincing enemy 
 soldier models. The woeful animations include goofy death throes where enemies flail about like 
 they're having slo-mo strokes. Overall, art design does come close to visualizing the run-down 
 future that is a Warhammer 40,000 specialty. Though this, perhaps ironically, is due to the reliance 
 on dated PS2 technology. Everything seems dirty and old, thanks to the rough textures and primitive 
 color palette that's apparently limited to various shades of brown. The game's audio quality is 
 in the same boat. Many levels are plagued with consistent low-level static, and the repetitive 
 "thump-thump-thump" of weapons soon feels like it's rattling around in your skull. At least the 
 cutscenes and dialogue sequences are well scripted and acted. Tom Baker, the former Doctor Who, 
 and Brian Blessed, from  I, Claudius , do yeoman work bringing these scenes to life.  

          Believe it or not, you spend a lot of time hunting down differently colored keys that are 
 needed to unlock doors.     

  Some multiplayer modes have just been tacked-on. It seems pretty obvious that Kuju included these 
 options as a simple added sales pitch to hardcore Warhammer fans -- and so that publisher THQ could 
 put an "online multiplayer" blurb on the back of the retail box. Still, does anyone really need 
 more deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag options in eight lifeless maps that are 
 filled with nothing but mazelike corridors?  

  There actually isn't really a need for anything that's offered by Warhammer 40,000: Fire Warrior. 
 Just finishing the game is a real chore, no matter how many miniatures you've painted over the 
 years while waiting for a pure action game based on this great franchise. Games Workshop needs 
 to go back to the drawing board to give us a first-person shooter worthy of the Warhammer 40,000 
 universe.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DinAmar
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  I'd seen the hype for this game in White Dwarf and on the internet. I had great hopes. The previews 
 looked great - 40k really does scream to be made into a FPS game. It's difficult to see how you 
 could mess it up. But Fire Warrior somehow did.
  
  The first thing that strikes you is that the game wasn't meant to be a PC game. The options for 
 controls, video settings, and online play are all contained in an external launcher, which is really 
 quite indecent (I raised an eyebrow) .
  The first-impression does recover a bit - the menu graphics are slick and simplistic. Then you 
 get into the opening cutscene. It's reasonably brilliant, except for the plastic-looking animations 
 of the characters, and the nebulousness of the whole scenario. It is understood to 40k fans that 
 vicious attacks and kidnappings need no explanation; they happen daily in the far future where 
 there is only WAR. However, that doesn't excuse the game from having a coherent plot.
  I opted to try the training my first time around - if only to get the complete experience. The 
 movement of the main character, despite what some people have said, I found to be quite natural, 
 and better-feeling than many games where the character seems to be as flexible and supple as a 
 rock. The firing range was where it all fell apart. I was instructed to shoot a series of 'holographic' 
 opponents who paraded back and forth on a small shooting range. It took me quite a while, because 
 my Pulse rifle, supposedly a rather accurate weapon, sprayed shots like a garden sprinkler. This 
 is a problem inherent to all the game's weapons - it's impossible to hit anything over ten metres 
 away, short of a lucky shot. Of course, the sniper weapons are unfailingly precise, which makes 
 them refreshing - but a bit incongruous.
  Another fault is not so much to do with the training itself. The holographic Imperial Guardsmen 
 would march back and forth across their ledges quite satisfactorily. However, the rest of the game's 
 AI was only just a little bit more complicated than this. Enemies do little other than stand and 
 shoot, or run up like they're going to hug you, then stand and shoot. Occasionally they kneel down 
 for some variety. In addition, they seem to able to say nothing other than 'Be alert' or 'Be on 
 your guard'. This seems to be more advice to the planer than any meaningful dialogue on the enemies' 
 part, since they always say it when I am about to run into a group of enemies. I secretly utter 
 a little 'thank you' as I reload my weapon, ready to mow them down around the next corner. The 
 entire impression of the AI is that the developers decided that a 40k game with shooting in it 
 would be cool enough for fans, so they didn't bother to have the AI do anything else. While they 
 were at it, they thought 'let's be cunning and make the AI say things that *sound* intelligent. 
 That way, people will think they *are* intelligent!' That kind of backfired - when a guard shouts 
 'Taking position!' while standing in front of you firing, it kind of highlights their stupidity, 
 instead of providing the illusion of intelligence.
  
  So the action isn't great. Maybe the setting provides some release? In a way, it does. The environments 
 are designed capably, in a very formulaic way. As a fan of 40k, I thought it was quite cool to 
 be able to see the inside of a Tau ship, or an Imperial prison - but that sort of wore off, since 
 the environments were just plain dull. The Tau ship, while having this cool, organic exterior design, 
 is just grey and squarish, with some shiny glowing bits and occasionally some interesting curves. 
 The Imperial ship is oppressive and grandiose, and there is some seriously big architecture to 
 see. But Fire Warrior seems so intent on constantly making you (try to) shoot enemies, as if it's 
 the biggest thing since sliced bread, that you often don't have time to stop and marvel at the 
 scenery, since you're always busy fending off attacks.
  
  Now, environments aside - who can honestly say that 40k is an inappropriate setting for a shooter? 
 It's about a universe perpetually locked in massive wars, and features some of the most over-the-top 
 ideas in all of science fiction. Rapid-firing RPG launchers? Check. Lasers that blow your limbs 
 off? Check. Chainswords? Check. CHAIN-AXES? Hell yes! But none of this over-the-top-ness really 
 shines through in Fire Warrior. There is little noticeable blood, enemies don't really react when 
 you shoot them, and they all die with characteristically over-the-top animations that make it seem 
 like they're all self-interested, melodramatic actors in a B production of Les Miserables or something. 
 Then, of course, the developers went all the way over the top and back down the other side sometimes 
 - like when you hi an enemy dead-on with a grenade or bolter shell, and they literally explode 
 into chunks of meat. The effect is just laughable, given the cleanliness of the rest of the combat, 
 and the way the gibs bounce about like rabbits on steroids. You can see the developers knew that 
 combat had to be bloody and visceral, but just completely missed out the point.
  Of course, there are some moments when you are just impressed. Like when you blow an enemy away 
 with the (underwhelming) shotgun, and they pirouette of their feet, slamming into the ground. Or 
 you hit someone with a perfectly-thrown grenade, and their flaming corpse goes tumbling down the 
 stairs. The high lasts for about a second, then you get dragged back into the monotony.
  
  Speaking of monotony (and bad segues) , Fire Warrior's developers had evidently not played any FPS 
 games more recent than Doom. The mission objectives revolve around getting from point A to point 
 B, killing every enemy in your path, and all too frequently with the aid of coloured keys. Yes, 
 coloured keys. I was amused the first time, but after a few more levels, it became deeply unfunny. 
 Warhammer 40,000 is not a coloured-keys universe, not to mention the fact that games have advanced 
 slightly since those heady days of yore.
  
  And I haven't even got onto the whole suspension-of-belief element. This is probably less of an 
 issue for non-40k people, ironically. Because players of FPS games have come to expect God-like 
 power within the realm of the game. The traditional FPS gameplay involves the player single-handedly 
 tearing through hordes of lesser enemies. Fire Warrior follows that tradition closely. Given that 
 the player character is actually one of the gruntiest units in the 40k universe, a Tau Fire Warrior 
 (on his first day out, no less!) , this makes as much sense as a fish with an umbrella. I laughed 
 out loud when I took down a Valkyrie with my Pulse rifle - sure, it makes me feel big as the player, 
 but it makes me mourn the fact that Kuju paid so little attention to the balance of the background. 
 Don't even get me started on the mass-killing of Space Marines, apparently the most elite badasses 
 in the entire universe.
  These things could have been forgiven if the player was, for example, a Space Marine - or had a 
 Battlesuit, or some other reason for being an uber-skilled pwning machine. In reality, the problem 
 is not that the player is stronger or tougher than the enemies - it is just that the enemies are 
 too incompetent to fight back. This is one of the saddest things.
  
  Graphics: boring. I've said that there were some interesting levels, but when you get up-close, 
 everything is kind of lacking in detail. When you consider that Halo came out two years before, 
 the graphics seem even less appealing. Characters animate smoothly - but what they are animating 
 is sometimes ridiculous. Ship pilots tap away at thin air, as if there were an invisible computer 
 screen. Deaths, I have said, are dramatic and often amusing - which, in this game, is a bad thing.
 
  Sound: mediocre. What sounds there are are decent, even if I personally hate the 'pew pew' Lasgun 
 sounds. Enemy speech seems incredibly tinny, as if everyone is a Happy Meal toy. This could work 
 for Marines or Guardsmen with helmets - it's a nice voice filter effect. But when it's same with 
 bare-headed enemies...
  The voice acting ranges from great (the much-touted talents of Tom Baker and Brian Blessed) to 
 laughable (the Japanese-accented Tau) .
  
  I would conclude that if you're a fan of 40k and want to play a 40k game, you should find Fire 
 Warrior somewhere cheap (that's hat I did) . If you don't particularly have any infatuation with 
 40k, and you're looking for a good, fun shooter - then this game isn't what you're after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldvander
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  If you like warhammer, but dont like strategy games, you might be in trouble. Not many warhammer 
 games have been made. This is the only fps (to my knowledge) based on warhammer. 
  
  You play as a race called the tau. You are a fire warrior who has to defend against imperium of 
 man and forces chaos. 
  
  The game features voice acting from well known british actors such as tom baker (doctor who) , and 
 brian blessed. The voices (when used) are decent. Unfortunately most of the in game levels are 
 just text. Its sometimes hard to read/concentrate on text, while you are looking around the areas.
 
  
  The graphics were sub par when the game was released. Today they look very basic and sparsely detailed. 
 Jaggy and low res, like a launch ps2 game. 
  
  The gameplay is also lacklustre. If you have used the mapmaker in timesplitters (to make your own 
 map with its own story) this is identical. Shoot man-get key-open coloured door-move on to next 
 level.
  
  Even with all the poor aspects of the game, this still has an appeal. If you are in to a certain 
 franchise like warhammer, lord of the rings or star wars, you should know what i mean. You just 
 want to play it just to see what it is like. Whether it is that bad...
  
  I wouldn't say the game was extemely bad. The gameplay is consistent, and i have not found any 
 bugs yet. The movement and controls are fine too.
  
  Its a shame a different developer didn't get the chance to create an fps set in the warhammer universe. 
 As it is, you should only play this if you are a die hard warhammer fan, who is also a die hard 
 fps fan, that has an old pc.
  
  Fire warrior is a mediocre and dated fps. It does nothing wrong, but nothing right either. You'll 
 get bored quite quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fraggilot
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 25, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, to all those guys who rated this game more than a 7, I have to ask you if you have played 
 any decent shooters?
  
  This game is as linear and lack-lustre as, well, umm... It's probably the worst FPS I've played. 
 I have had no fun playing this game. I started off thinking it would be at least somewhat good, 
 but that diminished before the end of the first level. Not a single game that I can recall did 
 I ever play less than a level and hated it apart from this one. Even Pariah, which has a similarly 
 annoying  approach, was more fun. 
  (Too bad it was bugs, shocking inaccuracy, and the stupid checkpoint save-games that ruined Pariah 
 for me.)
  
  GRAPHICS are fine, if dated, but do the job. EFFECTS were annoying though, and coupled with bad 
 SOUND quality, helped lower it's rank from an 8 to a 6.5. But wait, it didn't stop there. The MOUSE 
 sensitivity/feel was shocking - made me sicker than probably even Descent 1 made me when I played 
 that. Really low ceilings, and narrow trenches, and always the feeling of being surrounded. AI 
 sucked bad too - worse than Doom - I mean, you go around with a chainsaw, you have to actually 
 walk up to the guy to cut them, right? Well, not these enemies. Flailing around like robots who 
 have lost their way, and this game feels like it has too.
  
  Very disappointing game. I gave it a 4 only because it's a stable game that can be played through 
 without any issues. Wouldn't recommend it. Bought for NZ$7 (~US$5) . If you're drunk and stoned 
 you might enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 19, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I am a true fan of this universe. My favorite are the Space Marines, even though they aren't the 
 best. For the Emperor!!! Now, a FPS on this subject, after playing the RTS-s seemed OK for me (I only 
 got it now) . The first thing I disliked was the Tau, you only play with them &amp; I hate them. 
 Against the Empire? Damn... First mission. I felt like in Operation Overlord, in Normandy. No atmosphere. 
 Red &amp; blue Imperial Guardsmen dressed like in pijamas,&amp; everything confusing. Objectives 
 like: Find a button made me mad! The graphics are almost OK, but not excell in anything (only the 
 good textures at weapons) . The sound is again Ok, but not well suited for a Warhammer 40000 game. 
 So? Story is confusing. So what is good at this game. The title Warhammer 40000? Maby only that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffinthraka
Rating: 0.5
Date: May 6, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is mediocre to those (like myself ( who follow the 40K universe. I am reviewing this game 
 mainly from what I have heard from others because my copy refuses to work, I am not alone. There 
 are graphics card incompatabilities, patches that just shift the problem to something else and 
 a variety of error messeges. To begin with the programme froze when I attempted to install it from 
 the game menu, I had to explore the disk and find the install file. I have since uninstalled this 
 and reinstalled Halo
  .
  I have attempted to fix the problem and in my internet searches have found a massive number of 
 people who seem unable to play the game.
  
  This game could have worked, a simple storyline sticking to the Space Marines would have worked. 
 Instead we have something that does not work, or is not worth playing.
  
  My score does not represent gameplay, graphics etc. merely the fact many players are unable to 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 29, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Fire Warrior is a pure very straightforward shooter, where you kill lots of stuff but dont even 
 no why you are shooting the stuff.
  The story is very boring and hard to understand, so dont even bother paying attention to the story.
 
  The sound is horrible.
  The graphics are OK.
  The value is the best.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Lengthy singleplayer campaign
  +Realistic weapon system, two weapons at the time
  +/- Some 
 decent fights
  +/- Features multiplayer if you can find someone
  -Console takeover game
  -Weapons suck and look stupid
  -Very stupid AI messes up the gameplay
  -Death animations are 
 silly
  -Uninspired story
  
  Graphics:
  +Doesnt require a really good PC
  +Does look fairly good when at maximum
  +Interesting levels
  -Not a lot of graphics options
 
  -Looks a bit dated
  -Enemies/allies look very cartoony
  
  Sounds:
  +Some good mortar sounds and explosions
  +/- Not too much music
  -Voice-over sucks
  -Weapon 
 sounds are even worse then starwars sounds
  
  Value:
  +Lengthy singleplayer campaign
  +Cheap budget priced game
  +/-Multiplayer (Though no one online)
  -The game is way to easy
 
  
  Tilt:
  +There is a tutorial, which i miss in some games
  +/-Console takeover game
  -Interface sucks
  -Story sucks
  
  There is a lot too say about Fire Warrior.
  The only 
 reason, if you are planning on buying this game is that it is cheap and features a long campaign.
 
  
  Cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  First off I'd like to say I DON'T play Warhammer of any sort because I hate boring tabletop games. 
 But I borrowed the PS2 version of the Warhammer Fire Warrior game and Iliked it. I decided to buy 
 the PC version of the game because I like the controls more and I got it cheap (&pound;6) . It's 
 quite a simple shooter, but it provides some thrills and it's worth playing. I understand GameSpot 
 hate it, and I think it is very underappreciated. There's a multiplayer that sounds interesting 
 but I was dissapointed because (probably due to bad reviews) no one was playing. Fire Warrior's 
 got great weapons and you can carry 2 at a time and can pick up most weapons from dead enemies, 
 like Halo. I think the graphics are quite good too. There are annoying points though. Enemies take 
 in a alarming amount of shots before biting the dust and there's some really annoying missions 
 that will take loads of attempts before beating them. I don't see why lots of websites and magazines 
 don't like the PC version so much. It's longer than most shooters too which makes a difference 
 and there are 21 levels which is good. I read some good reviews of the PS2 version. Fire Warrior 
 is a standard FPS on the whole, but it's worth playing, on both available platforms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacktemplar576
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Now many people might never have heard or tried this game, it is a fun, new, and compelling game. 
 Many say that the game is poor, with nothing of note, that it is a horrible game. I, personally, 
 think otherwise. I have been into Warhammer 40,000 for years, though I haven't been as into the 
 models due to a lack of spare cash, but I had never heard of a console or computer game of note. 
 Then, one day, I was walking through the local movie-rental store and stumbled across Warhammer 
 40,000 Fire Warrior. Needless to say, I was intrigued and immediately rented it for the Play Station 
 2. As soon as I got home, I popped the game in, and was immediately hooked. Unfortunately, the 
 rental went up, and the next time I went to get it, they had taken it off the shelf. I was crushed. 
 I wont say that I am main-stream in my view of games, but this was one game that everyone who had 
 played it had said was a great game. However, many people who did not know anything about the Warhammer 
 40,000 universe beforehand had hated it. They said the game's storyline, while engaging, was too 
 drab and hard to follow. This leads me to my point. It seems to me that the game was underrated 
 by those who did not understand the context of the game, and hence people who read reviews before 
 buying or trying a game lost interest. I think that the reviews were unjust, and most definitely 
 should be given a chance. Especially if you like Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War / Winter Assault 
 / Dark Crusade. Fire Warrior was a brilliant game, and I feel it is underrated. Sorry bout the 
 rambling quality of the review...
  
  -On Another Note (The Reason) - What re-sparked my interest in this game, was Relic Entertainment's 
 Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War RTS game. With the release, recently, of The Dark Crusade, you are 
 able to play the Tau as a combatant race. What is even more interesting is that when you are playing 
 as the Tau in the single-player campaign, you are Shas'O Kais, leader of the Tau forces on the 
 planet Kronus. Now this might seem fairly mundane, and standard. Make a hero up from scratch for 
 the game, and make a history. What most people missed, and was bugging me in the back of my mind, 
 was that in Fire Warrior, you are Kais, before he was a general. It sorta piqued my interest and 
 made me search for the game again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emperor88
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the War hammer universe I wanted to play this game since I saw it on the shelf. However 
 after looking at the box something told me not to buy this game for its release price. Judging 
 from the packaging the game looked good visually and seemed to project a very detailed game. Due 
 to the space marines not being the main characters and other bad experiences with War hammer computer 
 games like Rites of War. I decided to hold off on this game for the time being. Recently on one 
 of my trips to buy another game I saw Fire Warrior in the bargain bin for $10 AU. The game hadn't 
 been out for very long and all ready it was in the $10 cage right along side Myst and Wolf 3d. 
 This was a very bad sign to begin with but despite my best judgments my curiosity got the better 
 of me and I made my purchase
  
  I got home, finished the game that was my main purchase and decided to jump onto Game Spot and 
 read up on what other gamers had thought about Fire Warrior. After reading all the negative reviews 
 on this game I made sure I would play it with an open mind. How bad can it be? Well Id like to 
 start off by saying that for the most part the other reviews on this site that picked this game 
 apart were pretty much spot on. For a game that was released in 2003 you would expect that the 
 graphics might seem a little dated and Im not one of those graphic Nazi's that judge games based 
 on their polygon count. However Fire Warrior looks like it was made in the time of Quake 2. The 
 models are very basic and have little to no depth or emotion. Also some of the models have colour 
 schemes like bright red that help to contribute to the games summer holiday console feel . It feels 
 at times that this game was visually designed for a 4-year-old child. I would probably even go 
 as far as saying that Quake 2 had better graphics than Fire Warrior. The weapons didn't look to 
 bad though and were probably the best part of this game visually. All the other enviroments, objects 
 and scenery suffered from the same flaws as the 3D characters. Bland and lifeless. On a positive 
 note the cut scenes (even though short) were pretty good and were worthy of the War hammer universe. 
 In fact the opening cinematic was enough to make me very optimistic about the game when it started. 
 However the brief experience of excitement I had flew out the window pretty fast as started to 
 play the very first in game level. After leaving the Tau drop ship I noticed that the explosion 
 animations were that bad that they practically didn't even exist. The developers seemed to have 
 tried to cover up the absence of animation with a white flash that engulfs the screen every time 
 a door explodes or wall is destroyed. These white flashes that also happen every 5 seconds with 
 artillery explosions get as annoying as the low quality sound effects that accompany them. The 
 level design makes a PS1 James bond game look like Half-life 2 and the levels are very linear. 
 There is no NPC interaction and most of the time you just walk and shoot with the exception of 
 a random demolition job here and there. Also the game suffers from very poor physics and A. I. I 
 have witnessed heads randomly disappearing off enemies and wall segments glitching out. Your weapons 
 seem to have little effect on enemies and seem to have little range (even though the Tau Army is 
 ment to have good range) . Sometimes you can waste a whole clip on an enemy and he still isn't dead. 
 On the good side their are a fair few levels and they seem to try make them consecutive. However 
 I personally tend to prefer quality over quantity any day. I am yet to decide whats worse, The 
 sound or the graphics of Fire Warrior. This game has some of the worst Audio I have ever heard 
 with the exception of Tom Baker (Dr Who) involved with the voice-overs. Although a large fan of 
 Dr Who, this feature still doesnt save Fire Warriors sound department from facing the firing squad. 
 There is no in game music, which is just as well because it probably would have been crap. The 
 sound effects are all extremely low quality and have been compressed to the extreme. Each one of 
 the players enemy characters has the same cheap punch line that they repeat over and over again. 
 There's no character development and little in the way of storyline. After the first 5 minutes 
 of game play you feel the urge to just click that quit button in the poorly presented in game menu 
 and play decent game . On a final note you can't even save in game and have to rely on the games 
 auto save feature like that of most console games which is really really annoying. This game had 
 so much potential and if executed correctly could have been the FPS that Dawn of War is to the 
 RTS genre but instead we have a game that looks like it's been put together by some drop out university 
 students. In fact I find it hard to believe that this game could even have come out of a commercial 
 studio. This game is not even a good console game let alone a good PC game. Even being a die-hard 
 War Hammer fan will not save you from Fire Warriors chaotic presentation and non-fans are not going 
 to think highly of this game. If you want to play War Hammer stick with the tabletop war game or 
 Dawn of War. If you want a laugh, a spare CD cover, an extra game to fill up your collection or 
 a game to entertain your 4 year old son or daughter and don't mind the violence then you might 
 want to pick this game up for $10. For any other reason remotely related to gamming don't even 
 waste your time and under NO circumstance pay more than $20 AU for this title. You will think $10 
 is a bit steep as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  I do understand if Warhammer fans don't like the game. Warhammer is a game made for the board, 
 and it's normaly a strategy game on the PC but here we don't have a strategy game at all but a 
 F. P. S. similar to Iron storm. So if we forget that it's a Warhammer origin then I think it's a 
 grate game I had some wherry exiting hours when I first did get a hang of how to play the game.
 
  
  I really don't understand Gamespot here but maybe they did'nt test more that just the start of 
 the game, else I cand understand them at all.
  
  I think the game deserves a better score that 4.3 between 6 and 8 is more like it. Even if you 
 don't like the game, it's still a game whit out any major problem's, it have quid good graphics 
 and a grate storyline the sound is Okay too, also it dos'nt have any total impossible maps. parts 
 where your stuck ed in the game. But sometimes it's quid ruff and hart to get trough the maps, 
 but it realy just makes it the game more interesting to play I think.
  
  Ther's only one minus. it is to be able play the Game at all, you neat to reconfigure the keys, 
 and thats not so simple Theo, but that's the only majour fallout it hase. If you don't reconfigure 
 the keys it's not possible to play the game and enjoy it at the same time. But that's also the 
 case whit a lot of other games I think. 
  So from here a OK and I really do see foewerd to there new relese in the end of this yea!! r
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sternguard
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  The game Firewarrior had serious potential as do so many firsperson shooters, althou this one had 
 me even more excited given that i'm big fan of the warhammer 40k unviverse. To be able to be in 
 the shoes well boots to be in the thick of what makes this universe great had me very excited I 
 put down my money and preordered this game with the highest hopes for it.
  
  Boy was I dissapointed with it i'm not even sure were to begin with the things I didn't like about 
 the game but i'll try. Lets see first the graphics seem dated and kind of well flat with no real 
 life to them. Then there's the linear path which is a problem which plagues so many first person 
 shooters even some of the so called great ones like half life 2. I wish there was more games with 
 a game style like the systems shock series or Dues Ex series both games allowed the player to decided 
 how they went about completting a mission not just oh what gun will I use. But will you be sneaky 
 will come at them from behind it's things like this that I really wish more games had.
  
  Another fault I have with the game is the action it seems so tame or over blown in it's way at 
 times when your playing and the enemy AI urgh don't even get me started on that there really was 
 no AI to speak of. And when you fought enemies they would generaly come in ones or two never in 
 any large amounts so there really was never any serious feeling of pressure on you. And the weapons 
 while some were fun such as the plasma guns most left a lot to desired. For example teh bolter 
 rifle the weapon of choice the the elite warriors in the universe was so terribly inaccurate that 
 I can't understand why they would use such a horrid weapon. And several of the weapons simply strike 
 me as a cheap rehash of other weapons namely the energy chain gun you aquire at one point.
  
  All I can say is I hope that this won't stop other people from trying to develope a FPS shooter 
 set in the 40k universe and I hold out the hope that someday some one will make one that's worth 
 the name and my money to buy.
  
  Suffice to say I was very dissapointed with the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kasrkin_BA
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  
  As soon as the dropships doors opened and the game finally raises its ugly head you soon 
 realise that even controlling the player character alone is a chore. The machine I played this 
 game on far exceeded the recommended requirements and yet there was still delay between clicking 
 Fire and Kais actually firing. Moving left and Kais moving left. Pressing Reload 
 and Kais reloading. Yadi yadi yada
  
  So, youre thrown into the deep end of an alien invasion of a human controlled planet. A 
 planet that only has about 100 or so grunts defending it. A planet that should have a PDF and Imperial 
 Guard regiments with men numbering in the 6-8 digits. Where are the enemies? More to the point, 
 the invasion force was lacking something. Ill tell you what it was lacking; an invasion 
 force. Straight away you find out that the scale of the game has been minimalised. Invasions in 
 the Warhammer 40,000 universe make D-Day look like an exchange of harsh words. 
  
  Once you get past the initial problems and compensate for some of the bugs you might start to enjoy 
 yourself. Then, forty-five minutes later, after youve done the same thing for the umpteenth 
 time the charm starts to fade. Fast. All you find yourself doing is storming another corridor and 
 vanquishing either the ignorant humans or the twisted powers of chaos. Theres only so much 
 you can take before the Uninstall button starts to tempt you.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Where to start? Well, lets take the enemies shall we? There must be about 
 30 character models in total throughout the whole game. Every Guardsman is the same model. Every 
 Stormtrooper is the same model. Every Space Marine is the same model. I could go on forever. Where 
 are the individualisations such as purity seals, mechanical limbs and marks of rank? No-where to 
 be seen.
  
  Youd swear you were playing the game on minimum settings even though youve cranked 
 that graphics level up to the bleeding point. It really is that bad. Games like this make the Holy 
 Emperor cry.
  
  A slight redeeming quality is the fact the weapon models look quite good. Not amazing, just good.
 
  
  
  Sound
  
  One of the only positive things I can say about the sound is the use of Sean Pertwee. He is a brilliant 
 actor and voice artist so its a shame that his talents were wasted here.
  
  Another good aspect was the Stormtrooper voices. They were very gritty and made the humans seem 
 like the bad guys they actually are.
  
  Whats so wrong with the sound? Ill tell you. The weapon sounds, the environment sounds, 
 the reloading sounds, the vehicle sounds and the continuing sound of disappointment. None of it 
 seemed to jump out and grab you by the chutzpahs and engross you into the universe. 
  
  Value
  
  Unlike many people I know who played this, I paid full whack on day of release for 
 this. I had been waiting a good while for this game to surface, following its progress in various 
 magazines, forums and websites. But when I first jumped out of the dropship, boy did I regret parting 
 with my cash. As a huge Warhammer 40k fan I played on just for the experience (and the hope it 
 might get better) . The multiplayer was extremely lacking. Only a handful of maps and game modes. 
 No mapping or mod tools to speak of so this game had a non-existent multiplayer scene.
  
  If youre a WH40k fan and dont own this, buy it if you feel the need to own it. But 
 dont spend a large amount. This is clearly a bargain bin only title nowadays. 
  
  
  Personal Opinion
  
  I actually read the novelisation of this game before the games release. 
 I bloody loved the book, it was incredible. Probably one of the better books from the Black Library. 
 And to say that I enjoyed the book more than the game just dumbfounds me.
  
  As bad and as disappointing as the game is, it did have some fun moments. My favourite to date 
 is on the Tau ship and the fire fight with the Imperial Stormtroopers in the dark. All you could 
 see were the nightvision eyes. That was a moment of pure coolness. If only the rest of the game 
 was like that.
  
  What really wowed me about the game were the stunning cut scenes. They blew me away completely. 
 And the vision of 41st millennium Terra was a sight to behold. It reminded me of Coruscant from 
 the Star Wars prequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lubu7
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Well we all know and love the Warhammer 40k series, yet this doe not live up to what anyone could 
 have imagined.
  
  As GS pointed out, there is nothing to this game then pull the trigger and shoot. And if you are 
 not shooting, your looking for some stupid way to get a door open, be it a key a lever or God knows 
 what else. The game play feels to straight forward and it basically focuses on you to move from 
 area to area and kill as many guys as you can. Basically, the entire Tau army only has Kais fighting 
 for it.
  
  The one nice thing is the way the story plays out. It was interesting to get into the boots of 
 another species and fight the dreaded marines one on one. Unfortunately, this was very seldom and 
 most of the time pitted you against hordes of pathetic human soldiers. Though the twist at the 
 end did bring on some harder enemies, but it still felt awkward.
  
  The AI, what AI. Most enemies just charge at you or stand in a place where you can hit them and 
 they cannot. Also, the fact that they just run around so much, not only exposes them to your fire, 
 but to that of their comrades. If this was a First Person Hack and slash (the sword idea was good) , 
 then one could understand the enemy AI. BUT ITS NOT. 
  
  The graphics are abysmal, even for this game being early in the career of PS2. They would be great 
 on PS One, but here, the choppy box head is not what will sell this game. The sound. A little better, 
 in respects to the guns, but it all goes down hill when the voice actors take over. I think the 
 best voice over was the computer for the Tau.
  
  Overall, the game failed the franchise. It is not so horrible that you will not pick it up. Its 
 the fact that it only serves a good place on the wall, next to your Tau army collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chokedoke
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Ok what can i say i like the 40k games im a die hard fan of the the history behind the universe 
 and when i saw this game for seven pounds i thought what the hell ill give it a whirl.
  
  After installing it i was extremely let down straight away with the options given but i thought 
 it must have an auto detect feature. So i went ahead and started playing and was straight away 
 disappointed with the starting cut scence it looked like it came from a game made 10 years ago, 
 even for the ps2 this would be rubbish quality. Then the game read the gamespot review for that 
 because everything they said there i agree with. This is a pitiful game with little or no story 
 and some very annoying game mechanincs. Even if your a die hard fan who will play it just for the 
 story wait till its about 2 pounds in the shops then go for it because thats all its worth
  
  I was Very dissapointed with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  WarHammer 40,000: Fire Warrior is a game where you control a Tau Fire Warrior Cast soldier Names 
 Kais who him and his Fellow Tau buddies have to find this other higher Ranked Tau who got captured 
 by the Space Marines in the game. The first level for thr most part is kinda cool since your in 
 a dropship with 3 other fire cast and 2 generals as soon as you land the door opens up and theres 
 these missiles being droped every where and tau getting blown up and its like trench Warfare But 
 your fighting in the trench not out side it. The game it self is a solid First person shooter with 
 about 21 levels so it takes a good few hour to finish then theres the cheats to work for witch 
 adds to its replay value.
  
  Sound: This one of the reasons what let this game Down the voice acting is Horrorble Im Clad they 
 had Subtitles on since if they didn't well you guess what im talking about. the games does though 
 and it does make the sound on the game a little bit better in someways that you get the voice tallent 
 from Tom Baker and Brian Blessed witch if you a fan of those guys or Like them its great your playing 
 a game with 2 of your Favorte Acters on. but if your like me it just makes the game better knowing 
 you have 2 well known? acters doing some of the games voice work. the Weapon sounds like the fireing 
 its ok the guns do sound cool when fired but like i said the sound is not really the games best 
 part But i like it...... Buy will you? 
  
  Graphics: well when poeple who say its Bad i dont know why i think the games graphics are great 
 for a game what game out in 2003. Little blocky sometimes But that doesn't let the game down a 
 game dont needs graphics to be good. weapons look great i like it where you go into a dark room 
 or a room with lights and the lighting effects on your guns look cool. almost gives some of the 
 weapons a metal feel to it. you might notice that when your looking at a tau Pulse rifle you might 
 see its Mega Blocky and has no curves to it kinda does look like a n64 weapons of golden Eye but 
 does that reallu matter the faces are not really life like you do get the mouth opening and theeyes 
 closeing and that. But you wont be paying all your atenion on that little detail. 
  
  the Gameplay is not as good as it could of been if THQ spend a bit more detail on the gamplay it 
 would of been more fun like heres what im talking about if your in a middle of a mission and you 
 have to go out somwhere you cant save it so all your progress is lost so you have no choice but 
 to finish the mission then do what you need to do. and check point thing what check points you 
 never know when you get to a check point only why of telling if if you kill you self and even then 
 you will start at the begining of the level. and i do agree the Ai seems to hit you more than you 
 can hit them they have almost flawless aim if it was not for the weapons they would hit you every 
 time. But Put all that asside and you do get some good things out of this game. its kinda like 
 Halo where you get only two weapons at a time and that works out well makes the game harder But 
 its does make it more fun. you can only change though and this is what makes it different you can 
 only change your left hand weapons witch i thing is great But when you come up to 2 guns you like 
 you can only pick one. and even on normal this does give a run for your money. you also get sheilds 
 But you know what they do. the Online yeah What online theres nobody on it unless you want to play 
 with your self and thats as much fun as watching a snail eat leafs. But Just dont coem to this 
 game thinking its a great online game. But all that does'nt bother me things like that on games 
 dont bother me. But this game at the End could of been better in a lot of ways But if your looking 
 for a Super First person shooter then DONT get this game. But if your like me who wanted a new 
 game to play then come here since But all the bad points away and theres a game hiden whats good 
 to play But i would only Buy this game if it was about $10-$15 i paid 10 for mine ands its a good 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hush404
Rating: 1.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Before I start my break down I must let you know that I've started playing this game on three separate 
 occasions, each time thinking "It can't be as horrible as I remember..." and each time it is just 
 as I remember it, a game not worth the CD it was burned to.
  
  The game is a generic shooter, generic like the batteries you can buy at your local super market, 
 you think you're getting a great deal but they you get them home and realise that they work as 
 well as a lump of dog terd. The controls are like any other FPS on the PC, you use the WASD or 
 Arrow keys to move, straif etc and the mouse to look, BUT the game will only pick up on half of 
 the keys you press and when the command does get through it's extremely sluggish. Jumping is tedious 
 and the initial mouse setting are way too loose it's hard to do just about anything.
  
  The graphics are laughably bad, and might only be considered 'good' if the game was made during 
 the time half-life and quake2 were released. The enemies are bland and boring, the weapons are 
 simple and (again) generic, even the world textures look like they were ripped from an early N64 
 game. The explosions and laser effects had no style and you could tell the developer just slapped 
 in whatever was easiest to put in engine. Even running at a high resolution with and the graphical 
 specs at full, the game is just plain ugly for anyone's standards AND it takes a beefy card to 
 even run that!
  
  The sound, like the graphics, totally below any standards. Music is fairly non existent and the 
 music you do hear sounds like an elementary band class made it. The explosions sound like explosions 
 but by the time you're done of the first level you'll be sick of hearing them. The first level 
 is a battlefield and it's understandable that explosions would be going off but this game likes 
 to set one off every 5 seconds. Their no small explosions either, they'll mute almost everything 
 else in the world, all you'll here is a constant boom sizzle boom sizzle boom sizzle with the occasional 
 enemy chatter cutting in. The enemies will always say the same few one liners so it doesn't really 
 help the frustration factor. The voice acting, if it can be called acting is poorly done and at 
 such a low quality you're better of reading the subtitles.
  
  The gameplay is nothing beyond the mechanics of the first Doom and it's not even as fun or as engaging 
 as Doom. You'll romp through a (thankfully) few very different locations which help change things 
 up a wee bit but they all play the same, they're all cramped corridors with nothing to do but kill 
 mindless drones. These drones are some of the worst A. I I've seen in any game, even worse then 
 some bots created by amateurs for various HL mods. If you straif a bit it'll totally confuse the 
 A. I and they won't be able to hit you. The story itself has an interesting backstory, being in 
 the 41st millennium you fight as a young Tau FireWarrior initially taking his final test to become 
 an official firewarrior. The game has a room setup where you hit buttons and see a 3D hologram 
 in the middle of the room which will tell you all about the Tau, Humanity, the Universe, History, 
 weapons and just about everything you'd want to know when entering the world. This feature I found 
 the most enjoyable because it didn't deal with trying to get the sluggish controls to work and 
 it was interesting. Sadly all the backstory in the world couldn't make the rest of the game an 
 enjoyable experience.
  
  At the end of the day it's impossible to recommend this game to anyone who even remotely likes 
 gaming. If you love the Warhammer 40,000 Universe this isn't for you, if you love FPS games this 
 isn't for you, if you find it at a yard sale or flea market for 25 cents this game isn't for you. 
 I've had a ton more fun playing simple flash games, hell I've had more fun playing solitaire. If 
 you love the Warhammer Universe then go pick up Dawn of War, a great RTS or even download some 
 of the old Warhammer 40k mods for Half-life 1, heck just a warhammer model in you favorite multiplayer 
 shooter (Half life, unreal tournament etc) will bring you more enjoyment than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWMPerry
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  A great game. Astonishing graphics, sublime sound effects1, perfect gameplay...
  
  Well, wouldn't it have been nice?
  
  Unfortunately, Fire Warrior isn't that good. At all. The 
 graphics are mediocre (yet somehow still manage to be sluggish) , the sounds are feeble and poorly 
 encoded, and the gameplay is tedious.
  
  One of the things I found particularly irritating was one of my FPS pet peeves: bad scaling. I 
 really hate when games put the player's view so low down that it feels like you're three foot tall.
 
  
  The many other flaws have already been discussed at length by other reviewers; the insipid level 
 design, the lousy PS2 porting, the ridiculous save system...
  
  It does have its good points, however. I liked the level transition screens, which at least make 
 the attempt to keep you in character. I also liked the cutscenes, which were pretty good - and 
 had good voice acting, too.
  
  And, of course, it is 40K, even if it doesn't always feel like it. The guns don't sound as meaty 
 as in Chaos Gate (which, in my opinion, is still the best 40K game out there) , but at least they're 
 the right guns.
  
  It's the 40K factor that drags the mark up from Bad to just Poor ....
  
  EDIT: Since Dawn Of War came along, of course, Chaos Gate has been superseded. And I fixed 
 a few typos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psikosis
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 25, 2004 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40000 (40K in most people's parlance) is a terrific table-top game of warfare in a dark, 
 grim future. Defying convention, players assume the role of an alien race's warrior, the Tau, battling 
 humanity. Fire Warriors are the military caste of the Tau, by the way. The Tau retain some of humanity's 
 finer characteristics while the humans in Warhammer 40K have slid into a new Dark Ages, so players 
 will find it easy to empathize with their proxy. It's a novel premise.
  
  The graphics are marginably acceptable. Even at 1600 by 1200, it doesn't look as good as it should. 
 Rather it throws back to Quake II era graphics, perhaps as a result of it's porting from the PS2 
 console. Insufficient variety of decals, indistinct edges even at close ranges, and poor 3-D rendering 
 of objects are simply not acceptable in late 2003. Enemies all look alike and there are only perhaps 
 a dozen or so different foes.
  
  Sound is the weakest of this game. The script and dialogue are very limited, but the voice-acting 
 is acceptable. Sound effects are just awful, however. Mostly "whumps". A weapon as powerful as 
 the boltgun deserves better.
  
  The story revolves around an encounter between the Tau and the humans. Predictable, it results 
 in war. But when a truce is attempted, a treacherous human noble goes to extremes to stop it. The 
 action is all run-and-gun a la Doom 2. Enemies are nearly mindless and weave back and forth blasting 
 away. It gets worse, however, because weapons (other than the sniper rifle) are hopeless inaccurate 
 at less than point-blank range (even with auto-aim turned on) making combat an exercise in frustration 
 (and there isn't anything other than combat in the game) . To top it off, gameplay can only be permanently 
 saved in between levels with a checkpoint or two in between. This ratchets up the frustration as 
 players must continuously refight the same battle over and over again in later levels.
  
  There is a timid stab at mulitplay, but why bother with so many other, better games out there? 
 There's little enough reason to play this game once, much less after that. This game is maybe worth 
 rescuing from the bargain bin. Then again, maybe not... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: end15
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 26, 2004 9:39 am PT
Review:  Off the bat this game just isn't good. I love Warhammer 40k and SpaceHulk was a great video game. 
 Unfortunately the graphics are not much better than Quake, the sound seems like it was all compressed 
 to 8 bits (everything including the explosions sound like they're coming through a telephone) , 
 and the action is jerky. The maps are uninspired and for the first time I felt like a Storm Trooper. 
 I couldn't hit the broadside of a barn with these guns. It's just sad because I would love nothing 
 more than to see all those great Warhammer 40K drawings and paintings come too life. Alas perhaps 
 another day. Skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 28, 2003 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm afraid I am disappointed. The graphics are not bad and the initial movies are pretty good. 
 It gets you in the mood. But then once you start to play it goes down hill. First the sound is 
 not so great. Too much bass in your main weapon sound makes it annoying after awhile. Explosion 
 noises seem to come and go. Voices are hard to understand. The worst part though is you cant hit 
 squat with your weapon!! You and your enemy can blaze away at each other from two feet apart and 
 not hit each other! And when you do hit someone it seems to take a whole clip to kill someone. 
 I can't believe they messed this game up this bad when they were obviously so close to a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quaesitor
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 27, 2003 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing 40k now for over 2 years. I was really excited/horrified/terrified when I found 
 out that Games Workshop had finally alllowed a company to make a game from the 40k franchise. I 
 wasn't expecting much. Certainly nothing as great as Chaos Gate, which was basically X-Com with 
 Space Marines, or Space Hulk: Vengeance of the Blood Angels, which was actually a pretty decent 
 game (once you realized it was about commanding a squad, not about first person action) .
  
  And I didn't get much. There's some amazing moments in the game, if you play 40k. Only 40k players 
 are going to go 'NEAT!' when the walk up next to a Land Raider, other folks will mostly likely 
 wonder why there's a big box with guns in the middle of a map with no enemies. The bottom line 
 is that the game ONLY will appeal to Warhammer 40k table-top fans. And probably no one else. Which 
 is ultimately rather sad, since this game could have become a gateway drug to table-top wargaming 
 for some folks.
  
  Should anyone from Games Workshop or Kuju ever read this: We 40k players greatly appreciate your 
 effort in trying to bring us this game. But if you want the game to be a success with video gamers, 
 you have to make a quality product. I bought this game because I play 40k, and hope that my purchase 
 might help to convince Games Workshop and Kuju to give it another shot and allow another game to 
 be made. 
  
  Microsoft Train Simulator got good reviews, so we know that Kuju knows how to make good games. 
 Kuju needs to learn to translate the skills that made MS Train Simulator great, into making a equally 
 great Warhammer 40,000 game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
