-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer: Shadow of the Horned Rat
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warhammershadowofthehr/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 5.4, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 121 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Mindscape
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Somewhere between an RPG and a wargame, Warhammer offers a refreshing change of pace for fans of 
 either genre looking for a new play experience. 

 Somewhere between an RPG and a wargame, Warhammer offers a refreshing change of pace for fans of 
 either genre looking for a new play experience. Set in the fantasy world of Games Workshop's pen-and-paper 
 roleplaying World of Warhammer, Shadow of the Horned Rat is a compelling adventure that gives you 
 a taste of the life of a mercenary captain.  

 You start with a small army: a single cavalry and infantry unit. While you peruse a map of the kingdom, 
 the company's accountant and paymaster details the various mercenary jobs currently available and 
 how well each will pay. From here you'll need to select which forces you want to take into battle, 
 and then head out to war. Choose your fights carefully, though; your decisions about whom to support 
 will affect the way the rest of the game is played. As you win more battles, you will gain money, 
 recruit new soldiers, make new friends, and, if you're observant, attain powerful magic items too. 

 Without overlooking the game's well-written plot and solid voice-acting and animation, it's fair 
 to say that Warhammer's combat system is really its central feature. The game's real-time battles, 
 which are challenging and addictive, require you to observe the land around you and use it tactically. 
 Enemy AI routines are surprisingly realistic and will keep even veteran wargamers on their toes. 
 Unfortunately, the entire combat system is complicated by a movement system that can make it extremely 
 difficult to select your various units.  

 Warhammer's fantastic character development, addictive warfare system, and absorbing story override 
 most of its interface failings, and most strategy fans will find this title an excellent addition 
 to their game libraries. Be forewarned though: Warhammer is a difficult game, and those with poor 
 tactical skills or little patience will most likely find it too challenging.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ranger-X
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  I bought the PC version of this game a long time ago and recently bought the Playstation version 
 and found some major differences:
  1. The PC version box had a nice thick manual with lots of details about the world and its history (such 
 as magic and units) while the Playstation manual was small and brief
  2. The PC box had a free warhammer figurine inside 3. the Playstation controls were very clunky 
 and annoying to use, while in comparison the mouse and keyboard was easy and very natural to use 
 for pc.
  4. The music in the PC version for situations such as an ambush was very
  engrossing while the Playstation version music was uninspirable and forgetful.
  This game had 
 plenty of fun and great situations, such as when I launched a volley of arrows to cut down the 
 approaching enemy, or launched a fireball and engulfed some of the orc wolf riders who were getting 
 ready to charge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 12, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I am so glad I kept my Win98 OS disk,. as last year I decided to go with a dual-boot system. XP 
 for the XP only and modern games that run on 98 and XP, and the win98 for the older games I have 
 hung on to and other games I have always wanted to play and now spy on abandonware sites or ebay.
 
  
  This was one I had had in my collection for the last 10 years and did not get very far with originally 
 as it is quite a hard game. I must have got better at this strategy milarky over the last decade 
 as i got it out and am playing it again, and am right now past the the last mission I reached over 
 10 years ago. Therefore it is now a "new" game to me!
  
  As others have said, this is a combo strategy and rpg game. Mostly strategy though, as it is through 
 the battles the story pages turn and the money is earned to continue. This is a Playstation to 
 PC conversion, so is not up to the Command and Conquer graphics of the day. The animated cutscenes 
 (very 1930's Disney like - a HUGE compliment!) and the characters you deal with along the way are 
 very well done however. If you get hold of the PC CD (on ebay for under a tenner) you also get 
 very good speech for your money. Games Workshop know their world, so they know how to write scripts 
 that are very believable, dryly humourous and carry all the emotions needed to carry you immersively 
 into the detailed, convaluted and terrific Warhammer story!
  
  The interface leaves somewhat to be desired, but once you get the hang of it it is certainly usable 
 and becomes second nature. It is icon based and you ineract with the untis and the world through 
 an icon interface system. The gameplay world is actually only about one third the screen. At first 
 this is disconcerting, but eventually I saw it as "playing a book" and it did not continue to bother 
 me.
  
  When I said earlier that the game was hard, I did not mean the interface made it hard to play. 
 I meant the computer AI is sharp! You have to be on your guard with this AI and I would venture 
 to say that with no abiltiy to change the level this game is for veteran players only, or really 
 good strategists like chess players, or dare I say it: Miniature Wargamers! :) Let me just say 
 this: If you think the computer AI is running away - think again....!
  
  So, with a great story, smart AI and generally immersive world, with a fantastic 128 page manual, 
 and with the caviate of the 256 colour 1997 graphics, I give Warhammer - Shadow of the Horned Rat 
 an 8.1 - Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elsmallo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I remember reading about Shadow of the Horned Rat way back in an 
  ancient White Dwarf magazine- as a Warhammer fan it was great to see the universe moving into computer 
 games at last. Since then of course the 
  franchise has had several memorable outings on numerous platforms, Dawn of War most successully 
 for PC, but Shadow of the Horned Rat will always stand out for me. 
  
  First things first, don't even bother considering this game if you are even in 
  the slightest 
 bit bothered about graphics, or presentation, or realistic game 
  physics. The in-game interface is terribly clunky and confusing, and it can 
  be a clumsy game 
 to play, with a lot of time spent scrolling back and forth 
  across the battlefield to find your units, often only managing it just in time to 
  catch them 
 being butchered. Try zooming in on a unit (even before it has 
  been slaughtered, such is the graphical excellence) to find that it really is 
  just a little 
 smudgy blot on the map.
  
  Nonetheless, this doesn't make the game unenjoyable. Quite the opposite- 
  the game actually 
 poses a significant challenge. Since you control a 
  mercenary army across a long campaign, these near-death encounters 
  make for compelling moments. 
 Battles fought at half-strength because you 
  lost half your army in a previous engagement will severely limit your chance 
  of success. The 
 enemy, either green-skinned Orcs or rat-men Skaven, not 
  only do not have this problem, but can also field some pretty scary units. A 
  bungled move or 
 sudden counter-attack can finish your men off pretty 
  quickly, and enemy A. I. is surprisingly good. Towards the end of the game, 
  the really massive 
 battles require of you more than just nous and grit- you'll 
  need some serious luck as well.
  
  However, the game's most compelling factors in today's more 
 advanced 
  environment are the background elements- the setting, characters, and 
  campaign. As a hybrid RPG/RTS, Shadow is quite unique in its own way. 
  The menus and stats/ 
 biography pages for the units and enemies you 
  encounter are lavishly illustrated and a joy to read, and music is suitably 
  foreboding. The 
 characters are some of the most enthusiastically, if not 
  originally, designed in any game I have encountered. Compared to, say, the 
  black and white, 
 'there is only war' Dawn of War Warhammer 40K puritans, 
  Shadow benefits from its genesis in an era when Games Workshop played 
  more creatively with 
 its world. They also benefit from Shadow's greater 
  emphasis on plot and narrative than is currently fashionable. The tone is 
  memorable- real retro 
 Warhammer with intrigue and grudges, sneaky 
  skaven, poncy elves and northern dwarves. There's plenty of dry humour, 
  some nice voice acting, 
 and a slowly developing, engrossing campaign. 
  
  You control a mercenary army, led by the grim, cynical ex-aristocrat 
  Commander Bernhardt. Starting 
 with only a few units, the beginning of the 
  game sees you taking a few run-of-the-mill escort/annihilate missions to 
  earn some much-needed 
 coin. Induction out of the way, your growth as a 
  general and the skill of your men coincide with Bernhardt's expanding fame 
  and ambition. As 
 troops flock to your banner (all paid for with hard-earned 
  cash, mind) you are embroiled in a larger conflict. As is the format, you do 
  eventually have 
 to save the world, but unlike in some games this honour is 
  not handed to you on a silver platter. The campaign is pretty long and 
  unforgiving, and if 
 you lose a unit in battle, it is gone for good. You also 
  have to earn enough money to keep your army in pay. These extra 
  considerations mean that you 
 do actually have to think like a mercenary 
  commander- can you afford to pay this unit to fight today, or shall you retain 
  them on the 
 side for a later battle, and so on. 
  
  Although it is now getting painfully old, (256 colours-try running that on XP) , 
  more than nostalgia 
 makes me recommend this game. It's amusing, 
  engrossing, challenging and offers a different pace to modern real-time 
  strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smintar
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I know that this is somewhat late :) But I remeber this game today. I gave it an 8.2 I remebered 
 how frustrating it was at first and then once thru this game went over it again and I really enjoyed 
 playing this 1.
  
  So today I believe that game should have a make over! So thats my review after all these years 
 oh by the way it wont play on xp system maybe an Old 486 with 8mb of ram :) )
  
  wasnt it afirst for the camera zooming in and out?? rotary capble 3d? nice map, excellant story 
 I thought that the musicwas great got ya in the mood:) But had to go thru it the first time didnt 
 realized what I had missed till I went thru it the second time then I began to see and feel the 
 challenge that this 1 had to offer ! Thats why I thought about it today and why I am here writing 
 this review maybe just maybe someone would catch on the re-make it At least I would so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  WARHAMMER: Shadow of the Horned Rat is a strategy game for the PlayStation that began as a tabletop 
 adventure. The game features a sprawling fantasy story that occurs between each battle. Fighting 
 requires forethought and strategy, as gamers must fight against the enemy using their personnel 
 as wisely as possible. There are numerous missions included, making WARHAMMER: Shadow of the Horned 
 Rat a long and intriguing journey through an imaginative land full of sorcery, dragons, and immense 
 battles.
  Many people may be familiar with Warhammer as the popular game that allow people to stage huge 
 and fantastic fights against each other using intricately designed models. Now, the same fun can 
 be had on the PlayStation with WARHAMMER: Shadow of the Horned Rat. The game combines real-time 
 strategy gameplay with the deep storyline of an RPG to become a game that focuses on both fighting 
 and story. There are many missions available, during which the story unfolds and the player must 
 control legions of warriors. Stunning cutscenes that feature impressive feats of computer graphics 
 are included to move the story along. Battles are full of surprises, as each side is able to use 
 special units that can turn the tides of war by using their unique abilities. WARHAMMER: Shadow 
 of the Horned Rat is sure to please any fan of the actual tabletop game, as it represents each 
 character in faithful detail, while telling the story in an interactive manner. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
