-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer: Dark Omen
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warhammerdarkomen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.1, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 269 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Mindscape
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dark Omen is exciting, visually superb, and features an elegant interface. 

 Dark Omen is a tactical real-time wargame set in Games Workshop's popular Warhammer fantasy world. 
 You assume command of Bernhardt's Grudgebringers, a powerful and prestigious mercenary army forced 
 to defend itself against armies of the vengeful Undead. All the while, the Greenskins - orcs, goblins, 
 and worse - will be a thorn in your side. Dark Omen is exciting, visually superb, and features 
 an elegant interface. The end result is a game that will more than satisfy virtually any real-time 
 strategy fan - even as it alienates those turn-based strategy gamers who made Warhammer what it 
 is today.  

 The 3D landscapes in Dark Omen look gorgeous (it's almost a shame to litter them with the corpses 
 of your enemies) . Lush rolling hills, sheer cliffs and castle parapets, trees, waterfalls - everything 
 looks colorful and beautiful, and even more so if you have a good 3D accelerator at your disposal. 
 And just as the scenery appears real, so does it have realistic properties. Your infantry will 
 have a difficult time scaling steep slopes while your archers will fare better on high ground since 
 they'll have a better view of the situation. Rough terrain will slow your forces down, and obstacles 
 like trees and boulders make for life-saving cover from ranged attacks. The 2D soldiers are well 
 animated and easily distinguishable from one another. Better still, their corpses remain on the 
 battlefield indefinitely, and things will look pretty grizzly toward the end of any particular 
 fight.  

 Among the great aesthetic touches in Dark Omen are the 3D animated facial portraits representing 
 the different regiments. It's more than a little unsettling when a skeletal wight commander shrieks 
 "Charge!" as his undead forces rush forth to strike. Wounded regiments' commanders will appear 
 bloodied and scarred, and when a regiment is completely destroyed you'll see a close-up of the 
 commander as he screams and dies. All the portraits are unique, realistic, and expressive and add 
 a great deal of character and personality to Dark Omen. Unfortunately, though its graphics are 
 so distinctive, Dark Omen's sound is less than fantastic. All your different characters speak in 
 exactly the same dull voice during combat, which goes a long way to stifle the various characters' 
 personalities. And while the music in the game is appropriately grave and dramatic, it grows rather 
 repetitive.  

 Commanding your forces in battle is an intuitive and efficient affair, made all the simpler through 
 a helpful speech-driven tutorial. Deploying your troops to the field is a painless procedure, and 
 you can issue initial movement or firing orders to your various regiments before the battle begins. 
 Each regiment, belonging to both friend and foe, is represented by a color-coded battle standard. 
 Even if a regiment is offscreen, its standard will still appear on the border of your display representing 
 its location relative to yours. This effectively allows you to control all your forces from any 
 point on the battlefield, such that you can easily redirect your artillery and ranged units to 
 fire upon enemy reinforcements. Magic spells and special abilities are easily accessible, and issuing 
 move and attack orders is as simple as clicking on the destination. Your regiments are efficient 
 about moving from place to place, though they have a tendency to get a little confused about where 
 to go when in very close proximity to one another. True line of sight means you'll have to keep 
 a sharp eye out to make sure your foes aren't sneaking up on you, as unless the enemy is in direct 
 view of one of your regiments, you won't see it either. Of course, you can often use this same 
 feature to your advantage and hide your own regiments behind cover then charge the enemies' flanks 
 when they draw close, often causing your foes to panic and rout. Morale plays an important role 
 in Dark Omen, especially when your troops are pitted against the fear-inspiring Undead.  

 Though at first glance all seems well and good regarding Dark Omen's play mechanics, certain nagging 
 problems creep up over time. These are mainly concerned with the limited functionality of the game's 
 otherwise effective interface and friendly regiment intelligence, or lack thereof. Your friendly 
 regiments do nothing without your express order besides fight for their lives if attacked and turn 
 tail and flee if overwhelmed. You need to be there to turn your troops to face the enemy, order 
 them to charge into battle, and otherwise baby-sit them under every circumstance. Your ranged units, 
 including archers and artillery, will not fire on the enemy unless you tell them to do so. And 
 they will not stop firing unless you order them to stop. This means once your infantry engages 
 an enemy, your cannons and archers will keep on shooting and thus prove at least as fatal to your 
 own forces as to the opponent. This would not be such a problem, but you cannot issue orders to 
 more than one regiment at a time, which makes multiple cease-fire orders very problematic in the 
 heat of battle. Furthermore, Dark Omen plays at just one speed setting; you cannot slow the game 
 down (or speed it up) , nor can you pause the action and issue orders without time constraint. While 
 the inability to toggle game speed is certainly a realistic touch, it seems more like a frustrating 
 oversight when weighed against your regiments' inability to use common sense in a dangerous situation. 
 Dark Omen does follow the Warhammer board game's carefully balanced and fine-tuned rules of engagement 
 carefully, but when you're forced to order up to 15 regiments individually and in real time, you'll 
 find that strategy takes a back seat as you whirl about with your mouse in sheer desperation.  
 

 All this is to say, Dark Omen's lengthy single-player campaign isn't easy. You will face overwhelming 
 odds with a limited number of troops, none of which is ever expendable. Since your regiments gain 
 experience from battle to battle, allowing them to die is not an option. A successful mission affords 
 you barely enough gold to replenish your losses, and even if you succeed in a mission, you may 
 need to try it over - if only to win while sustaining fewer losses. Of further note, though the 
 missions are fairly long, you cannot save your progress during battle. Yet in spite of its daunting 
 challenge, the campaign is thoroughly enjoyable. The story progresses between missions in aptly 
 delivered speech (with plenty of German accents) using the same animated portraits you'll see in 
 battle. The campaign branches at several points, forcing you to make difficult decisions regarding 
 where to fight next, all the while knowing you will face the repercussions of your actions at a 
 later time. You will constantly encounter new allies and face powerful new enemies, and the missions 
 are all exciting and unique. The campaign is worth going through more than once if only to experience 
 the alternate plot branches.  

 While Dark Omen only supports a maximum of two simultaneous players for network games, taking on 
 a human opponent is a pleasure. You can build your army using a defined quantity of resources on 
 your own time, choosing from a vast roster of troops from either the Allied, Greenskin, or Undead 
 armies, then pit it against your opponent to show him who's in charge. Dark Omen battles are quick 
 and brutal as both sides are inevitably forced to clash under the threat of potentially devastating 
 artillery fire. Dark Omen is by far the most aesthetically pleasing computer rendition of the Warhammer 
 world. Turn-based strategy fans, or traditional tabletop Warhammer enthusiasts, will find Dark 
 Omen's punishing real-time combat far too frantic. But its sleek interface, great single-player 
 campaign, and action-packed multiplayer mode will add up to many hours of enjoyment for Warhammer 
 and real-time strategy fans alike.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
