-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War: Winter Assault
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warhammer40000dawnofwarwinterassault/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New playable faction adds new strategy to gameplay.
 Decent single-player campaign.
 Improved multiplayer play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New faction not as distinctive as other Warhammer 40,000 factions.
 Campaign somewhat disjointed by switching factions while playing.
 Minor AI issues, as well as minor scripting issues in campaign.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.5, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 4,316 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Relic
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 21, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Winter Assault is a great expansion pack for a great strategy game. 

  Sometimes recommending a game is easy -- as with Winter Assault, the new expansion pack for last 
 year's excellent real-time strategy game Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War. That game brought to life 
 the universe created by Games Workshop's popular sci-fi tabletop game with beautiful graphics and 
 fast-paced gameplay that was focused on three things: offense, offense, and more offense. Winter 
 Assault adds a new playable faction, new units to existing factions, a new single-player game, 
 and some tweaks and additions that should make most Dawn of War fans very happy, and might win 
 a few converts, too.  

          Winter Assault adds a new playable faction, new units, and even more highly competitive 
 multiplayer.     

  Dawn of War bucked the trend of traditional real-time strategy games, which usually require you 
 to chop wood and mine gold for a few minutes before you can build up a base, then churn out an 
 army of military units. Instead, you chose one of the game's four playable sides (the fanatical 
 space marines, the demonic forces of chaos, the swift-footed eldar, or the swarming armies of the 
 orks) and forged ahead on the map, capturing strategic points for resources to build out a base, 
 often getting into skirmishes early. In contrast, the expansion's new playable faction, the imperial 
 guard, focuses on defense -- that is, hanging back around a base, gradually researching higher technologies, 
 and eventually bringing out the big guns.  

  The imperial guard consists of regular human soldiers that serve Warhammer 40,000's enigmatic emperor, 
 along with the space marines -- they actually appeared in several missions in the original game. 
 Their focus in the early game is to churn out large squads of infantry with relatively poor morale 
 (which can cause them to be routed if outgunned) , hole up in some cover, and fire continuously 
 on any enemies that blunder into range. The guard also possesses several powerful vehicles it can 
 call upon in the later game, the ability to garrison troops in certain vehicles and buildings, 
 plus the ability to move infantry troops directly from building to building using a "network of 
 tunnels." Unfortunately, Winter Assault still suffers from the minor artificial intelligence and 
 pathfinding problems in Dawn of War, especially for large groups of units -- like the infantry-heavy 
 imperial guard. You'll occasionally find that half of your troops don't follow your move or attack 
 orders, especially near impassable obstacles, and especially when you command large groups at once, 
 which you almost certainly will for the imperials.  

  Serious fans of Dawn of War, and of the colorful Warhammer 40,000 universe in general, might not 
 find the new faction to be nearly as exciting as the elite troops of the space marines or the loutish 
 orks and their ramshackle technology. However, the new faction seems to be pretty balanced; it 
 adds a new, novice-friendly way to play the game (even if it isn't quite as exciting for experts) , 
 as well as a playable faction of actual humans that casual fans might relate to more than, for 
 instance, the motley-colored eldar, who wear form-fitting power armor and speak nothing but arcane 
 babble.  

          The imperial guard isn't the most interesting faction that could've been added, but it 
 does add a new style of play.     

  Presumably because Dawn of War's campaign focused mainly on the space marines, Winter Assault's 
 single-player game focuses on the other four factions, in a series of objective-based missions 
 much like those of the original game. The two-part campaign lets you play as the side of "order" 
 (the imperial guard and the eldar) and the side of "disorder" (the orks and chaos) through five 
 missions each. The campaign missions are pretty substantial (and in some cases, much more exacting 
 than those of the original game) . Finishing both halves of the campaign should take most real-time 
 strategy fans between 10 and 15 hours, so you get a decent-size game to play through -- and each 
 half of the campaign branches at the very end.  

  Without giving away the story, we'll just mention that in both campaigns, the two factions you 
 play as don't always get along and end up opposing each other; you then get the choice to play 
 through the final mission as one of the two factions. While this is an interesting way to set up 
 a campaign, the rest of the missions require you to switch between factions (either the imperials 
 and the eldar, or the orks and chaos) repeatedly, which makes the experience seem disjointed. The 
 campaign probably would've been more compelling if it had let you play as a single faction the 
 entire way through.     

  Perhaps less important, throughout the campaign, you'll also occasionally find that the game relies 
 a bit too heavily on scripted events to suspend your belief. For instance, in one mission, you're 
 required to hunt down an evasive ork general at all costs as he keeps popping in and out of different 
 sewer pipes after taking fire; if you ignore that objective and leave him alone, he'll just stand 
 there and let you explore the rest of the map at your leisure. Still, the campaign is pretty solid 
 and generally offers more of a challenge than that of the original game.  

          Multiplayer games of Winter Assault offer more variety than Dawn of War did.     

  
 Winter Assault also adds several tweaks and fixes to the game's overall balance for single-player 
 and multiplayer. Winter Assault's additions, including a highly complementary unit to each existing 
 faction to help round it out, along with cheaper, faster-to-build units and buildings, seem to 
 make Dawn of War's already fast-paced multiplayer even faster. This is a good thing for players 
 who like to play aggressively but are tired of executing the same old "rush" tactic of churning 
 out a small army of the cheapest, weakest soldiers and ambushing opponents early. Since the higher-level 
 technologies are cheaper and faster to build, it's much more feasible to scramble up the "technology 
 tree" of different buildings and improvements to get to the most powerful units faster -- so players 
 who go for that same old rush with cheap, weak soldiers may be in for a nasty surprise against 
 opponents who respond with much stronger counterunits much more quickly. Overall, the net effect 
 seems to be adding more variety to multiplayer, since it's more common to see high-level units 
 and buildings alongside the low-level ones -- and variety is definitely a good thing in a game about 
 strategies using the combined strengths of different units.  

  And fortunately, Winter Assault also has a very solid presentation. The game's soundtrack resembles 
 the kind of blustery-but-forgettable symphonic score as the first game, as well as plenty of enthusiastic 
 (and in some cases, overly enthusiastic) voice acting. Several characters, particularly some of 
 the key characters in the campaign (like the gibbering Crull of the forces of chaos) come off as 
 a little too overwrought; but fortunately, it's not too out of place in a universe where vicious 
 aliens do battle with insane fanatics. Otherwise, the game's weapon sounds and other special effects 
 remain as appropriate and hard-hitting as those in Dawn of War.  

  The expansion looks great, too. While several of the units in the imperial guard seem mundane, 
 even drab compared to the fantastic rosters of the game's other sci-fi factions, they're highly 
 detailed and have plenty of elaborate animations, particularly for the imperials' armored vehicles, 
 which rock back and forth whenever they fire shells. The expansion also adds a few minor graphical 
 frills like falling snow in certain maps, and corpses that remain on the battlefield (rather than 
 eventually disappearing from sight) , though the real star of the show is still the massive battles 
 that can take place between highly detailed units that swap bursts of plasma-rifle fire and flamethrower 
 rounds.  

          If you're already a Dawn of War fan, Winter Assault should have plenty to offer you.   
   

  Winter Assault isn't exactly a perfect expansion pack, but for the many fans that the original 
 game rightfully garnered, that's not important. Aside from offering a decent campaign, the new 
 units and faction give even more depth to Dawn of War's highly competitive multiplayer modes, which 
 should be reason enough for fans to play the expansion. Even those who passed up Dawn of War the 
 first time around might want to sit up and take note, since the expansion's new faction is much 
 more user-friendly to beginners, even if it isn't as distinctive as the other factions. All things 
 considered, Winter Assault is a great expansion pack for a great strategy game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (145 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: molokoplus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Though not a episodic as the original single player campaign, it more than makes up for that with 
 the expanded multi-player experience. That being said the single player campaigns will keep one 
 busy for awhile as you get to play as good or evil. Though they both share the same missions leading 
 up to the end, the final mission is different for each side.
  
  
  The game play brings more of what the original game brought and on just as high a level with a 
 single player storyline that draws in all the factions available to date. You can now play the 
 Imperial Guard, The Eldar and Chaos Space Marines as well as Orks and Space Marines. The Necrons 
 also make an appearance but only within the single player story line. Though there are few missions, 
 they are involved and usually take quite awhile to complete with multiple objectives to be obtained. 
 They also have an "Epic" feel to them because they and the story are well written/designed. You 
 can also switch between friendly "good" or "evil" factions, though this is done to the detriment 
 of whoever you leave to the AI to command. Still, its an interesting concept that can open up a 
 new tactical window to explore.
  
  All in all a well crafted sequel that does an admirable job of extending the life of the Dawn of 
 War franchise.
  Now if only they would fix the glitch that allows units to fire through objects and terrain. This 
 is the only real flaw in this and the original game as it reduces the realistic tactical impact 
 of the otherwise well conceived maps.
  
  One of the neat fringe benefits of this and the original game are the outstanding screen shots 
 you can save. You can pause the game and then move the camera to almost any angle, zoom in and 
 out, and craft some very intriguing views. This is even better if you make some simple adjustments 
 to totally remove in game interface items so you are left with a pure, cinematic looking screen 
 shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dartadion
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War was a great game with a great cliff hanger. Sadly to report this expansion doesn't 
 follow the Adventures of the Blood Ravens. Though it does let you have a choice of the Hero Campaign 
 (Campaign of Order) which you play as Eldar and the Imperial Guard, and a new villain campaign 
 (Campaign of Disorder) which you play as Chaos and Orks.
  
  Firsts, first there is a new race added to the game. It is the Imperial Guard. Their primary soldiers 
 are very weak in small numbers but in many can be deadly. Later on as new soldiers are available 
 you will notice they are stronger and have a lot more endurance. Their vehicles are very strong 
 especially the super tank the Baneblade, the Imperial Guard Version of the Land Raider. Sad thing 
 is thier is only a limit of one so no easy victories. 
  
  The Campaign of Order goes that the Imperial Guard are after a super weapon known as the Titan 
 to have to give to their Emperor. The Eldar though are trying to use the Titan to activate a weapon 
 of their own named the Soulstone to destroy a deadly species known as the Necrons. The Campaign 
 of Disorder is about the Orks and the Chaos trying to eliminate all species on the planet to claim 
 it as their own. Their Campaign is a little more difficult especially with the Orks if you have 
 low WAAAAGH!! resource.
  
  In the game units are much cheaper so no more one man armies can now win a skirmish game. Also 
 more units have been added to the different races to add a little spice. There are also some great 
 maps on Skirmish Mode. Sadly a lot more could have been added to the game such as adding the Necrons 
 to your skirmish available armies. More Vehicles and Unique Units could also have been made. But 
 it isn't a bad game. It still sucks you in very well and is as bloody and gory as the last one.
 
  
  In conclusion Winter Assault is still a great game and great expansion. More could have been added 
 but that doesn't spoil the game at all. I do wish though that the story of the first game would 
 have been continued in this one. Still Dawn Of War: Winter Assault is a great game that you will 
 fall in love with and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aura_enchanted
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k: winter assault is the second installment on the warhammer series. it introduces 
 a series overhaul to the first bringing a new army (the imperial guardsmen) , new units for the 
 existing armies, and a storyline that now features more than 1 playable army.
  the story takes place around the retaking of a world by the imperial guardsmen that is currently 
 under the rule of the forces of chaos. and it falls to you the commander to guide your army in 
 the defence of the world or in its destruction. four out of 5 armies make an appearance in the 
 story all of them playable, (the space marines sit this one out) .
  The imperial guardsmen are a very strategic army. it consists of heavy armor, powerful long range 
 artillery, and the most inexpensive units in the series. They rely primarily on pummeling you with 
 armor then following it up with infantry to quickly eliminate remaining resistance. an imperial 
 guardsmen player however will find it rather annoying to keep there units at full operating capability 
 due to there relatively weak infantry. and an imperial guardsmens base sticks out like a sore thumb 
 due to the large amount of buildings required to keep them versatile.
  this title shouldnt be missed if you own the existing campaign but avoided by those new to the 
 playstyle the game requires. (the playstlye being one of strategic defence, and major troop production) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckizard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  After playing the Dawn of War I jumped straight into Winter Assault and was pleasantly surprised 
 and pleased. Graphics and gameplayed had slight improvements overall. 12 new missions spread across 
 both Order and Destruction was the best part. Instead of only playing one side (this all refers 
 to campaign) you play missions on both sides which was great! Really enjoyed the mix and seeing 
 the story develop from different perspectives. Playing online and skirmishes now gives you aadditional 
 races to play combining both Dawn of War and Winter Assault races. 
  
  I'll admit being an RTS noob (though love playing them) several of the missions had me stumped 
 for quite some time and these type of challenges are what make games great. Nice expansion and 
 I look forward to playing the other expansions as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arijit_unreal
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  The first expansion of Warhammer 40k : DOW series features a completely new race - The Imperial 
 guards. Dawn of War is a great RTS that features large scale brutal war between various races in 
 the 41st millennium. And this expansion adds lots of features to it.
  
  The new campaign allows you to play as four races: 
  The Order Campaign: Imperial Guards, Eldar
 
  The Disorder Campaign: Orks & Chaos. 
  Playing with each race gives you unique outcomes and massive impact on the story. In the campaign 
 you are tasked to gain control over a very powerful Imperial Class Titan in the planet of Lorn 
 V . Who ever control the Titan will achieve the immense power. Each race wants to control it for 
 their own reason.
  
  The expansion also features new units for each of the previous races. Like the Space Marines gains 
 the unit called Chaplain- a powerful commander unit who drastically accelerates regeneration. However 
 all races also have their units and tech tree modified. Like reduction in the strength of the SM 
 Prediator and Chaos Prediators are less powerful. Probably such changes were made to balance the 
 game off.
  
  Overall the expansion adds new features and campaign and also allows you to play as Imperial Guards 
 in the multiplayer. The skirmish mode feels great when playing in Multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  After numerous flops in the VG industry, GW has finally found Relic to bring the 41st millennium 
 to life.
  
  -Pros-
  *Awesome Melee Combat
  *Nice Detail on Models
  *Captures visceral nature of 40K
  *Well Balanced Units (Apply patches)
  * Array of different 
 Armies to Master
  *Quick Paced Multiplayer
  *Geared to run on old machines
  *Excellent audio and superb voice acting
  
  -Cons-
  *The idea of Terrain isn't flushed out 
 enough
  *Maps can feel claustrophobic
  *Campaign Missions can feel repetitive
  *Some units act stupidly (They take the long route instead of short route)
  *Base Building
 
  
  The Dawn of War franchise is fantastic. Im a Tabletop player so this game was a dream come true. 
 Its an excellent RTS that will have me playing until the day I die.
  
  The addition of Guards and the Baneblade will just spell doom for the rest of us non-IG users.
 
  
  Hardware/Software- Runs fairly easily. Taking Shadows off can help smooth things out, but they 
 add alot of detail to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisChu22
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Winter Assault is an excellent expansion pack that adds a lot to the 40K universe. 
 The campaign offers an interesting take on light vs. dark, with some open-ended playability. Players 
 can take command of the Eldar, Imperial Guard, Chaos, and Orks in the single-player campaign, and 
 the multiplayer is also enriched by the addition of these races to the battlefield. Even though 
 the campaigns are short, the duality of playing as either race during the light (or dark) campaigns 
 made it interesting and different from the format in Winter Assault's predecessor, Dawn of War, 
 where you only played as the Space Marines. An enjoyable expansion for me, Winter Assault is definitely 
 one to add to your Warhammer 40K collection. It did not let me down when I played it, and I think 
 that any 40K player will find that it is an immersive expansion into a whole different environment 
 from Dawn of War, which is exactly what the series needs to freshen up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The 2nd game in the WH40K DOW series, the story is set on a planet with a freezing climate and mountainous 
 terrain.
  
  This time the space marines are no longer playable in the story campaign and you take control of 
 the Imperium Guard who are the main army of the emporer (while the space marines were just the elite 
 of the emporer's army)
  
  The Eldar are back, so are the Orks, Chaos and a new race called the Necrons make an appearance.
 
  
  You have 2 campaigns to play through, the Imperium and Eldar represent order and the Chaos and Orks 
 represent disorder.
  
  You switch sides during missions on occasions and switch between sides after each mission frequently, so 
 it can take a while to get used to playing with a different side again, but allows you to see the 
 story from another sides perspective.
  
  The Necrons are an ancient army of robots who have awokened after more than 100 million years and 
 they want to destroy all life in the galaxy. The Necrons have flying bases called 'Monoliths' that 
 carry entire populations of armies and the Monoliths can produce huge numbers of robot soldiers 
 very quickly and Monoliths have weapons that can wipe out a base very quickly.
  
  The story has many twists, while the Necrons represent the extremes of evil, the 4 other sides will 
 turn on eachother in the blink of an eye but make allies with one another when it is convienient 
 for them eg When they need to fight the Necrons.
  
  The races/sides are interesting to learn about and have interesting characteristics
  
  The 
 Eldar are a mysterious, ancient, highly advanced race of aliens who's motives are mostly unknown, they 
 show up, do things and disappear quickly again. They often do what needs to be done to keep law and 
 order but often upset other races by doing things such as destroying bases the other races have 
 set up on planets if the Eldar feel like that race has too much of a foothold or is a threat.
 
  
  The Imperium are the main army of humanity who fight in the name of their emporer and want to expand 
 by creating new colonies on other planets (even if it means stealing them from other races)
  
  The Orks are savage aliens who are less technologically advanced than the other races but reproduce 
 at in incredible rate and overhwhelm their enemies with huge numbers. The orks societal structure 
 is very vicious, they will kill the weak (even their own kind) and admire strength. The orks settle 
 disputes within their own kind very primatively with one on one duels to prove who is the strongest.
 
  
  The Chaos are a sect of humans who summon demons and have a gothic like appearance. They have created 
 their own cult by worshipping a new leader and supernatural forces. They can summon huge, powerful 
 demons that are very difficult to kill, and they use technology similiar to the space marines but 
 a little bit less advanced.
  
  As for the gameplay, it feels quite a bit different to the original DOW at times, while having enough 
 of the fast building and gameplay elements that made the original such a great game.
  
  Now many missions don't involve simply building a base and wiping out the enemy, some missions you 
 need to hold off an advancing force long enough to prepare for evacuation, or breaking through massive 
 shields or collecting key items and destroying Monoliths before they can wreck havoc.
  
  Many of the missions have twists, you can start off as enemies with a race and become allies with 
 them to fight a stronger enemy, and sometimes you start off as allies and become enemies when you 
 no longer need their help. and sometimes all 4 sides will be fighting eachother over the same territory (5 
 if you include the Necrons)
  
  Some missions you need to switch between 2 sides and help eachother out even though the 2 sides 
 might be fighting one another you still need to be opportunistic and use them to distract the enemy 
 or use their aid to overcome an obsticle or to defeat a much more powerful enemy (such as the Necrons)
 
  
  Sometimes the gameplay can be a little more slow and frustrating than the original DOW as there 
 is a real grind to some of the missions (which is a nice occasional change in pace to the fast 
 and frantic DOW gameplay) but some gameplay and missions objectives can become convuleted. eg It 
 might take a while to figure out what you're supposed to be doing, or how to teleport your buildings 
 and some primary objectives did not have to be completed but were still listed as primary objectives 
 and I wasted time and resources when I could have been focusing my efforts elsewhere and more efficiently.
 
  
  But the difficulty is better this time, on the original DOW, normal difficulty was too easy, on Winter 
 Assault normal is fair but challenging and hard is hard. The CPU will send bigger waves of attacks 
 so you will need to have your bases defenses set up strategically, and your units are not so much 
 more powerful than the CPU's units like before, even the orks are much stronger now.
  
  If you loved the fast paced and frantic action from the original DOW it is here too, infantry units 
 are built very fast and in groups, vehicles take longer to build but can mow down infantry and are 
 well armored. You need to capture and hold strategic points and the special units are back. This 
 time you can use the Imperium commander, Eldar Farseer, Chaos Commander and Ork Commander and they 
 each have their own unique 
  
  The graphics look the same as in the original, except you are always in an snow/ice environment 
 with mountain surroundings now. While it may sound bland it adds to the realism that not all planets 
 will be interesting to look at, some will be dull with extremely cold climates and a lot of snow 
 and ice.
  
  The music is OK but not as good as the original, it sounds great at the campaign screen (you hear 
 an intense ochestrated sound that suits the feeling of war in the 41st millenium) but during the 
 missions the music isn't as enjoyable. I loved hearing the monestary/church style hymn in the original 
 but it's no longer present.
  
  The special units have philosophical quotes once again, the Eldar Farseer had quotes that made her 
 sound wise, the Chaos commander gave a good impression he wanted to destroy everything and the chaos 
 heretic units sounded obsessed with death, the Imperium had annoying accents that made them sound 
 like someone from a London pub (no offense to my English friends) the Orks sounded like British gangsters (which 
 is original and charming to how aliens usually sound like)
  
  I was disappointed the Space Marine commander Gabriel does not make an appearance because I love 
 his quotes and accent.
  
  The order and disorder campaigns have 4 different endings for the 4 sides (the side you won the 
 final mission with will be shown victorious)
  So you have incentive to go back and try to win with the other side (and some missions are very 
 difficult to win with a particular side so there is an extra challenging goal you can try)
  
  The Necrons look so terrifying when they walk slowly towards you in huge numbers and they just 
 keep coming until you destroy the monoliths!
  
  Great DOW game, the new gameplay features have their positive and negative aspects but the game 
 is fun and the story will keep you interested right till the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  I look back at Dawn of War and remember a great game. I look at Winter Assault, and I still see 
 that, but with a few tweaks and additions. The most obvious addition is that of the new race: The 
 Imperial Guard.
  
  You always have to admire when normal humans end up having to face off against alien monstrosities 
 and demons, and in Warhammer 40k, this is as frequent as it is bloody. The Imperial Guard bring 
 this to Dawn of War, and do it well. They enter well balanced with other races already present 
 in the game, and maintain a balance within themselves, standing true to what the lore behind them 
 says they should be. Cannon fodder footsoldiers who are only worthwhile in large numbers, backed 
 up by the most powerful and awe inspiring armoured tanks and vehicles the galaxy has to see, and 
 thats how it should be.
  
  The other additions included some new troops for the existing factions, which I wont go into. They 
 were, however, all good, fair enough, and worthwhile additions that added to the diversity (obviously) 
 already present in the game.
  
  The campaign was a little.... different to the one in the original Dawn of War, and while I appreciate 
 what Relic tried to do, I dont think they pulled it off very well. Two campaigns with four possible 
 outcomes is what we got. What we needed, was one strong campaign, or four/five moderate ones.
 
  
  Of course, the skirmish and multiplayer is what the game is still about, and in terms of them, 
 Winter Assault builds on what Dawn of War did.
  
  There isnt much else to say about Winter Assault. It didnt do much, but it did enough to get a 
 good score. I give it an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  WAR!.. the future is filled with it War, war, war!!!1.. without any end!...
  and painting little people. thats wat warhammer 40k is all about.. i used to collect warhammer 40k 
 before it became too expensive then i stopped...
  but in the chaos of this homasidal future there r only 2 human races the imperial guard and the 
 almighty space marines... while they r faced with the cruelist and most mercilous forces in the 
 galexy..
  here i will give u points of good.. and bad!
  GOOD:
  - great graphics
  -use effective strategies
  - only war
  -a whole new faction
  -similar to the table top game 
 that i used to play..
  -very fun!!!
  BAD:
  -only an add on pack
  -not much of a change
  -expensive
  so there u hav it!... my ratings... all an all its a good 
 game. worth playing if ur a fan of strategy games or likes warhammer.. theres no shame in it its 
 just a hobbie!!!!
  later!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamankev
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  A couple of new campaigns, totaling about the same length as the original campaign in DOW. The 
 Imperial Guard is fleshed out as a fully playable faction while the existing factions get one new 
 unit. In addition, the engine update brings a slew of balance changes. All told, the new content 
 is at least sizable.
  
  Quantity is not the issue though. The design of the campaigns, the new faction, and the balance 
 changes are all fairly questionable, and it's worth asking if they actually improve or detract 
 from the overall DOW experience. The campaigns feature some of the most annoying voice acting to 
 be found in a video game, with the Chaos leader essentially yelling all of his lines. Additionally, 
 mission design is overly contrived, dependent on scripted or timed events that drop gotchas on 
 the player. Like when you play the Disorder campaign, just as you begin the final showdown against 
 a combined force of Imperial Guard and Eldar, a group of Space Marines drop in from nowhere to 
 flank you. Even if you die at this point, you just have to rebuild your forces and then take on 
 all three factions. In the final Chaos mission, you're already dropped into a meat grinder having 
 to defend a base with no less than 5 entry points against multiple Imperial Guard bases, and after 
 a certain amount of time passes, the Necrons with their never-ending spawns of troops arrive to 
 side-rape you. Basically, if you don't figure out how to win these missions in the first 10 minutes, 
 then you're basically just on a slow path to losing. It's incredibly cheap and unrewarding, and 
 hearkens back to the ugly days of Relic's game design, Impossible Creatures and Homeworld. It's 
 also in stark contrast to the extremely easy (and straightforward) campaign of the original DOW, 
 and perhaps there is a case of overcompensation here. Relic just doesn't seem to be able to get 
 AI balance right. The idea is not to make it easy or hard, but to make it interesting, and the 
 dumb, cheap AI with the scripted mission triggers doesn't really allow for that.
  
  On the multiplayer side of things, you will be disappointed and annoyed to learn that Relic has 
 decided to rebalance the game by nerfing. Many units, from the Predator tanks to the Chaos Marines 
 to just about every Orc or Eldar, has in some way lost abilities or tactical options, significantly 
 changing not only their effectiveness but their strategic usefulness as a whole. They have basically 
 turned game balance into a much more forcible rock-paper-scissors affair by limiting the possible 
 choices that players have for executing strategies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000 was a good game. I am of course talking about the original release here. The add-on 
 of Winter Assault left me wanting more. It was a good game, do not get me wrong. I found it hard 
 to follow along with an in-depth storyline. Almost as if though without playing the table-top game, 
 and being a total dork, I was missing a part of the universe that seemed necessary. This expansion 
 is worth it, if you buy it with the original game. It is a $10 expansion at best. The graphics 
 are the same, the gameplay is the same and the units differ slightly. Take another plant, whoop-dee-doo! 
 What does it mean in the long run? I still am not sure. We need more background on this storyline, 
 and more of an insight to the characters it involves. Wait for Starcraft II, and do not waste your 
 money on this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sckeeter
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Great game, better then the first. I would say the best of the three, game play wise. They spent 
 a lot of time balancing this one and the progression throughout tiers is very balanced. The third 
 installment in this series may add a lot of new research, units and races. Th problem with the 
 third is everything gets camouflaged , an so the game becomes more of a balance of positioning 
 your units that can see camouflaged units then it is about the conflicts. Really you wont see any 
 of the old one squad sees another, they fight, get reinforced, etc.. I believe this game is worth 
 its money especially Gold edition which only costs around $30 Canadian. Well worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War: Winter Assault adds a whole bunch of goodies for those RTS gamers. 
 For one thing a whole new race to play as. The Imperial Guard serve as the Hammer of the Emperor 
 . They may die by the millions a day but just like any other race if you can master them, they 
 are unstoppable. The race is truly unique and typically i don't like the classic human vs. aliens 
 because it's just to repetitive in every game, but this game adds them into the original game just 
 right. And it has been quite a bit of time since the original game was released so this will throw 
 in another race to master. Now comes the other minor details. The maps and bug fixes Oh! and in 
 a not so minor case each race gets a new special unit. For example the Space Marines get the Chaplain 
 which is one of my favorite characters from the original table top game. This expansion bottom 
 line adds content that is really worth having. Dawn of War fans should have picked this game up 
 by now. It's Immersive and adds great multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maximiliator
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 24, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Hi, and welcome to my review !
  
  I must say, that It&acute; s some time ago, since i played trough this game, but i remember very 
 good, that i liked it very much ! I played the bad ones in the campaign at first, so i played Warboss 
 Gorgutz and a nasty Chaos champion by turns. And it was REALLY funny playing as Gorgutz. He was 
 so ugly, and talking so funny, that it was a really good feeling to stomp the humies into the ground 
 ! He claims, that he&acute; s da git and will sieze the whole planet.
  The unit-design, and fighting animations are really amazing and outstanding. It does look, like 
 there was a real fight ! In some other games, the fights are really ugly animated, but not in this 
 one...
  
  The sound is good, too, mainly because all the units got single voices and speak all the time, 
 which creates a feeling, like you would continous speak with real persons... The weapon-fire sounds 
 nice, too.
  
  the graphics of this time were amazing, so i can&acute; t blame the game for graphical issues.
 
  
  The only real but little contra, tha game has, is the balance in skirmishs. From easy to normal 
 is a big step, and from normal to hard, even more difficult, because the enemy gets damn fast ! 
 On harder or insane, a normal not pro-gamer has no chances. But with routine, the chances of winning 
 increase quite fast. These difficulties are but only for players who don&acute; t get bored before, 
 or play a lot online.
  
  Another problem is the beginning in online gaming. Some evil pro-gamer tend to name their game 
 n00b-war or n00bs only . A beginner in this game would join then, and be crushed very fast. But 
 a funny hint is the very small information about player button, where you can see how many games 
 where played with this profile yet. be aware of evil Pro-gamers !
  
  I hope my review helped you in your decision to buy this game, what i would highly recommend, and 
 rank even higher than C&amp; C 3 !!!
  
  BUY THIS !
  
  Max 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Winter Assault adds in the Imperial Guard, the army of the Warhammer 40,000 world, with sheer numbers 
 and tanks to win the day! It also adds in new maps and multiple singleplayer stories.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Great as always, and even better with the Imperial Guard added to the fray!
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Still looks great as always, and new snow terrain and Imperial Guard units makes it look even better.
 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  The sound of lasguns firing and tanks blasting their cannons never gets old!
  
  Value: 10/10
 
  What more is there to say? Buy the Gold Edition NOW!
  
  My description of Dawn of War was pure bliss . This only just added even more bliss to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetrider69er
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  Sometimes recommending a game is easy -- as with Winter Assault, the new expansion pack for last 
 year's excellent real-time strategy game Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War. That game brought to life 
 the universe created by Games Workshop's popular sci-fi tabletop game with beautiful graphics and 
 fast-paced gameplay that was focused on three things: offense, offense, and more offense. Winter 
 Assault adds a new playable faction, new units to existing factions, a new single-player game, 
 and some tweaks and additions that should make most Dawn of War fans very happy, and might win 
 a few converts, too. The imperial guard consists of regular human soldiers that serve Warhammer 
 40,000's enigmatic emperor, along with the space marines -- they actually appeared in several missions 
 in the original game. Their focus in the early game is to churn out large squads of infantry with 
 relatively poor morale (which can cause them to be routed if outgunned) , hole up in some cover, 
 and fire continuously on any enemies that blunder into range. The guard also possesses several 
 powerful vehicles it can call upon in the later game, the ability to garrison troops in certain 
 vehicles and buildings, plus the ability to move infantry troops directly from building to building 
 using a network of tunnels. Unfortunately, Winter Assault still suffers from the minor artificial 
 intelligence and pathfinding problems in Dawn of War, especially for large groups of units -- like 
 the infantry-heavy imperial guard. You'll occasionally find that half of your troops don't follow 
 your move or attack orders, especially near impassable obstacles, and especially when you command 
 large groups at once, which you almost certainly will for the imperials. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BY0B
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  Relic made some silly mistakes making this expansion like limiting Chaos Marines weapon selections 
 and making Seer councils weaker etc. but the fixed a lot of things like the lack of Chaplains and 
 Fire Dragons and who could forget the Imperial Guard they are weak but later on there awesome but 
 I hate the Commissioners killing their own soldiers to boost moral makes no sense. Overall its 
 a great expansion for a truly great game but the are some things they could of fixed is the super 
 weak Eldar they could of their boost power and fixed the difficulty but anyway its to late now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Git17
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Winter Assault is the first expansion to the DOW series. The Expansion adds quite 
 a bit of content, though pales in comparison to the second, it still has quite a lot to offer.
 
  
  The Expansion adds a fifth race, the imperial guard. The Imperial guard are a race mostly consisting 
 of regular humans wearing flak armour with a large amount of artillery and tanks. While the original 
 intention was to make them a turtling race, unfortunately this is not the actual case, but they 
 still offer a slightly different playstyle in the form of more fragile units so you must focus 
 slightly more in keeping your men alive and the ability to garrison forces within buildings to 
 fire out allowing a slightly more defensinve playstyle, but nothing too extreme.
  
  The Expansion also adds one extra unit for the four original races
  
  The Orks- Mega armoured 
 nobz, Big Orks in crude looking exosuits who are capable of taking considerable amount of punishment, 
 and ripping apart any enemy in melee.
  
  The Space marines- A chaplain. The spiritual leader of the army. A additonal commander unit who 
 has a healing aura and is capable of holding his own in melee.
  
  The Eldar: Fire Dragons, Eldar infantry with anti-vehicle capabilities.
  
  The Chaos- Khorne 
 berzerkers. Insane lunatic Chaos space marines who use chain axes to rip apart enemy units. Are 
 excellent melee units.
  
  The Campaign itself is good, but short unfortunately. The plot is quite simple. A giant mech, to 
 describe to people unfamiliar to Warhammer, which has the power to level entire planet populations 
 with its devestating arsenel of weaponry is burried within the surface of a planned called Lorn 
 V.
  
  On Lorn V are the four races along with the imperial guard each one there for different reasons. 
 Chaos and Orks are there for generally rhe same reason, both being native to the planet. Eldar 
 are there to stop a approaching army of Necrons, and the Imperial guard who are with a small company 
 of Space marines [later in the campaign] are there to reclaim the giant mech a. k. a a Titan.
  
  While the storyline can be engaging, one major downside to the campaign is you must switch 
 between the two races during certain periods of missions. You cannot stick to Orks, for example, 
 all the way through, and this applies to all races. However it allows you to really immerse yourself 
 in the perspectives of both sides, but a lot of people may not share this view.
  
  We are also introduced to a completely new group of characters. *****
  
  The Ork Warboss Gorgutz. Truly 
 one of the most unique characters i have ever seen in any RTS game and he is my favourite. Violent 
 and funny is a very hard combination to come across in any character, and even harder to work well. Gorgutz 
 is notable acception. While being quite brutal in his actions you cannot help but laugh at some 
 of the conversations he has with his Right hand Ork. Gorgutz is a newly risen Warboss who is attempting 
 to unit all the Orks on Lorn V and to lead a planet wide Waaagh. After eventually succeding in 
 this objective , the first mission to be exact, you go on to cause absolute chaos and anarchy for 
 the rest of the forces.
  
  ****
  The Chaos lord Krull- A borderline psychopath and the leader of the World Eater Chaos space marines 
 who are there to take over the titan for themselves and take over the planet by using it to their 
 advantage. At the start he is fighting Gorgutz and his Waaagh, but soon after forges an alliance 
 to destroy the Imperial and Eldar forces.
  
  *****
  
  Farseer Taldeer- Also a rather unique character. A Farseer sent by her craftworld [Bassicly the 
 place where Eldar live which is a giant space ship] to stop an approaching Necron attack. Being 
 arrogant, she believes her forces are the only ones capable of stopping them.
  
  *****
  
  General Sturnn: The general of the army of Imperial guard present on the planet of Lorn V. 
 His objective is simple, retrieve the titan and bring it back to the imperium. He is a determind 
 and brave leader, armed with flak armour and lightning claws. A rather stereo typical hero.
  
  ****
  
  The game itself has changed quite a bit on the tech tree. Instead off making it 
 difficult to reach Tier 3, the new playstyle introduced into Winter Assault is to replace all your 
 Tier 1 units with Tier 3, so it becomes a battle to the death. While of course this does have a 
 few balance problems, it allows people who love large epic titanic battles to really immerse themselves 
 in the bloody visceral battles of the game.
  
  Winter Assault is a excellent Expansion to the DOW series, and while the campaign could be longer, 
 there is very little to dislike here, and a LOT to enjoy! I fully reccommend this game as a purchase 
 for any RTS fan who wants a fun and entertaining experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigruckus45
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaigns are ok. Most of the maps below average as far as functionality. I get 
 the most use out of the skirmish mode. However, skirmish mode has one very frustrating flaw; the 
 difficulty settings. The easiest mode, 'Easy', is way too easy. Enemy units will lose morale almost 
 immediately and run away when you attack them. It's very easy to sit back build up a sizeable army 
 and overwhelm the enemy. 'Standard' difficulty, the next step up from 'Easy' is nearly impossible. 
 Before you can build one squad of your general infantry the enemy will have 2 or 3 and be all over 
 you when you try to claim strategic points. Meanwhile, when you were distracted with that, the 
 CPU kept building squads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Just like the original one, this one is a great RTS. The campaign is great, allowing you to play 
 as the new army. The missions are just like what they are supposed to be, gradually getting more 
 difficult, making the campaign annoying great. The titan guns at the very end of the game are great, 
 adding some great fun when those Necrons come towards your base. The online skirmishes are a whole 
 barrel of laughs, especially when there are four Guard armies versus, an enemy. It is just a swarm 
 of men and tanks. The Baneblade is a great way of scaring the crap out of your enemy, especially 
 when backed up by several Leman Russ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Get this pack if you can't live without playing Dawn of War with all of the available races. As 
 far as adding any quality content to Dawn of War you may be sorely disappointed, especially as 
 far as the single player game is concerned. In Winter Assault the Imperial guard are introduced 
 as a playable faction as opposed to just being a bit-player in missions, as they were in Dawn of 
 War. The Imperial Guard are the mall-cops of the Warhammer 40k universe. They have the poorest 
 armed basic troops in the game and they absorb punishment like wet Kleen-Ex. They attempt to make 
 up for this by having the best mobile armor in the later stages of gameplay and are meant to be 
 played defensively. Every mission that you are stuck with these guys is a grind as they emulate 
 the doughboys of WWI in their tactics, including the tactic of trench warfare by way of bunker-hoping 
 through underground tunnels (which actually uses the Eldar's teleportation and renames it) . The 
 guardsmen have to inch their way along, lacking any close combat skills, and die by the dozen just 
 trying to accomplish the most basic of RTS tasks. Taking checkpoints, establishing a new base, 
 gathering power or requisition points are all daunting tasks for the Imperial Guard... it's no 
 wonder they engineered the Space Marines to do the real fighting in the Imperium, sheesh!
  
  What really killed this expansion pack for me was the cheap level design in the single-player 
 campaign. The old RTS formula of denying you the most logical units for a given situation is used 
 here to it's diabolical fullest. Need an armored personnel carrier to get by some gun encampments? 
 Too bad. Need access to your anti-armor units? Sucks to be you. This makes the single-player campaign 
 take three times as long to finish, covering up the fact that there are only a dozen new levels 
 and only one new unit for each faction. The single-player campaign has more depth than Dawn of 
 War's, but at the expense of gameplay and at the end of the day games are supposed to be fun and 
 not work. Winter Assault is just too much of a grind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  While a decent attempt by Relic they could of done better in this game. While the graphics remain 
 the same great way they were, it isn't as revolutionary as its predecessor or its sequel.
  
  The main problem with it is that the campaign isn't all that different then it should of been. 
 While they allowed you to play as more races, they took the Emperor's finest out as well, meaning 
 you could play as everyone but them. This means that there are now two campaigns, good and evil, 
 although they are both quite short, only six missions each. For the good campaign it is just an 
 introductory for the new race, the Imperial Guard, which were used a few times in the first one, 
 but are now their own army. The normal troops are pretty terrible, but work well in large numbers. 
 They also get commanders which go together into a squad and are usually more than a match for most 
 enemy troops.
  
  The campaign for the Imperial Guard is quite easy, until you reach mission four where you are forced 
 to escort a Land Raider and hope it doesn't get destroyed like it always does. While it has an 
 honour guard of Ultramarines they are great at defending it until they fall which when they do, 
 it will get destroyed and you will need to start again. Thats on the easiest setting and its still 
 hard. The rest of the campaign though is easy, but the last levels are great fun to play as you 
 get to use the Titan's guns, which will destroy anything they hit.
  
  The online has had a few maps added, nothing special but most people will play as the Guard as 
 once they get full Kasrkin armies, they can be very hard to beat. As can Chaos with the new Preadaotr 
 upgrades, which make them immense on vehicles and heavy infantry. All the old armies get new units 
 too, Marines have the Chaplain which is a powerful melee atacker but can't join units. Chaos have 
 Khorne Beserkers which are also excellent at melee and immune to morale. Orks get Mega Armoured 
 Nobz which while slow are again great at melee, but also quite good at range. Eldar get Fire Dragons, 
 which can melt all but the hardest vehicles and get up off the ground faster than most troops. 
 All most be used properly otherwise they arn't too effective, but if used with the proper units 
 and timing, can prove deadly.
  
  While not as great as the original or Dark Crusade, it is a good attmept at making the classic 
 strategy longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Why is it better than Dark Crusade, you say?
  
  Answer (LONG Answer) - In this winter hell, you get the new race called the imperial guard. But, 
 they lack morale, which gives you a new strategy, DEFENSE. And why is it better than Dark Crusade? 
 Ever since more limits were put into the game in Dark Crusade, I kept going back to the second 
 game. Too many limits and too many sudden and strong changes were put into it. Now, let us get 
 on with this review.
  
  Gameplay - Campaign is okay, because you get to shift from race to race. I dont belive in what 
 other people say, which is playing as one race only. This new story puts you in control with another 
 teammate. Order is a team with the imperials and the eldar, and Disorder is a team with chaos and 
 orks, so the story mode is great. But, the multiplayer is a problem that bugs ALL of the warhammer 
 40K games. The AI is either way too hard, or way too easy. On normal mode skirmishes ( Player vs. 
 Computer) the AI only focuses on you, not anyone else. Plus, they start out with units, lots of 
 them. In the beginning, they have eveything they need while you got nothing. Even the weakest race, 
 the Imperial Guard, is used well when the comp player brings out many cool defenses, such as 10 
 chimeras and tanks in the beginning. This gives us a bad impression, but make us feel good about 
 the weaker races. We begin to use the races, but find it impossible to copy what the comp did. 
 Well WAKE UP SUNSHINE! They have limitless turrets in dark crusade while u can only have 6, they 
 start out with many units in the beginning, and they ONLY TARGET YOU! Computer teammates in the 
 first and second games dont do anything to help you! You comp enemies are on normal mode, and you 
 YOURSELF have also gotten ready for ass kicking, but not your allies. Only in Dark Crusade they 
 start showing intelligence. This leaves us all wanting to play online multiplayer because skirmish 
 just leaves us wanting more, and real people make you feel like you're a part of the game, and 
 THEYRE SMARTER! You can talk and laugh about tactics. But, no one ever goes on winter assault multiplayer, 
 EVEN BEFORE DARK CRUSADE CAME OUT. So, all games in the 40K empire leave you wanting more. Believe 
 me, I am a WH40K freak! But the video games just dont get too exciting sometimes. You see the units 
 in Games Workshop and in stories, but you never can use them.
  
  The graphics didnt really improve. So........ guess that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sephirothrulez9
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The game still has its great parts, but with the expansion it adds more problems
  
  Gameplay: its about the same but new things added: An entire new race ( the imperial gaurdsmen) , 
 new vehicles, units, heros, scenario, and maps. Even though it adds to a GREAT GAME, it is lacking
 
  
  Graphics: They are still great, same as the first DoW, Imperial gaurdsmen look cool, so do there 
 vehicles.
  
  Sound: You still hear everything, every last bullet being fired... very last soldier dieing... every 
 last blade penetrating bodies..... AWSOME
  
  Value and tilt: I personally thought this was a waste of money to buy.... i just bought it because 
 everyone was transfering on to winter assualt and there was no-one left to play on the original 
 now.... ( im guessing everyones on the dark crusade now ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjcobra
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  This expansion adds new units to the existing races in the game plus a feature I liked was that 
 servitors no longer count in the squad cap but the downside is there is a limit to 4 of them.
 
  
  The new race the Imperial gaurd is kinda lousy to play with. They are probably the worst in any 
 kind of situation despite what the manual tells you about them. The tanks they have are fragile 
 the firepower the tanks have is awful even the most pwerful tank they have labled as being able 
 to take out entire armies by itself is busted pretty quick. They literally have no deffense against 
 Heavy units like the Squiggoth (other than pounding it with earthshaker rounds) and are horrible 
 at fighting in melle or ranged battle.
  
  Voice acting is somewhat cheesy as well they should have just left the voice overs for the Imperial 
 Gaurdsmen that was used in the actual game.
  
  Infantry is where this race fails the worst armed with lasguns the Imperial Gaurdsmen are useless 
 even if you upgrade 4 of them with plasma rifles. They are not even good meat shields they are 
 torn up quickly even more so in melee fights. You do get some result if you have lots of them but 
 the Karsin Squads are at least a little better.
  
  The ability they do have is to move between builds is a nice touch but they do not fire the qeapons 
 they have upgraded with only the lasguns which as mentioned before are useless.
  
  It's a good thing that this expansion adds a little to the previous races my favorite are the new 
 additions to the space marines.
  
  Campaign is kinda boring since you have to play as the Imperial Gaurd for the good guys but at 
 least you do get to play as the bad guys this time around.
  
  All in all a good expansion despite the bad flaws of the new race should still get it if you are 
 a fan of the games as it does add some fun to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The Dawn Of War series for the PC is based on the Warhammer 40,000 table-top game made by Games 
 Workshop. It has deep lore, gritty action, and an interesting setting...
  First off, this game redefines the RTS genre, as it combines dirt-farming (a term for collecting 
 resourses.) and combat. There are beatiful animations covering every aspect of the game, buildings 
 materialize into their final form with style, units go into combat realisticly, and the blood and 
 gore is pretty detailed.
  Graphics are also impressive, with different looking units in one squad, spectacular special effects 
 and beatiful textures.
  There is a campaign mode, a skirmish mode, multiplayer, and even an army painter (a pretty neat 
 tribute to the painting done on the Games Workshop's minatures.) The campaign mode places you in 
 command of General Sturnn and the Imperial Guard, fighting a war on the Ice Planet, Lorn V, against 
 the legions of Chaos and the Ork swarms. There is a 'titan' on the planet that could very well 
 turn the tide of the war, and you must seek it out and take control of it... What happens next? 
 I don't like spoilers.
  There are tons of maps that come loaded with Winter Assault, and if you get the Gold Edition, it 
 comes with a few extra ones, plus, three mods that kick ass.
  Speaking of mods, DOW: WA is EXTREMELY moddable. Google Dawn of War files, and you'll get many, 
 many, many mods, skins, maps, to install, more than doubling the replay value. (Don't forget to 
 look for the modding kit on the web.)
  The voice acting is incredible, tons of voices that respond to your actions make the universe of 
 WH40k alot more immersive.
  As if the previous Dawn of War wasn't good enough, Winter Assault just makes it even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Lindo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  This game is a fun rts but it isn't as good as the original. This game has some positive things 
 about it though. The positive aspects of this game are : This game has a new race calles the imperial 
 guard. The campaign in this game is a little better than the original game, because you can be 
 morwe than one race in campaign. The graphics are about the same as well as the sound
  
  Some of the negative things are: This game has a very short campaign unlike the first one. This 
 game doesn't bring anything really new into the game. This game is a fun rts game, but don't look 
 for the long story line in this game. If you like the rts style of game then pick this up. If you 
 are looking for a repeat of the first game's storyline length don't pick this up pick up dark crusade. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skyskorcher
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Dawn Of War - Winter Assault
  
  This game started out to me as being absoloutly sweet, but then it just kept repeating itself. 
 Other than the Imperial Guard as an accessible army to play as, there have hardly been any other 
 changes made. I was easily fooled to buy the game because it had the new army, but soon after I 
 realised its very repetitive.... so i took it back. Not really my thing If this is what your looking 
 for then it is a bit of a let down for online play but the offline gameplay is ok, yet still quite 
 unnorigional. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odog202
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  wow. this game has a great story line and keeps you on the tip of your toes all the time! great 
 gamewow. this game has a great story line and keeps you on the tip of your toes all the time! great 
 gamewow. this game has a great story line and keeps you on the tip of your toes all the time! great 
 gamewow. this game has a great story line and keeps you on the tip of your toes all the time! great 
 gamewow. this game has a great story line and keeps you on the tip of your toes all the time! great 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  this is a well made game great graphics but the engine in which you can zoom in is excellent.. 
 you get to see the battle at every angle seeing the imperial guardsmen fall... shoot, kill AMAZING!
 
  however, i think they should have put a few more units in or missions because the only great new 
 aspect of the game is the new army and , perhaps the other new specified units. still the campaign 
 is great , excellent also if you go on filefront you can also add other peoples mads which can 
 enhance your game even further. the games graphics do excel in melee mode but long range weapons 
 look good to! but there is a downside to these amazing graphics.... multi player can get lagged 
 if there are more than 4 people in one game.
  
  basically, very worth buying as you will play it for ages way worth the money you buy it for and 
 extremely fun to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dehearik_nova
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Winter Assault makes a great expansion but waiting over a year for just one new race to come out 
 kinda spoiled it. Also the campaign kinda sucked since the space marines werent even playable this 
 time around. Online play is fun only if you have friends who you know wont rush you like everybody 
 else does! Also the imperial Guard has a huge lack of units and only has a choice of three different 
 troop squads, two of which aer very weak. Maybe in Dark Crusade there could be stuff like the Catchans. 
 Also maybe increase there troop cap and give the space marines a few new units. Overall Winter 
 Assault is very addictive and worth buying and playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coosjoaquin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  this is one of my favourites, if not my favourite game of all times As if you didnt already know 
 this, this is the expantion pack for dawn of war
  The graphics in the game are top notch specially since it lets you zoom in and see how ugly some 
 of your minions are (specially the battle scarred commisars) , each unit has ways of killing and 
 some do it quite well, its almost like a cinematic experience everytime you fight (counted that 
 you have the time to watch your people fight rather than lead and possibly help them)
  
  the music feels makes you blood thirsty nouf said
  
  The gameplay in the game makes it shine, 
 you go around setting flags to places that increase the flow of requisition (cash) you'll also need 
 power to make most of the stuff which is done by building (youll never see this one coming) POWER 
 generators, since massing units simply wont work youd better be prepared to say goodbye to your 
 stuff for new ones, luckily living souls are cheap in the game and you can get more in a squad 
 by means of asexual reproduction (this holds true for weapons aswell)
  
  what makes the game shine best though has to be when you play with others (you might get bored with 
 this game quickly if you have no friends so shame if you do) each fight will leave you restless 
 and wanting for more, every match there is bound to be excitement and afterwards a chance to brag
 
  
  what i dont like is the dammed ai, in a big army personal space seems to be really important for 
 the fuzzy albeit soon to be dead units so while the guys in the front will be mauled by incoming 
 forces the guys in the back will just stand and watch until its their turn to be exterminated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Georse
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  At first something about this game put me off it. Honestly I think it's because I didn't like the 
 fact that the whole game was to be played in snowy tundra. I made the decision to buy it after 
 playing the Dark Crusade demo 6 or 7 times and needed something to distract my attention until 
 its release date. After playing this game almost all the way through I have to say my initial feelings 
 were unfounded. The Imperials add a vehicle heavy race missing from the original races with nice 
 detailed touches such as the trooper executing commissar and the liquid flame throwing hellhound 
 tanks. The single player campaign is fantastic. The original Dawn of War single player campaign 
 only focused on the Space Marine Blood Raven chapter ignoring any use of the other races. This 
 campaign lets you use all of the other races separating them between order (Imperial Guard and 
 Eldar) and disorder (Chaos Space Marines and Orks) . It's just a fantastic all round package! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ase290406
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  Dawn of war was a extraordinary game. Combining a great sci-fi world, beatifull graphics and an 
 even better gameplay, it's easily one of the best in the RTS genre ever. The expansion however 
 makes this game even richer in content and gameplay. Instead of adding a few units and another 
 cool race to the game, veteran RTS developer Relic (Homeworld anyone?) did something smarter. They 
 added a race that actually changes the gameplay.
  The Imperial guard is a race that uses fortifications, ranged firepower and armor instead of melee 
 charges and allmighty heroes. And yet it doesn't makes makes the game any less intencive or bloody. 
 With it's own mix of strong armored units like the Baneblade tank, (11 turrets says it all) and 
 unique charachters like the Commisar ( Forward you dogs! To Victory! ) , the Imperial guard has 
 a lot to offer. The other races also get one new unit each. The Eldar finally get a dedicated Anti-tank/building 
 infantry. However the remainning races units are little more than an upgrade to the existing one 
 (Nobz-Mega Armoured Nobz) . The single player campgain has some good ideas in it. The story is good 
 and It does give the palyer some choise about the course of events. But playing as two races and 
 in the end only one wins... Well it can be kind of frustrating. All in all, Winter assault is a 
 smart expansion pack, which is as vicios and bloody as it's original. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemyth
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: A+
  Sound: A+
  Factions: A+
  Warhammer Visceral Combat: A+
  SP Campaign: B+
  Skirmish: B+
  Multiplayer: Sucks butt crack
  
  There is no variation in 
 strategy online. Everyone (and i'm not exaggerating) uses a rush tactic. Which is fine if you like 
 nothing but rushing, I on the other hand am not a good rusher, and have always thought of Strategy 
 as involving more than 1 viable tactic. Aparantly the producers of this game didn't agree. Also 
 the community sucks. Noone is willing to help out and everyone is willing to get on your case for 
 not knowing how to play. I've played about 40+ games online with this and not once has anyone said: 
 hey you should od this, or let me teach you this or there's another tactic besides rushing. It's 
 so frustrating because the WH40K game is great, it's the tactics that make me want to toss it to 
 the garbage bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meneerjerry
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  well , this game is basicly the same as dawn of war exept for , of course new units , maps and 
 stuff like that . They ve added a new faction too: the imperial guard as you can see onthe cover 
 of the box, ehm great campaign , waaay better then the first one i must say , this is because youve 
 got two campaign modes (evil and good) order and disorder . there are some new things to this expansion 
 but the gameplay and objective style didnt change too much in the singlepleyer campaign but its 
 still better then the fist game. a must for warhalmmer fans , and ehm , stuff like that .. you 
 get the picfture anyway : buy this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daggersquad
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 15, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War by it's self stands tall, so making an expansion that matches it can very difficult. 
 Winter Assault is quite good but the only department that it lacks in is the campaign. The campaign 
 was tedious, not explained very well, and at some points confusing. The new playable faction is 
 a nice addition, though the Imperials seem weak to me, but its nice to have the option. Each Imperial 
 unit by itself is very weak but its as a large group that they conquer.
  
  Overall, its Dawn of War with a new faction, new units, but same old Dawn of War (which is a good 
 thing) . In other words, a mediocre expansion for an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heylookitsmatt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  Most expansions have a new warrior for each race or occasionally a new race. Winter Assault does 
 much more. Much like Street Fighter II: Hyper Fighting tweaked a good formula to surpass the original, 
 Dawn of War: Winter Assault changes the pace and strengthened the element that made the original 
 so excellent: offence. DoW was praised by critics and gamers the world over for forcing players 
 out of their bases and into skirmishes for key points across the entire map. Gone are the Cold 
 War-esque "turtle" stand-offs and half hour tech tree climbs, you need to be out and about if you 
 want to succeed here. Winter Assault makes this all the more important by making the tech tree 
 climb much shorter. More than ever you need to carefully gauge your enemy and predict when he will 
 tech because at any moment, he is seconds away from out-gunning you. This is accomplished mainly 
 by the drastically reduced build/research times. Once you spend those hundreds of requisition/energy 
 points, you don't need to sit and wait forever to actually use what you bought. It sounds like 
 a small tweak, but the difference between the tech tiers is enough that being one step ahead could 
 give you a huge advantage, even against an opponent with a much larger army (especially if you 
 beat him to vehicles!) It might take DoW veterans a while to get used to the faster pace. Finding 
 yourself up against a unit you were not expecting so soon is very scary, so don't jump to a ladder 
 match until you relearn the rhythm. The game includes a new army called Imperial Guard. For those 
 of you not familiar with WarHammer 40,000, the Imperial Guard fight for the "Empirium" much like 
 the Space Marines, but rather than having a few powerful soldiers, they have masses of rank and 
 file troopers. Basically, you're looking at a team made of slightly stronger, ranged-based Chaos 
 Cultists. The good news is, they have some pretty cool stuff to mix in. I won't give too much away, 
 but their "flare" includes an artillery vehicle with jaw dropping range and power and a sniper 
 that makes the Starcraft Ghost look like a wuss. Online, you're looking at a fairly balanced game. 
 There are some dirty tricks players can (and sometimes do) exploit. The Orks are pretty weak in 
 recent patches, and some people call certain units unbalanced (*ahem* Fire Prisms *ahem*) but you 
 can win with any team if you practice enough, and as before, the game's "rock paper scissors" gameplay 
 give a huge advantage to those who know what to use to kill each enemy. There is an active community 
 on the Relic forums and you can look up replays to learn from the masters and your own mistakes. 
 If you love DoW, this is definitely worth your time and money. With the upcoming second expansion, 
 some may be holding out on Winter Assault. It remains to be seen if there will be any overlap in 
 how Winter Assault changed the gameplay and how Dark Crusade will function with out it, but personally, 
 I feel the expansion delivers a huge bang for the buck and will certainly be appreciated by any 
 fan of this great RTS. See you on the ladder! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega0718
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  The good:
  You get a new army to play; the imperial guard. For me a new army is always welcome in any RTS. 
 New armies add more depth to the game play as they are different from any other existing army prior 
 to an expansion.
  
  The bad:
  Not enough value for money. With only few changes and additions added you might think twice of 
 getting this, but fear not as there is a combo pack available that includes both the original dawn 
 of war and this expansion and is cheaper than buying both games separately. The ugly:
  They could just have added the imperial guard as a new army in their upcoming expansion Dark crusade 
 along with the tau and necrons. I really do not like the fact that they have to make two separate 
 expansions while they could have added everything in winter assault and dark crusade and release 
 it in one expansion. Such hard sells 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosGames
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  War is never pretty. War is hell. But in this universe, war is everything. I myself own a few models 
 of Space Marines, and I thought they were cool, which is why I decided to play this game. The first 
 game was amazing, and it emphasises what I like best about a strategy game: The fighting. I'm a 
 Command & Conquer fan, always was, but sometimes you just want to fight enormous battles with unites 
 that shoot guns as well as wield swords, this game is that.
  
  To tell the truth, I didn't go too deep in the single player to find out what the story is, I do 
 enjoy a good story in my games. But, I went strait to the skirmish to play around with the Imperial 
 Guard. I did the tutorial, (yeah, I know I shouldn't have) but found myself pushing on ahead, by 
 the time the tutorial was showing me the camera controls, I had an army of Guardsmen assembled 
 and rolling. I had captured all the territories on my side of the map already. So I guess I didn't 
 need to do that.
  
  Then, I played around in a regular skirmish. I had a chance to build a few Basilisks, Ogryns, even 
 the Baneblade. But then the match was over. Then, I played another, as the Chaos Space Marines 
 and messed with the Khorne Berserkers. There cool. Then, just to find out, I tried the Single Player. 
 First Disorder, (cause I like being the bad guy) I found it mildly difficult considering you only 
 start out with a squad of orks and a warboss, then it got exciting. I made it to the second level, 
 then quit.
  
  So, I guess if you are a fan of Warhammer 40,000 or a fan of RTS in general, check it out.
  
 
  ChaosGames 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethanddavid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  The new Dawn Of War expansion is actually surpisingly good despite other expansion packs. The expansion 
 pack features several new changes such as a new playable race, The Imperial Guard, new units for 
 already existing factions and new graphics options. The game's most exciting higlight is the Imperial 
 Guard the new playable race, surpisingly the imperial guards are actually pretty good despite their 
 apperances in the last game. The only problem I found in this game after playing it for several 
 days is that the campaign of this game is very short, in fact its even shorter than the last game's 
 campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  So the transition from DoW to DC is WA. I love acronyms. I stumbled on DoW two years late, and 
 I regret it. This game rocks. Endless potential. WA is no different.
  
  So, the WA SP game was better then DoW, but still not enthralling. If I could have followed one 
 hero the whole way through on either side or from any race I would have gotten more attached to 
 it. But 'nuff said, we all know the potential is in the MP/skirmish mode. I've read a few reviews 
 that mark the IG as, well, useless, and no one really seems to like to play them as their primary 
 online race. I sort of agree. The problem with IG is that they simply take up too much space. All 
 the buildings are gigantic and you need a lot of them to get the full unit cap. Loads of complications 
 on many of the maps.
  
  I do disagree with the notion of unoriginality with the IG, though. The main event of the IG is 
 in the artillery instead of the humanoid units. The soldiers themselves are whimps, and very difficult 
 to manage due to the limitations of the Commissars you can build. Makes it interesting though. 
 You get three or four units with great morale, and the rest you bunker up and add to the defensive/offensive 
 power of a building. Then, all tuckered in your warm little base, use Basilisk to bombard the hell 
 out of everyone while you work up to the Baneblade and a full tank army. Overall, awesome game 
 again. Another triumph. Plus it get me even more excited for DC. I WANT IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elstoneman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 19, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I found this a superb addition to the DoW series. There were however some minor faults 
 such as large holes in the Imperial Guard lineup that anyone who plays tabletop will notice. Still, 
 aside from my moaning, very smooth gameplay, lovely graphics and, as ever, amazing sound quality. 
 The animations are class and much better than in the original, cutscenes included. Watching some 
 of the minute details and the finishing moves was more fun than playing the game. Anyone used to 
 the normal ai from DoW may be a little surprised at the way normal has been made much more aggressive 
 here but no big problems. One main problem was the reliance on scripted events. the cutscene-movies 
 continually told me that "thousands had been killed" while storming some chaos-held fortress when 
 in actuality, only 2 of my brave guardsmen had fallen. Despite that, an excellent sequel, and the 
 Guard really bring some variety to the armies and the method of fighting. After all, watching hordes 
 of orks being blown to millions of small pieces by your entrenched basilisks half a map away is 
 just pure bloodletting pleasure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomed-to-drum
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  Winter Assault is a major improvement on Dawn of War. The new race, the Imperial Guard, are a nice 
 change of pace from the usual horrible monsters and genetically engineered freaks. Alot of the 
 fun of playing the Imperial Guard comes from knowing your commanding normal men against the horrors 
 of the universe. The Guard are promoted as being a defensive race that is capable of "turtling,". 
 This is completely false as no race can turtle since the game is based around capturing points. 
 The Guard do have stronger structures that can be garrisoned but if you find yourself in the position 
 of defending then you have most likely all ready lost the match. The Guard in general are a weak 
 race but with many attachable units, I think it is nine, and the many vehicles they are still a 
 force to be reckoned with. The new additions to the other races are all good choices to fill in 
 needs that weren't met in the original. For example, Eldar didn't have any tier 2 anti-armour units. 
 Now they have Fire Dragons. The only race that didn't need any new units was Space Marines. Also 
 their new unit the Chaplain is the worst addition. 
  
  The graphics haven't been changed much but thats a good thing since they were so good in DoW. The 
 sound is amazing. All the soldiers screaming their great war cries while charging into battle is 
 great. The explosions sound powerful and destructive. All the weapons sound like you would think. 
 The campaign is short but still fun. The way the missions are structured and how the campaign progresses 
 is very interesting and a little open ended. The real game lies in the multiplayer and the skirmish 
 modes, which add hours and hours of replay value. The A. I. isn't very difficult but there is a 
 mod called Steel Legion that can easily be found online. It is free to download and greatly increases 
 the difficulty of the computer. !! WARNING!! This mod will delete all of your saved games. If you 
 own Dawn of War then getting this expansion is a no brainer but if you don't have the original 
 then you can buy both in a combo pack for cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaAndy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game and its exspansion are gerat! The gameplay is good, the graphics are good and the combat 
 is quite boody but impresive. The campines are stort and a bit hard to overcome too. the army painter 
 is a great thing to have in a RTS game too. Online however is where the action is, you taking your 
 own army and fighting other peoples armys is a new step in oline RTS gaming (my race was the space 
 mariens and my army was called The space toa brothers) .
  I prefer Winter Assault then the original game because there are more thing to do online. As for 
 what i say for this game is "if you are a warhmmer fan or a RTS fan or either then you must have 
 this game for sure!". 
  
  P. S: I will be waiting for the Dark Cursaders to come out and i will be ready for it!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deth_cow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is better than Dawn of war but their is a couple of things that makes me frustrated. 
 well here's my review
  
  Graphics are great When the Basilisk fires and you look at where the crew is and you can see a 
 guardsmen reloading and another spotting. its so cool seeing the crew moving around. The imperial 
 gaurd are a great support race so then if your team is going to assualt you can lob some shells 
 infront of the assault. send in some chimeras filled with troops. its really neat. sounds are awesome 
 hearing all the weapons firing the troops yelling. its an awesome experiance. some of the things 
 that bothered me were the amount of squad cap the khorne beserks took and the limits on basilisks 
 and how weak khorne beserkers are against buildings and vechicles. some more things that are neat 
 i shiver when i see the snow falling even if its in the middle of summer (in real life) you can 
 select the right difficulty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spamchild1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Although I was a fan of DOW, the expansion pack to this game made it infinately better. The addition 
 of another army doesn't only mean you can play as them, but also against them. It can be hard at 
 first playing RTS games but this game quickly becomes an addictive force rivaling that of heroin. 
 This is the best RTS since Starcraft: Broodwar. If you are a RTS fan, a 40k fan or just enjoy destroying 
 things on a global scale I suggest you buy this game. The imperial guard add a unique element to 
 DOW: WA that wasn't present prior. Smarter than orks, weaker than marines in close combat, but 
 talk about getting almost 40 shots from only 3 squads, it's truely outstanding. An Imperial guard 
 fan or not (I am not) this game adds new units to the original armies as well. Space Marine Chaplains, 
 Khorne Berserkers for chaos, Mega Armored Nobs for orks and Fire Dragons for eldar. This was a 
 game that needed to be expanded upon, and it was, making this one of the best RTS games of all 
 time.
  
  "He who stands with me, shall be my brother"
  - Space Marine Force Commander 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edot0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Winter Assault is a great game. Another game that came from the RTS game of the year 
 Daw of War, this expansion offers alot more. In this game there is a whole new race that you are 
 able to play. The Imperial Guard. Now IG is not all that good in the game but if you play with 
 them right then u will be alot harder to beat. The Graphics havent changed, which isnt a bad thing. 
 The game gives you a few new maps and a new unit for each race which is awsome! This Great RTS 
 game is loaded with hours and hours of fun for anyone who injoys a good RTS game. This is why relic 
 is doing so good, because they keep sending out games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_God
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the original dawn of war campaign mode as well as the multiplayer aspect of the game. 
 but i found it was a bit lacking after such an amount of time that it got rather boring. Then comes 
 winter assault which added a whole bunch of new units, maps and other features to the game that 
 gave the game a new life. 
  
  i also enjoyed the fact that this expansion pack also added a new playable race "The Imperial Gaurdion" 
 which at the moment is the race i use the most online. if this expansion did not offer these new 
 additions I probably would not have made the purchase. The inclusion of the new race new units 
 and all new maps adds so much more fun to the multi-player part of the game that i still have yet 
 to finish the campaign. The original dawn of war had an awesome single player mode that i doubt 
 this one will let me down.
  
  I am glade I picked this game up as this is a awesome addition to the popular Warhammer franchise. 
 I cant wait for the "Dark Crusade" expansion pack to add even more mayhem and destruction to this 
 classic series. 
  
  I recommend this to any fan of Warhammer or RTS games in general. You will not be disappointed. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlargh
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The expansion pack to one of my favorite games, Winter Assault has its moments.
  PROs:
  - New mods only for WA
  - It can also add on to Dark Crusade (expansion, not out yet) making 
 i so there are 3 more races instead of 2 (Imperial Guard, Tau and Necrons (last 2 are from dark 
 crusade) )
  - You get imperial guard.
  - A new unit is added to each race
  - Persistent bodies and persisent terrain damage have been added, making the game SO much cooler
 
  - New campaing featuring an epic battle against necrons at the end of each side's campaing
  - Lots of new skirmish levels
  - imperial guard get the baneblade, which is just hella cool
 
  - assault troops have been fixed (they dont suck so bad anymore)
  - i have a 50 dollar GeForce FX 5500 overclocked video card andI can run D. O. W. : W. A on high graphics 
 quiality with no lag. : )
  CONs:
  - All space marine predators have lascannons making them un-customizable.
  - Spacemarines can 
 only have one landraider and one terminator squad
  - The spacemarine chaplain is just a reskinned commander
  - The campaing is very linear with 
 only 2 options on the level before last
  - The chaos lord's stick looks retarded
  - According to the model game (w00t) Imperial Guard Basilisks always have earthshaker rounds but 
 in the game earthshaker rounds are a special power of the basilisks and cost money
  - sentinels are always equipped with lascannons making them SUCK
  - Its rated M
  
  Allin 
 all winter assault brings more problems and with the features pissing off people who play the model 
 game and confusing those who dont.
  
  Blargh_ OUT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistarogers8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  the imperial guard? does it get any better but it does! Especially with the new expansion coming 
 out i cant wait to be the tau or the necron. not exactly sure who they are but sounds fun. Anyway 
 back to winter assault. this game has tremendous graphics (for a real-time strategy) and the races 
 are made evenly there is no "best" race but u must admit the imperial guard and the chaos kill 
 anyone in their path. i love having a few defilers with some meat-sheild cultists as a defense. 
 or maybe its the hellhound muilating almost anything. infantry? morale dies. vehicles? easy, mostly. 
 buildings? easy. then dont forget the infantry mutilator called the leman russ. while the heavy 
 bolters are killing the infantry, the mortars are destroying their morale. And strangely i love 
 the regular average imperial guardsmen and their grenade launchers. in this new expansion what cant 
 u love unless you're getting shredded by berserkers
  (^_^) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilpaintball13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  Dawn of war winter assault is a great expansion for a great game. This game brings alot of better 
 graphics and sounds and tech trees into play. Like in the game, if you want a tank you have to 
 upgrade your stronghold and etc. This game just doesnt get boring, the enemy is actually smart 
 and tries to use different techniques to take you down. In campaign mode you have to capture different 
 parts of the map and take down gates, capture strong points, and etc. One thing great about this 
 game is that they added different types of troops for each race and added a new race too, the hammer 
 of the emperor, imperial gaurd. Overall this game is best in the series, for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kickballe1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game has really good graphics, gameplay, sound, the whole 9 yards.50 or so maps to play skirmishes,5 
 races to play with, an army painter for painting your armies, online multiplayer with 2 to 8 players 
 for each battle, the campaign isn't bad, I prefer the skirmish. It's really fun, the best RTS I've 
 ever played, I recommend it to everybody and anybody, so, stop reading this, get up, bring $30 with 
 you, go to the Wal-Mart, pick up this game or Dawn of War: Gold, both games in one package, you know 
 how much it costs?$30! Very cheap for 1 game and the expansion pack. Awesome price for 2 games. Don't 
 talk back, buy it NAO! I gave it a 10, so buy it NAO NAO NAO NAO NAO NAO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazorco
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War winter Assault was, a good game for about a month. I played it and in my opinion the 
 campaign was way way too short for the game i was a little disopointed how that if you played as 
 the Imperial Gaurd you would have some major fall outs such as, well, Imperial Gaurds them selves 
 were very weak and one of thier greatest units the kasakin was not avalible intill the 3rd tech 
 part but the IG did have some preety wicked awesome machinery. such as the Basalisk it is an awesome 
 gun of power but short lived for if it was not used right it would tear your own army apart. sooooo 
 all and all the game was very short and quite boring but the end of the campaign is fun so atleast 
 it is something to look forward too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHAckerReaper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  New race, new units, new campaign, more maps, more music, and a start to another expansion, what 
 more can you need? In this game you continue the dark universe of warhammer 40k with 2 new campaigns 
 and many changes to the old races that either strengthen (or weaken orks ) the previous races the 
 online play is the same however with a new patch said to be coming more changes may occur, same 
 old competitive players, and same old everyone using space marines, all in all, if you want to 
 play dark crusade with the Emperors Hammer the Imperial Guard you should get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Simply Put: a damn Good Expansion for a damn Good Game.
  This expansion adds significant new content that makes the already fantastic DoW that much better. 
 To be honest there really isnt that much to say, its an expansion.
  The graphics and sound effects should be the same. The only real changes are maps and races that 
 got added. Or at least i believe they did. I can't quite remember. You see i installed them both, 
 multiple times, at the same instance, so i didnt get to see the changes.
  But i can guarantee that DoW needs Winter Assault to make it go that extra few yards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hub0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  The original Dawn of War is just a huge difference from the other RTS games with its unique resource 
 collecting style and totoally beautiful graphics, now the expansion Winter Assault delivers something 
 truly worth the wait.
  The Imperial guards is a new race with a new style, their defensive tactics are really different 
 from the other race
  The graphics are still great, and now with the imperial guard, who overwhelms the enemy with sheer 
 number, can face the ork swarm in armies big enough to fill the screen. Now that's fun, and you 
 are still kept busy during all the actions, you have to keep adding reinforcement, build more squads 
 to send to the front, and use skills to keep your army's morale up.
  In Winter Assault Relic did try to make the campaign more interesting, can't blame them for trying, 
 it's really close to be great really. 
  Overall the game pulls you into the action the moment you begin playing, me as a fan of the original 
 version started playing skirmish right away. And you can also try out tons of mods and maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Relic have done another excellent job here, again graphically nice, good sound and music.
  
  The campaign is excellent, the final level especially it superbly done. Playing imperial guard 
 was interesting and made a change for me from my usual choice of Space Marines and Chaos.
  
  Once more the game really comes into it's own in custom games / maps and multiplier. As with 
 the original, there are may mods available for the game too, which makes it well worth buying as 
 it has so much replay value.
  
  I was not quite sure some of the balance / army changes worked for me, but they are very minor 
 and would be unlikely to upset a new player - it hasn't stopped me from playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raysorsedge
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War : Winter Assault is a sequel to the previous Dawn Of War. It is well balanced game 
 and features a Brand new race called tha IG (imperial guard ) As in the previous Dawn Of War 'it 
 features a customizable Army, which you can change your armies color, banner, badge and name. Winter 
 Assault feature a brand new campaign. Instead of playing as the space marines through out the whole 
 campaign. You get to play as the Orks, Chaos, Eldar, and the IG. There are two storylines to campaign. 
 Order , which choosing this storyline you'll play as the IG and the Eldar. By choosing the disorder 
 storyline youll play as the Orks and Chaos. The online play is way more better than the previous 
 Dawn Of War. Hundreds of people play online. The previous Dawn of War only has a few dozens. Fans 
 of the last Dawn of War will love Winter Assault . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix_117
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  I bought this game in the Gold Edtion pack and i found it to be one of the best RTS games i have 
 ever played.
  The easiest comparison can be made with C&C Generals which lacks a proper story line.
  Both Dawn 
 of War and Winter assualt have great story lines and extremely fun to play, the game play is amazing!
 
  With the squad reienforce commands players can wage huge battles and battle stratgies rule the 
 day. Unlinke Generals where most people race to get super weapons in this players will need to 
 attack with infanty, heavy infanty, tanks and walkers which is an extermly nice change as you can 
 have diffrent ways to fight with the same team.
  The gameplay is aimed more at war as there isn't much resource managment (esspcially is you use 
 the 'quick-start' option) .
  You will have 5 team from which you can choose and each will have their own strenghts and weakness 
 such as the Space Marines don't mass their army like the Ork and Imperial Guard instead they use 
 specailist squads which can turn the tide of wars.
  The graphics in this game are a marvel they are amazing as you can zoom and 'alt turn' (sort of 
 a 360 view) on any solider this is especially great with battles, and if you have the graphics 
 on full the bodies of fallen squads will remain there until the end of the game!
  
  If you are a fan of the RTS genre or even enjoy it every now and then, then you must buy this game 
 as it is a Revolution in the genere.
  Plus the Gold Edition (includes Dawn of War and Winter Assult) is only 29.99 at EBgames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosleader0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  so, after playing 100+ hours of dan of war, might as well play 100 + hours of dawn of war. With 
 a brand new race and new units, it adds much more to do.
  
  the Imperial guard add new substance to the game as they are more defense oriented. i must say 
 that they kind of disappointed me in the way that their vehicles werent remarkable and they werent 
 as adaptable as the other races in the game. Also, i didnt like the modification on the existing 
 races such as replacing the upgradeable predator destructor with the non upgradeable predator annihalator 
 
  
  i would like to be able to choose if I want my tank to be anti-infantry or 
  anti-armour. Also, the new unit arent that good when compared to the old downgraded units.
  
 
  also, the imperial guard dont have that many units when compared to other races. With only 3 types 
 of infantry and only a couple of vehicles. Even the baneblade isnt as strong as it should have 
 been. Also, an annoying addon would be that they limit certain units. Even tought the ability to 
 have 4 builder units without taking space for real units is a pretty good idea, allowing only one 
 land raider is not as good of an idea.
  
  Also, the chaos side as lost quite a lot of weapons making them quite weaker. They arent as adaptable 
 as they used to be and can get eliminated pretty fast when up againts standard marines.
  
  The Campaign in the expansion is better than in the origianl game since you can decide wich side 
 you can play. the campaign is relatively short but with four different ending mission makes it 
 feel more free form. 
  
  hopefully, Dark Crusade will correct the modifications on some units (Predator) but until then, 
 winter assault will crave your need for a bloddy RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alenfishman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a GREAT! Expansion to the game. The new race is great and funny. They totally tweaked the 
 crap out of all the units, made them more weapon specific the game seems a lot more balanced. The 
 AI in the game is really good and im vary impressed with it. I also like how they added more races 
 to the single playing that have vary good. All in all this is a great expansion and they only made 
 a great game greater, anyone who owns Dawn of War needs to get this expansion the multi player 
 alone is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocutisofBorg
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 29, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Ah! An expansion to one of my favorite games! If you loved Dawn of War , you MUST get this expansion, 
 if you thought it was mildly enjoyable, you might want to wait for the bargain bin.
  
  Winter Assault adds a new order vs. chaos campaign, a whole new faction, a new unit to every existing 
 faction and some other general improvements.
  
  First I'd like to start with the campaign. The campaign is split into two parts: Order (Imperial 
 Guard and Eldar) , and Disorder (Chaos and Orks) . You will play through all of the factions except 
 the Space Marines, which is fine as you could only play the Space Marines in the original game. 
 While it's interesting, full of surprises, and quite cleverly done in some places; many of the 
 missions have a plodding pace to them, and you have to play the last mission four freakin' times, 
 though as a different race each time, and, I have to admit, the last mission was alot of fun.
 
  
  Next to consider are the Imperial Guard. What's interesting is despite being the newest faction, 
 they are actually designed as the most noob-friendly of all the factions, Because of thier heavy 
 instalations capable of "bunkering" infantry, and their abilty to quickly take over control points 
 that the enemy captured first, they are the only faction that actually can survive turtling. They 
 don't have as many upgrades as the other races, and rely on numbers like the orks, the only difference 
 being they're a much more vehicle oriented group. Their super unit is the Baneblade, a huge tank 
 that has trouble defending itself in close quarters, but with an awesome main cannon.
  
  Four units are added, one to each original faction. The Chaplain is the Space Marines new unit. 
 He is sort of like an uber apothecary, your only allowed to build one , with a special ability 
 allowing him to completely demorolize an enemy squad. The only thing that lowers this unit's value 
 is it's inability to attach to squads, so he takes damage much more quickly as there's no one to 
 absorb it for him. For the Eldar it's the Fire Dragon, a really cool squad unit that tears apart 
 vehicles apart. The Khorne berserker is chaos' and probably the best of the new units. They're 
 a non unique squad unit carrying bolters and wielding very heavy axes, and, they have no morale! 
 Send waves of these guys to tear the enemy apart. The last is the Ork's Mega Armoured Nobz. They're 
 pretty powerful but you can't get many and they take FOREVER to reinforce. Havn't found any particulaly 
 good use for them.
  
  The expansion also tweaks gameplay and adds some minor graphical enhancements, but there's on stake 
 that needs ramming through your heart before you run to the store all joyful and exuberant: THERE"S 
 NOW A UNIT LIMIT OF 1 ON THE SPACE MARINE'S LAND RAIDER! AHHHHH!
  Perhaps the only reason i felt the Land Raider was good to have despite being by far the weekest 
 of the super units (and now, with the baneblade not even the toughest tank) was: 1) also acts as 
 a very large transport and 2) there wasn't a unit limit! But what now? They've ruined it! Well, 
 actually, they did lower the vehicle pop cap to two, so you can fit in a couple more smaller vehicles 
 in addition to the Land Raider, so I guess that's all right...
  
  Anyway, GET THIS EXPANSION if you at all like Dawn of War! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameismatt123
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40000: Dawn of war released in late 2004 to favorable reviews from both players and critics 
 alike, and now the first expansion has arrived. Believe me, it's worth picking it up.
  
  Although WA doesn't do to much to alter the original game, it does give out plenty of new content 
 to keep you going for a ling while. The original game featured the four main races of Warhammer 
 40k, the Space Marines, Orks, Eldar, and Chaos. Now a new race has come forth to battle for the 
 emperor, the Imperial Gaurd. The gaurd use lines of massed infantry backed by armour and artillery 
 to get the job done, and they differ from greatly from the other races already in the game. The 
 Space Marines, Chaos, and Eldar all use specialized infantry that is expensive and small in numbers 
 to take down their enemies, and the orks use mass waves of cheap infantry with some odd war machines 
 mixed in to finifh the fight. But unlike the orks, the IG NEED armour backing to win the day, unlike 
 the orks whose infantry stood more than a fighitng chance of taking out the enemy even if they 
 didn't have any tanks. The IG is very balanced, and stacks up well to the rest of the armies, but 
 they do have one small weakness. They can't hold up to an early assault. IG troops are very weak 
 at shooting and CC, and until your base is more established you can't build that many of them. 
 The only way you can hold anything off is to build heavy bolter turrets, but that takes time and 
 recources, something you don't have at the start of the game. This leads to a hard fight at the 
 begining, but if you can manage to get a foothold, you will be nigh unstoppable. The last cool 
 feature of the IG is their ability to garrison any of their troops into one bulding and drop them 
 out at any other bulding. This opens up many cool possiblities for tactics and is a unique feature. 
 
  
  The story of the original told the tale of a space marine chapter, the Blood Ravens, trying to 
 repell an ork invasion from a planet and coming on something a bit larger. The main thing that 
 was missing was a campaign for the bad guys of the bunch. Hey, were not all fancy pants goodie 
 two shoes (I'm lookin at you Eldar!) , right? So WA corrects this and gives both an order and a 
 dissorder campaign. The story is all about the war for a titan, a monolithic war machine that has 
 the power to destroy entire armies. All the races want it (who could blame them?) , and so they 
 start to duke it out for the bigest prize ever. Cool story, far more engaging and interesting than 
 that of the original. 
  
  You can find WA for around $20 anywhere you go and if you come across it, don't hesitate to pick 
 it up. It will be worth yor while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamdaegg
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  As RTS games go Winter Assault and its parent game are more concerned with being spectacular than 
 they are about being sophisticated, but we appreciate how that works - some games are more about 
 the light and noise than about the cerebral juices. And in Warhammer 40k, above all sci-fi worlds, 
 there is a blinding light, and a drunken orchestra of noise. Hyper-baroque pseudo-religion and 
 cog 'n' piston mecha-war meld into a startling caricature of a future where genocide is exquisitely 
 animated. When you get past the lavish design and density of gadgets, Dawn of War and Winter Assault 
 are both fairly shallow, but perfectly balanced and utterly compelling.
  
  Of course some folk would disagree. But they'd not be able to disagree that Dawn of War is just 
 made for expansion packs. The toy kits from Games Workshop already come in half a dozen flavours 
 of ready-made space-army, and the most obvious of those for the videogame variant to provide are 
 the Imperial Guard, the everyday squaddies of 38,000 years in the future. 
  
  The Guard have many toys, including giant ogre men, brave sergeants, brutal discipline and clunking 
 attack walkers. So, attack walkers aside, the Imperial Guard are rather like the soldiers of today: 
 squishy, easily killed, and reliant on officers and tanks for protection. While the milling guardsmen 
 might be thrown by a few pieces of enemy armour, they're usually able to rely on some large pieces 
 of machinery of their own to deliver the killing blow. 
  
  Happily there are some excellent leaders and war machines on hand, including the ultimate Baneblade, 
 a supertank that dwarfs all other battlefield ordnance with its titanium enormity. Simply, the 
 Imperial Guard provide a lot more things to play with, and being a little closer to our 21st Century 
 home, they're generally even more amusing than the faceless war-drones of the Space Marines or 
 the wimpy Eldar. They're exactly right for Dawn of War's overall tone, which is about the massed 
 scrapping of multiple units, all making with the future fireworks until you can barely make out 
 what is going on. With new tanks, stompy walkers, plenty of laser weaponry and freakish tele-war 
 psykers, the Imperial Guard are as entertaining to watch in action as they are easy to send to 
 their tiny deaths.
  
  Winter Assault itself isn't about to live or die on the basis of its tactical depth, but that doesn't 
 stop there being quite a few new elements to play with, including something that ties into the 
 back-story: the tunnels. Being an old Imperial world, the Guard are supposedly reclaiming old infrastructure. 
 This being so, it makes sense that bunker points, such as those that can be built on the strategic 
 resource nodes which must be captured across the map, are all 'linked' via tunnels. This means 
 you can rapidly move units across the map without them being harmed, or simply install them in 
 bunkers, ready to be deployed. This capacity to reinforce different areas of the map quite quickly, 
 or simply to get a techpriest to fix up units and build structures, gives both single and multiplayer 
 games a tactical nuance that advantages the Imperial Guard. The Guardsmen also suffer from slightly 
 wobbly morale, and may retreat if the odds are too great. The commissar, Soviet style morale-enforcement 
 officer, can be deployed to shoot retreating troops and encourage them to 'bravery'.
  
  Ah yes, it's no fun to be foot soldier. But as commander you're in tricky waters too. The objectives 
 of the Imperial Guard aren't always possible for them to overcome, so as God-Colonel-In-The-Sky 
 you take up the mantle of the Eldar for numerous short campaign missions. The star-ponces interweave 
 pleasingly with the plot at vital junctures, and the Imperial commander voices his worry about 
 their meddling in a series of slightly embarrassing in-game cut-scenes. The Eldar play quite differently, 
 as DoW veterans will know, and act as a fast, efficient and ethereal strike unit. The maps are 
 littered with cloaked warp gates, allowing them to nip from one place to another almost instantaneously. 
 All, it seems, is good. The objectives pile up relentlessly, but in all honesty you seldom feel 
 in danger of failing.
  
  While there's just the one new army, there are two new campaigns. You also get to fight the war 
 for the side of evil too, with lots of familiar ork and chaos units arriving from the original 
 game, plus a stack of new ones to keep you amused. There's a fair amount of replayability in there 
 too, but it's really just a linear sequence of explosions (of the very best kind) and it doesn't 
 last all that long.
  
  Of course it's the multiplayer mode that lies at the heart of Dawn Of War's appeal, and I fully 
 expected to go online with an Imperial Guard army and get totally **** by whomever I played. And, 
 having navigated the astonishing array of idiots in the seemingly unmoderated chatrooms, I did. 
 Not because the Imperial Guard aren't a solid and useful addition to the army line-up, but just 
 because I'm rubbish at RTS multiplayer. No, I didn't win any games at all. I'll have to play Kieron 
 or something, just to give my ego a break.
  
  Or perhaps I'll just plunge into the ample skirmish mode and lay down fiery vengeance on heretic 
 and mutants. The choices are almost too many.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazard_FN
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  I don't know what others thought but the machinery of the imperial guard seemed to blow away almost 
 everything else any other race had to offer, and no matter what i tried on the normal setting it 
 was very hard to beat them. To me it seems it needs some balancing but im not going to mark it 
 down for that because it is an easy fix and generally fixed with the latest patch.
  
  Other than this i feel it is a great game and is worth the praise it has gotten, I think maybe 
 from the 40K universe Relic could've picked a more popular race but aside from that the new race 
 adds a better view of the game.
  
  The story line is far from boring as you dig deeper into what the chaos armies are trying to do, 
 and a secret race that lies in the shadows.
  
  Overall a great game with some fast paced audio to I found it batle enspiring and the Ork voices 
 have to be the closest i've seen to the real thing, I also love the voice of the chaos slave "Yes 
 Master!" so yes, great voice and sound work with realistic explosions and some good cutscenes even 
 finishing moves from the troops like gory attacks with the chainsaw etc. Make this game a must 
 buy!
  
  Gameplay
  -----------------
  It has hours of gameplay tucked under its belt, sometimes the unbalanced stuff can be annoying 
 but if your into strategy the gameplay is definently worth the buy. The campaigns are great with 
 a choice between good and evil and quite a compelling story line with a definite religious feel 
 for some reason, it's a highly religious game in terms of the emperor and the dark chaos God's 
 and things so it's like your caught in a crusade, throughout the campaign the Imperials are used 
 as cannon fodder to give marines time to build up despite how unfair this is its time well needed, 
 the computer are relentless and will stop at nothing to kill you, you wil have to build up quick!
 
  
  Graphics
  -----------------
  Great graphics I'd say a few glitches occasionly with things walking through stuff and an error 
 with some home users about a missing SPOOGE driver but these are VERY hard to come by unless you 
 have a non ATI or Nvidia GPU most developers out there don't really code support for the unpopular 
 cards, but when your in the game the opening movie is highly entertaining, an Ork Vs. Marine battle 
 nice gory effects, when in the RTS itself the layout is smooth, neat and easy to navigate round, 
 love the effect when you build and it crashes down all broken looks fantastic, and as you build 
 the building it opens out slowly, small things that make it that little bit better ;)
  and before i forget the finishing move when your troop enters hand to hand is fantastic great idea 
 Relic ;)
  
  Sound
  -----------------
  The voiceovers for Chaos are great even if they do sound slightly like Smeogol (its a hard spelling 
 leave me alone) and it never gets boring, sound is very dark themed classical and the weapons fire 
 sounds perfect but as an addon i suppose nothing is different from the original 40K in terms of 
 sound, just the new voiceovers to Imperial Guard and stuff.
  
  Value
  -------------------
  A welcomed add on worth the buy especially i you've finished 40K Dawn of 
 War and are getting bored of it, the new race helps :)
  
  Reviewers Tilt
  ----------------------
  Got hours out of this definently happy to tilt the score into its direction 
 :P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob1354
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I reserved this game 4 months before it even came out. I have to say it was really worth it, this 
 really puts good finishes on the original game especially with the Imperial Gaurd, the graphics 
 are great. I love you you can put the setting to have bodies stay and honestly i think that helped 
 alot. especially when we all have this issues with a lack of bodies especially after a HUGE battle 
 where hundreds die. So i have to say good timing with that little add-on. All in all the campaign 
 was ok. kinda cool. Although i didnt like the switching between armies idea they had. That kinda 
 ruined it. But i do have to say im completely and all for the Imperial gaurd especially with all 
 they get. it really adds flavor and spice to the gameplay and the firepower is just awesome especially 
 for those of us who play defensive games. Although i really do not like the AI settings. they can 
 be worked through. And i have yet to try this game online though i want to so badly. so all in 
 all. i say solid game. and this i think gives a great finisher to the Dawn of War series. However 
 i wouldnt be complaining if they came out with another that had more add-ons oh such as maybe some 
 nid's? (Tyrannids for those of the Non warhammer playing types. look it up online and you'll find 
 out what they are.) I give it a solid 10. A definate Must buy for RTS gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jal429
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  The imperial guard, orks, elder, chaos, and the space marines and their units are the best but the 
 imperial guard are the best because you can get more infantry and its like the chiniese theirs 
 so many of them. the graphics really good and is so intense the when a bloodthirst uses his axe 
 the blood gos spraying. the sound is very good the sound effects are the coolest explosions mchine 
 gun fire and artillery explosion in the backround and foreground. the best RTS ever and the best 
 expansion pack for any game in a great series. the best the best the best the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haveacry
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  I think the whole Dawn of War series to be a well put together franchise and Winter Assault does 
 it proud. I would advise anyone who enjoys the Table-Top version of the game to give it a try. 
 It boasts an inceadible level of detail and a wonderful musical score to truely set the scene. 
 I enjoyed Winter Assault hugely and would like to give my comments on why this is so.
  1. It involves the innovative and well executed idea of squad-based combat.
  2. It has an incedible 
 graphics engine.
  3. It's true to the warhammer history.
  4. It has a huge level of detail in every way.
  
  With its huge battles, unique armies, and 
 graphics I believe that it was deserving of a better score than it was given. I am a player of 
 the table-top and truely realise how well this game captures the 40K universe and the conflicts 
 of it. In conclusion I would say any one who enjoys an original, gorgeous, and insanely fast strategy 
 game with some really interesting ideas then this is easily the game for you.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  haveacry
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walnnor
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War was one of those games that you really most love. With 4 races to choose from, not 
 a single "shared" unit between them and with different strategies between them, is easy to see 
 why Dawn of War is such a compelling game. Not only that but in how many games you get to see futuristic 
 troopers wielding heavy machineguns (aka bolters) fighting Orks and winged demons?
  
  Enter the expansion pack: Winter Assault.
  
  The first impressions to the game are simple. 
 With an all new race to add to the firepower one cannot help to feel that a good game is about 
 to get better.
  
  The Campaign mode, while mostly entertaining, can get pretty boring after a while, mainly for two 
 reasons: the new theme (Winter and therefore snow) can get pretty tiresome in your eyes after the 
 3rd or 4th mission and that you are always changing control between the races of the side you choose 
 at the beginning of the campaign, the Order side, the Eldars and the new Imperial Guard, and the 
 Disorder side with the Orks and the Chaos. Add that to the fact that Space Marines only make a 
 short appearance during the Campaign (and you can't even control them) , and to the free-for-all 
 feel in the final mission and the Winter Assault campaign gets pretty tiresome and/or boring.
 
  
  The skirmish mode, which I won't dwell on it, is pretty much the same of the Dawn of War only with 
 the all new additions of the expansion pack, more maps (white being the colour of choice) and stuff. 
 
  But a similarity between skirmish and multiplayer is the all new game strategy, since the game 
 is now tweaked that there's only one way to truly win: rushing. While in Dawn of War rushing was 
 almost essential but not a actual requirement, in Winter Assault, if you don't rush, taking points 
 and killing off at least 2 or 3 enemy units, if not more, you lose. Plain and simple. And this 
 is a bad thing because the Imperial Guard is a defensive race and the game really penalizes them 
 for not rushing but obviously their rushing ability is completely hindered by their own build. 
 And if the new race becomes (almost, just barely) worthless whats the point in playing against 
 the same "old" races from Dawn of War only faster?
  
  The game music is pretty much the same from Dawn of War and the graphics didnt, if at all, receive 
 any major boost and the interface is basically the same.
  
  Still, you're probably wondering why one should even bother with the game? Because Winter Assault, 
 in all his weaknesses, can manage to be a great expansion pack. Never mind the weak, remember the 
 strong. New race, new tech trees, new units for all races (ok, just one but new unit is a new unit) , 
 more maps, more weaknesses to exploit in your enemies army, more ways to kill, more of everything. 
 So the Campaign isn't all that great and the skirmish / multiplayer can be chaotic with all that 
 rushing.
  
  Great game anyway and hopefully any new expansions or even a Dawn of War 2 might come along to 
 balance things out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arondor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Dawn Of War Winter Assault is the expansion pack to the the fantastic Warhammer 40,000 Dawn Of 
 War. Fans of the games workshop games as well as players of real-time stategy will love this game.
 
  
  Dawn Of War Winter Assult allows you access to a new army, the Imperial Guard. These soldiers have 
 a large selection of troops, viechles and buildings, and are a lot of fun to battle with, much 
 like the other four armies featured both on Dawn Of War, and Winter Assault. These are the Orks, 
 Eldar, Space Marines and Chaos. Each has its own strategies, allowing a varied hugely gameplay.
 
  
  The other four armies now have acces to a new unit each, barring the space marines, who have the 
 benefit of the Chaplin, a Primary command unit, instead of a new squad.
  
  As in Dawn Of War, you can play a campaign mode. Unlike the origional game, you can now use four 
 armies in the campaign. There are two capaigns featured in the game, the Order campaign, and the 
 Disorder campaign. The Order campaign lets you play as the Imperial Guard and the Eldar, a mysterious 
 race of knowledge and technology. The Disorder campaign features the cruel and merciless Chaos, 
 and the brutal Orks. Fans of the powerful Space Marines need not be disheartended, they turn up 
 in the order campaign, aiding their fellow humans, the warriors of the Imperial Guard.
  
  Like in Dawn Of War, theres a whole bunch of other cool things like multiplayer modes, both on 
 LAN and the internet. Theres the opportunity to go against the computer, both with and without 
 allies in a large variery of game modes. But possibly the coolest added feature is the army painter, 
 letting you create your own armies to use in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  The Imperial Guard... been wanting to play these suckers for a while. I got into this late because 
 I sold my copy of DOW a year ago, not really into it. But my interest never wained. I own several 
 PC games of the Warhammer Universe (like "The Horned Rat", "Reign of Chaos", etc. Picked it up 
 yesterday dirt cheap 2nd hand and really fell for it this time (been writing a script for a film 
 version of that PC classic "Space Hulk"... say no more) . Picked up WA today and it rocks. I disagree 
 with Gamespot's review where it states that the Single Player campaign would've been better following 
 one faction only. The Imp. Guard are really just too weak to sustain a story on their own. They're 
 more like WWII infantry when facing the other factions. So I think it was a good move to branch 
 the campaign as it is. The graphics ahve improved, but only if you get down and dirty with the 
 camera angle. Blood doesn't cloud or spray as in othher games, but spirts and squirts like arterial 
 spray when units are hit in the right (?) spot. I ain't bloodthirsty, but it does add a "Hoooo Yeahhhh!!!" 
 element to gameplay. Tanks rocking with recoil after firing, and interesting air strikes. The one 
 problem I do have is the AI pathfinding. Too often I attack, with 1/2 my force sitting at the back 
 looking at snowflakes. Or I withdraw, and 1 guy stays behind playing Audie Murphy/ Sgt. Rock. Crazy. 
 You really have to watch your guys. Otherwise, a great effort by THQ & Relic to satisfy the fans 
 (take notice EA and Ubisoft) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  Yet another great expansion to hit the market (Well not that packed full of stuff) . A new race 
 is added with more missions. New techs added, with animations. Now based in the winter! Which I 
 hate the winter! The maintain the carnage in this expansion with the said additives. The multi-player 
 has many many new maps now to enjoy!! Can't wait to face someone! Like I said in the last review 
 they needed to add more races. I think this is what most RTS games lack is enough races! I can 
 name a few that provide many different!, but thats on another review. Id get this expansion which 
 I know anyone that's got the main will definitely get this one also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcgjarhead
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  With Dawn of War and now Winter Assault Warhammer 40k is fast becoming the new standard to which 
 all other games are measured, much like the Age of Empires and Warcraft/Starcraft franchises.
 
  
  Graphics- Still the great graphics that Dawn of War introduced, and the new weather effects have 
 added to the mood of the game. I feel even more sucked into the game when it is snowing, or raining.
 
  
  Gameplay- In Dawn of War all of the 4 races were offensive, with using quick attacks as their basis. Winter 
 Assault introduces the Imperial Guard, the alternative to the Space Marines in defense of the Imperium. The 
 Guard are mainly defensive, having you build large units to hold off the enemy until you can gain 
 access to their more powerful armored units, and the elite Kasrkin infantry units. Overall the IG 
 adds a new air of strategy to this great game.
  
  Value- The IG, although initially weak, become a very strong race in the later parts of battles, 
 and are now one of my favorite races to play as. The multiplayer is now just as good as it was in 
 DoW with new strategies to be used with the guard.
  
  Don't miss this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Overview: For those who dnt know, Warhammer 40K is all about Orks, Elves, humans, undead, all the 
 archtypical fantasy types going at each other throats in the distant future. The orginal Warhammer 
 40K-DOW lets u play as just the space marines in the single player session. Winter Assault expand 
 on this formula and more.
  
  Pros - The addition of a new race, the Imperial Guard, with their own single player missions, is 
 reason enough to get this game. They guards are pretty weak on the infantry side, but in the later 
 missions, with their awesome mechs n better soldiers, they are quite a force to be reckoned with. 
 On top of that, unlike the first game, the expansion allows u to play the single player on the 
 side of Chaos, controlling both the Orks & Chaos Marine. This enhances the replayability of the 
 game after u complete the 'Order' missions. I won't spoil the ending for those who haven't played 
 it, just that u definitely will want to replay it more than once to get the opposing 'point of 
 view'.
  
  The graphics are top-notch for an RTS, with very nice unit animations and fiery explosions all 
 around. The game plays at a smooth framerate despite all this and the action is fast and furious. 
 For those who like to 'turtle' in RTS, this isi'nt the game for u. But for all out attacking action 
 & general slaughtering of your opponents, this game win hands down over the competition. 
  
  Multiplayer is a hoot, with players going at each other hammers n tongs, usually at resource 
 points or critical locations. The action never lets up, unlike some other RTS.
  
  Cons - Call me a fanboy, but I really can't find anything wrong to criticize about this game. There 
 are some pathfinding issues, but then , which RTS does'nt have this problem. 
  
  Verdit, if u are a Warhammer fan, u owe it to yourself to get this game. If u're not a fan, well, 
 get this game n you'll become one. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firebeast78
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  As someone who really enjoyed the first installment, Winter Assault was somewhat of a let-down. 
 Maybe my expectations where too high... quite possibly because, I say it once more... I truly loved 
 the first game.
  
  To start off with the campaign, possibly the least strongest aspect of the original: this time 
 you can choose between two sides, order and chaos. This in effect means you get to play with four 
 races: Imperial Guard (the new addition) and Eldar in one campaign, Chaos and Orc in the other. 
 Although the campaign is certainly bigger, I didn't enjoy the story-line and level set-up as much 
 as the original (too short) campaign. In some levels the AI really doesn't deliver. For instance, 
 you have to use a bloodthirster to defeat an Avatar in one level and the latter just stands there 
 in the middle of the battlefield until you've acquired your superdemon to defeat it. It's very 
 illogical and way too easy although I played it on the insane difficulty setting (and really, I 
 am not that good...) . 
  
  This immediately brings me too another - more general - weak point of the campaign: it's way too 
 easy even on the higher difficulty settings. Only novice RTS players will probably find their work 
 cut out for them. Another aspect I didn't enjoy as much as I'd hoped is the new faction, the Imperial 
 Guard. Although easy to control, it has serious balance issues compared to the other races, certainly 
 early in every game (I'm talking about the skirmish mode now) . It also has the least inspired units 
 in the game (except for the baneblade tank, but that one you get only at the very end of your tech-tree) . 
 It is still fun, but I was longing to play with my more beloved factions (Space Marines, Eldar) 
 too early in the game.
  
  On the graphical side, everything looks as cool as we'd expect, maybe even too much so, as all 
 the levels are... well... wintery. No suprises here, and it gets a bit of a bore after a while 
 when you get 'introduced' to yet another largely white map... 
  The voice acting is not alround terrific, but since English is not my native language I might not 
 be a good judge of this.
  
  On a more positive note: there IS a lot of good stuff about Winter Assault. It adds a whole new 
 race, a meaty (yet somewhat rushed, it seems) campaign, some cool new additions to the 'old' races 
 (although nothing really spectacular) and a new score (which I found to be somewhat of lesser quality 
 than the original) , sound effects and 'killing moves'.... I also adds a lot of new options to multi-player 
 and skirmish, but these are in no way spectacular. All these of course, are ADDITIONS... all the 
 cool stuff from the original is still there. 
  
  To conclude: Winter Assault adds to the original game, but it doesn't quite deliver the same punch 
 as for example Blizzard expansions like Brood Wars and Frozen Throne. It just has too many flaws 
 in my opinion. But then again I might have gotten my hopes up too high...
  
  If you've liked DOW you'll like DOWWA, just don't expect TOO much... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mzahonki
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  I have been playing warhammer tabletop games for many years foor now, and everytime a new warhammer-game 
 emerges, im a little skeptic about it.
  But when DOW was published, i was just "wooooooow". Whole magic and fun from tabletop to computer 
 was such success that when i heard about "Winter Assault" with 2 singleplayer Campaign, whole new 
 race, and very neat gameplay, not forgettting Multiplayer, which i think, powered by gamespy, is 
 one of the most best multiplayer game in the making. You can adjust all rules, maps, from little 
 skirmishes to massive 8 player war. And theres quite handy, easy to use -MOD tool for anyone to 
 download. GREAT GAME overall. and if you got more power in your computer this looks just great 
 with fallen bodies of the enemies, blood. But this game works well even if you dont have an up 
 to date computer, i. e. radeon 9200 works well.
  When i heard that theres coming new expansion to the game with new races and campaigns, i just 
 cant wait + this is good advertising to the modelling hobby where it all started. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  When Dawn of War came out last year it was like a breath of fresh air for the real-time strategy 
 genre. It revamped resource gathering and provided a fast-paced and exciting playing experience 
 akin to Starcraft. The expansion pack, Winter Assault, introduces the Imperial Guard, a faction 
 that you occasionally played in the original. Also included is a pinch of mayhem and a dash of 
 brutality for the other teams. The result is an expansion pack that keeps the flavor of the original 
 game but also adds an entirely new way to play.
  
  For many fans of the original, the single-player was far too short, and a little biased. It focused 
 on the exploits of the Space Marines and left players to learn about the other three racesChaos 
 Marines, Eldar, and Orksthrough skirmishes and multiplayer. In Winter Assault youll have ten 
 new missions, split into Order and Disorder campaigns. The former will follow the adventures of 
 the Imperial Guard and Eldar while the latter introduces you to the maniacal schemes of the Chaos 
 Marines and Orks.
  
  The missions in the expansion pack seem much more varied and better thought-out than in the original. 
 Objectives will vary from escorting critical men and supplies from point-a to point-b to gathering 
 willing soldiers to act as sacrifices for certain rituals. They manage to be both fun and challenging, 
 like one mission that has you hold a defensive line at all costs. Your brow will sweat and adrenaline 
 will surge as waver after wave of enemies brutally assaults your ever-dwindling defenses. 
  
  Another change is the inclusion of multi-faction scenarios, meaning youll lead one army for 
 a certain part of a mission then switch over on the same map for, as Monty Python would say, something 
 completely different. In effect youll be influencing another part of the same map, like clearing 
 out armor emplacements that guard a certain bridge or killing an enemy sorcerer that has a spell 
 on a gate that prevents it from opening. It helps mix up the missions and spares players from having 
 a straightforward mission of killing, maiming, and causing much havoc to the AI.
  
  There are even missions where youll be in command of two factions and get to choose which one 
 will progress. As you can imagine, the replay possibilities make this a very attractive feature, 
 letting you go back to choose a different army and see how subsequent missions are altered. You 
 could play a mission four different ways by each faction to see how things turn out. It only happens 
 in the second-to-last chapter for each campaign, but it could definitely be exploited by Relic 
 in the future to create some replay in future releases.
  
  At some point in the missions, youll come across the Imperial Guard. Those who played the original 
 probably remember them as the troops with morale as thick as cardboard. If one soldier sneezed, 
 it was probably enough of a scare to route an entire army. Unsurprisingly, the Guard play defensively, 
 relying on big upgrades late the game to eventually crush their opponents. It really is like a 
 snowball effect, and any Imperial player will make you regret letting them explore the furthest 
 branches of their tech tree.
  
  They have access to some of the most powerful tanks in the game, which can annihilate entire squads 
 in one shot. Their strategy center features a myriad of upgrades which take the standard cowardly 
 trooper and make them a force just as deadly as any Space Marine troop or horde of Orks. New players 
 who arent used to, or even turned off by Dawn of Wars aggressive style of play will find the 
 guard easy to pick up and play. Theyre a little weak at the beginning but defend easily and are 
 more than a challenge in late-game battles.
  
  The ability to garrison your buildings lets you keep soldiers out of harms way where they would 
 normally run scared. Most Imperial buildings also serve as a tunnel system, letting troops enter 
 one building and exit in another, no matter how far away it is. This makes the establishment of 
 forward bases and defense points very attractive as you can rapidly transport entire infantry squads.
 
  
  Besides the Guard, each side has been given a single unit that compliments what they already have. 
 Think of it as Relic patching up the loose-ends on each side. Each unit compliments each faction 
 nicely, and adds an extra punch to the Eldar and gives the Chaos Marines and Orks more power in 
 close-combat situations. In multiplayer, all these forces will play roughly the same, but the new 
 units act as a second chance incentive to anyone who thought a side was underpowered and at a disadvantage.
 
  
  Of all the things changed, however, some problems have remained. Pathfinding and bad AI continues 
 to plague large squads of troops. Youll still have soldiers ignore your commands and stay out 
 of range. For whatever reason they obey in small squads or if you micromanage and order them individually.
 
  
  From a presentation standpoint, youre going to be seeing the exact same game you did in Dawn of 
 War. The sound is just as over-the-top as the original and youll be able to see the zealotry of 
 certain units oozing out of your speakers. If you thought the Space Marines were arrogant and theatrical, 
 then youll be blown away by the Ultramarines.
  
  When its all said and done, Winter Assault is a solid expansion to an already good game. The Imperial 
 Guard wasnt the most obvious choice for Assault, but it seems to fit in just right. Theres enough 
 to love about their style of play for beginners and veterans alike. Balancing issues seem to have 
 also been addressed with the addition of new units to each side. If you loved Dawn of War then 
 theres no good reason not to pick up Winter Assault.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MkII_Templars
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This is a well built ,well detailed game, the grapics are solid game play is good ,camera angles 
 are right, and new units and updates are sure to please.. this games everything it should be its 
 a perfect game. the sound is well done with las fire, nades', sounds, noises made by the the charaters.
 
  its very descriptive of a warhammer 40k guardsmens life.. (Book called 15 hours I recomend By Mitchel 
 Scanlon about a Ig Guardsmen from some planet) totaly worht the wait for this game... excellent 
 above all standerds. This is a very well built strategy/ simulation game.. there should be map tools 
 in newer updates for this soon!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorraid
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  When i entered the gameshop ... i was acctually looking for Rome: total War
  but the dealer informed me that they have all be sold out.... disappointed i just checked through 
 the line up and saw a game Labled Warhammer:40k Dawn of War... i bought the game since nothing else 
 looked to my likes... i brought the game home and totally forgot that i had ever bought it... than 
 after 2 months when i had nothing else to do i installed the game... and was in for a surprise.... 
 Being a fan or RTS games like Warcraft, StrongHold, Battle Realms, Aoe, i never expected Warhammer 
 to be such a classic... this game truely surpassed all of the other RTS i had played .. i had alot 
 of fun with the game... but didnt like the whole idea of 10 mission campaign. .. still i played 
 the game for a very long time... than i found that the expansion is on its way.... .. and when i 
 finally got my hands on Winter Assault... i called in sick the next day since i could stop playing 
 it.... it really improves the gameplay of the already great Dawn of War... the graphics looks superb 
 with every bit of Detail... the front line combat rocks and the story seems to fit the Warhammer 
 40k universe perfectly...
  however the game does has some bad points esp in the case of orks as they dont have any special 
 ranged unit. The Super units r really fun to use and the imperial's BaneBlade kicks booty Imperial 
 style. Winter Assault mainly focuses on the Imperial Gaurd which r quite fun to play . The Vehicles 
 r great.... in simple words the Game is the best Rts i have played and should get more expansions. 
 a Must have to all RTS fans1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  Looking at all the other reviews, I feel misplaced but what the heck. What I can't understand is 
 why this game got great reviews while other good ones got less than mediocre ones. Warhammer captures 
 your attention for all of an hour or so. The campaign is repetitive (as many games are out there) 
 and you spend most of your time just spawning units. Forget about other units. Just use marines 
 (imperial guard and equivalents) and some artillery. Great strategy game there. I have misgivings 
 about the storyline too but I won't mention them here - the game does a good enough job damaging 
 itself. Anyways, its a game of attrition that lacks imagination and doesn't encourage skill - in 
 a nutshell. ATTRITION is the keyword. But then again perhaps I have overlooked something. Hmm,... maybe 
 it was the price - no thats not it. It was expensive enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_cheif721
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  When Dawn of war was out i was really happy cause the game was great. But the problem was there 
 where only four races out of all of warhammer40k. That was a real disapoint. Ah well. Anyways the 
 story was great the online is good and i love the skirmish mode! In the story you can choose to 
 play as either eldar and imperial guard or chaos and orks. I like the chaos and ork story better 
 though, guess im a villian. 
  
  the skirmish mode is great and so are the graphics and sound. This is one of my favorite strategy 
 games ever. If your thinking of buying this i say you should its really good. If you are a games 
 workshop fan you will love this. At least I did. Anyways its a great expansion for Dawn of war 
 and you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzynutz_usa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up about 4 days ago. I excpected an average game that would leave me wanting 
 in some areas. I was mistaken. This game is pure punishment and good old fashioned ass whipping. 
 After playing the game thoroughly single/multiplayer I can tell you that I have just scratched 
 the surface of the strategical possibilities one could uncover. DoW/WA is possibly one of the best 
 RTS I have played. Ever. And I have played them all.
  
  The campaign is enjoyable and surprisingly one of the only campaign games for RTS's that I have 
 actually played, usually I jump straight to multiplayer after the first couple missions. 
  
  The multiplayer is really nice with ranking and ladder systems in place. The multiplayer can 
 be fast and intense and the battles are pure genius. The save replay feature is awesome as it allows 
 you to review your losses to discover your weakness.
  
  The community is excellent, the top players regularly post replays and this allows us to learn 
 from their experience to quickly level the paying field and allow for stiffer competition. I am 
 not saying that you will be a top player in a week, but it will definetly allow you to see some 
 things that would take you a 100 games before you realized. 
  
  Get this game, the expansion, and they are releasing a new expansion as well, so this game has 
 plenty of life ahead of it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War was a fun game, but it had a mediocre campaign and seemed unbalanced 
 at times. When Winter Assault came out I had hoped that it would fix Dawn of War's problems, but 
 I'm sad to say that for the most part it has only made them worse.
  
  The Winter Assault Campaign offers more variety than the DoW campaign which only let you play as 
 the Space Marines. In Winter Assault you can play as the Forces of Order (Imperial Guard and Eldar) , 
 and the Forces of Chaos (Chaos Marines and Orks) . You'll play as both sides throughout the Campaign, 
 and for the most part the WA campaign is better than the DoW campaign because there is more variety. 
 I can't help but feel that the WA campaign was just "tacked on" like the DoW campaign, however. 
 The new campaign is quite challenging and long, so campaign fans looking for a challenge may enjoy 
 it.
  
  One new race was added in the expansion, the Imperial Guard which is a race that focuses more on 
 defense than those already present in Dawn of War. The Imperial Guard is a very good race that 
 often feels overpowered, because if you use the right strategy you're practically unstoppable. 
 Each of the older races gets a new unit in WA that may or may not be useful depending on your play 
 style. Unfortunately every other race also seems to be extremely linear. For example; if you like 
 to play as the Space Marines the only way to win now is to build a lot of Terminators and Chaos 
 Predators (Or a Land Raider) . Basic infantry units for the existing four factions are almost useless 
 in WA, especially against basic Imperial Guardsmen. The Chaos Marines are even worse, for their 
 basic infantry can now only be upgraded with Heavy Bolters which are practically useless against 
 other Chaos Marines and Space Marines. Winter Assault feels very unbalanced. Fortunately the Skirmish 
 AI was somewhat improved in Winter Assault; it still can be pretty stupid, but it's more challenging 
 than it was in Dawn of War.
  
  The new faction has an unusually detailed appearance. Imperial Guardsmen, Sergeants, etc. often 
 have different faces than others in your army. Some Imperial Guardsmen even wear full helmets that 
 cover their faces which is a nice touch. The new units look very nice and the new winter themed 
 environments are also nicely detailed, but that's all that's new on the graphic front.
  
  Winter Assault features new music which isn't quite as good as the music found in the original 
 Dawn of War. It's not bad and it might please Warhammer 40K fans, but I'm not a Warhammer 40K fan 
 and I was not at all impressed by the new score. The voice acting provided for the Imperial Guard 
 in WA is abysmal. The commander units are all poorly voice acted, though the basic units seem to 
 be fine. You'll be hearing Commander Units more often, however; so the voice acting can become 
 quite irritating.
  
  Winter Assault is a decent expansion. It's not quite as good as a Blizzard expansion pack, but 
 it adds an entirely new faction with a new play style as well as a new campaign. The campaign feels 
 like a last minute addition at times, however. The AI is now more challenging, but it can still 
 be rather stupid, and the sides are extremely unbalanced. If you're a fan of Dawn of War, Winter 
 Assault is worth a shot but it is plagued by several large issues that need to be improved before 
 it can be considered "great". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerofshadows
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  Winter assualt is a good add on to dawn of war. However unless your a big fan its probably not 
 neccessary. It adds one new unit to each army, as well as a brand new army, the imperial guard. 
 To sum them up they are the standard humsn f the 41st millenium, weedy with big guns. Huge guns. 
 And tanks.
  The main area of inprovement is the campaign. This time round you have a choice between good and 
 evil, which gives you more options, and story for the die hard fan.
  
  Although not an essential, its a must have for fans of the original, and you get a free dark millenium 
 card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahamut50
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  When the race in this game was announced you could say i was a little disapointed. i heard great 
 things about the other races, including tyranids and necrons. when i finally played it, i actually 
 liked the imperial guard more then gamespot gave it credit for. but on with the actual review.
 
  
  1. although some may be put off by the obvious decrease in weapons upgrades, i find it to be helpful. 
 also, the little tweaks in pop cost for units really made me feel satisfied. i didnt feel all the 
 units shouldve tooken that much room.
  
  2. i like the fact that tanks cant just be blown to bits by guns. the original introduced this, and 
 i think its funny that some people think that infantry are now useless because of some better realism 
 in fights between tank vs infantry. they are indeed useful and you better not forget about them.
 
  
  3. one thing im annoyed with is the really annoying rise when you switch difficulties. while pros 
 may not care, i do not want to make huge leaps just to beat a standard. and the easy difficulty... lets 
 just say i have a more difficult time taking out the garbage then beating them.
  
  4. Overall i feel this is a good expansion with a race that brings good things to the board. im a 
 defensive person myself so i enjoy the game even more now. i just hope they continue the addons 
 so i may see other great warhammer races come into play. after all, they are much more interesting 
 then the usual strategy game characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrusherOfThings
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:22 am PT
Review:  Winter Assault is an awesome expansion to an awesome game. Relic has dethroned Blizzard as King 
 of RTS. Warcraft 3 is PURE garbage compared to Warhammer: Winter Assault.
  
  There are a bunch of races who play uniquely, and there are even different sub-clans within each 
 race you can pick. There is also an awesome "Army Paint" feature which allows you to customize 
 your colors and banner that is displayed in a game you play online.
  
  The game itself? RTS at its finest. Basically the game has "control points" on the map that you 
 take over. The more points you control the more income/units you acquire. But the maps are heavily 
 populated with these so-called "control points" so you aren't screwed if your main base gets wiped. 
 You can spread across the map so you aren't ruined completely. The units and races are probably 
 some of the most varied I have ever seen in an RTS game. And battles are breathtakingly beautiful 
 to watch. I am thoroughly impressed by the different units and their graphics/animations even though 
 I have already played the game many a time.
  
  My recommendation; you are NOT an RTS fan if you don't own this game. You will not be disappointed.
 
  
  Also, I am HIGHLY looking forward to Mark of Chaos which takes place in the classic medieval Warhammer 
 universe. Things just keep getting better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thwart
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Okay, 'Heavens to Betsy' is something that your grandmother used to say, but it got your attention. 
 Didn't it?
  
  If you like RTS games then you need to buy this game! Did Age of Empires 3 let you down? Go buy 
 Dawn of War and the Winter Assault expansion pack and turn that frown upside down! If you've been 
 waiting for a top tier RTS then wait no longer and buy this game!
  
  Do it now so that you can come back home and start blowing stuff up real good!
  
  Or are you 
 just going to talk yourself out of buy a game just like you always do? Don't be a bump on a lump! 
 Spend some money and have some fun!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 6:38 am PT
Review:  Last year Relic Entertainment brought the popular Warhammer 40,000 table-top game to the PC with 
 Dawn of War, and the result one of the best Real-Time strategy games of the year. The same team 
 now improves upon that game with the new Winter Assault expansion. The expansion takes the formula 
 from the original game and adds quite a bit of new content to keep those who enjoyed Dawn of War 
 happy. A new two-part single player campaign and a new playable faction, the Imperial Guard, top 
 the list of additions in Winter Assault. Also on tap are new units for the four playable factions 
 found in Dawn of War (Space Marines, Chaos Space Marines, Eldar, and Orks) .
  
  
  The same rules found in Dawn of War still apply; instead of harvesting resources with peon the 
 player must capture strategic points that generate a steady flow of requisition, the resource used 
 to create new units. From there the goal is to destroy your enemies by building squads of infantry, 
 which can be re-enforced and equipped with special weapons, backed by vehicles to sweep through 
 the map to capture more strategic points and relics, which allow you to build special units.
  
  
  The biggest change to this formula comes with the addition of the Imperial Guard as a fifth 
 playable race. While in the original game the Imperial Guard made a brief cameo fighting beside 
 the Space Marines now they are a full fledged faction of their own, though they still serve under 
 the same Emperor as the Space Marines. While the Space Marines are elite, genetically modified 
 soldiers bred for war the Imperial Guardsmen are the unaltered humans that represent the last line 
 of defense against the enemies of the Emperor (think of them as the National Guard to the Marine 
 Corps) .
  
  
  Unlike the other factions in the game the emphasis for the Imperial Guard is on defense rather 
 than offense. The Guard excel when they are grouped together in large numbers but are relatively 
 harmless when scattered. The best strategy for this new faction seems to be to grab as few strategic 
 points close to their home base and endure enemy attacks by garrisoning bunkers and using tunnels 
 to move safely around their base. If you manage to survive long enough you will be rewarded with 
 the factions powerful late-game units such as the Ogryn and the Baneblade tank. 
  
  
  The other major addition to the game comes with the new ten map, two-part campaign. While Dawn 
 of War allowed you to play only as the Space Marines Winter Assault lets you play both the Order 
 and Disorder campaigns which include missions for all three original factions as well as the new 
 Imperial Guard. The Order campaign sees you take control of the Eldar and Imperial Guard and let 
 you switch between the two. Similarly the Disorder campaign gives the player control of the Orks 
 as well as the forces of Chaos.
  
  
  The multiplayer game in Winter Assault has also been tweaked, with the biggest change being the 
 new faction and a handful of new units for every side. While the new units are mostly there to 
 complement the existing units and not to change the game entirely, the Imperial Guard represented 
 a serious threat to disrupting the balance that existing among the four original races. However 
 fear not, Relic proved to be up to the task, the game remains well balanced with no one faction 
 possessing a considerable advantage in the multiplayer game.
  
  
  A positive change comes from the need to come up with new techniques to counter or take advantage 
 of the defensive nature of the Imperial Guard, helping to give the multiplayer scene a shot in 
 the arm from what may have become routine for some. A diverse army is required to achieve victory 
 in the multiplayer game, and that is very refreshing.
  
  
  This is not the type of game where you can crank out an army of one super unit. Fast moving infantry 
 are needed to capture strategic points and heavier infantry and vehicles are needed to protect 
 them. Leaders must also be used to keep your squads morale up so they don't break under the heat 
 of combat (this is particularly important for the Imperial Guard who suffer from low moral more 
 than others) .
  
  
  The only major gripes about the game are mostly the same problems found in the original. The path 
 finding isn't very good and with large numbers of units often moving at same time through small 
 pathways units will frequently run into each other or go the wrong way. The lack of a way point 
 system compounds this problem by forcing the player to either move smaller groups, making them 
 susceptible to enemy attacks, or to constantly watch where their units are going, thereby neglecting 
 the rest of the battlefield.
  
  
  Despite these shortcomings the new units and Imperial Guard make a great complement to Dawn of 
 War and add considerable variety to the multiplayer experience. Meanwhile the single player campaign 
 should provide a good challenge even to vets of the original. Anyone looking for a great RTS game 
 should definitely pick up Dawn of War along with Winter Assault, and anyone who enjoyed the original 
 owes it to themselves to get this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: old_man_jenkins
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  You can not go wrong with this game the first one was excellent and got rid of guys 2 inches away 
 from each other shooting at each other instead of going in melee. The atmosphere and story is the 
 best i think Warhammer has a bright future in video games and this is its first huge leap into 
 video games with a game that is one of the best in its genre if you like a RTS game or like good 
 games in general DO NOT miss this one. This game lets you play a new race and face a new foe in 
 one of the best and most nerveing testing missions ever made even on the first one there needs 
 to be another Warhammer RTS With new races and alot more missions and technollogy gaming at its 
 best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendandick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:11 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40k (40,000) Dawn Of War is a good game already but this expansion adds only a little 
 more.
  
  The expansion could have added a bit more to the game, but despite the little bit of add its still 
 a really good thing to have if your a big fan of Warhammer or the Dawn of War series.
  
  The whole add on is the one army that is less known by fans of Warhammer which is called the "Imperial 
 Guard" basically the "Empire" of 40k. The whole army is basically the classic army soldiers, with 
 not much more than a few basic troops, different generals and a few tanks. Still overall this army 
 adds a new, tactical prespective to the game. It will not be hard to switch from ex. Orks to Imperial 
 Guard, but harder than it was to switch from the other armies in the old game to this new army.
 
  
  The single player is only slightly enhanced by the expansion and adds a few more missions, that 
 are generally small talk and not really worth the extra 29.99 you payed. Although I have added 
 that, you get to play through everything in the old game and more with a whole new army.
  
  Overall this game is an okay expansion to a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DumassBarb
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Content has kept the Warhammer series as one of the best RTS. The great campaign that is much longer 
 than the previous is much more satisfying.
  The new race adds a defensive touch to the game and allows players a bit more micromanagement for 
 those who don't mind it. 
  
  A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must 
 buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must 
 buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must 
 buy! A must buy! A must buy! A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20860399346417257776889966510425-bull_people
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  Last year the highly popular table top game, Warhammer 40,000 was turn into a video game known 
 as Dawn of War and what was so special about this game was it brings to life the Warhammer 40,000 
 universe very well and its one of the only good Warhammer 40,000 on the market. 
  
  Winter Assault does what every expansion pack sets out to do, improve on the mistakes of the original. 
 This is something Winter Assault does very well but that what makes it so unique as an expansion 
 pack, is that the original had very little to improve on, (apart from the campaign) so the fact 
 that this is still refreshing if you havent played the original in awhile is something to give 
 credit to. 
  
  The game is still the same game though; you still have the four races that where in Dawn of War, 
 like the Space Marines who can hold the line against almost all enemies and their morale is very 
 strong because of their faith in the almighty Emperor. The second race in the game is The Forces 
 Chaos which serve the Dark Gods of Chaos; most of their forces are made up of Chaos Space Marines 
 which are Space Marines gone evil and the rest are demons. The third race are the Orcs with live 
 for one thing, and that is war, that is the only thing they care about. They can outnumber all 
 opponents on the battle and the only thing stopping them from taking over the whole universe is 
 their nature to not get along so there more likely to start fighting each other. They are the best 
 race at close-combat but their vehicles are weak compared to all the other races in the game. The 
 last race in the game are the Eldar which are the most technically advanced race in the game, the 
 Eldar are more for the better players considering their very weak if you dont use the right strategy 
 but their vehicles are the second strongest in the game.
  
  The new race in the game are the Imperial Guard which are very defensive, almost all their building 
 are bunkers so you can place Guardsmen squads in the buildings which can be a real help if you 
 are under attack by someone who is only using close-combat squads. This also makes it easy to defend 
 buildings in isolated parts of the map, plus you can move Guardsmen units to building to building 
 without taking them out of the building, you move them thought underground tunnels that lead from 
 one building to another. Their range of units are weak and are only useful in long-rang combat 
 but their vehicles are very powerful and used the right way they can alone win the tide of battle. 
 
  
  The games campaigns are much more fun than the one short campaign in Dawn of War. This time you 
 get two campaigns. The Order campaign, where you play as the Imperial Guard and the Eldar. Plus 
 the Disorder campaign where you play as the Orcs and the Chaos. Each campaigns story is roundly 
 the same and switching between races during the levels can be fun but it does slow the frame rate 
 up a little bit.
  
  The story goes, there is a giant Titan lost on the planet Lorn V and the Imperial Guard are sent 
 in to retrieve it before the forces of Chaos get control of or the Orcs destroy it. Plus the Eldar 
 are trying to get to it to but telling you why will just give away the rest of the storyline.
 
  
  The multiplayer and skirmishes are the same but with more maps and the use of the Imperial Guard 
 but they are still fun and addictive. You will find that the multiplayer and skirmishes are still 
 better than the campaign this time round. 
  
  The graphics are still top of the line for a RTS game but there has been little to no improvement 
 on the graphics which may be a good thing. The building and units are still look beautiful and 
 the battles are still the best in an RTS.
  
  The sound, like the graphics have not changed but you get a few more music tracks and sound effects 
 for the Imperial Guard. The voice acting in the campaign is somewhat better than Dawn of War but 
 still, most of the units for the Imperial Guard sound like they have an English accent.
  
  Overall this game is a big improvement on Dawn of War and is highly recommended to any fan of RTS 
 games or is a fan of the table top war game. If you found it hard in Dawn of War because of the 
 lack of defensive goals then the Imperial Guard will feel right at home. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlahrens
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the table top version since I was 14 (I'm 33 now) and this game captures the 
 spirit of the miniature version with the added bonus of more realistic combat situations. This 
 game is everything I've dreamed about since I was a teenager. I do hope that future expansion packs 
 include more combat units. The use of strategic point is a refreshing change for the traditional 
 resource based games. Concentrating on capturing points on the map make for more realistic and 
 strategic game play. As a long time table top player I wish THQ would have had all of the available 
 races and units instead of just the ones that are included. While it does make for very balanced 
 game play it does limit the tactical options available to each general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonphoenix123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  awesome game
  gets boring
  
  boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! boo! 
 boo! boo! boo! boo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-o194
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is god but it could have some things change such as upgradable tank weapons and higher 
 infantry and vehical caps such as the steel legion mod it could also introduce some air vehicals 
 like the maruder are thunderbolt but it is still worth playing and i just wrote this review to 
 make people who dont like this game mad. Now i have to keep typing becuase this has to be more than 
 a 100 words well thats fine ill say that if you want to get a mod i think the best are the steel 
 legion the tryanids mod and the deathwacth mod. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floering
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:28 pm PT
Review:  As a 40K tabletop player, I was expecting more from Relic in this expansion. The 40K universe is 
 much larger than what is represented in this game, with many, MANY more units and races already 
 designed and (somewhat balanced) in the tabletop universe. All Relic had to do was re-implement 
 these elements in the game, requiring no creativity or design, as they already exist as minatures. 
 I would have liked to have seen at least one more unique race (the Imperial Guard is just another 
 flavor of Space Marines, if you ask me) . Tyranid would have been sufficient, or the Tau, or making 
 the Necrons playable.
  
  The new single player missions are enjoyable, but a bit short. I was able to play through all four 
 races in less than 10 hours. It is a wonder that Relic took so long to release this expansion, 
 given the miniscule amount of (new) content that was created for this game. I really expected more.
 
  
  I do find the online multiplayer capability fun, and play that regularly to this day. Try to find 
 this one in the bargain bin if you like multiplayer, as most players will switch to the expansion, 
 leaving those still lurking in Segmentum Solar hanging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordboogar
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:01 am PT
Review:  Winter Assault seems to streamline the original 4 races in a way that takes something away from 
 the character of each; an added 'special' squad for each race does not make up for this.
  
  The good news is that the overall production quality remains high, and the additional race is well 
 crafted and has some interesting features. The rebalance tends to make the various races equally 
 desireable although Table Top players may find the changes a bit contrived and heavy handed.
  
  The campaign is not so hot- though this could be more of an indictment against the RTS genera 
 as a whole rather than this game in particular. The focus of the game is it's skirmish and multiplayer 
 modes, which are very replayable.
  
  Before running out and buying this game however, I would recomend one of the excellent mods for 
 the original such as Dawn of Steel, or Deamonhunters. These fan created add-ons are some of the 
 highest quality third-party software around... the production value rivals that of the pubisher 
 and these are also entirely free.
  
  Last word: Winter Assault significantly changes the game in a way that improves the gameplay somewhat, 
 but will violate the sensibilities of the Warhammer 40k fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Tourist
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I just finished both campaigns in winter assault and am very impressed. I tend not to enjoy the 
 long rts mission where you've got serial objectives on the same map. Nevertheless Winter Assault 
 really tells a great war story with larger than life heroes and breathtaking science fiction carnage. 
 
  
  Objectives in mission are very clever and are clearly integrated into the story. One memorable 
 mission had me draw the attention of a massively superior force, and once they're out of possition, 
 fall back and manevour. Another was pure orc on orc fighting as your wannbe warboss tried to unite 
 the greenskins under his banner. Or another where you power up the otherworldly guns of a smashed 
 but somwhat functional titan. And yet another where I escorted or hunted a critical vehicle crew 
 (depending on the side chosen) . 
  
  Telling any kind of memorable story in gaming is a challenge. Doing it in an traditionally non-immersive 
 genre like RTS makes it even more noteworthy.
  
  Some of the maps are exceedingly ambitious in that 4 story driven scenarios, 1 per race, all coexist 
 on the same level. These in particular are novel in that you can manually switch between races 
 on the same side (eldar/humans versus orc/chaos) . There is also a clear branch in the campaign 
 flow where your choice in army dictates the last mission played. Way to overachieve LDs!
  
  Imperial Guard are fun, playing more like swarm races than marines. Their uber-unit, the swollen 
 Baneblade tank, is a sight to see. When combined with a unit of Leman Russ tanks (zero strategy 
 units, they own everything that's not a god) , imperial guard are "eastern front" slugging good 
 'ol boys. [s] The necrons make a guest appearance fielding two unit types, the monolith (think slightly 
 easier avatar/bloodthirster) and the regular infantry which are incredibly tough. Not a full army, 
 but a cool surprise. [/s] 
  
  Only negative was that my fitfully patched installed version of dawn of war caused problems with 
 the autopatcher. Whatever version I ended up with couldn't load a save, though reinstalling everything 
 fixed that. 
  
  On a production note: nice execution in pulling off the gold pack and expansion same day street. 
 Not every publisher can do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf2expert
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best rts game ever made, the detail of the units, the battles and the terrain 
 make you feel like your really in the game! The new race mainly focuses on vehicles but it is a 
 very fun and interesting race to play. The new units are a great addition to the game. I'm the kind 
 of guy that likes to defend his base, if your the impereal gaurd you can do it with ease. The units 
 that were really hard to get in the first game are a lot easier to get. Here is the list af greatest 
 to best races in the game for me 
  
  1. Space Marines 
  2. Impereal Gaurd 
  3. Chaos Marines 
  4. Orks
  5. Eldar If your reading this and still havent decided to buy it, 
 BUY IT ALREADY is is a great game I wish i could change my username to something about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whatyouthink
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:55 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000 Dawn of War is probably the best RTS game I have ever played so far. So, when 
 news that Relic Entertainment would be releasing an expansion came out, I couldn't wait to get 
 my hands on it.
  
  Winter Assault adds a new faction, the Imperial Guard to the original Dawn of War. No genetically 
 enhanced super soldiers and state of the art weaponary like the Space Marines. Just lots of men 
 and lots of tanks. They are more defensive orientated and it presents a new playing style.
  
  The exisiting factions are not ignored too. The Space Marines get another Commander Unit called 
 the Chaplain. I am slightly disappointed that Relic did not chose to give the Space Marines a new 
 troop type but they may have their reasons. The Chaos Space Marines get the Khorne Bersekers. Fearless 
 and bloodthirsty killers who charge into battle with chain-axes and bolt pistols. They are tough 
 and deal out tons of damage. The Orks get the Mega Armored Nobz. I come to think of them as the 
 Orks equivelent of Terminators. Slow but heavily armored and very powerful in close combat. The 
 Eldar get the Fire Dragons. The Eldar have always been lacking a good early anti-vehicle unit so 
 they fill that gap nicely.
  
  With Winter Assault, Relic also did a reshuffle and modification with the existing factions' tech 
 trees. So, veteran Dawn of War players will have to sort of relearn the tech trees again to find 
 the fastest way to upgrade their units' effectiveness in battle. Space Marines can now carry 5 
 Heavy Weapons instead of the 4 back in Dawn of War. Chaos Predators lose their ability to upgrade 
 to lascannons but can instead fire deadly warp energies at their enemies with one research. There 
 are more changes to the tech trees but they are too many to list down here.
  
  Overall, this expansion set is great and I would recommend it to anybody who likes a good action 
 packed, fast paced game with lots of pyrotechnics.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xerxes5678
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  When DOW came out, I was a bit skeptical. Not about the game, but if it would run on my computer 
 (mine is lacking in the RAM department and soon in Graphcs Cards) . Lucky for me it did work, and 
 then I bought the expansion and have never been disappointed by it. This game rocks, plain and 
 simple. The story mode is great, having control of both good and evil in the campaign is a welcome 
 addition. But what everyone will be talking about is the new race: The Imperial Guard. This group 
 is good at "Turtling" or building up an inpenetrable defense and then rolling out the big guns 
 at the end for a crushing attack. This army is great for stonewalling the annoying and often decisive 
 rush trick (I hate rushing!) . The tactic is simple, use your guardsmen as meat shields, absorbing 
 the bullets while your tanks smash all resistance. The best unit in the Guard's arsenal is the 
 Baneblade. Boasting an incredible amount of firepower, a Baneblade could shatter a base's defenses 
 alone, but when coupled with hordes of bullet sponges and tanks backing it up, it's unstoppable. 
 Multiplayer kicks butt as before and the new factions units are awesome. Buy this game, (don't 
 forget the first DOW) and you don't need a $3,000 gaming rig to play this baby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saKhan_McInn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of War: Winter Assault offers what was expected of it. The expansion presents a new race, 
 the Imperial Guard, new campaign, new units and new maps for multiplayer. The developer, Relic 
 have also made a decent attempt to better the graphics and sound quality in the expansion and it 
 definitely shows especially in music, which was rather lacking in Dawn of War.
  
  The Imperial Guard is an interesting race as they are the only army that tends to be defensive 
 during the beginning of a game but become a dominant force on the battlefield later on.
  
  New units include the Chaplain, the third space marine commander, Berserkers, that are Chaos melee 
 unit during the earlier parts of the battle, Firedragons, which are Eldars anti-tank and building 
 infantry and last the Mega Armoured Nobz, which are Nobs that excel in defence and close combat 
 who assist the Orks.
  
  Gamers of Dawn of War may need to reconsider their online strategies In the expansion as tech trees 
 for all races have been completely changed. Some units that used to be available in the earlier 
 parts of a battle may not be seen until midway through a game. Research is now essential for victory 
 as it dramatically enhances your units accuracy, defence and firepower. Many people may not like 
 the new changes though as the more powerful units sometimes arent even available to build before 
 the battle is over.
  
  Overall Winter Assault is a great package. Owners of the Dawn of War will find it essential to 
 purchase this expansion and they are also enough additions to attract RTS gamers to try the game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omen22
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:42 am PT
Review:  Personally, i didn't like this game very much at all. They have removed too many functions and 
 options for me to like this game.
  For instance, you can hardly updgrade ANY weaponry anymore. At least not on tanks, and the weapon 
 upgrades on the troops have been minimized.
  Another thing is that the tanks and such have become invoulnerable, while the troops have become 
 useless.
  I played a few matches on this expansion with a friend, and all of them ended with just me and 
 him just pumping out tanks and infantry at each other. It felt like the strategy element had dissapeared.
 
  Personally, I regret i ever installed this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zizomako
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  this game remind me very much with the (Frozen Throne) exp pack of war craft .
  there is a very little numbers of games that have the same quality for it's exp this game -winter 
 assault- is one of them it's very worthy to play.
  the new army in it is rich & the campaigns in it has 2 options evil or good & that was the only 
 thing that lack the first one -Dawn of War- as i think.
  there is a lot of games out there which is very great but when it came to it's exp packs it was 
 a disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartagliam
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I just finished this new expansion pack, and let me tell you, I am quite happy. But not for the 
 reasons that you would think. Let me explain...
  
  Gameplay (out of 10) :: 9
  Story (out of 10) :: 7
  Graphics (out of 5) :: 5
  Multiplayer (out of 5) :: 5
  Let me start 
 with this: If you were a fan of Dawn of War, this expansion pack is NECESSARY! It adds new units, 
 re-creates the tech trees and actually adds tons of new animations and maps (20 more to be precise) . 
 The new additions to the original game are intense and tons of fun.
  
  But what about the actual expansion? It was OK. The single player story was fun, but didnt tie 
 back into the Dawn of War story (which had one hell of an ending, easily leading into DoW2) . If 
 you take the story as its own, you will be quite happy. The ending of each campaign (yes, there 
 are 2 in this one) you can actually see differenent endings, something quite different from the 
 other Warhammer games. 
  
  The biggest let down? The nbew race. Dont get me wrong, I actually consider the Imperial guard 
 to be the coolest of all the races, but you would never catch me playing with them online. I dont 
 know why, but they were made to be the weakest of all the races. I went online 3 times to play 
 with them (on Noob games) and got owned by every other race. They dont have any useful anti-tank 
 units, their artillary takes forever to build, as do the buildings, and the units are generally 
 very, very weak. I always stick with Chaos Marines anyway...
  
  But again, this game, like its predecessor, excels online. You will have a ton of fun as you go 
 on and play against everyone. I generally love RTSs more than any other game, and it is because 
 of game like this!
  
  Overall: B-. Just remember, you need the original DoW to play, and if you dont have that, you 
 should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekisom
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 10, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  I like warhammer. never did get to play it cuz its wayyy to expensive to play tabletop here in 
 the philippines, but the game? its simply great! the best RTS after warcraft/starcraft. 
  
  This game could potentially be the most successful, longest running RTS game for the next decade, 
 or so.. =P (seeing as how the developers or gamesworkshop is limiting the content of the game as 
 compared to the tabletop) . Still, i thank u guys for giving me an affordable way of enjoying Warhammer 
 40K. hopefully they'd include the 'monstrous bugs' for the next pc game.
  
  Mark of Chaos... *drool*
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mconk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2005 9:59 am PT
Review:  I was 13 when the first "Pong" machine showed up at a local hangout. 30 years later, I'm still 
 a gamer through and through. Oh, the quarters I used to spend!
  
  Over time, I have enjoyed console games and portable gaming systems. To me, however, the PC has 
 proven to be the best platform for my favortie type of games - Real Time Stratgy. 
  
  Age of Empires, Warcraft, Starcraft (when, oh when will they ever release a new version!) , Rise 
 of Nations and Homeworld are or have been favorites of mine. I liken RTS to "live chess". Maybe 
 I have a God complex, but these are by far the most engaging games to me. Sure, shooters and sport 
 games are good but nothing can make you humble faster than a good RTS with decent AI.
  
  Up until a few months ago, I had never heard about Warhammer. Apparently, it has a long, rich history 
 of a table game, characters and even books. Those things really don't interest me, but it's nice 
 to know that this is a product of evolution. It adds credability.
  
  The game is terrific. Great graphics, sound and options. I've never been a "campaign" man. I know 
 that most people really enjoy campaigns and multi-player capability, but the heart of any good 
 RTS, for me, has always been the "skirmish" or, for those unfamiliar with the term, a "random" 
 game between you and the CPU. 
  
  Good RTS games have all kinds of options for you to design and play any number of different kinds 
 of games against 1 or more computer opponents. Warhammer: Dawn of War (the base game to which "Winter 
 Assault "expands") was just great. Playing one of 4 different races (Eldar, Chaos, Orks and Space 
 Marines (my favorite) ) , you can play a number of different scenarios against a number of different 
 difficulty settings. I never got past "Hard" although there is at least one or two more difficult 
 settings.
  
  You can set up the terms of victory. For instance, the only way you win is to aniliate the opponent. 
 Or control a certain percentage of "critical locations" or both or any number of different combonations.
 
  
  Dawn of War is a great game, but I thought they were pretty stingy with the maps. The maps are 
 different worlds or terrains. Like a forest setting or a underground "Hell" or a burned out city.
 
  
  Winter Assault cures this ill by at LEAST doubling the available maps (Ihaven't counted, but they 
 may have tripled them) and they added a new race: The Imperial Guard. The IG is an interesting 
 race, but I haven't explored them too far yet.
  
  They also made the gameplay a little more streamlined, added new characters and weapons to the 
 existing races and added some little improvements that really make a big difference. Like, for 
 instance, the load up time for a scenario can be pretty slow, depending on the size of the world 
 you've chosen and the number of opponents. This can literally take about 3 or 4 minutes and my 
 machine is only two years old and was state of the art at the time. Because of the long wait, you 
 would be tempted to go to the bathroom, get a snack, whatever. When you came back, sometimes the 
 game had begun and you had already lost precious ground. In Winter Assault, they added a "Start 
 Mission" button after the load was complete. DUH! Great addition.
  
  There are several other small improvements like that throughout the game. I think it is an expansion 
 that is well worth the price of admission. I can see myself playing DoW: WA for a long, long time 
 until the next great RTS comes out. If you play like I do (skirmishes) , the replay value is terrific. 
 A definate 10. Great game. Great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegadedod
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The Game is definetly worth the wait and price.
  
  The new playable race is fantastic. Playing as the Imperial Guard is fun and i can spend hours 
 playing as them in skirmish. the "long-range" artillery is great (it is called long range because 
 it is longer than any of the other artillery units... it would be nice if it was longer though 
 so you could blast guys away from even farther) . The Baneblade is as powerful as they say... though 
 it would be good to have a techpriest follow him around, especially when he is combat for a while... 
 that way he heals fast while pummelling the enemy to pieces. The powerful infantry units for the 
 imperial Guard, Kasrkins squads and Ogryns are very powerful and almost match the Terminator squads. 
 The Kasrkin squads can easily keep the enemy at bay (especially when you have a couple squads) , 
 and the Ogryns are one of the most powerful melee unit; they even tear Berserkers to pieces. The 
 Russel tanks are a lot better now that they are not artillery units if they were still srtillery 
 units they would be teh faster firing artillery, and a lot more accurate) .
  
  The new units are great. they are prefect for the races since they are very powerful add-ons. The 
 only race that seems to eb getting ripped-off when it comes to the new units is the Space Marines, 
 but since the Space Marines are already powerful, another powerful hero unit just seems to fit. 
 The orks seem to be the race gaining the best when it comes to the new units, because the new heavy-armoured 
 nobz are like they say... heavy-armoured. you can make a squad of 4 of them, and charge the enemy 
 with many infantry units following them (and possibly a couple tanks) and they could easily push 
 through and over-run the enemy...
  
  I have not yet tried the multiplayer, but i have tried skirmish, and there is a difficulty problem. 
 if you select normal for the difficulty, they hit you hard and fast (you usually get hit with 3 
 full enemy squads very fast) ... easy is a lot like normal from teh normal Dawn of War; uses the 
 same amount of units, but not the same tech tree units...
  
  Other than some of the mistakes with AI, the game is awesome. It awesome to use the basilisk artillery, 
 and use their all-powerful special bomb-shell that usually kills infantry in that area with one 
 hit (and puts a dent into vehicle health in that area) . The Basilisk and BaneBlade is a deadly 
 combination, and when used right (together) you throw around large numbers of the enemy, and usually 
 kill them pretty fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordmacragge
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  DOW: WA is a great game. The campaigns are 10 times better than the first game. The imperial guard 
 are very appealing, the chaplain adds a new dimension to the SM, the mega armoured Nobz are practically 
 tougher, orky terminators. The khorne berzerkers are a great addition to Chaos, giving them some 
 much needed close combat and the fire dragon's give the eldar some tank killing power. BUT, the 
 AI on standard is like DOW insane and usually unless you churn out units by the dozen, you will 
 die extraordinarily quickly. And some of the new upgrades for the amazing stuff, like full scale 
 war, extra armour, heavy vehicle deployment are completely unnecessary. The music also could have 
 been better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicolas1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  They have done it, again! THQ brings us an awsome sequel to Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War. Winter 
 Assault which has unique features! Many complained about the weakness of the single player campaign 
 in Dawn of War but now you can enjoy the game in both single player and multiplayer games! One 
 of the strongest points of this game is the army painter. You can paint your OWN army set the colours 
 and choose an emblem to use in single player AND multiplayer, meaning that you aren't obliged to 
 use the same and same colors in each skirmish but you can have many saved skins for your armies 
 and use different!!! The game is simply AMAZING and it's surely worth, don't think about it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnubisPrime
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:04 am PT
Review:  I was very impressed with the original Dawn of War game and was looking forward to this sequel, 
 when it was first announced, with unbridled anticipation. When it was released I broke my standing 
 rule of never buying a game until it has been out for a while and all the bugs have been worked 
 out and even paid a higher price for it just to get it as soon as I possibly could. I have not 
 been disappointed with my choice. The game is everything it had been hyped to be with the graphics, 
 game play and the addition of the Imperial Guard making it a real pleasure to play. The only complaint 
 that I have is that this expansion is way too short, as was the original, and I hope that when 
 they produce the next game they produce one of much greater length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afrothunda312
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 3:08 am PT
Review:  the dawn of war expansion has made the game tip top perfect and i think what the next expansion 
 will just be a new race, dawn of war is ten out of hten with winter assault, as i'm a 40k player 
 the background is slightly wrong but i can forgive it for how great the game is. even non-40k people 
 could easily get into it, except for the odd things the units say, you need the background to understand 
 really, but otherwise one of the best rts games ever. it blows everything out of the water. even 
 age of empires, its that good hopefully the next race will be either necrons or tyranids because 
 they need another 'disorder' race. the graphics are really good, much better than battle for middle 
 earth, it is good they put the campaign on both sides otherwise it seems a bit tilted on one side. 
 It has a great story i recommend even the most anti-games workshop person to buy this, it is a 
 game that you can know very little and still be quite intergrated in the story. but why does the 
 chaplain talk to the measly Imperial General like he is the Emperor, what is that all about? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packiwack
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 31, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  this game rocks it has a superb single player with different missions depending on if you play 
 order (imperium and elder, not really allies) or disorder (choas and oak, lets just say their not 
 happy being allies) misions range from defending to resuce. the graphics are great the ablity to 
 zoom in and watch as your men waste a horde or enemys or get massacred in close combat, the music 
 suits the gameply nicely and depending on how good you are at rts games you find it easy or hard 
 it depends on your skill. I haven't played it online yet but thats becuse i don't like online rts 
 games i prefer fps online. so its just a great game buy it buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbr900qld
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be more than I even expected with the scope and success of DoW, coming from 
 a good table-top game to the PC, was an experience. Relic and THQ have done excellently with this 
 one, and then with DoW: WA, the whole gaming experience just gets even better.
  
  An excellent multiplayer game, as we have them as often as (weekly, at least) , the difficulty I 
 thought was a bit high at first for standard setting, but as we get more games through it, we have 
 found that it was more like what we were secret expecting, a fair bigger challenge to ensure we 
 get more excitement and value, which I think Relic and THQ have given us.
  
  Overall, they have done better than I expected and more, with a more full game, lots of challenges, 
 heaps of maps to checkout, and as always, lots of custom maps from good people.
  
  This is one RTS, you just MUST HAVE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Hunter44
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. It has decent graphics, good replay value, and a lot of strategy involved. 
 This isn't your average RTS game. The game features 5 races (one of them is the newest one) . The 
 Greenskinned Orks, the mysterious Eldar, the awesome Space marines, the very evil Chaos Space Marines, 
 and the newly added Imperial Guard. The main strengths of the game is the skirmish and multiplayer 
 games. Its hard to stop playing multiplayer games after you try your first one. I'm not going to 
 try gving you a 4-page review so im just going to say that this game will appeal to all, even if 
 you don't like RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dincerhocaoglu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  When I bought the Dawn of War last year, I played it everynight. You cant take yourself from game. When 
 you complete a mission you want to complete the other one. Because the mission were very exciting. In 
 the new game they added new race called Imperial Guards. I think its very good because in Dawn 
 of War you can only control their tanks or a small part of soldier in some missions. But this time 
 you totally control them and do missions with them. This time they focused on other races. It means 
 we can play with other races. I think thats amazing because you can choose dark or light path. I 
 liked the game very much. Imperial Guards other soldiers and tanks are excellent. There are some 
 mistakes in graphics. But they kept up good work. Sounds are brilliant. I love their speaks. When you 
 give them orders you really feel like youre their commander and you can feel yourself inside the 
 war. So Warhammer games are really best in series for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalPhoenix009
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 4:18 am PT
Review:  Dawn of War was the best RTS I have ever played. The gameplay was fun and fast paced, and the graphics 
 and animations were amazing. In Winter Assault, it's expansion, you can further enjoy the depth 
 and immersion of this strategy game.
  
  First off, the visuals are the best in any RTS to date. When opening up a strategy game you don't 
 expect to be blown away by the visuals. Sure, it might be massive, but until now, most of the genre 
 are more gameplay then graphics. Dawn of War :Winter Assault figures it's got the gameplay down, 
 so it's time for a little flare. Of course, a little flare doesn't even describe it. Imagine huge 
 walker mechs literally picking up people and throwing them. Or infantry finishing off units in 
 melee the same way an action movie hero would. One of the best aspects of the visuals is the link 
 kills, which instead of making units just keel over and die, they enter an animation which has 
 them linking with one of their attackers that truly is hard to describe.
  
  But enough about graphics, lets talk about gameplay. Dawn of War took the turtle out of RTS, and 
 replaced it with early encounters and combat-based expanding. I'm not going to tell you all about 
 resources, but it's a new and amazing system that makes the game much more fast paced. The races 
 that you can play are unique and cool looking, and they are mostly balanced. The multiplayer is 
 the highlight of this game. With several settings that can make the game completly different (such 
 as Quick Start or low resources) often multiplayer is varied. The sound in the game is great, too. 
 You'll here commanders and squad leaders yelling inspiring warcrys to you're troops, and it adds 
 to the immersion aspect of the game. The voice acting could be better, but it doesn't really take 
 anything out of the game.
  
  The new changes to the game also make it much better. The Imperial Guard race have a new and original 
 playstyle, and the tech trees don't support rushing as much anymore. If you're looking for one 
 of the best RTS games you've ever played, Dawn of War: Winter Assault will not dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalfreak_1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Having spent so much time on Warhammer 40k: Dawn of War, I was eagerly awaiting the arrival of 
 more content. The expansion pack, Winter Assault, delivers just that. Not only does it add an entirely 
 new army, and a new unit to all existing armies, but it also tweaks the game (tech trees and what 
 not) , adds more multiplayer maps, and most important of all, 5 new missions for each army except 
 the Space Marines. Well, lets not mislead you, you get 5 missions per team. You can choose the 
 Chaos team, orks and chaos marines, or the Order team, Imperial guard and eldar. This makes for 
 a very intertaining and rather long single player experience. As I'm not much for multiplayer, 
 I'll just have to assume that all the new content adds more to do in that realm also. Bottom line, 
 fantastic game that leaves you wanting to see how far the developers can take this franchise in 
 terms of new armies and units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2005 7:05 am PT
Review:  I'd been a 40k tabletop player back in the day, and when I started tinkering with computers I thought 
 "wouldn't it be great if GW did a computer game that was just like table top"? There were a few 
 attempts (Chaos Gate anyone? ) , but Dawn of War really solidified it as a VERY playable game. I 
 was never a big fan of RTS games before, but being such a huge fan of the franchise sold me on 
 this one! And now, with the Winter Assault expansion - a good thing just got better!
  
  The ONLY thing that has me scratching my head is this: with the occurance of patch 1.3 (and then 
 1.4) , DoW had a rather elegant "add-on" system integrated into it where you could turn on (or off) 
 added mods for the game. Why did they NOT use this system for the expansion, and just allow you 
 to play thru the DoW interface? Winter Assault has its own executable and interface - did it really 
 need it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disguise_111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  The fact that WA adds a whole new race to DOW is pretty amazing in itself. Most RTS expansions 
 will just add a couple of units but Relic has been able to pull off another race and do it well. 
 The campaign is definatly longer than DOW's and I fell that the game is well ballanced. The addition 
 of the Imperial Guard was what I was waiting for and WA does not let down. The IG is just as detailed 
 and well made as any of the other races. Just look at the reloading animations of the Basilisk 
 and you'll know what I mean! Pick up WA, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddeath72
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I love the game... don't get me wrong it just needs... a bit more. It evelops the universe well. 
 The game play is simple if you played Starcraft. Not hard to learn. For an expansion it is hard 
 enough to make the players of the original happy.
  
  It is just lacking some of the table top love...
  
  Needs Mass Squads of imperial guardsmen.... 
 100 troops ain't enough
  Total War might fix that. 
  
  That is just cuz i played it on the table top and like the gritiness of it.
  But I still love 
 the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riandro
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  ived played the game for oh... 1 week and already im finding it to be quite a blast. its challenging. 
 so challenging im stuck! some people might disagree on this but i think its a trace too hard. the 
 learning curve is about 10 to 30 minites thanks to the 4 way tutoriol. i have played the older dawn 
 of war (warhammer 40,000: dawn of war) and i think its a great improvement. out of the 4 races my 
 favourite at the mo is the orkz! there lean mean green and one big fightin machine! i hope u like 
 me review! im now writing this to lenthen my review because im out of words to put in! im hoping 
 this is enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S7ATER
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40K Dawn Of War Winter Assault definitely is a cool game. I felt it needed more to it 
 though. When you have all the species back i really like that and adding the Imperial Guard. But 
 I didn't enjoy the teasing of the Necron for the next game, I understand where they were coming 
 from with the idea. But at least they should have been a unlockable race if you beat the game on 
 hard or something like that. That would have added a little bit more appeal to the game. Also there 
 is a ton of units that this expansion that this game dosn't seem to put in for a lot of the specious. 
 Each expansion they make for this game should have at least 5 new units for each side. If they 
 had that much more content then I would pay a bit more just because they added more to it. 
  The campaign is definitely pretty good but I wish they continued off with the story line that they 
 had made during the original Dawn Of War. At least with the Chaos campaign they should have continued 
 with the story of the blood god. 
  So if you want a great RTS definitely i 100 perrcently suggest this game. Few flaws in it, but 
 what game dosn't have any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donKEYsnOTT16
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I went out and bought this expansion the very first day it came out, but was very dissapointed 
 when I tried playing an insane game as my favorite team, the Chaos. They have been completley lowered 
 in both power and capabilities. On the other hand, all of the other teams seem to feel much stonger, 
 and a bit more fun than before. Plus, the Imperial Guard are awsome after you learn how to use 
 the Basalisks. Other than that the only difference is the amout of maps and a few cosmetic changes 
 to some of the characters, and a little more voice-overs.
  
  
  XBL Gamertag: donKEYsnOTT16 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter5012
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  Having "Warhammer 40,000" in the title has probably put some off this game, as it may seem to Nerdy!. 
 I myself was put off for a while, but bit the bullet and decided to buy the game. Since then i've 
 been unable to put it down.
  The games excellent blend of tactics and violence makes this game a joy to play and a marvel to 
 watch. All the units in the game have there own kill animations, such as the Dreadnought, throwing 
 its victims arond, or the visious bloodthirster drinking the blood of its catch!
  Another great feature of this game is that the bodies stay on the battlefield. Its just great to 
 see the trail of death your troops create in there wake, or the dead that mount up infront of your 
 turrets!
  All in all this is a brilliant game and is a must for anyone who enjoys a good strategy. It needs 
 a decent spec PC to run to its full potential, however it will still play on the lower spec computers, 
 with a bit less detail mind.
  My recomendation, Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPopo66613
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:51 am PT
Review:  The new imperial gaurd race what can I say... the basic tech tree is very similar and if you at 
 all played the original dawn of war you would already be used to the process "Build this, then 
 that, upgrade this then that" but as the game gets boring... IG come along and spice it up, their 
 new weapons and units are awesome to the max! Aswell as their new Baneblade, a gigantic take with 
 11 cannons.
  
  Another thing the IG for one dont have annoying voices like in the original races.
  
  This 
 also adds a new unit to each race is great, most of them are pretty cool, and usefull especially 
 the Fire Dragon aka Tank buster for the Eldar.. very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zreneau
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this expansion for a while. When I first read about it, I was a 
 little dismayed to see that they were adding the Imperial Guard. I had hoped they would add one 
 of the more colorful races such as the Tyranids, Necrons (playable) or maybe even the Tau.
  
  After playing through the Order Campaign with the IG though, I found them to be a worthy addition 
 to the title. I still have high hopes that THQ will continue to produce 40K RTS games and tap into 
 the rich story and characters.
  
  I encourage anyone that enjoys aggressive RTS games to purchase this one. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyleA
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Winter Assault is one of those expansion packs that is necessary to buy just because they make 
 the game that much better. It addresses all of the slight problems that arose from the first game. 
 
  
  Problems
  1.) The Campaign
  2.) Tier 1 Units Spamming
  3.) Team Balance
  
  1.) The Campaign- 
  
  Dawn of War -----
  The weakest part of Dawn of War. It had a great story 
 right out of the Warhammer fiction, but the missions left something to be desired. They were all, 
 build, mass and destroy and only focused on one of the 4 teams.
  Winter Assault -----
  It has a story right out of Warhammer fiction, which is super. Now however, the player may choose 
 either an Order (Imperial Guard, Eldar) or a Disorder (Ork, Chaos) campaign. These both have their 
 own story arcs which the player follows until they decide which side to finish with. The specialized 
 objectives require tactical finesse that was lacking in the first game.
  
  2.) Tier 1 Unit Spamming
  *Definition of term* For those who do not know, the term Tier (as used 
 in this review) refers to a state of technology researched in game. (IE Footmen in WC3, Riflemen 
 in most war games ect.)
  
  Dawn of War -----
  This problem was most apparent online where people would build 1 type of low level unit and spam 
 them until they win. It is problems like that that ruins a game because it take out the tactics/strategy 
 of a game.
  
  Winter Assault -----
  Now, it is perfectly reasonable to win with a Tier 1 unit in WA. However, a tier 1 unit will now 
 more often than not lose out to Tier 2, while Tier 2 will lose to Tier 3 and so on. This means 
 that teching is now a possible course of action.
  
  3.) Team Balance
  
  Dawn of War -----
  Once you played Dawn of War long enough (usually online) one starts to see 
 glaring imbalances. These can tie into problem #2 where 1 unit could overcome all others. If memory 
 serves at one point about 50% of players played as Space Marines because the regular unit was so 
 powerful it was almost impossible to overcome. When this happens the game becomes less fun and 
 frustrating to players. Orks struggled against everything. While if a chaos player got a certain 
 type of vehicle it was immediately GG.
  
  Winter Assault ------
  Well throw all of that out the window. The teams are played more evenly throughout the online community. 
 Any team can beat any team, it all depends on the skill of the player. The Imperial Guard also 
 make another unheard of tactic in Dawn of War a reality, defense. A player can bunker up and hold 
 out until they decide to fight! Its a very new player friendly race and it is a welcome addition.
 
  
  General Comments -----
  I know this is an unorthodox method for writing a review for a game. There are still a few kinks 
 that need to be worked out of the game, but Relic listens to their gamers and any exploits or bugs 
 that are found are fixed via patches.
  
  Conclusion
  Fixes many problems from an already terrific game. It has a close knit online community of players 
 who are very into the game. It adds a new fantastic race, the Imperial Guard. It draws from a great 
 fictional source (the Warhammer 40k universe) . And finally, it is a game that deserves far more 
 praise and time in the public's eye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atuline
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The expansion itself is great, but the AI in skirmish is basically defined as hard and easy. On 
 the games easiest level, almost anyone can win, but if you crank it up one notch, then you will 
 find impossible situations, such as in a 4-player free for all the player farthest from you, will 
 die first, and you'll be caught in a massive 2 player assault. And if you play 2 on 2, your ally 
 will almost equal the skill you see on easy. The game Itself is really good, especially the campaign 
 and multi player, but the developers may want to work on the AI. Besides when they say standard, 
 we want standard, not super anhanced robots, who have special bonuses and have every one gang up 
 on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoLariS_92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Winter Assault is the first expansion to the extremely popular and successful rts game, Warhammer 
 40,000: Dawn of War. It features a new race, 20 more maps, 12 new campaign missions, new units 
 for the existing races, and over 100 more animations we love so dearly. 
  
  First things first, the new race, the Imperial Guard, is a great complement to the other factions. 
 While the other sides concentrate more on sheer offensive strength, the Imperial Guard have more 
 defensive capabilities. These inherent characteristics of the new race seem to blend quite nicely 
 with the usual "destroy everything as quickly as possible" tone of the game. What good is a base 
 if you can't defend against a few troops anyway?
  
  The Imperial Guard also sport some of the best vehicles in the game from the agile Sentinel walker, 
 to the extremely dangerous Basilisk artillery. The Imperial Guard also have such mechanized behemoths 
 as the Chimera transport, which can not only carry troops to the front lines, but defend them once 
 they get there. They also control the awesome power of the Baneblade heavy tank, which is outfitted 
 with all the heavy machine guns, lascannons, battle cannons, and other heavy weapons you can think 
 of (12 in all) . In fact, I've seen one take on two bloodthirsters at once!
  
  One major advantage the Imperial guard has is its ability to pump out squads of infantry quickly. 
 This is great for building up forces to combat the early assaults of orks and chaos. Although, 
 this advantage comes at a cost, the Imperial Guard infantry do not have very high morale because 
 they are only human soldiers. But luckily, The Imperial Guard can have many heroes at once on the 
 battle field. If the player properly complements their infantry squads with heroes, than theoretically, 
 they're morale will NEVER break.
  
  With all of these characteristics for the new race on the block, I'd say that they managed a solid 
 balance between offense and defense.
  
  The campaign is split up between the order campaign (Imperial Guard and Eldar) and the disorder 
 campaign (Chaos and Orks) with 6 missions each. All though I wont give the story away, I will say 
 that the campaign is every bit as immersive and fun as the original, all though I would like to 
 have spent more time in the campaign with he Imperial Guard.
  
  The gameplay has been bumped up even more with more maps and animations. The new maps are just 
 as good as the first with more strategic possibility, great terrain and detail in every square 
 inch. The new animations are also just as gruesome and beautiful as before. In fact, In the middle 
 of a huge battle for a critical location on the top of a plateau, I saw an Imperial Guard priest 
 knock a foe to the ground. Then he took his chain sword and started slashing and digging at his 
 enemys chest until he died.
  
  All in all, the new features and increased detail make this an extremely addictive and solid expansion 
 pack which I know I will be playing for months.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr1ms0njyhad
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  The original Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War ranks right up there with Blizzard's Warcraft series for 
 'top of the stack' in Real-Time Strategy games. This expansion adds a new campaign playable for 
 either the 'light' or 'dark' side, so to speak, as well as allowing you to control the Imperial 
 Guard in skirmishes. While I feel that the imperial guard could have used a few more unit types, 
 and a better defensive turret (as compared to the other factions/races) , they are nontheless perfectly 
 playable in multiplayer. A solid expansion and well worth the money as the average playtime addition 
 is up around 30+ hours of play time between the two story arcs for the campaign. 
  
  The only real downside is the sound. It's a little... 'off' is the only way I can explain it. There 
 is nothing blatantly 'broken' or buggy, but it just isn't in the same classification as the graphics, 
 which are quite good. Not as spectacular as Age of Empires 3 is, but still very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kives
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  it may be a expanshion pack but its cany diffrent, like the new units and the impiaral a hole new 
 race! those who havent finished it look away now its a shame that you can't be the necrons and 
 there flying fortress's. but the army painter lets you take the armys colours shove it in the bin 
 and make your self a hole new set of colours and you can also name them. but its stupid that you 
 cant be space marines exept on skirmish and when you escort the ultra marines cause everybody knows 
 space marines rule!!!!! this game is just the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingAl534
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the first game was amazing, I still play it rather religiously; but I wanted something new, 
 which is why when I heard that Winter Assault was being published I was quite thrilled. Basically, 
 the addition of the imperial guard was a mixed bag. At the beginning levels they suck, later on 
 though with the addition of reinforced squards and amazing vehicles they become a faction to be 
 reckoned with. However, they arent in the same category as the other factions, which is to say, 
 they are too conventional. The Orks, Chaos and even the Eldar are all over the top and a blast 
 to play. THe Imperial Guard were too straightforward for me. Anyway, on to the campaign. It was 
 a bit too linear, go here and do this otherwise nothing will happen or blah blah blah. I also felt 
 that it was rushed. At least with the other campaign, despite being hidiously short, there was 
 actualy buildup to the conclusion. Here, nothing is built up, there is no suspense. Oh NO the necrons 
 are coming... too bad you just kick they're asses anyway. Lame lame lame campaign... the new faction 
 though makes the game really fun despite being kind of bland 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowmunchers
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 7:48 am PT
Review:  Winter Assault is a fantastic addition to the original game. It adds new 
  missions, new units, and a bunch of rule changes, not to mention increased 
  graphical enhancements, 
 and lots of new multiplayer maps. 
  
  Firstly the new race, the Imperial Guard. There were more than a few 
  complaints that this race 
 would be too much like the Space Marines and the 
  Orks, I however heartily disagree and find they are a very unique playing 
  experience. Sure 
 they used mass infantry like the Orks but they relie far more 
  on their tanks. Their infantry is not even close to as strong as the Orks, except 
  for the Ogryns. 
 
  
  There are now two different campaigns. One for the side of good, or order, 
  which involves the Eldar and Imperial Guard and the other for the side of evil 
  or disorder 
 involving the Orks and Chaos. Unfortunately there are only 5 
  missions per side, and the difficulty ramps up far too quickly for most. 
  
  However in reality 
 you wouldnt buy this just for the campaigns you want the 
  new race and all the new multiplayer maps as this is where this game really 
  shines. Relic made 
 changes in the hopes of allowing players to get up the tech 
  tree faster, and it seems to have worked. However if you have not installed 
  any of the patches 
 be prepared for a quite different game when you first start 
  to play after installing Winter Assault. I find that even the AI in skirmish has 
  been improved. 
 All in all this is a great expansion. Go buy it now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fhelvie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War was probably one of the most refreshing and visually exciting RTS 
 and overall PC games of 2004. The follow up expansion, Winter Assault, seems to be of the same 
 vein. 
  
  Visually, this game brings added depth and vibrant actions sequences to the player complete with 
 more detailed battle responses when units attack, a la finishing maneuvers. While you don't personally 
 execute them, it still makes for a nice show when zoomed in close.
  
  The Imperial Guard plays well enough- though perhaps it might have better served the game if a 
 more dynamic and unique race had been chosen, i. e. Tau, Tyranids, etc. Still, the IG is faithfully 
 represented here, and makes for a good addition to the series. With the success of Dawn of War, 
 it would only make sense that future expansions with new races be included in the series. I thoroughly 
 enjoyed having access to the Basilisks (Heavy Artillery units) and being able to soundly pummel 
 my enemy from the other side of the board. Additionally, the IG's ability to traverse the board 
 through their tunneling networks was a great added extra. 
  
  In all, while you might not have found this to be a revolutionary expansion, it delivers the same 
 rock solid punch that Dawn of War did complete with awe-inspiring graphics, dynamic and captivating 
 storyline, and more than one's fair share of bloods, guts, and explosives. A MUST for any true 
 RTS or Warhammer fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_basic
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:15 am PT
Review:  As a Warhammer 40,000 fan, I have been looking forward to Winter Assault for a while now, but also 
 dreading it, as we all know what tends to happen with expansion packs, they're usually sloppy, 
 disapointing, and a waste of money. You'll be pleased to know then that DoW:- WA does indeed excel 
 at what it does, which is to add more depth, action and content to an already great game
  
  The emphasis this time around is on the Imperial Guard, the ground pounding "grunts" of the 41st 
 millenium. It is their job to do the day to day fighting (and dying) in the Emperors name, and 
 although they are after all just cannon fodder compared to Space Marines, their greater numbers 
 mean that you can still win the day. I won't go into the story itself, it would only spoil it, 
 but needless to say it's suitable
  
  The Imperial Guard units have a suitably different feel to them when you play them, and more emphasis 
 is placed on buildings this time around, as bunkers allow the transfer of units from one part of 
 the map to another (with a small time delay) which represents tunnel networks that span the battlefields. 
 There's a definate WWII feel about the characters, as a new Commissar unit allows the execution 
 of retreating soldiers under his command, which has a rather impressive affect on the rest of the 
 soldiers!
  
  The game is definately more difficult this time around, and the fights are generally on a much 
 larger scale. You'll also swap between races during each level, from Guard to Eldar for instance, 
 which is all part of the storyline and helps to turns the game away from an average RTS
  
  As an extra addition, each side of the original DoW also gets an extra unit to fight with. While 
 these are great to see, I would have liked to have seen at least 2 units extra rather than just 
 the one, especially as the 40,000 universe has more than enough to choose from
  
  I do have to say though, there is a mod already out there created by fans of the original Dawn 
 of War which implemented quite a lot of the Imperial Guard units, plus adds to the Space marine 
 units, so it does make me think that more could have been added by the developers to set it apart 
 a little more
  
  To finish off then, I would highly recommend the game. THQ and Games Workshop have obviously put 
 a lot of effort into the series, and it's by far the most sucessful of the Warhammer 40,000 games 
 to date. If you've not got it, go out an buy it. If you don't have either of the games, you can 
 pick up the double pack now in store, which includes all the patches to date 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 10, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  great expantion pack :D mission (s) is too short but its still great! well worth the money spent 
 on both dow and now dow winter :D 
  
  if your looking for a good RTS game dow is the game for it!! i cant wait for the next set of expantion 
 packs they plan to bring out :D i can see Dow beating out AOE as the longest running rts on the 
 market!!! :D
  
  just wish they had put in a longer mission set up. the chaos/loyalist missions are too short only 
 been playing it off and on for about 2days and i'm almost finished : ( not like the first dow which 
 took longer :/
  
  hopefully they add more missions to the next stuff :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death-Moneo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It got very good graphics. Its a really interesting game, ive got the demo. 
 Its kinda sad that i dont have the full :- ( . But Its a VERY, VERY, VERY Good Game. I recomend 
 it for RTS fans and other guy's.
  ;-) But the music is very interesting. By the way, this game is maded by a table top game named: 
 WARHAMMER 40.000. The Table Top is really interesting like the game. Its really good. In the table 
 top there is more races, but there is more buildings, units and more stuff than from that game! 
 But the game is REALLY, REALLY , REALLY FANTASTIC. I really recomend for all. LOL, but dont forget 
 that this game is rated by the letter M (mature, blood) . I WANT TO SAY THAT "WARHAMMER 40.000" 
 IS THE BEST RTS GAMES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lapogo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  It is no doubt the release of Winter Assault made many of Dawn of War's fans rejoice at it adds 
 a new race to play with as well as tweak the game's system such as tech trees and etc. However 
 not all changes will favor some players as they will be forced to change their strategy due to 
 the current update such as the tweaked tech tree. 
  
  The game also offers new campaign that allows you to play either the Order Campaign in which you 
 play as the Imperial Guard & Eldar or the Disorder Campaign that consists of the Orks & Chaos Space 
 Marines. Unlike the original Dawn of War Campaign of the Blood Raven Space Marines it is somwhat 
 no longer linear as there are choices to be made in game which changes the end result of the campaign 
 yet it come out quite short.
  
  Nevertheless the game favors the multiplayer feature even more as it adds several new maps to toy 
 around with in both online and offline. Practicing offline can offer you tough challenge as playing 
 on the hardest difficulty can easliy prove punishing if players turtle within defenses or who dont 
 micromanage precisely. Make no mistake that yes most RTS are feared as speed games especially online 
 when most players (especially professionals) rush immediately. Saving recorded games and analyzing 
 it can however fix your strategy since the game allows you to record your previous battles.
  
  WInter Assault definitely is a must have for those who loved the original DoW as well as fans 
 of the popular tabetop game as they may finally see some of their favorite armies finally alive 
 along with a fantastic soundtrack by Inon Zur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varik
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 1, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The new units added to Winter Assault add a lot more color of the 40k universe to the game. They 
 have pretty good voice work and animations, plus add some nice twists to the armies. Fire Dragons 
 really do a siginificant ammount of damage to vehicals and buildings, and berzerkers can tie up 
 enemy units for a while while the chaos troops pound stuff from behind. The Chaplian is great just 
 on principle, and it's always good to have another powerful marine running around boppin people 
 on the head. Ork Nobz in armor are very tough, and do quite a lot in H2H. Relic delivered on all 
 promises of these new units.
  
  The best addition, I feel, is the Imperial Guard. But with so many user-made mods out there, they 
 are not entirely new to the community. They are VERY similar to the Steel Legion Mod that just 
 became available. I actually have a theory that the Steel Legion was done on the side of one of 
 the game's programers, and is a Steel Legion 40k player. Very very similar. The tech priest has 
 the best voice work as he is incredbly arrogant.
  
  The tech tree has been changed, leading to a "Re-mixed" version of DoW. The same process of building 
 your army from DoW will not work very well here. The AI has been changed up a bit, making it, I 
 think, harder. I am having a hard time winning against the CPU in skirmishes, but then again, I 
 don't have much time to get good at these games. In skirmish games, you will find early "double-team" 
 rushes, and find yourself holding off two growing armies on your own. I almost always watch my 
 ally get crushed in the first minute of playing. Kinda takes a lot away from the game if you're 
 looking forward to building up the high-tech units, as the games are short from just being overwhelmed 
 early. Rather frustrating, but that's just me. I'm not an online player, but I imagine these changes 
 will greatly benefit the online community. 
  
  In the end, I'm rather impressed with everything they've done. The storey line, again, can get 
 a little sappy and overly-dramatic in the campaign. I have a hard time listening to the commissar 
 sound like a side-kick when in the 40k world they'd have no regrets to executing a general as easily 
 as a solider. But that's just 20 years of 40k coming out there... 
  
  All I can say negative, is i'd like to see the AI tweaked a bit for single player skirmish games. 
 I find "Easy" pointless to play as they do pretty much nothing. The worst you'll face is 2 building 
 and a handful of scout units... And "standard" get ready for early double team rushes and heavy 
 armor within a matter of minutes. But then again, maybe that's just because I suck.
  
  I'm left with a feeling of hoping this isn't the last upgrade... I'd like to see the necrons be 
 a playable army in the next upgrade, as well as another army. But then again, the modding community 
 is doing such an incredible job... I've been suggesting DoW and WA to people just for what the 
 user-modders are doing. 
  
  Hope this is helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jango4000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 29, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of war is a classic game with a fast paced ,to the point combat, with a big on-line communtiy. 
 The game is based on the table top batle game warhammer 40k of which I am a big fan :) . So when 
 the expasion came out, the forum community went berserk and rightly so the expasion --winter assualt -- 
 adds a fantasic double sided campian which tells the same story from 2 views 1 being order (imperial 
 guard and eldar) the other dis-order (orks and chaos.) and adds a new army that being imperial 
 guard.
  
  The campain lasts 5 missions on either side it is based around the defence of an imperial titian 
 forged in Mars with a supprise at the end!?! its has plenty on game time and a resonable amount 
 of depth -at least more then the first- 
  
  The new army Imperial guard is more of a novice army though if you master it proves a hard army 
 to defeat, with very effective ranged combat with bassilsk arty and leamon russ tanks
  ''soz if thats spelt wrong'' the infantry are weak with few exceptions, priests and ogryns are 
 the most effective in close range. Its super weapon is the massive baneblade which can lay waste 
 to a whole army if given some support.
  
  Other features are :
  
  New maps 
  the new maps are mainly snow maps with added FX features in them for instance in some maps it snows/rains 
 and in options you can put on persistant bodies so you can see where a massive battle has ocurred. 
 
  
  Changes to tech trees
  For instance you need to upgrade your machine cult if you play as space marrines to get the landraider, 
 this is because people were playing games just with the tech lv 1 units and ambushing other players 
 early
  
  New units added
  Each of the classic armies now have 1 new unit added Orks have orks in 'evy armour ''these are 
 the terminator version of orks strong but slow''
  Space marrines get the chaplin ''a hero type unit'' Eldar get the fire dragons ''these are good 
 against armour makeing eldar more well rounded and finaly chaos get korn bersekrs which are very 
 good in close combat.
  
  
  New sync kills
  new units more awsome moves for the animation team to work on the new and old units have new sync 
 kills '' where 1 unit kills another with some rele kl move is the only way I can describe them.''my 
 fav is when the priest drills his chainsaw into some pour souls belly.
  
  But this game is not perfect it does not for instance improve graphics engine ''mainly cuz its 
 not a NEW game just an expasion'' some armies have been made worse by these changes for instance 
 chaos recieve no effective anti-tank weapons till they get a preditor 
  outfitted with lasguns. Units sometimes get confused when moving around buildings.
  
  All in 
 all this game is ESSENTIAL if you are a die hard dawn of war fanatic since a large amount of the 
 gameing community will be upgrading to this its new army and campian given dawn of war a lift it 
 needed before it faded out of interest the expasion will please die hards and hopefully captivate 
 new players to give this classice RTS a try.
  
  Written By Jango4000 (aka HolyHoBo, Squrriel_Food)
  
  Inpsired by the Pirates who dont do anything 
 ''those who have never licked a spark plug''
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryrock
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 24, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Warhammer 40,000 fans all over the world breathed a sigh of relief when Warhammer 40,000: Dawn 
 of War was released. Where the past games in the table-top game's history did terrible, Dawn of 
 War was excellent, and was even on-par with some of the more popular RTS games of it's time.
  
  A year later, Relic Entertainment announced the expansion pack to their great RTS game. Fans 
 of the first game immediately became excited. But would it be worth the wait?
  
  The answer is simple: Yes. There's so much new content in Winter Assault that it seems like a new 
 game in itself! Not only does it add a whole new race to the game, but it also adds four new units 
 (one for each of the original races) , a handful of new single-player missions, new sound effects 
 and music, and even a new tech tree for balance!
  
  I'll start by commenting on the new race: The Imperial Guard. These guys are unique to the game 
 as, where the original four races were offensive-based, this new one is defensive-based. That means 
 you'll be dishing out the Guards' variety of defense mechanisms before you get the big boys out... the 
 big boys being tons of really cool tanks. 
  
  The Guard starts out with weak units, but as they move up the tech tree, they get access to bigger, 
 badder, machine-oriented units. An example of one is the Hellhound, which spews out a line of blistering 
 flames from it's main gun. Eventually, if you can take the attacks the enemy tries to pull on you, 
 you can dish out the Guards' biggest unit. This "Baneblade" tank is enormous, dwarfing other tanks 
 and enemy units, and is mounted with what seems like an endless array of weaponry. Overall, they're 
 a great race to play for their variety of tactics.
  
  The four new units also add a lot more to the game than you think. The Space Marine Chaplain helps 
 boost the power of their battle brothers, and the Ork Mega-Armored Nob takes a massive amount of 
 damage before getting to the enemy and bashing them to bits! All these units add something which 
 their race lacked in the original game; For example, the Eldar were weak against vehicles before 
 their new unit, the Firedragons, were put into play. Now they can easily take down attacking vehicles 
 and enemy buildings.
  
  The campaign is also great. You can choose to command the armies of Order (Imperial Guard, Eldar) 
 or the armies of Disorder (Chaos, Orks) . Both campaigns have an opposite view of scenarios and 
 both are fun to play. One Disorder mission pits your Chaos army hunting down Imperial Guardsmen 
 to sacrifice in the name of the Chaos God Khorne, and another mission has you uniting Ork clans 
 as the Warboss. All are varieted in their own way.
  
  The graphics are still top-notch and a lot of care was clearly put into it. When massive battles 
 are taking place, you can zoom in on the action and get a close view of what's going on, and actually 
 see vicious excecution moves performed by your units. You can tweak certain files, however, which 
 allows for top graphical enhancement. Such a huge increase in the graphics could've been made a 
 little more clear by the developers.
  
  On the negative side, however, there is little to say. The voice acting is still a little bit on 
 the rough side and you are still susceptible to early game rushes. One of the best of the games 
 voices, though, the Chaos Lord, has been changed to a totally different form. Some players like 
 the change and some don't, but so far, there is no tweak available to change it back to what it 
 once was. One of the promised features known as the Kill-Cam (which allowed you to get a closer 
 view of all the excecutions going on around the battlefield) is not present in the current form 
 of the game. Hopefully, this will be fixed. Still, with all this aside, Winter Assault would've 
 been a perfect expansion.
  
  It's clearly something special when an expansion pack adds this much content to the original game. 
 An expansion like this is on-par with Starcraft's Brood War and Warcraft's Frozen Throne expansion. 
 Though it will likely never be as renowned as those two RTS hits, it still deserves a spot in gaming 
 history for the most massive expansion pack ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roffkaiser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2005 4:51 am PT
Review:  The expansions has been an outstanding success on all levels that i can see, with the addition 
 of better graphic selections, new units, better story, a new race, and revamped balence system. 
 Everything to make a fan happy and to bring new players to the franchise is there and i feel that 
 this is a winning addition to the Dawn of War series.
  
  In the graphics section they have added several things that you can enhance your gameplay with, 
 such as allowing bodies, blood, and things of that matter to stay on the battlefield. Also they 
 have enhanced the immersion factor with the IG squads by giving them different looking guardsmen. 
 This is a great addition to any RTS game, instead of having "one hundred clones of the same guy" 
 as it is in many games.
  
  The gameplay is as solid as ever, but now the Imperial guard round out things with a more defensive 
 style. Before it was almost nothing but "ATTACK! ATTACK! ATTACK!" now a little more strategy is 
 thrown in the mix with players able to actually defend in games. Hopefully this will make artillery 
 seen more in combat and in multiplayer. Also the game is balanced out with the tech trees better 
 so it isn't such a one sided battle for some races, and impossible to play orks. Everything is 
 a possibility now!
  
  The single player, i haven't had much time to delve into but so far is great, and an overall improvement 
 over the first games.
  
  The Multiplayer is where all the action is as any player of the series knows, and it is in this 
 aspect that Dawn of War: Winter Assault shines. With the new balancing and another race in the mix, 
 battles are more fierce, longer, and more diverse. This adds to the fun factor, and also makes 
 it feasible to actually play what race you want to and actually win. (no more eldar sided wins)
 
  
  All in all this is a great addition to the franchise, and if you already own the first one you 
 are shaming yourself not to buy this. If you don't own the first one but like RTS games or want 
 to try something new i strongly suggest this game to you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
