-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warhammer: Mark of Chaos - Battle March
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warhammerbattlemarch/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Broad story includes new races like orcs and dark elves.
 Mostly accurate depiction of units from the tabletop game.
 New World Domination multiplayer mode is a step in the right direction.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Merely recycles the original Mark of Chaos campaign.
 Linear campaign loaded with many dull missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.5, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 151 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 2, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A new campaign featuring orcs and dark elves is the only noteworthy addition in this expansion for 
 Warhammer: Mark of Chaos. 

  Do you like orcs? That's the main question you need to ask when contemplating a purchase of Warhammer: 
 Mark of Chaos - Battle March, as this expansion-plus-original-game combo package includes no extra 
 content except for one new campaign featuring everybody's favorite green-skinned goons. You get 
 the exact same real-time strategy take on the dark Warhammer fantasy universe released back at 
 the end of 2006, along with an additional dozen or so hours of play tacked on to fill out an epic 
 saga about a war between the religious fanatics of the Empire and the evil Hordes of Chaos. Still, 
 you would expect a little more than just a single new campaign from an add-on hitting store shelves 
 a full two years down the line, and hope for more serious work to address some of the original 
 game's shortcomings.  

  The biggest issue with the Empire and Chaos campaigns in the original Mark of Chaos was the linear 
 nature of everything. Both army management and the missions themselves were big-time blah and practically 
 played themselves. The Empire's noble troops and Chaos' evil monsters followed a straight path 
 through the text-told (aside from the amazing opening cinematic showing an Empire patrol being 
 waylaid by Chaos warriors) storyline, going from one battle to another on a tactical map screen 
 so dark that you could barely make out the terrain. Strategic depth was almost nonexistent when 
 it came to building your armies. Because there were no resources to gather or bases to build, all 
 you did was fight and make the occasional pit stop to buy supplies, buff armies with new weapons 
 and armor, and pick up magical doodads for your heroes. Intense battlefield combat based on a superb 
 re-creation of the Warhammer tabletop game's units and brutally gothic atmosphere made up for some 
 of these shortcomings, although the missions themselves played out on linear maps striped with 
 narrow paths that led you by the hand to each goal. Soldiers themselves were easy to lead as well, 
 as all you had to worry about was keeping their morale up, choosing from a couple of basic formations 
 and dealing with the usual rock-paper-scissors formula to determine what units worked best against 
 others. You sure didn't need to do a whole lot of thinking, which tied the game to an anchor that 
 you got bored with lugging around after seven or eight missions.          Orc armies feature a 
 few nifty siege units, like the comely tall gentleman here.      

  So you can understand how adding more of the same to that could be seen as disappointing. The new 
 campaign, which throws a greenskin army of orcs and goblins being manipulated by the dark elves 
 into the original two-sided tale of a Chaos invasion of the Empire, is a straight-up rehash of 
 its two predecessors. It plays and feels a lot like the original game's Chaos campaign, with the 
 same focus on the bad guys and a lot of very similar, if not identical, units. You might find it 
 a little hard to get jazzed up about leading orc and goblin armies, since parts of both were already 
 present in the original Mark of Chaos campaigns as greenskin mercenaries. Of course, you now also 
 get the dark elves and a memorable new lead character in the orc war boss hero Gorbash. But the 
 sunscreen-loving elves don't show up in the campaign right away, so for a good while you'll be 
 left feeling as if you've played this game before. Also, Gorbash's repetitive "Me smash!" Cockney 
 musings will get on your nerves after a half hour or so.  

  Even more annoying is the repetitive design of the battle scenarios. If anything, the new orc campaign 
 in Battle March is more linear than its predecessors. Every map requires you to guide your forces 
 down a narrow pathway to mission goals, battling ever-growing enemy battalions along the way in 
 what soon turns into a battle of attrition. Early scraps are always cakewalks, although you'll 
 generally take just enough losses in each one that you'll find yourself running low on manpower 
 by the time you reach the inevitable big fight at each scenario's conclusion. Along with being 
 pretty tedious, this sort of structure can also totally screw you in the overall campaign progress. 
 It's very, very easy to survive a mission with just a handful of troops, leaving you unable to 
 take on the next assignment with even the faintest hope of success. Buying reinforcements is always 
 possible between battles, of course, but you don't earn enough gold during fights to afford to 
 completely replace units lost if your casualties were relatively high. You can't save during missions, 
 either, which means that you often get to the very end of the road and then discover that you don't 
 have a chance of winning or finishing with enough troops to continue on. Big fun.  

  Increasing your survival rate is very difficult, too. Some maps are laid out like puzzles. Take 
 one turn and you head off to certain death, but take another and you'll run into gangs of orc boyz 
 eager to join up with your main army. There is rarely any way to tell which way to go, as all routes 
 look the same. A tip occasionally pops up onscreen letting you know that a certain part of the 
 map would be worth taking a look at, although this generally directs you to hero items and other 
 loot -- not the smartest way to proceed through the scenario. You often wind up playing campaign 
 maps two or three times to learn them before having a chance to beat them. Battle March battles 
 are also very fast, and as with the original game there's no way to turn down the speed settings 
 or even pause the action to dish out orders. It is just about impossible to assume full tactical 
 control over units during larger-scale battles; all you can do is aim your battalions in the right 
 direction and hope that you come out on the other side of the fight with as few corpses to bury 
 as possible. Battlefields are also narrow and confined for the most part, and this sure doesn't 
 help with army control. Unless you're dealing with just a few units, engagements inevitably turn 
 into chaotic mash-ups where it is hard to tell what's going on, let alone make any orders to turn 
 the tide or complete the vanquishing of a foe. Heroes are the only units that you can really focus 
 on managing, due to their lone-star status on battlefields, nifty ability with spells and various 
 sorts of arcane artifacts, and their solo presence in the man-to-man duels with enemy heroes that 
 can figure into many missions.  

           Don't mess with Gorbash!      

  One thing Battle March does have going for it is charisma. Lots of charisma. Like its big brother 
 Mark of Chaos, the re-creation of the Warhammer tabletop game here is pretty much stellar. While 
 the game isn't a hardcore wargame and so lacks the tactical depth of its 1:64-scale cousin, units 
 look as though they've been painted by a miniatures master. It is very hard for a Games Workshop 
 fan to suppress glee at seeing orc boyz, dark elf cold ones, witch elves, half-naked dark elf sorceresses, 
 and the like shedding blood for "real" here. Backgrounds are suitably bleak, a perfect fit for 
 this infamously harsh fantasy setting that is all war, all the time. All that said, there is nothing 
 here that looks good enough to warrant the absurdly long level loading times. That little problem 
 from the original Mark of Chaos is back in Battle March, and it's just as bad as ever. The soundtrack 
 by leading game composer Jeremy Soule also returns in all its glory, adding a martial intensity 
 to the battlefield that serves as a terrific counterpart to the clashing of swords and shields. 

  Multiplayer further evokes traditional Warhammer battles, thanks in large part to the core game's 
 Create Army option. Being able to custom-outfit any one of the game's six factions (Empire, Chaos, 
 high elf, dark elf, orcs and goblins, and skaven) and go online for duels with other human players 
 gets right to the heart of what Warhammer is all about. This expansion doesn't add a great deal 
 in this regard, however. The new world domination mode of play is a nice amenity where you battle 
 it out for control of multiple domains on a tactical map, but it really amounts to nothing more 
 than fighting through a linked series of skirmishes and gets monotonous fairly fast. It does at 
 least offer bonuses that add some strategic depth to the tactical screen, as you receive faction 
 boosts like enhanced gold production and buffed morale for troops when conquering certain territories. 

  Warhammer: Mark of Chaos - Battle March is for dedicated fans only. Its depiction of the sinister 
 Warhammer Old World fantasy setting is remarkably true to the tabletop game, but the gameplay feels 
 a little past its best-by date due to the continuing disappointment of the bland campaign structure 
 and mission design.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lord_migit
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Mark of Chaos, Battle March Review.
  
  
  Ok its been a while since Iv done a proper review, but here is my best attempt at reviewing Mark 
 of Chaos Battle March. Before we get started I need to state to my readers that I dont revierw 
 like most people on the internet, as I find the majority of people are extremest reviews. I consider 
 an average game to be an average score 5/10. Were as most people would consider this a bad score 
 it is perfectly average. So without further ado.
  
  Graphics 6.7:
  The graphics on the first game were very good for their time, and my graphics card at the time 
 was barely capable of running the game, however with the expansion Battle March, a year and half 
 later, there was not much of an improvement of graphics and while still being reasonable good they 
 were not as good for their time. The graphics are very shiny and the bloom effect is nice, however 
 I have some issue with the "shinyness" of the game, sometimes it you will find that the ground 
 and your units are just a bit too bloomed. There is too much reflection of light back at the use 
 and while not as bad Cossacks 2, it can still get quite annoying at times. Other than that the 
 graphics are good, the camera is well done and easily controlled, I would have liked a little more 
 zooming function but its hardly qualifies as a bad point against the game. The scenery is good 
 and uses some impressive models, although I felt it could have been a little more detailed in the 
 sense that a lot of the battlefields did not show much sign of having ever been encountered by 
 man or orc.
  
  Story 5.0
  There was an attempt at a story but I found that the it just wasn't gripping enough and well this 
 will be covered in the immersive section, it is worth mentioning. It felt far too linier and much 
 too matter of fact to be a good story. Warhammer has a wealth of background lore and history to 
 have made a much more interesting story without too much effort. However it served its purpose 
 adequately and while I am very partial to a good story, I try not to penilize too much, as I know 
 my judgement can be harsh. The story as it stands has reasonable character development and is completed 
 sufficiently at the end of the game.
  
  Sound 7.1:
  The sound was one of the better parts of the game, the battle sounds were good and made for a good 
 action feeling. There is a soundtrack disk that is supplied with the first game if you bought the 
 collectors edition, it has all the music of the first game and is quite enjoyable. The soundtrack 
 in the game itself was good and did a fair amount to get the blood pumping and enhance the immersion 
 of the game.
  
  Gameplay + Immersion 3.7:
  The game play was smooth and reasonably well implemented in battle, the controls were well done 
 and in general its sound. However outside battle is were my main gripe with the game comes, this 
 is part story and part gameplay. The whole game was far far to linyer, this was excessively obvious 
 in the first game, and the expansion did nothing to elevate it. Even linearity can be countered 
 with fooling the player that there appears to be a great deal of difference between the battles 
 and the gameplay, and the tactics needed to play the game. A good example of this was the predecessor 
 to this game Dark Omen, which although linier never gave the impression that it was so. The battles 
 were different and the game was hard enough that every battle had to be contemplated in a different 
 way. Mark of chaos however does not even seem like it aspires to achieve this. The battles are 
 incredible easy, throwing one or two units at you at once. This means that your whole army will 
 have no difficulty in dispatching the slow stream of enemy forces that come your way. Never while 
 playing the game did I have to consider re-playing a battle because I had lost too many units. 
 This meant that the game felt way to straight forward, this is boosted by the fact that each battlefield 
 isn't sufficiently different from the last.
  So the total effect is that it could have even kept its linearity and still been a lot better game 
 had the developers considered making the game harder and the scenery and each battle tactically 
 different, making the player use their brain.
  
  Finishing points:
  The game has some replayability with the multiplayer option and the different campaigns but in 
 general this game was kinda a let down. Its good for playing your mates online if you don't have 
 the total war games or prefer them with orcs and dark elves. After I finished this game I rummaged 
 through my old games box and found my copy of Dark Omen. I then spent the next week playing that. 
 Which despite the fact that I have played it several times before I found it a lot more enjoyable. 
 This game is worth playing if you like a nice easy battle against fantasy armies and is a definite 
 improvement over the original game that was bugged and glitchy and had obscene loading times. But 
 ultimately its not very immersive and lack substance, go play Dark Omen.
  
  Lord_Migit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_hunger
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  I really like the potential of this game. If the developers had put a bit more effort into this, 
 this series could go toe-to-toe with the best strategy games out there. Of course, the problem 
 is that the effort was a half-hearted one. I personally do not regret the purchase, but I do hope 
 that Namco will give up the Warhammer license and allow another developer/publisher to have a crack 
 at it.
  
  First, the good things. The game looks great. A lot of care has been taken in the making of models 
 and environments. The gritty Warhammer world comes out clearly in the visuals. The voice acting 
 is pretty good as well. I like the hero dynamics and the big battles, even though they have a chaotic 
 mob feel to them. The game ships with a number of maps, so you can play skirmishes after finishing 
 the campaign, which is focused on the two new races (orcs and dark elves) . I found the game to 
 be very stable on my computer, which is not always the case with PC games nowadays.
  
  Okay, the stuff that I didn't like. Where to begin: Unit animations, while improved over the original 
 game, still do not give you the sense that visceral combat is taking place. Also, there is a lack 
 of gameplay modes in single-player (just the campaign and skirmish) . While the campaign is decent, 
 it is quite hard in several missions, even on the normal difficulty level. And you cannot save 
 the game within a mission. Thus, if you fail a mission (and you will) , you have to start over. 
 A map editor did not ship with the game, thus modding is not really supported. The game just feels 
 a bit sterile and empty in other ways that are hard to describe. 
  
  After having played games such as Battle for Middle Earth 2 and Dawn of War, this game left me 
 frustrated about all of its unrealized potential. The developer has not been known for releasing 
 many patches or providing other support, so I do not imagine that the game will be improved upon 
 in the future.
  
  If you liked the original game (Mark of Chaos) , Battle March is more of the same. There is not 
 much here for those, like me, who primarily play single-player beyond the campaign. The game can 
 be played on-line, but I am not sure that there's much of a community. In sum, there are better 
 strategy games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  after going through the 1st few missions.. i had quite high hopes for this.. it was fun at first 
 then.. it hits me in the back of my head.. this is all about kicking the enemy's rear.. there is no 
 tactical strategy in many ways.. its just fighting and fighting.. which after the first chapter, 
 you'll get extremely bored and feel like sleeping..
  
  yeah.. and most of the items are basically USELESS especially the units siege weapons.. it basically 
 does nothing good.. you could just get yourself some siege weapons and pound the walls from afar 
 then buying bombs and ladders and killing your men just to get thru the walls.. but then again.. it 
 is also meaning-less to go thru that kind of battle.. everything is meaning-less in the game.. there 
 are cool things since its graphics and its opening movie is spectacular.. can't even say anything 
 about it anymore.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyten
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  I am one of those gamers who buy incredible amount of RTS and play fair amount of the game to get 
 the feel for them. Series like Blizzardcraft, Total war, Kingdom under fire, Mircosoft's Age and 
 Rise of nation series are my commonly played games. While I dabble around games like spell force, 
 moon project, dungeon and dragons: dragon shard, TBFME I and II. 
  
  It might be just me not played too much total war (40+ hours) , but seeing Warhammer: battle march 
 getting 6 for the score feel bit shameful from the press. Here is my break down pros and cons
 
  
  Pro:
  
  
  New stuff is a welcome addition.
  If you like Green skins (orcs and Goblins) or the vile dark elves, then you need not search no further. 
 This game comes with new beginning Intro cut scene unlike other expansion, and has all the cinematic 
 just for the new races. So you can expect to see some great cut scenes plus new mission for the 
 new races. Considering most expansion never come out with new intro this is a extra plus in my 
 book, and hopefully other gaming dev team can learn from this game.
  
  Visually Stunning!
  I really enjoy games that have eye candies and are beautiful to watch. This 
 games has one of the best looking visuals to date for RTS genre. When you zoom into your squard, 
 you can clearly see units are varied and detailed. Grass in close up looks lush and vast, while 
 water looks good enough to drink from my monitor. Buildings are modelled in medevil or renaissance 
 architechture, and they seem grim and dank like the true warhammer fantasy should look like. Everything 
 in the visual adds to the realism of the Warhammer fantasy universe.
  
  Sound like a true winner!
  I am one of those critics who must have good sound in his movies and 
 games. A poorly made sound is a half asses job in any commercial or fine art of our digital age 
 of mediums. I'm going seperate sound in 3 categlories. 
  
  -sound
  every arrow, gun fire, thunder clash, and scream sounds fitting and the artistic value is heard 
 when played in the game.
  
  -music
  When I hear music for this game it actually adds to the suspension of disbelief. It has a fitting 
 orchestra to the grim universe of warhammer fantasy
  
  -Dialogue
  Every spoken speech and spoken dialogue feels right on the mark, and nothing feels wrong or mis 
 spoken. Expression of speech is well woven with political and carnage of warhammer realm. The script 
 writer/s real did awesome job of Green skins cunning and dumbing of their ilk. every spoken words 
 felt believable.
  
  overall quality sound
  Sound, music and dialogue is the very core of gaming and battle march did more than hit my expectation 
 of conveying it's story and action of the world of warhammer.
  
  Single player is facinating with stories, while retaining some element of RPG!
  Through out the 
 whole game you control few sqaud and a hero or heroes, but can gain armors, weapons, and more squad 
 in villages after the campaign. Most of the campaign starts out with simply destroy your enemies, 
 but the stories make the campaign worh while, and makes me want to progress to the next mission 
 or objectives. While the mission feels simple minded, it is a welcoming to the ever growing complexity 
 of RTS genre. While the mission objective seem linear, you can diverge to other unknown location 
 to find more allies or secret location to get healings. One thing I didn't understand about the 
 review critic of gamespot was "everyhing was linear." When there are optional location to play 
 or avoid in some campaign, how is it really linear? I almost get the feeling the critic just whimsed 
 this game just for the sake of reviewing.
  
  Cons
  My only complaint of this game is that I was hoping to see all 6 campaign for each factions rather 
 than empire with highelf, choas with skaven or green skin with dark elves.
  
  While simple mission objectives like defending castles or camps, razing the enemy territories or 
 killing off enemy leader in a duel. I still think the simple manner of the game is a plus to this 
 game, not a con in my opinion. 
  
  I hope people who like RTS would give a chance to Battle March, since it does come with original 
 and the expansion together, and it is a great bargin with $40 dollar price tag. Hopefully mark 
 of choas will have all the races of warhammer fantasy universe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justicefriends
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  Game reviewed: Mark of Chaos Battle March (PC)
  
  (Mostly agreed with Gamespot review)
  
  Visuals: 
  Good, mostly same as Mark of Chaos. Improvements include faster pace of battle, 
 so that battles actually look more exciting now. Units charging seem to have more of a visual impact 
 too (regiment runs faster, more units fall over when charged at) .
  Unfortunately, castles/cities/towns still look rather bland.
  
  Audio: 
  Same as Mark of 
 Chaos. Nothing noteworthy, but not horrible.
  
  Gameplay: 
  Faster pace of battle. Makes things less boring.
  Unit attributes and abilities displayed and 
 explained in "unit profile", so that you now know what each unit has or is capable of (eg. giantslayer, 
 skirmish etc) .
  
  New units for existing races:
  Empire mortar
  High elf white lions
  Chaos marauder horsemen
  Skaven plague priest
  
  Unfortunately, the single player campaign 
 remains boring, as described by Gamespot.
  
  General conclusion:
  I gave this a rating of 8 because it really does improve the gameplay of the original Mark of Chaos. 
 In fact, this is how I feel that the minimum standard of the original game should have been.
  The main improvement is the faster game pace, which really makes a big difference (it often felt 
 very boring in the original game) . It makes events actually look more like real battles. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
