-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warlords Battlecry II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warlordsbattlecry2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 12, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 348 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Strategic Studies
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Mar 11, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warlords Battlecry II's many playable factions, persistent heroes, and dynamic campaign are innovative 
 elements on top of a solid real-time strategy game. 

 When the Warlords series of turn-based strategy games became popular in the early '90s, there was 
 something novel about setting a fairly serious, heavily stats-driven conquest game in a world of 
 swords and sorcery. In the decade since, there's been a profusion of strategy games that have borrowed 
 fantasy trappings to decorate gameworlds of varying originality. The original Warlords games always 
 focused less on story or flashy graphics than on strategic gameplay and risky combat between monstrous 
 units. It's in this way that Warlords Battlecry II can be considered a true real-time heir to the 
 series. It expands on the foundations of the original Warlords Battlecry with a dynamic campaign 
 for conquest, even more playable factions than the original, a new titan unit type, and other gameplay 
 intricacies. But the best part about this sequel is still the RPG-like hero development that so 
 distinguished Warlords Battlecry from other real-time strategy games.           The undead and 
 daemons make for interesting additions to the game.    

  The Warlords Battlecry games' unique feature is that they let you create and control a persistent 
 hero character who gains experience from one battle to the next, specializing in one of many classes 
 and gaining spells and skills in the process. The hero is the essential unit in every battle, not 
 only because of its powerful combat and magical capabilities, but also because of its ability to 
 capture resources, build structures, and give command bonuses to nearby troops. Heroes start out 
 weak and can progress up to level 50, so there's quite a lot of work before heroes come into their 
 own as a major force on the battlefield. If the hero dies, it's still possible to win a scenario 
 or skirmish, though when you create a hero, you choose one of four modes that determine the penalty 
 for dying, ranging from no penalty at all through experience penalties and permanent death.   

 
  While developing a hero is slow going at first, Warlords Battlecry II rewards patient character 
 building. The good news is that heroes really are persistent. You can carry a hero over from the 
 single-player campaign into skirmishes and even into open multiplayer games. The lure of gaining 
 levels is a good motivator for pushing through the dynamic campaign, and you have a number of options 
 when building a hero. From the second level, heroes specialize in one of four standard classes: 
 warrior, priest, rogue, or wizard. From there, there are subclasses, each with particular abilities, 
 including assassination skills and eight schools of magic. As you might expect from a game in the 
 Dungeons &amp; Dragons tradition, the race of your hero determines which class options are available. 
 But the overall profusion of choices means that such restrictions actually just help clear out 
 some of the lesser possibilities.   

  There are plenty of units to back a hero on the battlefield. The original Warlord Battlecry had 
 nine playable factions, and the sequel adds three more to the mix. This isn't as overwhelming as 
 it may seem, partly because some units are on more than one faction's unit list and, though the 
 building art is unique to each race, structures are often analogous. The three types of elves -- high 
 elves, wood elves, and dark elves -- are all particularly similar, and mostly differ by just one 
 or two units. The barbarians and minotaurs also have some similarities.           Being able to 
 build up a powerful hero will motivate you to keep fighting.    

  Most of the races are conventional fantasy archetypes and have a straightforward, combative style, 
 but the game's developers were more imaginative with the evil races: undead, daemons, dark elves, 
 and dark dwarves. For example, while the dark elves have plenty of standard elven units, their 
 evil magic gives them units like spider queens, who lay eggs in the bodies of fallen foes that 
 hatch into spiders. The undead and daemons have units with strong summoning skills, as the undead's 
 necromancer raises skeletons from the dead and the daemon's summoners makes whip-wielding daemons 
 appear. Higher-level heroes can also learn these and other summoning spells. Warlords Battlecry 
 II has added one new unit type, the titan. Each race has one of these superunits at the top of 
 the tech tree, and as befits their title, they're generally incredibly large and powerful. Still, 
 though, the game's battles often involve so many units by the end that titans aren't impossible 
 to stop.   

  The story-based campaign of the original Warlords Battlecry has been replaced by a dynamic campaign 
 that details your quest to conquer the world of Etheria. Fortunately, you don't have to conquer 
 all 67 regions in the world to win the campaign -- 47 will do. There isn't much strategy to the campaign 
 level, as it mostly boils down to selecting a territory to conquer and then playing a skirmish 
 against one or more computer opponents. These skirmishes mostly take place on prebuilt maps, but 
 a few goal-based missions and some pitched battles that have building turned off add some variety. 
 Also, at the start of some turns, there'll be special events, such as mercenaries who offer to 
 join you in the next battle or enemy forces that invade one of your territories.            
 The strategic map lends a dynamic structure to the campaign.    

  Success in the campaign does have its advantages, as you can use money earned from holding territories 
 to bring veteran units into the start of a battle. All units can gain experience, which translates 
 into faster attacks and more hit points or mana. And unlike most games with veteran systems, you 
 can carry veteran units over from one battle to the next by adding them to your hero's retinue. 
 But it does take "army points" to bring units into a battle, and more powerful units are balanced 
 by a higher cost. Unlike heroes, veteran units aren't resurrected between battles if they die, 
 so there's some real incentive not to throw these units away needlessly. Overall, the dynamic campaign 
 is a strong reminder of the turn-based heritage of the Warlords series, but the intervening real-time 
 battles between turns are often fairly long unless you corner and kill an opposing hero early on. 
 For this reason, the campaign succeeds more as a framework for skirmishes and hero development 
 than -- like in Shogun: Total War -- as an operational strategy complement to the game's real-time 
 strategy core.   

  While there are some alternate victory conditions, most of the game's real-time battles force you 
 to eliminate every enemy unit and building from the map. There are always a few defensive towers 
 to help defend against a rush by an enemy hero and his or her retinue, but there's still plenty 
 of action early in a battle over capturing the four types of resources scattered around maps. Just 
 holding a mine slowly gives you resources, but almost all races have the option of putting builder 
 units into mines to speed up production. Races use different resources for their major upgrades, 
 so it's possible to target enemies' mines to deny them essential resources. The AI for the computer 
 opponents persistently moves toward unguarded resources to capture them, but it doesn't always 
 go after lightly guarded resources very aggressively. The AI tends to send a constant, minor stream 
 of attackers, which makes it easier to defeat. That's a perhaps good thing, since the AI is quite 
 good at micromanaging its forces. But after early resource skirmishes and assassination attempts 
 on enemy heroes, the game's design really shows its preference for large massed attacks. Because 
 of the relatively small and hard-to-click units, large battles can be fairly unmanageable. However, 
 players can give units commands while the game is paused, and the sequel adds new attitude settings 
 to the unit AI to make spellcasters cast spells automatically. Even so, spells cast by non-hero 
 units often seem underpowered when those units are facing a large enemy force.           Warlords 
 Battlecry II isn't drastically different from the first, but it's still great.    

  While it may innovate in terms of gameplay, Warlords Battlecry II won't impress anyone with its 
 in-game graphics. For sure, the 2D art is colorful, crisp, and detailed, and the sequel has added 
 3D terrain, but the unit animations and designs are quite bland. Idle animations are few and infrequently 
 seen, so the screen can look quite static except during battle. It's a similar story for the game's 
 sound, as the voice acting is passable, but even key units such as heroes have only a few lines. 
 The game's music is actually quite impressive in comparison, ranging from suitably rousing battle 
 music to haunting vocals. Finally, the save game system could have used some polish, as there's 
 only one in-mission save slot, and this is invalidated when your hero levels up, so one of the 
 game's infrequent but inexplicable crashes to the desktop could leave you without whatever hard-fought 
 territory you'd won since your last save. There also aren't any save slots for campaign progress. 
   

  Warlords Battlecry II's many playable factions, persistent heroes, and dynamic campaign are innovative 
 elements on top of a solid real-time strategy game. The original Warlords Battlecry was the one 
 of the very first games to effectively use the concept of heroes in a multiplayer-focused real-time 
 strategy game, before Shattered Galaxy or Blizzard's upcoming Warcraft III. If the multiplayer 
 component ends up being popular on the Ubi. com matching service, it should be interesting to create 
 a hero in the service's closed, server-side mode, which allows for competitive rankings. However, 
 while the sequel makes a number of general improvements to the formula established by its predecessor, 
 Warlords Battlecry II doesn't take a big leap forward. The game can be best recommended to players 
 new to the series who are intrigued by the game's hero system.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xialon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for several years, I thought it was the right time to right a review for 
 this game for all those who enjoy RTS games.
  
  Warlords Battlecry II is a very immersive and deep game that allows a great deal of customization 
 and offers plenty a game play hours. The variety of typical mythic classes (i. e. dwarves, elves, 
 orcs etc) gives the player a the choice of playing the game based on their liking. Futhermore, 
 the variety of heroes powers and ability offers dozens of different customization oppurtunities. 
 The heroes can level and increase in power after each battle. It is almost like a RPG/RTS game.
 
  
  The campaign itself can take hours to complete. Yet, the campaign does not show off a sense of 
 repitition. There are several different types of match choices that keeps the game interesting. 
 (i. e hero vs. hero, pit battle, etc)
  
  Despite the interesting soundtrack, the soundtrack itself can get very annoying because it runs 
 in a repeat. Compared to now (after playing games like Tiberium Wars and Company of Heroes) the 
 graphics are very bland. Yet, if you have an old computer that runs XP pretty well will enjoy the 
 game nonetheless.
  
  Even now I recommend this game to all RTS fans. Warlords Battlecry II is well worth the time spent 
 even after all this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pitchblack3
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  I got a cd of this from a friend of mine for free because he wanted me to try rts games. I just 
 got a new pc back then and I always got bored when I watch other players play strategy games namely 
 Starcraft. But this one is different. You can freely choose a hero from 12 different races. It 
 has a lot of in-depth features like what spells to learn, what character attribute to strengthen, 
 etc. 
  
  The terrain are 3d rendered. Yyou can also use them to your advantage, like passing through hard-to-walk-at 
 steeps with your agile character to retreat, while slow enemies like dwarves waste their time chasing 
 you. 
  
  Sounds are also great. The sounds effects are realistic and vast. Different sounds can be heard 
 like when casting spells, slaying different kinds of enemies, and units' speeches.
  
  Now these are the unique things you can do in WBC 2 which aren't found in your common strategy 
 games: Your heroes experience increases after each battle just like some RPGs where you can level 
 up and Equip items to further increase your char. stats.. Choose what race you would lead in battle 
 no matter what is the race of your hero, like leading an army of undead using your Human hero. 
 Recruit a specific unit from any race to join you in battle. Summon overly powerful titans to aid 
 you in battle. Conquer lands of different races and make them succumb to your rule in Campaign 
 mode. Go head to head with other players via Online play or LAN.
  
  So with plenty of things you can do like these, I'm sure you would play it with more hours than 
 you merely intended to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  I think this game should be more popular than warcraft and starcraft. Unfortunately it isn't. May 
 be they don't have online servers which is not good. But you can still play with your friends. 
 I mean there is almost everything you want in this game. Lots of kind hero selections. Lots of 
 races you can choose from. Watch how your hero grows and gets stronger. The campaign is different 
 than the first game but better. You can capture the islands of etheria one bay one. There is challenges 
 from other races they wanted to capture their lands back. There is pitch battle, one of one hero 
 fights. The only thing lacking is videos. If you want to be a strong hero you can choose the warrior 
 speciality for you hero or if you love spells you can choose wizard. There are many kinds of spells 
 you can learn from. All over this game is worth to buy and play. You should definetely get it and 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanw
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  I was not sure what to think of when I first bought this game for $5. But after playing a match, 
 I knew it was worth every penny. There are many races to choose from such as: dark elves, wood 
 elves, dwarves, demons, undead, fey and many more. Each race has their own lengthy campaign (about 
 30 hours) . You have the ability to control a hero and develop it over time (gains levels, new equipment) . 
 The game has high replay value because of all the races, skirmishes, multi-player, map maker. Now 
 there are a few issues with this game. Strong units deal alot of damage but they only hit one unit 
 at a time. Also, some hero classes are unbalanced, like warrior class takes a whole army to kill. 
 The camera controls are dated (no zoom, or rotate) . But all said, the pros outway the cons, and 
 this is definitely a better than average strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first Warlords Battlecry, I was very excited to give the sequal a shot. After 
 booting the game up and starting to play it, I noticed the game takes a 'if it aint broke, don't 
 fix it' mentality. With the exception of one MAJOR change in the way the single-player campaign 
 is played & the improved visuals, this is basically the same game as the original. And even the 
 'original' wasn't all that original, because it basically ripped off Warcraft 3 big time. Most 
 of the time, that type of situation would bother me. But these games are just so much fun, that 
 I overlooked all of that and just gave away more hours of my life to this series.
  
  Like I said, the gameplay here is basically the same as the first game. If you have played any 
 of the RTS on the market the last few years, you should have no problem picking this game up quite 
 quickly. The major change in the game is the way the single-player campaign is played out. In the 
 first game, you had a storyline and more of a linear path through the game. And you mostly relegated 
 to using the human race except if you played the game multi-player or used the 'skirmish' mode.
 
  
  Well this time around things are different. You still start off by creating a hero from scratch. 
 This is easily the best part of the game and is the only thing that really differeciates this series 
 from all of the other Warcraft clones out there. Not only that, but there are a few more races 
 to choose from. After creating your hero, you are then brought to a world map. Depending on what 
 race you took, you start with their castle and you then preceed to fight battles for territories. 
 There is literally zero storyline here. At first this was a HUGE turn-off for me. But after playing 
 the first map, I really got into it.
  
  Each race has their own castle, so to speak. You then pick territories to try to take over and 
 add to your legacy. Each area has a special bonus if you own it, so that adds to gameplay quite 
 a bit. You also have to compete with fellow races for areas, and that brings a lot of strategy 
 into play. I used the new 'Daemon' race and took over alot of the western part of the map. Well 
 while I was doing that, the Orcs were dominating the eastern part. I didn't think much of it, but 
 when I tried to take over an Orc territory I found out it was much more difficult because they 
 had aquired so many bonuses. In other words, I got my butt whooped at first. Not only that, but 
 each territory you take over gives you a certain amount of 'crowns'. You use these crowns before 
 each battle to purchase retuine points to add stronger troops to your army. You can also use these 
 crowns to hire mercenaries and purchase special items when that opportunity presents itself. It's 
 a fun and interesting twist to a one-player game in a RTS and I really got into it. It's very addicting 
 trying to decide what is your next area you want to conquer.
  
  The problem with that system, however, is that there is really no storyline driving you along. 
 So it's just battle after battle. And the only way you can use a different race than the original 
 one you picked for your hero is if you conquer an enemy castle. And that is much easier said than 
 done. So by the time I conquered my twentieth territory, I was getting kinda sick of the game. 
 At least the original broke up the monotony somewhat by offering you a few different races to use 
 depending on which route you took in the storyline (good or evil) . And even after all the fun I 
 had with this game, I can't deny the fact that it's really hurt by not having a storyline at all. 
 I feel that they should have had both a storyline campaign AND this 'take over the world' kind 
 of campaign in the same game. Of course, then this game may have consumed even more time in my 
 life than it already has.
  
  The visuals got a nice little upgrade, but are were still behind the times back in 2002. If you 
 take the first game as a template, then yes this game is a definate upgrade. Of course the original 
 was never known for it's visual splendor, and this game continues that trend. It's definately not 
 a bad looking game by any means. It's just not going to push your PC at all, which could be a good 
 or bad thing depending on the person.
  
  The audio is pretty standard for this type of game. At least they got rid of the sounds that were 
 literally straight out of Warcraft 3. The music is nice, but nothing that really catches your ear. 
 Like the graphics, this area is just par for the course.
  
  What this game RELALY does well is completely consume hours of your life without you even realizing 
 it. I spend many late nights with this where I didn't go to bed until the sun was already up. And 
 if you like the 'skirmish' and multi-player modes, you have a ton of gameplay hours here if you 
 include the lengthy single-player campaign.
  
  In closing, if you liked the first game you will probably like this one. It still has the insanely 
 addicting gameplay. And you still get to level up your hero in RPG fashion, which is still the 
 best part of the game. I would highly recommend this to any fan of RTS games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This a great game.
  Warlords Battlecry 2 is a very dynamic game with a mix of RPG and strategy aspects.
  
  Gameplay: 
 The game is different because it combines two genres. You are able to control a hero, in which 
 you can make better by leveling and you are able to control a prodigious army with twelve selectable 
 races.
  
  Graphics: I really enjoy the graphics, but for one game like Warlords the graphics should be better.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is excellent.
  
  This game deserves some popularity and come on people give it a stinking chance. It is better than 
 some strategy games out in the market right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: druid178
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2005 12:13 am PT
Review:  Warlords Battlecry 2 is a very dynamic game with a mix of RPG and strategy aspects.
  
  Gameplay. The game is different because it combines two genres. You are able to control a hero, 
 in which you can make better by leveling and you are able to control a prodigious army with twelve 
 selectable races.
  
  Graphics: I really enjoy the graphics, but it stayed the same from the fist installment of the 
 Warlords Battlecry series.
  
  Sound. The sound is excellent. nuff' said.
  
  This game deserves some popularity and come on people give it a stinking chance. It is better than 
 some strategy games out in the market right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:30 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is just like Warcraft type games in which you mine resources to build buildings/defense, 
 recruit units, and to finnaly destroy your enemy. 
  
  Graphics are decent, though it has it's own style. There are numerous races, and each race has 
 their own unique looking buildings, as well as units. The sound is just decent as well, and nothing 
 really to comment on. 
  
  Resource gathering is somewhat simple. You must use an ability to take control of a certain mine, 
 which then starts adding resources to your total. Peasants con be put in the mine to make it increase 
 faster, and that's about it for reasource gathering. 
  
  There's nothing too special about the rest of the basics (building / attacking) , but Warlords Battlecry 
 II features some things not usually seen in strategies. One being quests, throughout the map you 
 will find neutral buildings that will give out quests. Usually killing a few units, or destroying 
 buildings, and the rewards usually consist of an item (for your hero, which i'll get to later) 
 or units. 
  
  The hero is what really makes this game fun and addictive. Before you can even start a game, you 
 must create a hero from one of several races, numerous classes, numerous stats, etc... The hero 
 features more stats and skills that most RPG's even include. There are way too many abilities your 
 hero can gain to even list. 
  
  If you absolutely love strategy games, Warlords Battlecry II offers alot for you to enjoy. If you're 
 not too fond of strategies, you probably won't be too impressed with Warlords Battlecry II. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
