-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warlords Battlecry
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warlordsbattlecry/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 19, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.8, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 226 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: Strategic Studies
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 9, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While Warlords Battlecry is evidently derivative of other fantasy-themed strategy games, its combination 
 of elements taken from its predecessors makes the game unique in its own right. 

 There has been a slew of impressive, new 3D real-time strategy games recently, but if you've ever 
 enjoyed the great 2D strategy games of years past - or enjoy high-fantasy-themed games in general 
 - then you'll like Warlords Battlecry, the latest game in developer SSG's long-running Warlords 
 series. Die-hard fans of previous Warlords games and their signature turn-based gameplay may initially 
 find Battlecry's real-time combat system unappealing. But after playing for a while, and developing 
 a hero character, you'll find that it's hard to tear yourself away from the game, even if you're 
 used to turn-based games. That's because Warlords Battlecry is a solid real-time strategy game 
 that borrows heavily from games like Warcraft II and the Heroes of Might and Magic series. If you 
 enjoyed those games, then Warlords Battlecry definitely has something to offer you.   

  As in most real-time strategy games, Warlords is played from an overhead, isometric perspective. 
 The game features nine races: humans, orcs, minotaurs, barbarians, dwarves, undead, and three varieties 
 of elves. After creating a hero character, you begin the campaign and set up shop by building a 
 base, barracks, and a blacksmith. You can then proceed to buy units and unit upgrades to weapons 
 and armor and so forth. It's standard real-time strategy at first; every upgrade and unit has a 
 price, and there are four resources to mine, which are used in various combinations as payment. 
 Fortunately, once you take control of a mine, any gold, stone, metal, or crystal is automatically 
 accumulated over time. Adding a peasant to a mine speeds up the mining process. This automatic 
 resource collection lets you concentrate on bigger issues, like vanquishing a horde of minotaurs. 
 Each race's dependency on resources differs, which adds another element to the strategy, especially 
 in missions where it becomes necessary to set up a garrison by a critical mine or destroy a mine 
 that's vital to your enemy's development.   

  However, the most noticeable feature that sets Warlords Battlecry apart from other real-time strategy 
 games are the hero characters. Your hero character is the focus of the game. Heroes have a command 
 radius, and any armies within range automatically get bonuses, such as increased speed, power, 
 and armor. The catch is that you also need to protect your hero at all costs, especially during 
 the single-player game where you suffer automatic defeat if your hero falls. As such, it's not 
 always wise to have your hero accompany your troops, especially if he's not quick on his feet. 
 Your hero is also indispensable because of his ability to convert neutral or enemy mines and buildings. 
 Generals are the only other troops that have this conversion power, but they are very high in the 
 technology tree, and hence take a while to produce. Having a single character that you must protect, 
 and who can also make your troops more powerful, adds an interesting new dimension to the gameplay. 
   

  Fortunately, Battlecry's interface is easy to use, and has all the features of a good real-time 
 strategy interface. You can queue up just about any number of units or tasks, including waypoints, 
 building production, unit production, and upgrades. You can easily group units into specific preset 
 formations. The game can also be paused at any time, at which point you can queue up as many orders 
 as you like. You can also set hotkeys to select specific groups of units or to activate spells. 
 This makes complicated orders a little easier to execute, especially when you're under fire. Finally, 
 you can fine-tune your troops' attitudes, which range from cowardly to berserk. This last feature 
 comes in handy, mostly when you want your hero to stay put or when you want to lure enemy troops 
 within range of your defensive towers.    

 Your hero advances in level with each victory. Between battles you can spend accumulated experience 
 points on myriad abilities that give your units even more bonuses. The sheer number of options 
 for customizing the hero is impressive, and it certainly adds to the game's replay value. You'll 
 probably be inclined to create a few different heroes and alternate between them as you experiment 
 with the various abilities and witness their effects in practice. The game's manual is chock-full 
 of tables that tell you exactly what effect your upgrades will have on your armies. In addition, 
 heroes developed in skirmish battles can be carried over to an Internet game to compete with other 
 heroes.   

  Up to four players can play over the Internet, either in co-op mode or against each other. To spice 
 up the multiplayer experience, you can choose one of thirteen different victory conditions. These 
 include capture the flag, assassination, in which your hero must survive, and "against the horde," 
 where one player commands a huge army and two others join forces to bring down his huge force. 
   

  In fact, there are many more ways to play Warlords Battlecry. The single-player campaign leads 
 you on a quest for a powerful talisman called the Tears of Dawn. The campaign follows six chapters, 
 which are divided into 36 episodes. At the end of the second chapter, the campaign takes a decisive 
 turn, as you must choose between a path of good and a path of evil. Overall, the branching single-player 
 campaign is fairly engaging and challenging. As each mission begins, your key characters will discuss 
 how they will tackle the opposition, which helps you get into the story and also helps you to start 
 planning a strategy. After completing a mission, the story continues through video cutscenes.  

  Warlords Battlecry also features a good skirmish mode. Before you begin a skirmish game against 
 the computer, you can also customize many settings, from how many opponents you'll face and who 
 your allies are, to the victory conditions. The flexible skirmish mode, together with the relatively 
 open-ended campaign, greatly enhances Battlecry's single-player replay value.   

  The graphics in Warlords Battlecry are mostly good. Many of the units, especially the orcs and 
 humans, immediately recall Warcraft II, while others may appear similar to those in other fantasy-themed 
 games. The unit animations are fluid, and they lend a lot of personality to each character - for 
 instance, when standing idle, undead skeletons will flip their swords up in the air; orcs lumber 
 around with oversized spiked clubs; and mages peer into spellbooks as if to brush up before a battle. 
 There are also unique animations for more than 80 spells that your hero and mage units can cast. 
 In general, the game's artwork, from the hero portraits to unit animations, has just the right 
 balance of humor and high-fantasy style.   

  Warlords Battlecry sounds much like it looks. As in most real-time strategy games, each unit has 
 its own response when you select it. Some of the speech is really great: The powerful, winged archon's 
 decree of "For the light!" echoes as if he were much more imposing than the rest of the party. 
 And the orc shaman is something of a prima donna, as he says things like "Shaman coming through!" 
 and "I'm dangerous, you know?" When troops engage in battle, you'll even hear them shouting various 
 taunts. Otherwise, the music in Battlecry is nothing terribly special, but it suitably adds to 
 the fantasy setting.   

  Warlords Battlecry does have a few small problems, such as the game's sometimes-predictable artificial 
 intelligence. During skirmishes on smaller maps, the computer-controlled enemy hero sometimes seeks 
 out resources too aggressively and will charge into your camp far too early, thus making him easy 
 prey. You may also find that Battlecry crashes every now and again on your system for no apparent 
 reason.   

  In a market that's presently saturated with 3D real-time strategy games, many of which have science-fiction 
 themes, it's great to see a 2D fantasy game that actually brings something new to the table. While 
 Warlords Battlecry is evidently derivative of other fantasy-themed strategy games, its combination 
 of elements taken from its predecessors makes the game unique in its own right. The focus on heroes 
 particularly adds an interesting angle to the gameplay, and along with the de-emphasis on resource 
 gathering, it makes the game seem substantially different from its predecessors. Also, the sheer 
 variety of units and play options ought to keep you occupied for a long time. So if you're interested 
 in real-time strategy games and don't mind getting a little nostalgic, then you ought to give Warlords 
 Battlecry a shot.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: t_biggin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  First off: THIS GAME WAS YEARS BEFORE WARCRAFT3! Second: I've played every Warlords game from Warlords 
 I &amp; II on Amiga and then PC, Warlords III, Warlords IV, Warlords Battlecry (WBC) , WBC2, and 
 WBC3 so straight away you know I liked it. That being said I'd gotten sick of RTS after Red Alert, 
 Total Annihilation, and Warcraft2 and had mostly been playing FPS and RPGs. This game along with 
 Homeworld completely turned me around for a long while and I really enjoyed an RTS renaissance.
 
  
  What made this game unique is a hero that persists across all your battles. In fact even some of 
 your units can persist and during a battle all gain experience and level up. You can upgrade your 
 hero's stats and skills gaining strength, adding attack options, speed, charisma, intelligence, 
 spells... the usual RPG stuff but with troop options like fear resistance and hero area of effect 
 thrown in. This means you can customize the way you play massively! I can't emphasize enough how 
 much a summoning magic hero differs from a fire mage and a brute from a charismatic leader. Combined 
 with the different factions/races this gives the game almost infinite replayability even if the 
 story line only has two branches.
  
  The story is actually pretty cool too - fantasy fans will enjoy it I'm sure. If you play this game 
 and like it then I can't recommend the sequels enough and you should probably go straight to WBC3 
 since it's a better version of 2 which in itself was an excellent game.
  
  Go Warlords and here's hoping V is better than IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  Going into this game, I didn't quite know what to expect. I had never heard of this series before 
 and just wanted to try a new RTS. After playing this for awhile, I was reminded of how much fun 
 I had playing Warcraft 3. After playing for about five hours straight, I realized that this game 
 has the same addictive quality as WC3. Sure the visuals aren't up to par, but this is a great RTS 
 that everyone who is a fan of the genre should check out.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played a RTS in recent years, then you should be able to jump into Warlords 
 Battlecry very quickly. Right away you will feel like you are playing WC3's little cousin. You 
 build up a base, purchase units, aquire uprgrades, play as different factions, etc. The big twist 
 here is the introduction of heroes into the mix. Now I know WC3 had heroes, as well. Warlords takes 
 it to a whole new level, though. Here you start the game making a hero. As you gain experience, 
 you gain levels. You can then customize your hero to whatever kind of 'job' you would like. You 
 can make him a warrior, thief, mage, or whatever you want. As you go through the game's lengthy 
 single player campaign, you gain levels and can purchase new skills & abilities.
  
  Needless to say, this is a very addicting thing to have in a game. Sure it's not as deep as a RPG, 
 but it was nice to be able to choose what path I wanted my hero to take. And at a point in the 
 single player game, you come to a 'fork in the road', so to speak. You can either choose a 'light' 
 or 'dark' path. The main difference in the paths is minimal, except for the different races you 
 will be in charge of. But it does add a lot of replay value to an already very long game. And it 
 is fun to see how the storyline changes depending on what path you choose. 
  
  Other than those two things, this game plays very similar to the Warcraft games and doesn't really 
 distinguish itself from a crowded RTS genre all that much. That's not necessarily a bad thing, 
 considering how good the games it's copying are. Even the storyline is pretty good, albeit a little 
 predictable. In the single player game, you use several different races, but you can use the unavailable 
 ones in the skirmish mode. I just had a lot of fun playing this and I think anyone who is a fan 
 of the Warcraft series should check this out.
  
  Graphics: This isn't the game's strongpoint. As I have said, the game reminds me a lot of WC3 in 
 terms of gameplay. Too bad SSI didn't bother to copy the quality of the visuals, as well. What 
 you have here is a game that plays like WC3, but looks about as good as WC2. That's not to say 
 the game is ugly, by any means. It's very colorful and the characters all look nice. It just won't 
 'wow' you in any way, and was behind the times even by the year 2000 standards. The cutscenes certainly 
 aren't very good, and I experienced a great deal of slowdown during gameplay. That's pretty bad 
 for a game that isn't that great to look at.
  
  Sound: Pretty standard music here. If you have played any other medieval-themed RTS, you will know 
 what to expect here. The funny thing I noticed is that while playing as the humans, your 'Squires' 
 (a. k. a. Peasant) have the same exact sound effect when they talk as they did in WC2. I am surprised 
 nobody at Blizzard complained about that. It's really obvious when you first start playing the 
 game.
  
  Value: As I have said, there are two different paths you can take in the single player campaign. 
 If you do both paths, you will be playing this game for quite awhile. And that's not even counting 
 the skirmish mode & the multiplayer. This one will keep you busy for awhile.
  
  Tilt: I really liked this game. Like I have said, it plays like WC3's ugly cousin. But I love the 
 idea of making the heroes more of a centerpiece by adding a RPG element. It makes the game very 
 addicting, and along with the great gameplay itself, is a game you will be playing long past when 
 you should have went to sleep. If you are a fan of the Warcraft series and you can get past the 
 shoddy visuals, you should give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Makes you play and play again. Very well organized. I beat the game both sides (light 
 and dark) . You have a choice to play with the computer or you can beat the skirmish section level 
 to level. It is an awesome strategy game. Also playing multiplayer with your friend is fun. Looking 
 farward to play newer versions of this game. I can easily prefer Warlords Battlecry instead of 
 warcraft or starcraft. I also love the chracters on this game. I love the "quest" thing where you 
 open it with the key and a question pops up if you answer you get some soldier to help you or you 
 can get some weapons or sword ext. I didn't play the game I really missed it. I'm getting the other 
 versions soon. It is so much fun. I bet you will like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaneBlaze
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  You get your rts, take some rpg and mix them up and end up with a great game. Patch to 1.04 before 
 playing.
  
  A Fantasy based strategy game with a twist, you get to make your own hero to lead your army of 
 choice into battle. 
  
  You start with hero race and as you advance the first few levels through battles get to decide 
 on a basic class and then a specialization. With many varied options from the basic Warrior, Priest, 
 Mage and Thief to suit all play styles.
  
  Once you reached specialization the options open up a lot more, added loot leads to some diversity 
 and nasty suprises for the unaware.
  
  The heroes allow for handicaps, a highly skilled player could take a lower hero against a high 
 hero, lower skill player. The game lobby also allows for handicapping and the choice of certain 
 build/unit limitations.
  
  It has everything a rts needs to be good, plenty of races to choose from, even though some share 
 units they become unique with the race upgrades so an Undead skeleton becomes far more powerfull 
 to a Dark Elf one in the late game.
  
  With standard graphics and sound but can have a troubled online multiplayer experience, especially 
 if you don't patch it up properly. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
