-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warlords Battlecry III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warlordsbattlecryiii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 24, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.3, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 614 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Enlight Software
Developer: Infinite Int.
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     May 19, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warlords Battlecry III is a solid real-time strategy game, but it's one that doesn't differentiate 
 itself much from its illustrious predecessors. 

  The Warlords Battlecry series has always felt like the perennial underdog of the real-time strategy 
 genre. In a field dominated by the likes of Blizzard's Starcraft and Warcraft games and Ensemble's 
 Age of Empires, the first two Warlords Battlecry games managed to carve a niche following with 
 strategy fans. Warlords Battlecry II, in particular, has become something of a cult favorite thanks 
 to its superb gameplay, innovative dynamic campaign, persistent heroes, and plethora of playable 
 races. So, with Warlords Battlecry III, the developers at Infinite Interactive have played it relatively 
 safe. Aside from some sprucing up of the graphics and some admittedly daring changes with the campaign, 
 this new sequel doesn't fall far from the tree. As a result, it plays very much like its predecessors. 
 While this should definitely please fans of the series, it also lends the game a sort of timelessness, 
 because it looks and feels very old-fashioned in a genre racing ahead to embrace 3D graphics and 
 streamlined gameplay.  

          While it's fun to hurl units at each other, there is a lot of confusion on the battlefield. 
     

  As in the previous two games, your first job in Warlords Battlecry III is to create a hero with 
 whom to lead your armies during the campaign. The hero plays a critical role during battles by 
 not only leading your armies but also by seizing critical resources scattered over the map. More 
 importantly, the hero unit imparts a very strong role-playing element to the game because he or 
 she can gain experience, level up, and learn powerful new skills and abilities. Since there are 
 15 races and more than a dozen character classes to choose from, you can create virtually any kind 
 of hero-type imaginable, from a sword-wielding barbarian to a powerful spellcaster. And, once again, 
 your hero remains persistent over the course of the campaign, which means that you can develop 
 quite a powerful hero by the time the story finally unfolds.  

  The new campaign structure is quite a departure from Warlords Battlecry II, which took the form 
 of a Risk-style board game where you conquered the world province by province. In its place is 
 a new RPG-style adventure in which you must travel across the world -- army in tow -- to attempt to 
 stop a powerful demon on the loose. As you travel from location to location, you must undertake 
 a number of quests and missions, some random and some plot-critical. For instance, you can take 
 a detour in a mountain pass to meet a powerful dragon who will aid you later in your quest if do 
 him a favor by clearing the pass of some pesky barbarians and undead. In other missions, you'll 
 have to undertake quests to get the local inhabitants to give you vital clues as to where the demon 
 went. As a result, you may escort an elf queen on a dangerous journey, or you may be enlisted to 
 stop a horde of monsters from invading the kingdom. As you enlist allies and conquer enemies, you 
 can then choose which race you control for each mission. This can make quite a difference in the 
 game, because one race may be better suited for a certain mission than another race. Furthermore, 
 sometimes your hero may receive certain bonuses when leading his or her native race.  

  There are 15 playable races in the game -- three of them new from Warlords Battlecry II -- that feature 
 a wide variety of fantasy-themed good and evil proponents. This is where the game's (and the series') 
 impressive amount of depth comes into play. Each race has its own units, technology tree, and build 
 tree, which means that each race plays differently from the others. The powerful Empire race, for 
 example, uses a lot of iron ore in its conventional army, while the Elves and more-mystical races 
 consume more magical crystal. In general, all the races balance fairly well against one another, 
 and while you may find some players advocating X race over Y, you can easily find others touting 
 the reverse.  

  The real-time battles deviate very little from those in Warlords Battlecry II, so they definitely 
 feel like more of the same thing. Once again, your goal early on in most battles is to establish 
 a base. It's a fairly long and drawn-out process to build up a base and then research the technologies 
 required to churn out better and more-powerful units, along with various unit upgrades. While other 
 real-time strategy games (most notably Rise of Nations) have sought to streamline this building 
 phase, Warlords Battlecry III almost revels in it. It takes a long time to reach critical mass 
 with a base, and while it's not a bad thing per se, it does get repetitive quickly, especially 
 considering the number of battles there are in a campaign. Since your units gain experience points 
 and can level up, they're more valuable to you if they survive contact with the enemy, and the 
 best way to ensure this is to make certain that you've got all the unit upgrades researched.  

 
  To its credit, though, the game does force you to venture out to secure vital resources that, 
 in traditional Warlords fashion, are scattered all over the map. This will generally force you 
 to create a powerful mobile group around your hero so that you can respond to both enemy attempts 
 to convert your resources and enemy incursions into your territory. And while you can occasionally 
 land a crippling blow early on by killing an enemy hero, most battles will rely on economic overproduction 
 to crush your enemy with overwhelming numbers.  

          The new adventure-style campaign is one of the highlights of the game.     

  Warlords 
 Battlecry III is a better-looking game than its predecessors, but that's not saying a lot. It appears 
 that the developers have recycled the aging, 2D graphics engine from the previous game and have 
 gussied it up a bit with a better color palette and textures. Otherwise, it still looks like a 
 game that's a few years behind the rest of the genre. It doesn't help that the unit animations 
 are somewhat clunky, and it's hard to comprehend what's going on in battle because all the units 
 meld together in a confusing clash of pixels. Worse, there is no zoom option, so you can't pull 
 up close to the action, nor can you pull back for a wider view. Simply put, this is a series that 
 desperately needs new technology and a new look, because the competition passed it long ago.  

 
  Finally, the game's multiplayer component still has some teething issues, because we had numerous 
 problems connecting to Enlight's matchmaking service. We did get the game running in a network 
 session, but the huge number of factions in the game is sure to offer lots of logistical challenges -- aside 
 from the fact that players will learn to strategically adapt to different foes in a short amount 
 of time. The end result is that this otherwise solid real-time strategy game comes off feeling 
 a bit dated. And though we admire the new adventure-style campaign, we wish the rest of the game 
 had been given an equally innovative overhaul.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: oipluckie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing Warlords Battlecry III. The hero system seemed pretty interesting in many ways, 
 especially when they're so many races and classes to choose from (Ironman mode for your hero, lets 
 them earn more exp but if they die... they're gone for good) . The campaign mode tickled my curiosity 
 when i first started. Being able to move from one area to another on this world map, and each location 
 contained a quest, shop, or some sort of side quest you can do to win the favor of a race. The 
 hero you've made will level up along the way, making them much stronger. Undead necromancer was 
 my first choice and I'd have to say what a fun race and class combination that turned out to be. 
 I was able to summon a pretty good size army pretty close into the game. Only downfall is base 
 building can take quite awhile and when your people are fighting it's kind of hard to pick them 
 out of the group. In the end it's a game that also deserves a sequel with visual upgrades and gameplay 
 mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legowarrior
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game just has so many options, that it will take forever to get through it all. With 16 races, 
 although not all that distinct at times (3 elves) , there is a lot of diversity in units choices 
 and strategy. The heroes in the game are fun to build up, but suffer in the beginning levels for 
 being weak, and at the end for dominating too much. The only downside is that strategies must change 
 as your main hero levels up. At higher levels, you don't need to worry about resources and controlling 
 the board as much. At low levels, the game can be a lot slower. With all the different options, 
 you start to find a race and class combination that strikes you as just right with ease. Whether 
 it is a merchant of the empire, or an undead healer, combination choices can completely change 
 how a side is played. Dwarfs become far more able with the help of the unicorn your hero summons, 
 while Knights with a merchant can bring out a ton more Knight Units for the win. Elves become easy 
 to turtle with Wisps, but a Merchant makes getting it all up and running that much easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Megalodon
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  Ever since I played Warlords Battlecry II, I have been a fan of the Warlords Battlecry series. 
 In my humble opinion, the Warlords Battlecry series is definitely one of the best RTS I have ever 
 played, and this installment definitely ends this series with a bang.
  
  Most things don't change from Warlords Battlecry II, which could be one of the reasons why this 
 game has lost a bit of favour with the critics. Besides adding in some new races, items, storyline 
 and the like, there really isn't much change from the previous installment. But in my opinion, 
 that is why I rate Warlords Battlecry III highly because there is just a feel to it -in my opinion, 
 once again- that makes it even more addictive and attractive. 
  
  The gameplay can only be described in one word: Fun. Sure, it may seem like your typical RTS but 
 Warlords Battlecry III has its own unique elements which make it addictive. Don't scrutinise the 
 game so much, if not you'll miss the fun of an all out battle that RTS are famous for and Warlords 
 Battelcry can definitely give out large battles. 
  
  The graphics are good for its time, but even now I would say it still stands out because of the 
 unique way the units are portrayed. Perhaps one of the reasons this RTS isn't too popular with 
 some is because of the funny looking characters, but the more you play it seems the more lovable 
 they become. Not to mention, in total there are 16 races, how good can an RTS get?
  
  Most of the races are unique, a few have a slight feel of under-develop-ness though they still 
 work well (Swarm for one) but all are nice to try. You can now play as the mighty Ssrathi, who 
 can train dinosaurs to fight for them (who doesn't love dinos?) , the numerous Swarm (bugs are cool 
 too) , the twisted Plaguelords (for those who like evil factions, this offers something new and 
 different) and the other 13 are for the people reading this review to get out there and get the 
 game to find out *whstles*. 
  
  Storyline is a change, since there actually is one this time around and not like Warlords Battlecry 
 II where you basically just move around and conquer places (not that it wasn't fun) . Warlords Battelcry 
 III seems more objective and story driven as more choices are left at the hand of the player to 
 complete objectives that can make or break alliances within the vast world of Etheria. A refreshing 
 take to this series as you travel through the map, you learn more about each race. 
  
  Music is from the previous Battlecry, which is good for some since the 'feeling' of playing the 
 game returns with the unmistakable and classical music from this series.
  
  All in all, this is a game I would definitely recommend to any RTS fans. But this game is best 
 for people who have not played the Warlords battlecry series, die hard Battlecry fans, RTS fans 
 and those just looking for a good game. Kudos to Enlight and Infinite Interactive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Habast
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  I'll admit it can get very tiresome if overplayed, but if you don't overplay you'll be fine, and 
 you'll have a great RTS game. Okay, now getting down into the actual game. You get to choose from 
 plenty of races (knights, orcs, minotaurs, undead, high elves, dark elves, wood elves, fey (they 
 suck, don't pick them.) , plaguelords (i hope i spelled that right) , and more) and like 30 classes. 
 Once your into the game you'll get builders and warriors and alot of buildings that vary from race 
 to race. So this game's basically Warcraft 3 without the cartoony graphics and with custom heroes 
 that you can keep for the length of the game, much larger variety of races and classes. So it's 
 basically one of, or the best RTS's ever.
  
  The Good
  Custom characters that can't permanantly die (except on ironman mode)
  A more serious feel than 
 warcraft
  Lots of cool terrain
  Custom maps
  Other cool stuff that i can't think of right now (sorry)
  
  The Bad
  A rather broken story 
 that's incredibly hard in some parts
  Starting a new character can be pretty frustrating, but if you make it to level 16 or so without 
 deleting your character and starting again, your good.
  
  The Just Plain Ugly
  Hmm, i guess id have to say there isn't anything bad enough to get put into this category
  
 
  Graphics: Not bad, better than warcraft, 8
  Gameplay: Nice, smooth, solid gameplay, 9
  Sound: Good sound quality, 8
  Story: As I said before, its a rather broken story, 6
  Replayabilty: 
 Some people will find a high replay value, some will find it incredibly low, I find it high, 8
 
  Overall: 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  When I played Warlords Battlecry III for the first time, I was impressed that it was a unique RTS 
 that didn't get boring very quickly. It may not have the best graphics in the world, but when it 
 comes to an enjoyable gaming experience; Warlords Battlecry III easily beats many other RTS games. The 
 gameplay is excellent, the level ups are excellent too.
  Here we have a game that has many of the qualities of a great RTS - lots of individualized units 
 and factions, tonnes of strategic potential, attention to detail, an innovation single-player game.
 
  The hero system in this game, and the ones before it, give it a real role playing feel as you 
 develop the hero. Each race has it's own subtle strategy for going about a smooth victory. This 
 is what makes this game better than most other RTS games. in this game you find items for your 
 hero, you can find setitems which give additional boni, it's very fun!
  The Gamespot review seems disappointed that no real changes where made to improve the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zambole
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 9, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  The critical reception of Warlords Battlecry III has displayed some of the shallow mentality of 
 the modern gaming world. Here we have a game that has many of the qualities of a great RTS - lots 
 of individualized units and factions, tonnes of strategic potential, attention to detail, an innovation 
 single-player game - but it has been blacklisted and underrated by the gaming media for one primary 
 reason: THE GRAPHICS ARE NOT CURRENT EDGE. To which I must reply: so what? Don't we constantly 
 admonish that substance is more important than flash, and then we turn around and demand all the 
 latest visual effects? And really, who can AFFORD the cutting edge of PC games nowadays? You have 
 to sell your car to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alionline83
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  I dont know why people under rate WBC. Its addicting and graphics wise the best i have ever played. 
 People praise Warcraft and Age of Empire but for me their graphics and sound is unmatchable with 
 WBC. I played WBC 2 and 3 and enjoyed both a lot.
  
  WBC is fun from start when you have to create a Hero for yourself, people finds it frustrating 
 because it takes a little time to decide. But as a WBC fan its fun for me. I chose FEY as my Hero 
 in WBC too, weak in strength but great in magics. It was real fun and i played hours and hours 
 and never got bored while playing it.
  
  Capturing the territories, getting control over other armies, using them in next battles and attack 
 on your places from other enemies are the great positives of the game. If you are playing it on 
 Pentium 4 or equivalent with 64mb or greater VGA/AGP card, play it with 1024 resolution, it will 
 be fun to play with large area you can cover.
  
  Titans are demoralizing for army. Its really fun and challenging, if you some how manage to kill 
 the Titan, it will not die like Cow, it will explode and if unfortunately it dies near your base, 
 it can damage or destroy your main buildings. Most powerful Titan is Barbarian's. He can fly and 
 has ranged attacks.
  
  Length wise, addiction wise, gameplay wise, sound wise, graphic wise and AI wise, this is the best 
 RTS game i have ever played. I can recommend it to any RTS lover to just give it a try you will 
 surely enjoy it.
  
  Waiting for WBC 4 to be reeased, i am planning to play WBC 3 for one more time :) I just love it
 
  
  Muhammed Ali 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F0U666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I love RTS games but I was a little bit bored of Starcraft &amp; Age Of Empires and I saw Warlords 
 Battlecry at the store. It wasn't very expensive and it looked fun so I decided to buy and try.
 
  
  When I started the game for the first time, I wanted to do a skirmish but I needed to make a hero. 
 A hero ?? wtf ! so I made it simple... a minotaur barbarian. Then I selected a map and started 
 the game. At first, I needed to convert ressource buildings with my hero, then build my main structure. 
 And so on as any other RTS game... until I had a large enough army and decided to attack. On my 
 way to the enemy's base, I came across a chest. Am I able to open that? I brought my hero on it 
 and it opened. Halleluja! ... An ITEM !!! so cool I can equip my hero. I continued my way to my 
 enemy's territory, killed the hero and destroyed everything. So I won. I told myself: Nice game 
 but there's something missing Then I clicked to view the result of the battle and I read: LEVEL 
 UP ... My hero gained two levels. I was so happy to be able to raise the level of my hero that 
 I played again and again and again until I reached level 26 and I was able to clean a 8 players 
 map with my hero alone. It was so great lol, the greatest video game ever, I told myself.
  
  Time passed by and I came across Warlords Battlecry 2... not very different but many additions 
 and still pure fun. Then I found Warlords Battlecry 3! Wow I am so lucky that my favorite RTS game 
 keeps growing. So I played it.
  
  I was disapointed at first to see that the graphics were still the same as Warlords Battlecry 1 
 but it didn't stop me. I was excited to find out what more this game had to offer.
  
  In fact, the additions are: Some new playable races, new spells, new maps, new campaign, new heroes, 
 portraits, new graphical effects, new, items, new units, new possibilities, new everything! lol 
 that's why I gave Warlords Battlecry 3 a good score. The only disapointing aspect deserved a 5/10, 
 for the graphics because the competitors had already nice 3D engines and WBC3 was still using 2D. 
 8/10 for the sounds... Audio is fine but not enough diversity. Everything else on the score board 
 deserves a 10/10 really.
  
  So guys if you are a RPG only fan, it isn't probably for you cause it's more centered on RTS gameplay 
 but if you are a RTS fan and you appreciate RPGs, this is the best game you could imagine to play... 
 Until Warlords Battlecry 4 is released... WITH A 3D ENGINE, PLEASE ! So it will be simply THE BEST 
 GAME EVER ! 
  
  Thank you for reading, I hope you agree with me. Now... play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galinoth
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  When I played Warlords Battlecry III for the first time, I was impressed that it was a unique RTS 
 that didn't get boring very quickly. Now after having played the game for over a year, I find myself 
 picking it back up everytime I get bored with new games. The game has enough substance outside 
 of each battle that it isn't as drone as Warcraft or Age of Empires. The wide range of abilities, 
 spells, and races is transcends the genre. Being able to pick your fights, as well as leveling 
 your hero will endear this game to your gaming heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  The series has always been known for presenting lots and lots of playable races. There are five 
 new races in this sequel, bringing the combined total up to a billion playable races. The humans 
 of old have been split into two distinct political factions this time, the cavalry-heavy Knights 
 and the more generalist-minded Empire. The disease-laden Plaguelords are entirely new, as are the 
 dinosaur-like Ssrathi and the numerous Swarm. In addition to the interesting philosophical identities, 
 resource requirements, tech trees and unit focus of each race, most also have some unique powers. 
 The new insectoid Swarm are able to drain resources from the mines of other players while the Ssrathi 
 have a giant Sun Temple that defends the area around with massive spells. Add them to the various 
 types of dwarves, elves, orcs, and so forth in the game and you've got a fantasy setting with tremendous 
 variety and richness. And you can play as any of these races in the game, not just as the units 
 you'll lead but also as the hero who represents you in the game. Creating and developing a hero 
 is definitely one of the driving forces behind the game. There are as many classes for your hero 
 as there are races (but not, unfortunately, as much documentation) so you can build exactly the 
 right hero for your needs. Through the game, they'll be responsible for gaining control of resource 
 nodes and picking up magic items. Heroes can now buy and sell magic items at new shops at certain 
 areas and can even gather a retinue of high-level troops around them to carry with them from mission 
 to mission. The campaign game has a lot more direction to it this time around. While I like the 
 Risk-style approach of the last game, the developers have jettisoned that idea in favor of a more 
 story-driven experience that still allows the player to set their own path through the world. There 
 are various nodes around the map and each is linked to one or more other nodes. There are story 
 missions at most of these nodes but there are also lots of random, incidental missions you can 
 undertake to build up your forces. Some missions will even grant you an alliance with one of the 
 other races, allowing you to lead them into future combats if you desire. As with the previous 
 game it can take a while to get things rolling in terms of production. Building up even a modest 
 force will require more than a few minutes as you locate resources and build the appropriate structures. 
 Sadly, weak units get outclassed a bit too soon (unless you're playing one of the rush races like 
 the Swarm) . Late units take a bit too long to build as well. To actually field the largest units 
 in the game, you may find yourself holding back from delivering the killing blow. Thankfully, the 
 units in the middle range are fun and varied enough to provide an interesting challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheoKratos
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  Best Warlords Batllecry I ever playied. I have all, all are cool but this is the best. Men, I love 
 the titans !!!! I think this is a very good game , I cant find bad things ! A lot of races to 
 choose , like Deamons , Ssarathi , Undead , and more. You can choose your oponnent AI , thats great. 
 The campain is a lil bit short but then is the skirmish, where there is no end. This game is for 
 all RPG players. The difficult of this game is perfect ! Not too hard , not too easy.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 9
  Value - 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quelow
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 12, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This games is very fun. Thats if you like rpg games. One problem that I have with this game is 
 that sometimes when you play against the computer you can't find everyone. For example if you miss 
 one person they will start a whole new army by theirself. And that means that you have to find 
 where they are located a kill another army, just to complete the mission. Other than that, everything 
 is good. The gameplay is excellent, the level ups are excellent too. I just hope that the creators 
 of this game will make another one of these games soon so I can buy it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  What can I say? Warlords Battlecry III is a veteran amongst the honorable games. Not only does 
 this game grow on you, it's very simple for even the newest amateurs can play it.
  
  The gameplay is a simple one, but it gives the impression that not the fact that you own 100 leagions 
 of undead matters, but the knowledge and strategies you use to conquer your enemies.
  
  The most important element in the game is the hero. He can build buildings, convert enemy, ally 
 and neutral buildings, he can do spells, carry tresures etc.
  The thing I'm most fond of in this game is the level system. You can save units in your retinue 
 as generals, so you can carry them on every mission.
  
  The units on the map gain levels and depending on the levels they become more and more powerful
 
  
  The hero is the most powerful unit in the game. If you are an ambitious player you can start out 
 by killing a few harmless bats and advance towards decapitating entire legions of orcs and trolls.
 
  
  Let's imagine the next situation : You're trained elite hero with level 60 alone and an entire 
 army of demons. Will you win? Alone no, but your hero does hide some quite esquisite abilities.
 
  You can start by summoning some skeletons, wights and doomknights, then just going together. 
 
  
  Let me tell you, if you are a strategy maniac, try this game out, it's worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  It's just a fantastic game that has both RTS and RPG flavor.
  You have a selection of 16 different races to lead. And then
  there are many classes that you 
 can choose from.
  Each race and class has their advantages and disadvantages.
  Your attributes depend on both class and race. The campaign
  is big enough to play for a long 
 time. The campaign depends
  on your Race, like undead and knight is always enemy. You
  have to travel through the map many times but it never gets boring.
  Main missions are really 
 wonderful. The skirmish battle is another
  thing that I like most beside the campaign.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wewontrock6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Be sure you want it before buying it. and be sure u lke fun. its awsome. deamon best! buy it. now. 
 exit this and buy it. NOW! your not buying it! gimme all ur money! argh1!!!!!! JUST BUY IT FOR 
 GODS SAKE. DUDE. NOW. BUY IT! ARGH! ARRRRRRR! BUY IT OR I WILL CURSE YOU AND ALL THAT YOU LOVE 
 EXCEPT FOR GAMES I LIKE AND STUFF I LIKE! Well youve probalby bought it. gimme all your food. im 
 hungry. ooh some chocolate. is this 10 words yet? god they should lower it to about 50 words. u 
 count for me please. im bored and i want to play it instead of wrighting some dumb review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prime8
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:14 pm PT
Review:  My friend got me hooked on this series with Warlords Battlecry 1, and I have to admit that I was 
 kind leary about this game when he introduced it to me. I didn't think it would be that great of 
 a game, since I had never heard of it. But after playing through all three installments, I have 
 to say this is by far one of my favorite games. Gameplay really depends on what kind of "gamer" 
 you are. If you like games such as Warcraft, Starcraft, etc... then you should feel right at home 
 with this game. One thing though is that it feels a tad bit lick the other two games in the series, 
 and not much differentiates this from them. Graphics are decent, but they still resemble the same 
 from earlier installments. Sound is pretty good, but some sounds may get a little irritating, especially 
 the grunting and such from your workers or the high pitch voices of the pixies. Multiplayer is 
 really great if you can ever find another person who plays this game. It's not that popular, so 
 you'll be hard-pressed to find another who enjoys this game also. Replay value is very good, because 
 of how addictive the gameplay can be. I really wish that this game would have done a better job 
 of establishing it more different than the other two games, but I'm still very satisfied with the 
 result. If only it got the recognition it deserves... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of WB series ever since the first one. In my opinion, the only series to 
 really successfully implement the Hero notion in an RTS, aside from the newer Spellforce games. 
 But these heroes you level up in single player, multiplayer, skirmish, or whatever and can continue 
 with them in all three settings. I find myself very careful with my hero, hoping for enough XP 
 to really level up and get that next cool spell or ability to help me trounce my enemies. But as 
 far as WB3 is concerned, I feel they took some of the leveling up fun away. WB2 struck a nice balance 
 between race, class, profession. This one doesn't even include details about the abilities of a 
 hero class, so you have to create a hero, go in and play, then see what his/her abilities are. 
 I did manage to download a supplement .pdf doc to explain the heroes, etc., but come on, it should 
 have been in the manual. And an Archmage, not having access to all schools of magic? Come on! I 
 still love the new races, including the Ssrathi, who wouldn't want a T-Rex on his team stomping 
 around and eating those pesky driads in one chomp? Overall, a really fun game, but if you can do 
 without the new races and are after hero leveling, stick with WB1 or WB2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-Dogg
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2004 9:50 am PT
Review:  It may not have the best graphics in the world, but when it comes to an enjoyable gaming experience; 
 Warlords Battlecry III easily beats many other RTS games. Graphics, bells, and whistles are something 
 that have been pushed down players throats over the past few years. "If the graphics suck, the 
 game sucks" attitude is something that I see more and more as PC hardware push the envelope so 
 far, it falls right off the table. Players and reviewers need to focus more on the experience and 
 value of a game, not it's pretty dressing. I would say that Battlecry III is one of the better 
 RTS / role playing games of this year.
  
  The sheer amount of hero and army race possibilities make this a long lasting and in-depth game. 
 The hero system in this game, and the ones before it, give it a real role playing feel as you develop 
 the hero. Each race has it's own subtle strategy for going about a smooth victory. This is what 
 makes this game better than most other RTS games. You can't simply use the same units and tactics 
 to win. You have to really get a feel for the different races to play well. Not only that, it helps 
 to know how your enemy operates. Throw all that in with a decent story and you have a game that 
 I would take over Warcraft 3 or Warhammer 40k any day of the week.
  
  The Gamespot review seems disappointed that no real changes where made to improve the game. Battlecry 
 II was a great game that didn't really need much improvement. Battlecry III added a hand full of 
 new units and a few new races, which is all that really needed to be done. I think that they were 
 hoping it would look like Warcraft 3. The funny thing is, this game proves that Warcraft 3 isn't 
 the end-all-be-all of RTS games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhas
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2004 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Warlords Battlecry III = The living embodiment of "If It Ain't Broke, Don't Fix It." A series that 
 has ALWAYS emphaized intense, strategic gameplay over flashy graphics, WB3 takes the brilliant 
 execution of WB2, which was in nearly every way a better game than WarCraft III, and adds some 
 greatly appreciated, if not particularly needed, spit and polish.
  Unlike most RTS games these days that seek to challange your graphics processer much more then 
 your strategic acumen, WB3 puts you in the shoes of the Warlord of your choice commanding legions 
 of your chosen army across a wonderful selection of maps and scenarios. Rather than trying to get 
 us into the game through some contrived and non-sensical "story," WB3 takes a cue from the Total 
 War series and from Rise of Nations by incorporating a Risk-like global turn-based strategy map. 
 This gets to the heart of what any strategy gamer really wants to do, which is to conquer the world 
 through guile and sheer force of arms.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysega
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 28, 2004 5:52 am PT
Review:  I like this game. Normally Iam not that much into RTS Games but i like the Warlords Series, especially 
 part 1 and part 2 of the Turn Based Part of the Warlords Franchise.
  I decided to try out this game and must say its better than i expected it. You have a lot of races 
 and classes to choose from which changes gameplay tremendously. Basically there are two main classes, 
 fighters and wizards which break into smaller subclasses like paladin, cleric, lich and the like.
 
  I dont want to rephrase what already has been said in the gamespot review so here are my positiv 
 and negativ points about the game. 
  
  + Replay Value, playing a fighter, a wizard and subclasses, also different races which have different 
 units so its almost a new game experience
  + Your hero advances and takes his advancements with him in the upcoming levels
  + All your troops 
 advance as well, you can take up to 9 troops (depending on your merchant skill) in your retinue 
 which means they keep their levels like your hero for the upcoming levels.
  + you find items for your hero, you can find setitems which give additional boni
  + you can choose 
 to play all races you are allied with in the ongoing campaign, so if your initial race turns out 
 to be boring after a while you can switch and play a different race without having to start over
 
  
  - a lot of battles, this might actually be a + for some but i think there are to many of them, 
 id prefer lesser but intense battles
  - you can win every map by simply having a high level flying unit fly to the enemy at the beginning 
 of the game and wipe them out relativly easy.
  
  So, if you can live with the - part the game is for you. 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
