-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warlords IV: Heroes of Etheria
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warlords4heroesofetheria/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 7.1, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 266 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Infinite Int.
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 21, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warlords IV is a highly streamlined sequel that shifts the series' focus away from management and 
 diplomacy to surprisingly fast-paced combat. 

  The long-running Warlords series was one of the first lines of computer strategy games to integrate 
 colorful high-fantasy and role-playing elements with the traditional turn-based strategy you'd 
 normally associate with a wargame or a board game. The series went on to inspire other such games, 
 like Heroes of Might and Magic, Master of Magic, and Age of Wonders. Like these games, the fourth 
 Warlords game, Heroes of Etheria, lets you conquer a vast fantasy world by exploring it with adventuresome 
 parties that consist of stalwart hero characters and fantastical creatures who become more powerful 
 by gaining experience levels from battling enemy parties and neutral monsters. However, the new 
 game does away with concerns like city development and alliances, and introduces a brand-new combat 
 system that's reminiscent of a collectible card game. As a result, Warlords IV is a highly streamlined 
 sequel that shifts the series' focus away from management and diplomacy to surprisingly fast-paced 
 combat.  

          You create a custom warlord who can be carried over between battles.     

  Like SSG's 
 recent Warlords Battlecry real-time strategy series, Warlords IV lets you create a customizable, 
 persistent warlord that you can carry over from game to game, keeping experience levels and skills 
 intact. Your objective is to raise armies to take over each of the game's maps by defeating your 
 enemies' armies, capturing or razing their cities, and increasing your own holdings by clearing 
 out monster-ridden neutral structures, researching magic spells, and acquiring powerful artifacts 
 for your hero characters.  

  Unlike other, similar games, Warlords IV keeps management elements to a bare minimum. For instance, 
 there are only two resources in the game: mana and gold. Mana is used to power spells and is generated 
 by heroes and a few artifacts, while gold is generated regularly by towns and is used solely for 
 maintaining your armies, hiring the occasional hero, and/or making an overall upgrade to your town. 
 Recruiting new armies doesn't cost you any resources. You simply need to wait a certain number 
 of turns for your units to be generated. Warlords IV has no specific add-ons that can be built 
 in your town by default (though you can add a single building between missions) . In addition, Warlords 
 IV has no diplomacy or trading elements, so every other town and army on the map that isn't already 
 controlled by you is flagged as an enemy.  

  These apparent omissions seem like they were made to present Warlords IV in a more straightforward, 
 and perhaps more shallow, manner than other games of this sort. However, they do keep the pacing 
 of the game brisk, which is especially true toward the end of a mission, when your many captured 
 keeps require little to no baby-sitting. In the meantime, you're free to focus on building up armies 
 and conquering the map. Since captured towns are your main source of gold, you'll want to expand 
 more quickly than your opponents to control a greater cash flow, thereby sustaining a larger army. 
 Neutral ruins often house artifacts, caches of gold, and powerful mercenaries for hire that you'll 
 want to obtain before your opponents can -- particularly in single-player games against Warlords 
 IV's challenging AI opponents.  

          Warlords IV doesn't bother with diplomacy, trade, or complex resource management. The game 
 focuses on battles.     

  Since Warlords IV has no diplomacy, there's only one language your enemies will understand. To 
 this end, you can create armies, or "stacks," of up to eight units, including multiple hero units 
 with various special abilities, including the ability to carry artifacts. There are 10 different 
 fantasy factions in the game, each with different unit types, strengths, and weaknesses. Compiling 
 an army that belongs to the same faction allows for a morale bonus in battle, as well as various 
 miscellaneous bonuses. In addition, conquering a city that belongs to your faction, or to a faction 
 of similar alignment, lets you recruit units of that same faction. While conquering a city that 
 belongs to a faction of opposing alignment won't let you recruit any of that opposing faction's 
 units.     

  Despite this lack of availability, you may still be tempted to assemble a motley "killer stack" 
 consisting of high-level creatures from differing factions. Doing so will cost you an exceptional 
 amount of gold for maintenance, and it will also cause a severe morale hit (though low morale can 
 be compensated for in a few different ways, like having a hero with leadership skill, for instance) . 
 Since all units, from heroes to the lowliest level-one units, gain experience levels, you'll often 
 be best-served by having a full stack of eight. You'll want to preserve it for as long as possible 
 so that its troops can survive to gain levels. Experience is gained through fighting, which can 
 be auto-resolved, as in previous Warlords games, but battles are now much more interesting using 
 Warlords IV's new combat system.  

          Choosing your marching order is a surprisingly strategic business since all units have 
 special abilities.     

  When two armies clash in Warlords IV, the game pits individual units against one another until 
 one dies. The controller of the dead creature then gets to choose the next soldier to step into 
 the fray, though between these skirmishes, archer units and defense towers can unleash arrow attacks, 
 and siege units can attack defending towers to knock them down (and cause them to stop firing arrows) . 
 While the system may seem like a simplistic slugfest, at first, it's actually surprisingly strategic, 
 since your units' special abilities and your magic spells can affect the outcome of a battle significantly. 
 For instance, certain evil units have an ability, called "terror," which not only decreases an 
 enemy's effectiveness in battle, but it can also "frighten" an enemy out of battle, forcing the 
 opposing player to choose a different unit to fight instead.  

  All units have four special abilities. They also have skills that are generally useful, like regeneration, 
 armor, and warding. Some units feature highly specialized skills, like manslayer and smite evil. 
 Even though your actions in battle are largely limited to choosing the order in which your soldiers 
 will fight for you, battles are deceptively deep -- though fast-paced. Your units' various special 
 abilities, and the fact that the last surviving unit receives bonus experience toward gaining a 
 level, make combat quite nontraditional in Warlords IV.  

  While Warlords IV boldly eliminates many fantasy strategy conventions, its production values probably 
 could have used a boost. Though the game includes colorful 2D graphics, Warlords IV's visual presentation 
 is inconsistent. One moment you're looking at large and fairly detailed portraits of your warlord 
 (some of which were recycled from SSG's Warlords Battlecry games) ; the next minute you're looking 
 at your miniscule stack on a sparse-looking overland map. Then you're looking at small 2D portraits 
 of your units at the nearest town. After that you're watching battles between poorly animated, 
 rendered sprites that take jerky-looking swings at one another. The game's sound effects aren't 
 impressive either. Fighting monsters grunt and squeal, while humanoid units cry out goofy-sounding 
 taunts that might have been more amusing if they weren't so muffled. The game's synth-orchestral 
 music, at least, is appropriate for its setting and is unobtrusive enough to ignore.  

          Between its campaign, scenarios, multiplayer, editor, and random maps, Warlords IV offers 
 plenty to do.     

  Its presentation aside, Warlords IV offers a comprehensive single-player campaign, 28 one-off skirmish 
 missions, and a host of multiplayer options, including online play, direct IP connect, play-by-e-mail, 
 and hotseat play on the same computer. The game also includes a map editor that lets you create 
 your own missions, as well as a random map generator, so you probably won't run out of things to 
 do with Warlords IV for some time. While Warlords IV does streamline out a great deal of interesting 
 strategic elements you might expect from a game of this sort, what it leaves behind is still engaging 
 enough to keep fans of fantasy strategy playing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Making a sequel to such a game is always extremely hard for a team, as you have a legacy which 
 you must meet. This game delivers as far as I am concerned, but I am unsure for the old-time fans. 
 It adds a few new features, such as leveling up your avatar; which is more a RPG feature then a 
 strategy-feature.
  
  I am pleased with this version of the game and I would always be looking forward to new twists 
 and turns to the game sequels. But I am a RPG player myself, so adding RPG twists would always 
 be welcome for someone like me, are they welcome to old-timer? Maybe. Maybe not.
  
  But working on this title is kinda as if you are working on RISK (not the same, a little more complex, 
 but not much more) .
  
  MAIN FLAW: Not enough replayability, I think this version address this flaw quite well, but still 
 not enough to change the fact that it's remain, the main flaw of the game. Sure the progression 
 is a motivation to play more... but much more? Not yet.
  
  PS: I play this game years ago... so this review is based on past memories... and memories can be 
 tricky sometimes. It is my way to say I am looking forward to the V, which is coming, eventually... maybe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm proud to say I've conquered all the 32 provinces and that took me over a hundred hours stretching 
 over months, which meant I've either neglected my studies or my social life, but in any case, Warlords 
 IV is worth it.
  
  In comparison to Heroes of M&amp; M IV, Warlords IV's graphics sucks big time, but that ain't matter 
 a bit, cos the gameplay is so direct and addictive, you'll look past the imperfections and concentrate 
 on the strategy. At first (if you're new to the Warlords series) , you may be a little disillusioned 
 by the gameplay mechanics since when they let you choose and customise your warlord, you actually 
 rarely uses this character. In fact, what you need are hero units (much like Heroes of M&amp; M 
 series) and they can be carried over to the next scenario, and that's the appeal I'm talking about 
 - turn-based strategy with that RPG element. They are also able to carry over artifacts found in 
 the scenarios, which makes covering every area possible so tempting.
  
  Resource management is simplified to just gold assets to allow you to focus on the combat and it 
 works very well. However, the only setback is that there's no incentive in completing all the provinces 
 since there's only 10 story missions and even if you conquer every province after the main quest 
 is over, there's no real ending, you just can keep on playing the same map over and that's how 
 the game never actually ends, which kind of leave you empty after that. But nonetheless, the game 
 still rocks cos it's the fundamental charm that matters.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Warlords IV is actually a TURN BASED strategy game not a RTS game as one of the reviewers has said.
 
  It countinues on from Warlords 3 darklords rising , which was a spectacular strategy game one 
 of the best games made actually, it was deep, had lots of races , you could even make your own 
 race , the music was beautiful the graphics were functional and it was epic.
  
  You pick a race, a hero, build an army of varying creatures and raid dungeons and other sites for 
 relics, more soldiers or gold and you attack other towns and are given a choice what to do with 
 them, occupy which doesnt generate any looted gold but leaves the city intact, pillage/sack which 
 damages the production fo a city (the units it already has avaliable which might not matter if 
 the race is alien to yours you cant build their troop types anyway) or raze it to the ground.
 
  When you have a city it'll have different levels of fortification, you can take a quest up with 
 varying difficulty with more rewards etc.
  
  The combat was done easily enough, move one army stack into an enemies or onto a city and watch 
 your troops fight in a entirely abstract, almost board game like way, depending on stats and roll 
 of the dice you'd score a hit or they would and your unit would loose a hit point or dide, however 
 you could also mix things up with magic but the combat in this game IS APPALLING! archers are over 
 powered to the extreme, attacking a city is suicidial usually, archers and towers get a shot every 
 combat turn which means your stack is reduced to nothing even if its top tier creatures. This alone 
 makes the game feel broken almost.
  
  Next the graphics have a face lift but the arrow markers have been changed from clear easy to see 
 arrows on a screen from Warlords III to a hazy lighty mist whcih is a struggle to see sometimes, 
 and the graphics are so zoomed out you can see infantry as ants its pathetic, the only good thing 
 with te graphics are the creature art and some of that is taken from Warlords III anyway,,,
  
  The sound is top notch as usual for the series but this is ultimately secondary to the other 
 points in the game, noticeably the gameplay and the graphics.
  
  Now i unfortunately bought this at only a slightly reduced price and felt insulted, i dont recommend 
 buying this, the multiplayer is dead already and are there any plans for a sequel the likes of 
 which is worthy of being i nthe warlords series or has this killed it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dlwynndnn1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The Game it's self is very nice from the graphics to the music... although sometimes repetitive. The 
 carrying over of your Warlord and Three Heroes, along with items and stats from a skirmish mode 
 to the actual campaign mode. Then there is the ten different races, from The Undead to the Humans 
 and Dragons. Last but not least, the capability to play off line... for those times you don't want 
 to be on-line or cannot be. As well the game allows inter-net access. The races are all very unique 
 ,as well as what abilities you choose for you race. Which can accommodate the race of choice or 
 hamper it ,so choose carefully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud60
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:38 am PT
Review:  I have been playing many games but one like this never. The gameplay is fantastic. You have time 
 to build your army before going to battle and conquer the land. You can choose from playing different 
 maps from the story line or random map or by creating your own maps. And the level of difficulty 
 is very challenging. It is very addictive and i have been spending most of my time to try to complete 
 the game. So don't be afraid it is a game that you must have in your collection. For the price, 
 you won't regret it .Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilebill
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2003 7:43 am PT
Review:  Immersive addictive strategy game that you can learn in five minutes, but with a depth of complexity 
 that retains interest while yet remaining under the hood and user transparent. Tactical combat 
 with an automatic transmission combining the fun of strategic battle supervision with the delightful 
 spectator sport of watching a replay. With ten sides each with their own unique style to play, 
 a highly replayable freeform campaign, a random skirmish map generator, plenty of additional pre-designed 
 maps, and a full featured editor there will remain plenty of ways to have fun for a long time to 
 come. The warlord and his retinue persist and improve from one game to another. With Warlords IV, 
 "just one more turn" becomes "just one more game!" 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
