-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: War Over Vietnam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warovervietnam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  9, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.4, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 24 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: HPS Simulations
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     June 2004

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
War Over Vietnam is suited for those with intimate knowledge of the subject matter who are willing 
 to forgive several flaws to fulfill their "what-if" strike commander fantasies. 

  The Vietnam air war was an amazing conflict that is criminally underutilized in today's games. 
 This was the period in which the US paid dearly for relying on fledgling missile technology when 
 old-fashioned cannons and machine guns were still deciding the outcome of dogfights. It was a time 
 in which Thuds and F-111s practically scraped their bellies on the ground during bombing missions, 
 even as massive B-52s rained death from on high. It was an era in which American pilots faced the 
 most massive antiaircraft network ever created, which made it necessary for them to dodge everything 
 from radar-guided surface-to-air missiles (the size of telephone poles) to casual shots from ancient 
 rifles -- all in bids to avoid extended stays at the Hanoi Hilton. While we're still waiting for 
 a decent flight simulator that covers this era, in War Over Vietnam, HPS Simulations has at least 
 delivered a decent real-time tactical wargame that lets players simulate nearly every aspect of 
 the air war, from the initial Pierce Arrow forays in 1964 to the massive Linebacker II bombing 
 campaign in 1972. It plays a little bit like the air traffic simulations of yore, but instead of 
 directing planes to avoid collisions and land safely, you instead conduct a symphony of destruction. 

          Everything is clearly laid out, but the graphics pretty much define 'drab.'     

  Handling 
 multiple flights of planes at once seems overwhelming at first, but the interface is streamlined 
 to the point where decisions usually are straightforward. After loading a scenario, you issue orders 
 to flights or ground units that are simple by themselves but can be strung together to create more-complex 
 commands. For example, it is easy to set up patrol routes for radar planes -- which can jam aircraft, 
 fighters, and tankers -- or to set a series of waypoints for a flight that keeps it out of range 
 of antiaircraft guns and SAM radars on the way to the target. When things heat up, you can order 
 planes to drop external weapons or fuel tanks to increase speed and maneuverability, and some planes 
 can even dispense chaff to confuse incoming missiles. It is also possible to order aircraft to 
 fly high or low and to increase or decrease speed depending on the situation. Furthermore, you 
 can point aircraft manually toward a target or toward impromptu waypoints.  

  Fuel is tracked for each flight, but in most missions it doesn't have too big of an impact on gameplay. 
 Flying low burns the precious liquid at twice the normal rate, and ordering fighters to use afterburners 
 to get an edge in a dogfight guzzles frightening amounts of gas. Range is displayed as a black 
 circle around the aircraft, and it is possible to flip an autoreturn switch that forces the flight 
 to head home as soon as it hits "bingo" (military slang for having just enough fuel to make it 
 back to base) . Once there, the flight can rearm and refuel for another sortie, provided there's 
 enough time left on the mission countdown timer to make it back to the target.  

          Operation Kingpin involves a diverse force, with each flight playing a distinct role.  
    

  Missions play out in real-time, but it is possible to speed up, slow down, or pause the action. 
 Fortunately, you can issue orders while the game is paused, because there are generally many flights 
 to manage. One of the game's main problems is that even though time is tracked down to the second, 
 flights react instantly to commands. This makes it possible to quickly bounce a flight from high 
 altitude to low altitude and vice versa, or you can instantly command a flight to turn around to 
 make passes on targets over and over until it runs out of ammo. Heavy tankers and radar aircraft 
 should not be able to turn on a dime, and the ability to pop up for a second to identify a target 
 and then immediately drop back down to low level is completely unrealistic. Incorporating rudimentary 
 turn and climb rates would have added enough to the game's tactical component to make things much 
 more interesting.  

  The Operation Kingpin scenario, which is included as one of the game's 23 missions, provides a 
 good overview of how the general gameplay works, because it involves nearly every type of aircraft 
 imaginable. In reality, this scenario involves a coordinated raid on the large Son Tay POW camps, 
 with F4 Phantoms providing high-altitude air cover, low-flying F-105 Wild Weasel ground attack 
 planes diverting antiair attention and suppressing SAM sites, an EC-121 Constellation providing 
 air radar coverage, and an MC-130 Combat Talon to drop flares over the target. All of these planes 
 were protecting slow-flying helicopters filled with special forces troops that would be dropped 
 in to rescue POWs. The mission went very well, despite some potential disasters, but, unfortunately, 
 no POWs remained at the camp.     

  In the game, the stage is set as soon as the mission is loaded. All aircraft are in the air and 
 en route to their respective targets, and it's possible to switch them all to what is effectively 
 autopilot to watch the mission play out. After checking to see what aircraft were available, we 
 ordered the solitary Mach 3+ SR-71 recon plane to loiter, sent the Wild Weasel flight after some 
 nearby SAMs, and had the F4s patrol the skies to the east of the camp, setting their speeds just 
 one notch below full afterburner to improve their odds at dodging stray missiles. Meanwhile, the 
 MC-130s and helicopters lumbered toward the camp at low altitude, escorted by a tree-skimming formation 
 of A-1 Skyraiders to provide close air support. The radar plane picked up a target for the F4s, 
 which intercepted the unknown target and brought it down with a long-range missile shot. The F-105s 
 blinded a SAM site close to the camp by obliterating its radar, and after the A-1 shot a few rockets 
 at the camp, we had it harass another SAM site by taking potshots before it ran out of ammo and 
 had to return to base.  

          Issuing a series of orders is simple, courtesy of a streamlined interface.     

  The 
 combined air cover and SAM suppression was enough to provide the strike force with an unopposed 
 path to the base. The ground forces dropped in, went to work, and were extracted by the helicopters. 
 One of the chopper flights rescued some downed aircrew members that popped up on the screen (seemingly 
 at random since no American planes were shot down) , and the SR-71 was then ordered to take pictures 
 of the camp to assess the mission's effectiveness. When time was up, the Americans achieved a massive 
 victory, thanks mainly to the points accumulated for picking up the stranded pilots.  

  This sounds like an exhilarating time, but most of the action takes place in your imagination. 
 Onscreen, all you see are generic plane icons moving toward generic target icons, with weapons 
 represented as dots that fly toward their targets. Hits and misses are reported via text messages 
 that flash up on the screen, but they consist of all fact and no flavor. Including pilot names 
 or breaking down the final scores by flights so that you could easily tell what unit contributed 
 the most in the battle would have made things somewhat more interesting,. As wargames go, War Over 
 Vietnam is about as bland as they come, and the included scenarios set everything up so perfectly 
 that many of the most meaningful decisions -- force selection, attack order, and weapons loadouts -- are 
 not left up to the player. This is realistic in terms of sticking to the theme of the game, which 
 consists of letting you assume the role of a strike commander who leads preassigned flight packages 
 to preassigned targets, but it strips a lot of potential fun from the game.  

  Fortunately, the included scenario editor is the game's saving grace, and the included Ham Rung 
 bridge attack mission is a perfect example of why the editor works so well. This massive span, 
 aptly nicknamed the "Dragon's Jaw," proved to be an exceedingly difficult target for the American 
 pilots to destroy. Planes used in the initial attack -- the one re-created in the game -- relied mainly 
 on small missiles that did little more than scorch the bridge's metal superstructure. The editor 
 provides a perfect opportunity for players to find out what could have happened if those initial 
 flights were packing bigger bombs or if different types of aircraft were used in the attack. We 
 set up an alternate version of the mission within a few minutes, although it will take anyone who 
 is unfamiliar with aircraft and weapons designations much longer than this to sift through the 
 orders of battle and loadout screens.  

          The scenario editor uses the same graphics and engine as the game and is incredibly easy 
 to use for those familiar with the subject matter.     

  The graphics in both the game and the editor are spartan, with a drab, tan 2D map crisscrossed 
 with brown roads and blue rivers. Planes are represented by simple monotone icons that provide 
 an overhead, silhouetted view of the aircraft. Clicking an icon selects the plane, which is then 
 displayed on the left of the screen using clear, hand-drawn side views. These side views are overlaid 
 with information about the aircraft, including its current speed and range, and right-clicking 
 on the side view brings up more-detailed information about the planes ordnance, training level, 
 and additional factors. Up to seven of these side views can be displayed at once to let players 
 easily switch focus between aircraft, but there, unfortunately, is no way to quickly cycle through 
 all of the planes on the map to ensure that you aren't missing anything. Wargames don't generally 
 offer much in the sound department, and War Over Vietnam adheres to this policy. There is background 
 radio chatter to add some ambience, there are explosion sounds for weapon drops, and there are 
 some engine sounds. But that about covers it.  

  This game obviously appeals to an extremely select audience. You have to not only love planes but 
 also you have to know reams of information about hundreds of variants of military aircraft, ordnance, 
 and ground units to form a viable offensive or defensive strategy. If you want to play over a network 
 connection with a buddy, he or she needs to know all of that stuff as well. All of this data, along 
 with math formulas used by the game engine, is included with the well-organized online documentation, 
 but there, unfortunately, is no printed manual to help out the uninitiated. If the designer had 
 focused as much on simulating aerodynamics as it did on simulating weapons systems, War Over Vietnam 
 would be an excellent tactical exercise. As it stands, it's a game that's better suited for those 
 with intimate knowledge of the subject matter who are willing to forgive several flaws to fulfill 
 their "what-if" strike commander fantasies.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
