-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warpath
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/warpath/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Technically speaking, the game looks decent.
 Multiplayer can be fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 assuming you can actually find anyone to play against, which you probably won't.
 Lackluster bot artificial intelligence and weak campaign structure make single-player worthless.
 Weapons lack punch.
 Map designs aren't conducive to vehicle usage.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 27, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 5.6, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 175 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Developer: Digital Extremes
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jul 18, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As a cheaply priced, multiplayer-focused first-person shooter, Warpath is serviceable, if utterly 
 unremarkable. 

  If a developer makes a decent, multiplayer-focused first-person shooter but no one is there to 
 play it, does it deserve to be bought? Ponder this piece of Zen as we examine Warpath, a new, budget-priced 
 FPS from developer Digital Extremes. Warpath is, for all intents and purposes, an Unreal Tournament 
 knockoff that looks and feels pretty similar to Digital Extremes' last game, Pariah. Purely taken 
 as a multiplayer shooter, Warpath has its qualities; but those qualities might be difficult to 
 grasp considering that just about nobody is playing this game online, days after its retail release. 
 And as far as its single-player experience goes, it has one, and that's about all you can say for 
 it.  

           Say hello to more generic first-person shooting in the form of Digital Extreme's Warpath. 
     

  The premise of Warpath is that three warring races are battling it out for supremacy on a distant 
 world. There's the human coalition, a group of futuristic supersoldiers decked out in what looks 
 like a blue version of the Master Chief's suit from a certain other first-person shooter that one 
 might argue Pariah was an awful lot like; the Kovos, a group of mechanical creatures that look 
 like fatter versions of the Cylons from the old  Battlestar Galactica  series, but with weird  
 Matrix  code running down their faces; and the Ohm, who are basically  Star Trek's  Borg, but without 
 that whole collective consciousness deal. Each race has a couple of unique weapons, but once you 
 play through and unlock all the available guns, effectively there is no difference between factions, 
 save for aesthetics.  

  Warpath includes deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and front line assault modes. The 
 first three are pretty self-explanatory. Front line assault mode places a few capture points around 
 a map, and requires at least one member from each team to stand in those points until a meter fills 
 up and designates it as captured. Once a team has captured all the capture points on a map, they 
 can then gain access to the opposing team's base and blow up its generator to take the round.  
 

  The four modes of play work well enough in Warpath, though the lack of unique or interesting weapons, 
 cramped maps, and largely unnecessary vehicles do put a damper on things. The weapons' greatest 
 fault is that they just don't have much feel to them, nor do they seem especially well balanced. 
 The rocket launcher and shotgun are by far the most useful, whereas guns like the sniper rifle-esque 
 javelin and grenade launcher aren't very effective over the course of a match. Of course, it's 
 good to have at least one person using at least one of these two weapons on your team, but playing 
 as that person isn't much fun, because you tend to get shot in the face a lot more than those wielding 
 a shotgun or rocket launcher.  

  The maps in the game are almost exclusively indoor, with a few outdoor sections in some. Most of 
 them are composed of narrow corridors, scattered elevators, and a few larger, open areas where 
 bigger groups of combatants tend to congregate. Purely for the purposes of on-foot combat, the 
 maps serve the game pretty well. There's just enough room to maneuver, though there are usually 
 a couple of decent hiding spots and vantage points, and plenty of ammo and armor power-ups. The 
 problems start to mount, however, when vehicles get tossed into the mix. No map in the game appears 
 properly built toward vehicle usage. There's just not enough room to move them around properly, 
 so what you typically end up with is a situation in which both sides have a couple of people in 
 a vehicle, travel to the same spot, kind of get stuck there, shoot each other until one or both 
 of the vehicles explode, and that's that.  

  Fundamentally, Warpath is built to be a multiplayer game. The Xbox version features Xbox Live and 
 system-link play for up to 16 players, and the PC version has online and LAN play for as many as 
 32 players. You need at least six players to have a decent match, but unfortunately, in both versions 
 of the game, we found ourselves running into a lot of situations where nobody was playing online. 
 We did find a few matches at least, and we can report that the online performance seems relatively 
 lag-free on both platforms; but the sheer amount of trouble we had finding opponents doesn't bode 
 well for the game's lasting value.  

  There is offline play to be had in Warpath, but it doesn't amount to much. The single-player "campaign" 
 is actually just a series of skirmishes that take place on a grid-based map. Each faction controls 
 a portion of the map, and each is given one turn to challenge an opposing faction. Defeating them 
 in battle gives you control of that territory you just challenged for. There's next to no story 
 in this mode, nor much context for what you're doing, and you can be done with the mode in just 
 a couple of quick, meaningless hours. The bot artificial intelligence is also rather bewildering. 
 The game gives you four difficulty levels to choose from, and on all levels but the hardest, you'll 
 find yourself mowing over the competition with ease. Enemy bots will sometimes just stand perfectly 
 still, waiting for you to blast away at them. Other times, a whole group of them will just run 
 right past you and won't stop to shoot you unless you shoot them first. Tactics just aren't a faction 
 when going up against computer players, and all it really boils down to is you finding an enemy, 
 shotgunning or rocket-launching them to death, and moving on. The hardest difficulty does make 
 them a touch smarter, but you still won't have too much trouble winning matches.  

           Vehicles are a nice touch. It's just too bad the maps don't allow you to use them better. 
     

  Warpath presents itself reasonably well, though it does feel an awful lot like it's been built 
 with recycled parts from Pariah. The game does go for more of an Unreal Tournament-esque hyperfuturistic 
 look, but some of the set designs and core elements just look like Pariah all over again. It's 
 a decent-enough-looking game, though there's not much to really catch the eye beyond the bare essentials. 
 The Xbox version has a slightly more hobbled frame rate, but both versions run pretty well taken 
 as a whole. There's not a ton of audio in the game beyond the synthetic, Halo-lite soundtrack and 
 random explosions and grunts of fallen enemies, but what's there does the job.  

  So, with all that said, the answer to the question posed at the beginning is, ultimately, no. Warpath, 
 while not devoid of enjoyable qualities, doesn't have enough going on in either the multiplayer 
 or single-player departments to really be worth your time or money. The multiplayer definitely 
 can be fun, and at the relatively cheap price of $20 on the PC and $30 on Xbox, those in serious 
 need of a new FPS for their chosen platform could find Warpath entirely tempting. But considering 
 the number of multiplayer FPSes currently available on both platforms that not only retail comparably, 
 but also manage to provide both a compelling online community and a single-player campaign that's 
 actually worth playing, Warpath looks rather perfunctory by comparison.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: splitka
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was unbelievably underrated. It is a great game. Yes the multiplayer was horrible and 
 does not work but really who cares? it is a great game. And the price is so low compared to new 
 games that are almost eighty dollars!! Anyway great game. I loved it. My review is now over thank 
 you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank 
 you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank 
 you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank 
 you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank 
 you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank 
 you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank 
 you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank 
 you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank you. My review is now over thank 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sexyman123abc
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  it is way to short and it has no multi player!! !!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!! 111!!! !!!!!! !!!! 
 ! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !! !!!!! !!!!!!!! ! !!!!!! !! !!! !! !! !! !! !! !! !! !!!! !!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!! ! !!!! !!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!! 
 ! !! !! !! ! ! 1 1! ! ! !! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!! ! !1111 !!!!!! !!! A!! !!!! !!!! weqwe qweqweqweqwewa 
 weqeqwe eqweqwde dawdawdwqawdsd weqw eddsqwdsaw dawdasdaw d wdasdaw daswd swqasdw awads dawds waddas 
 wsdasds dfgdfhgrthgf dg dgerg rhdfg gdfgf fvbfg ghghgggg dsfsdfa fds sdfa d dfa adfsda sfsd sdfsadfsd 
 xsdfddf dfda dsdsf afd adfasdd a adfafasdfa   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: free_roamer
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  For 10 Dollars, is pretty decent. Despite the lack of weapons (only 6!) and vehicles, the gameplay 
 is very strangely addicting. It's graphics are actually pretty good. If it had a few more weapons 
 and vehicles, I'd still be playing it. For a 2006 computer game, it ran fairly smoothly on my year 
 2000 OS. Solid game, if you can get it for 10 dollars, it's better to buy than rent.
  
  
  It has a few laser weapons and a bazooka or 2, generic stuff. It doesn't really sounnd that good, 
 it's just the addictive gameplay and decent sound effects that are nice. For a lack of better words, 
 it's better than the sum of it's parts.
  
  IT needs wayy more content though. I can download a UT2004 demo for free and it will provide more 
 content than this game. Why do people even hire developers that are lax and lazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlton999
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 25, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  just got this game the other day. so far the demo plays better than the acutual game its self. 
 the jury is still out.... i will have to get back to you on this one. so far the game keeps blacking 
 out in the middle of play.... is it suppose to do that ? i will have to check my settings and see 
 if that corrects the problem. the thing that i hate about most shooters is watching your gun get 
 reloaded while your getting shot and killed. i guess UT2004 has spoiled me. in UT2004 your gun 
 switches to the next one when you run out of ammo. if you havent picked up more ammo when you run 
 out you are out of luck. you just have to run around until you can find some more ammo or die. 
 in warpath the reload time is very slow. the question is can i get used to that ........ we'll see. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarekick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I believe that cheap costing games are not always lame. You look at Warpath, a game that costs 
 less than twenty dollars and surprises you with it's looks, gracefulness and overall content. The 
 story is intellengent, though not 100% unique, but intellegent the way it was written. The three 
 different species', don't look too different compaired to Star Wars and sci-fi characters. Most 
 of all, the good thing about Warpath, is that it gets the job done right by getting your attention 
 and keeping it.
  
  Warpath is mostly designed for online play and the excellently well constructed campaign, is mostly 
 just filled with levels that you would play on multiplayer, such as Capture the Flag and Deathmatch. 
 What makes up for this half-issue, is that the maps and graphics with battle vehicles every once 
 in a while, keep the fun and playability going. Not only do they appear real, but they also present 
 other things going on the the background, such as flying ships, explosions and giant robots attacking 
 eachother.
  
  What I also found was great in Warpath, was the weapons. Though there were only six, they looked 
 cool and held great. The most impressive ones in my opinion were the Human's Wolverine smg and 
 the Ohm's shotgun.
  The combination of those two weapons can get you through the game easily, but you must win selected 
 battles in order to claim new weapons for your species.
  
  The music was pretty good as well, but the sound effects were better. I really though the sounds 
 of the guns were great along with the sounds of explosions.
  
  There are some interesting cutscenes too, none so spectacular, but added something else good to 
 the finished product. The three different storylines have different cutscenes and different outcomes. 
 You must repel attacks from enemy armies then attack them when you hold them off. These different 
 story lines provide a longer game.
  
  The last level is quite challenging. The robotic race, the Ohm, designed a super-computer that 
 would help them give tactical decisions, but turned on them and wiped them out . The machine created 
 and sent off these robot giants to defend it and you have to destroy a certain few to claim the 
 planet as your own. It would of neen nice to have had a vehicle laying about on this level, but 
 such a thing wasn't meaned to be. You have to take it out yourself, recommended you use the wolverine 
 and the violater.
  
  In the end, Warpath is an impressive game that stands on its own from the others on the market. 
 It should've gotten more recognition than it did, but since it was from a budget company, it wasn't 
 taken to high notice. I'm definatley recommending it to any shooter lover and the online players 
 need more people to play against, so plaease buy this game. In total, Warpath is a gem that few 
 have yet to experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jurkala
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a 
 aa a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a aaa aaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a 
 aa a a a a a a a a a aaaa a a a aa a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a aa a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxfreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Warpath a game by the makers of the Unreal Tournament Series and is a multiplayer shooter where 
 three species are fighting for survival. This game depending on where you get it is a great deal 
 considering it's a very exceptional game depending how you look at it. I will review the major 
 sections.
  
  Requirements: I must say the developers did a perfect job at making this game running good on a 
 major scale of different systems, the game runs really nice on my comp and i dont even meet the 
 video requirements and I am just at minimum when it comes to ram and processing speed.
  
  Graphics: Very nice is all i can really say.
  
  Sound: Perfect, one thing i look or in any 
 shooter is very intense sound. The guns make very loud booms and noises as-well as everything else 
 makes it sound like a battlefield on a large scale. The Music is exceptional.
  
  Controls: Nothing much i can say except that they are customizable and very easy to learn.
  
 
  Story: All the story is about three species are fighting for survival and you must choose a side 
 and eradicate the other two.
  
  Gameplay: This can be fun for some or boring to others depending on how you look at it. There are 
 two modes Single player and multiplayer, in single player you choose a side and play through the 
 story and im multiplayer you choose if you want to practice with bots or play online. The game 
 modes are what you would expect from Digital Extremes - Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the 
 flag, and Asssault. Okay now the actual gameplay, when you start a round you go to a screen in 
 which you can choose 2 weapons to play with which are upgradeable during the game. While you play 
 Single player you can collect these gadgets called C. A. M's which upgrade your arsenal for better 
 accuracy and damage. In Multiplayer you kill the other bots or players to collect C. A. M's. One 
 really bad point for the game is the fact that you cant customize your game settings or character 
 in any multiplayer mode. Thats the reason many dont like it due to the lack of control they have 
 over the game options. Also you get to ride and control vehicals so you get to blast people with 
 diffrent projectiles.
  
  Overall- If your a hardcore multi-player Shooter Junkie you'll want it but if your a casual player 
 try the demo and see if it fancies your taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Many people give this game some bad credit because it is a Unreal Tournament rip-off. I wouldn't 
 know this because I never played Unreal games. This game feels very rushed to me becuase they didn't 
 take time and actually extend the gameplay and make more game modes. There are only 3 types of 
 matches. Deathmatch, CTF (Capture the Flag) , and Assualt. Even with all those game modes, it still 
 is a poor game because they didn't extend the amount of CPU enemies, score limit, etc... Also, 
 you will feel pretty bummed when you hear that there is a pretty limited amount of weapons. One 
 races is accessable to only 2 guns and maybe a grenade or explosive. Notice in my review deck that 
 it says, should be a free downloadable multiplaying FPS. The game has multiplay via internet/LAN 
 connection, but no one ever plays it online. If it was free, then there might be more people that 
 actually played it. If you were looking for a good solid story mode, then you won't be interested 
 in Warpath. It doesn't have a story, it just has you choose a race/alliance and try and capture 
 all the war zones. The game has new age graphics from like 2004-05 game, but is still leaving the 
 fun out. Sound was pretty well put in. It was clear so I could hear the SFX and everything in my 
 surrounding. The gameplay is below mediocre in my mind because I think every game I play should 
 have a good, desciptive story instead of rushed gameplay and no time to understand what is going 
 on.
  
  This is a PC that was majorly flawed and isn't even close to being worth $40. I am ashamed I purchased 
 this game, but you guys can try it and give your own positive or negative feedback. I just think 
 it was mediocre flaw for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Span5
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  This game gets a lot more crap than it deserves Im not going to say that I think this is the 
 best game ever made, but it certainly deserves better reviews that what Ive seen. This game plays 
 off the same premise as Unreal, offering a tournament based hyper-futuristic world and weapons 
 to feast your eyes on. The game mechanics are very solid, the game play is fun, and visually this 
 game has a lot to offer without taxing a mid end machine. I even tried this in my comp that only 
 runs a FX 5200 with a AMD 2100 processor and a gig of ram, and this game ran fine on medium settings. 
 Also, anyone out there who is a fan of overdone ragdoll physics like me will be giggling in glee 
 as the Havok engine makes yet another appearance in this game and shines in all of its limb flailing 
 glory. That was the good, now for the not so good Warpath is essentially a regurgitation of Pariah, 
 which was another underrated game that was released for the Xbox a while ago. In my opinion, it 
 seems that the developers basically took Pariah and tried to fix most of what was broken and re-release 
 it under a different name. The single player in this game is basically a play off Unreal Tournament 
 as well and the AI must stand for Artificial Idiot in this game as Morgan Webb would say. Lastly, 
 there is maybe one other person in the world who owns this game so you wont be finding anyone 
 to play against online without some effort. Im not quite sure why they didnt just call it an 
 expansion pak for Pariah, or Paraih 2 but whatever Anyways, the character models are different, 
 the weapons are much improved, the upgrade system is still present and accounted for, and they 
 did away with the class selector allowing you to choose any combination of the 6 available weapons 
 to start each match. I would like to point out, that the plasma rifle or Vanguard as they call 
 it in this game is actually worth choosing now. It has a sweet upgrade feature that basically turns 
 it into the all to familiar BFG that ID software made all of us geeks fall in love with, but with 
 a twist. The round actually sticks to a surface and shocks the crap out of anyone who runs by for 
 a limited amount of time. GREAT FOR CTF STRATEGY!!!! I guess Ill stop blabbing and wrap this thing 
 up I found this game online for $7 after shipping, and it is WELL worth that price. I think that 
 this is a great game to add to your FPS collection if only to bust out when you are extremely tired 
 of destroying Combine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  Warpath is a similar game to pariah, but without a real story and it features a singleplayer campaign 
 (Conquer the world feel) and multiplayer options.
  The good thing ( actually the bestthing ) about warpath is that it is a budget priced game and 
 for the people that really like multiplayer this game is a ( must have ) game.
  
  Gameplay:
  +3 Different races/factions to choose between
  +Multiple weapons to choose of
 
  +Different variety between maps
  -Lackluster Artificial intelligence
  -Try finding people playing online!
  -Weapons are weak
  -Vehicles dont add that much!
  
 
  Graphics:
  +Based on the engine of the game pariah (looks the same with some things added) +Very stable, no 
 sudden crashes
  -Looks very unsharp (not like D3 or other games)
  -Its really hard to aim at enemies (you just shoot shoot shoot until you kill them)
  
  Sounds:
 
  +Reasonable sounds and some really good weapon sounds
  -Music is boring
  
  Value:
  +Reasonable amount of maps
  +Multiplayer!!!
  -No real singleplayer campaign!!!
  -Again ( 
 the bots suck)
  
  Tilt:
  +Reasonable interface
  +Reasonable variety between maps and weapons
  -Unorginal story, lackluster story (just deathmatch 
 and CTF)
  
  Warpath is budget priced and looks reasonable, but only if you are into mutliplayer games this 
 game is worth to try.
  Cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rulzmaker
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  At the first moment i started to play WarPath, i said to myself: WOW a nice cool game. It reminded 
 me of Unreal Tournament 2004, wich i loved. So i play a mission, and then another. I was bored 
 to death because, you don't have, but two weapons at first, and that's really annoying.
  The gameplay wich at first i tought was world class (the first 5 minutes) turns out to be boring 
 like hell. I wouldn't recommend this game unless you are a Digital Extremes fan or you don't have 
 anything else to play, because this game is just a waste of money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff_d5
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  sure its no halo2, half life 2, doom3, far cry, crysis, and many more out there but hay its a first 
 person shooter and its prety good compared to olden days quake doom , hl1 and so forth they would 
 considered this a prety good game.
  
  Its one of those first person games that u play when ur really really bored of all the other games 
 and u have to play every game out there to be satisfied and stuff and like its like got a great 
 title and all too u know the reason i gave it a 9 is the same reason peter griffin dosent like 
 the godfather and that reason i cant tell you because you have to go see that episode for yourself 
 ok thanks
  
  later all and have a happy game hunting lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrcSlayer16416
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the Warpath MP demo, I saw what could have been a really good game, if it had 
 been just that. A demo.
  
  We are told about the conflict between the three races, the Kovos, the Ohm, and the human Coalition. 
 In the demo maps, we see massive battle being fought in the background, and immense war machines 
 stomping through the terrain. It made me hope we would get to be involved in that background action 
 in at least an average quality single player scenario.
  
  Sadly, we do not. The single player game is nothing more than a dumbed down version of the turn 
 based arena combat seen in games like Star Wars: Battlefront (which actually worked in that game) . 
 Over the course of the single player game, which took me a few hours to finish, I had to fight 
 the same capture the flag map about five times, since the Ohm kept trying to retake it while I 
 was fighting off the Kovos.
  
  Why did it take so little time? Lets talk about bot AI for a moment. In the demo, the bot AI seemed 
 smart enough, for the most part, especially in deathmatch games. But their stupidity is even worse 
 in the full game. Often times they will stop fighting and just stand in place, unable to decide 
 what to do next. And in the CTF map from the demo, I'm sure we all saw those inept bots jump to 
 their doom as they tried to leap onto the flag platform. Oddly enough, the attacking bots rarely 
 attempted that stupid move, and thus were much more successful than the defenders. Also, bots go 
 out of their way to pick up C. A. M. s, but they NEVER upgrade their weapons.
  
  To my understanding, most of this AI trouble stems from Pariah (this game started as Pariah 2) . 
 Considering the fact that these games come from the people who worked on the original Unreal, we 
 could have at least hoped for an engaging single player experience. Both of them claimed to be 
 something revolutionary, but in the end they are neither revolutionary, nor were they all that 
 fun to play.
  
  On the plus side, Warpath has a very nice visual style, which doesn't bog down the system as bad 
 as most Unreal 2 engine games. Try to picture it as the exact opposite of Quake 3. Everything is 
 slick and shiney, and overall clean looking. The player models, on the other hand, are very generic. 
 And at most there are two skins per player model (though I've only noticed it on the Ohm for some 
 reason. It seems to be random) . The races are, aside from appearence, identical, except in solo 
 play where they start out with different unlocked weapons (though even in solo the bots always 
 seem to have access to them all) .
  
  And finally, they try to finish it up with a boss fight, where you battle two amazingly tough but 
 terribly stupid "Thrall." These are robot models, that as far as I know have no backsides at all, 
 since they always face the player. Yes, they always face you, until they die. And they pick up 
 items as well, though they obviously have no use for them. Overall a lame attempt at adding some 
 challenge to the game, since once you figure out just how to take advantage of the idiot bots you 
 can pretty much carve your way through the rest of the single player game without difficulty. I 
 only had trouble getting killed by Javalin wielding opponents on Flatlined (snipers on highest 
 difficulty) .
  
  Finally, for a game trying to push itself as multiplayer focused, they failed horribly. Could I 
 excuse the lack of options if it was a single player focused game? Most likely. But here, try to 
 picture Unreal Tournament without any options at all. You just pick the map, and go. You don't 
 even get to choose which player model you use in deathmatch games, or which race each team is in 
 team games. Not that it really makes a difference, but still.
  
  Practice games always have preset options, so you can't change them. You can start a LAN server 
 with bots to play with your own settings, but that's going way out of the way for something so 
 simple.
  
  Could it be a fun true multiplayer game? Sure, but good luck finding anyone to fight but bots. 
 At most I've seen two servers at once, and about three players. In closing, could have been great, 
 but wasn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GYROCX
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 30, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  Warpath is a simple budget fps that has an almost zero presentation of its single player mode while 
 having a solid game play element that works. Some people may think that the game seems to be inclined 
 to be a rip off of other games such as Halo or UT (even though DE made UT2k3) but actually the 
 game seems to be more on par with the Quake audience because of its simplicity of its weaponry 
 and maps while having a slightly more complex style of movement. In fact one of the main stand 
 out features youll notice with the game is its movement.
  
  At first, new players may feel that it offers nothing new to the genre but underneath its skins 
 lays its true color. The videos on this web site do not show the games true nature and speed because 
 the person playing is just playing the game like any other fps. When you watch someone else play 
 who knows what they are doing movement wise then youll notice that the game is very different 
 then what is presented here on this website and on other popular websites. 
  
  Warpath features an advanced maneuvering system like that found in the Quake series in which players 
 can do tricks like strafe jumping, wall climbing and rocket jumping. In Warpath the moves are slightly 
 different in which the maps are specifically designed to utilize these types of new movements. 
 For example, a big room filled rocks that have angled and inclined surfaces are scattered all over 
 the room and to a regular player this may seem just like a big room full of rocks and boulders. 
 For those of us who have mastered the fine art of Ramping the area will seem more like a playground 
 for some high flying aerial combat. For more info on the advanced maneuvering check this video 
 out. http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=Kaarb-NYkL8
  
  The weapons system follows in the same spirit as the Quake series because it relies on its simplicity 
 of the weapon characteristics & variety. Like Quake, the weapons in Warpath have simple yet well-defined 
 projectile characteristics and are quite different from one another. The Tyrant is your standard 
 grenade launcher; Violator is your shotgun, Wolverine is the machinegun, Vanguard is the plasma 
 gun, Judge is the rocket launcher, and the Javelin is the precision instagib weapon. All are very 
 simple with no alternate fire modes or combo projectile options. Its just very simple on what they 
 do and how they do it that is until you upgrade your weapons. 
  
  When weapons are upgraded during combat, the characteristics of the weapons change for the better 
 and now your strategy on how you will meet your opponent will change. For example at first the 
 Tyrant fires just like any other grenade launcher and the strategy in using it was either to launch 
 one directly at the opponent, shoot one or more in the opponents path, or lob a bunch into a crowed 
 or confined room. After upgrading the weapon, the Tyrant will then be given a remote detonation 
 device that can be used to detonate the grenade anytime after it is fired from the weapon. With 
 this the player can now use the grenade projectile as a controlled aerial bomb and the only thing 
 the player needs to do is adjust for arc and utilize timing the explosion. The third and final 
 upgrade of the weapon is that an adhesive shell is added to the grenade and now it will now stick 
 to enemies rather than explode on impact. This can be used if you want to kill more then one person 
 by sticking one onto one person and waiting until he gets into close contact with a bunch of other 
 people and then setting the nade off.
  
  Some problems that I have with the game is for one the ammo pick up system. For some reason when 
 you are running at regular speed and you run over some ammo to pick it up, it misses. You need 
 to slow down and pick it up which is a mistake in my opinion because in a fast paced fps like this, 
 youre going to be a sitting duck. Also the head bobbing seems to get really shaky at times and 
 I was hoping the full version would give us an option to turn that off entirely but it didnt. 
 A Heavy Body momentum seems very present also in this game as you character will not have the quick 
 change of movement from left to right like in Quake or UT. Although this really isnt a big deal, 
 it does make the characters movement feel a tad less responsive and heavy when compared to Quake. 
 Finally of course there is the whole presentation of the single player mode. I was honestly hoping 
 to see more cut scenes and cinematic to help drive the stories of each of the races but instead 
 we get still images and paragraphs explaining the plot. I guess for 20 dollars I shouldve lowered 
 my expectations a little bit more.
  
  All in all though, for me it was well worth the 20 dollars I spent. There isnt that many people 
 online right now because the game is a rarity in stores and the only real place to get the game 
 is online. Also the fact that it is a budget title might also scare off some consumers but in my 
 opinion this is a game that arena style fps fans should try because it slightly changes the way 
 an arena match is played. It can make for some really fast paced matches.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
