-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: War Rock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/warrock/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A couple of different modes to choose from.
 Occasionally intense gameplay on a bunch of decent maps.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The core shooting action is underwhelming.
 Nonfunctional features, lag, and frequent crashes.
 Bizarre real-life economic model rewards cash over skill.
 Dated production values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.7, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,172 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Elephant Entertainment
Developer: Dream Execution
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date:     Feb 7, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
War Rock is a mediocre online first-person shooter that feels more like an economic experiment than 
 an actual retail product. 

  It's true what they say about getting what you pay for. Well, at least some of the time. You can 
 still download War Rock for free, much as you could when the online first-person shooter was in 
 its official beta stages. As a free game, it's a serviceable Battlefield-series substitute with 
 a surprisingly large community and enough decent qualities to make it worth the download. But in 
 a retail package that costs money, its appeal spirals downward fast, thanks to its broken features, 
 bland shooting action, and weak production values.  

          In War Rock, you don't purchase new weapons -- you lease them. And like that Audi you couldn't 
 afford, the repo man will come for it unless you shell out more cash.     

  Like most online shooters, there's a shell of a story behind War Rock. In this case, civil war 
 in the fictional country of Derbaran has erupted. The rebels of the National Independence unit 
 have taken up arms against the Derbaran army, and there's apparently some kind of conspiracy involving 
 a meteor driving the action, at least according to the game's official Web site. Not that any of 
 this has any bearing on the game. In War Rock, your goal is to shoot guys in the face.  

  It's a little more complex than that, actually. There are a couple of different modes of play, 
 depending on whether you like your shooters to be small, medium, or large. Counter-Strike players 
 will take to the close-quarters-combat option, which features the game mode "explosive." On these 
 maps, the Derbaran team plants and protects an explosive in a designated spot, while the NIU team 
 must defuse it. The urban ops and battle-group maps, on the other hand, rip a page right out of 
 the Battlefield 2 template. Here, each team fights over an assortment of flags that function as 
 spawn points. Your goal is to whittle down the opposing team's score by capturing flags and killing 
 enemy players.  

  Some of the basic elements of the maps and modes are solid in and of themselves. The maps are well 
 made, with a good assortment of open areas and confined spaces. Conturas features a central island 
 connected to the mainland with four bridges and focuses on vehicular transport and combat; Alberon 
 is set in a historical ruin where most of the action rages over a central area of ravaged stone 
 pillars. Like the other maps, they are organized well and keep firefights focused in the right 
 places. The problem with War Rock isn't so much in the setup as it is in the execution, starting 
 with the core shooting mechanics and balancing. There are five professions to choose from: assault, 
 medic, engineer, sniper, and heavy trooper. They all have their ostensible uses, but snipers and 
 assaults drive combat to the extent that medics and engineers are rare commodities, and the woefully 
 underpowered heavy troopers simply can't hold a candle to the armored vehicles they're supposed 
 to defend against.  

  There's nothing intrinsically satisfying about shooting in War Rock. The sound effects are tinny 
 and ineffective, and whether you're the victim or the victor, there's no real feeling of impact 
 when bullets find their target. The lack of a secondary fire on most weapons is yet another factor 
 that points to the game's low-budget roots and stripped-down nature. The vehicular combat is a 
 bit more balanced, and most of the game's rewarding moments are in the fearsome tank showdowns 
 or in the air. Ultraforgiving controls give helicopters and bombers an arcadelike feel, and all 
 of the vehicles control smoothly with a mouse and keyboard, so you shouldn't feel the need to break 
 out the joystick once you leave the ground.  

  You aren't stuck with the meager weapon loadout you start with. As you play War Rock, you level 
 up and earn dinar, the in-game currency, which you then use to lease other weapons or items. No, 
 you don't get to purchase them. Instead, you rent them for a week or a month, and when your lease 
 is up, they're removed from your arsenal. The higher your level, the better the weapons you have 
 to choose from. It's an interesting way to encourage player loyalty, since you need to keep playing 
 to earn more currency, but it's also a great way to frustrate new players. Even if you're an experienced 
 online soldier, you'll often fall victim to the overpowering weaponry of higher-level players when 
 you first begin.  

  When you combine this system with real-world money, it's hard to shake the feeling that you didn't 
 buy a mediocre game as much as you invested in a shady pyramid scheme. The retail version of War 
 Rock includes a nice set of maps, a couple of cheap dog tags, and a few in-game goodies, like the 
 mostly pointless M134 minigun. But you also get a free one-month subscription to the game -- which 
 makes you wonder exactly what you are subscribing to. As it turns out, signing up with your credit 
 card earns you XP bonuses, a monthly allotment of dinar, the ability to create password-protected 
 servers, or even another weapon slot, depending on which service you subscribe to. You can even 
 purchase in-game currency with real money. But when you pay, you aren't paying for the game or 
 the privilege of playing: You're paying either to gain an advantage because you get the good weapons, 
 or to access features you'd expect to already be included in an online FPS. And in some cases, 
 you're paying for features that don't work.  

  Nonfunctional features are a hallmark of the War Rock experience. Paying the monthly fee earns 
 you the ability to register a clan, yet the clan system hasn't actually been coded into the game 
 yet, so all the promises in the manual and on the official Web site of clan tournaments and player 
 rankings are currently empty ones. There's apparently a Battlefield-inspired squad system in there 
 somewhere, too, but it doesn't work, so unless you're playing with friends using a TeamSpeak server 
 or somehow find an orderly team with a strong leader, everything's a disorganized madhouse. Even 
 an entire game mode that's evidently supposed to exist, the free-for-all mode described in the 
 manual, is nowhere to be found. This is all in addition to the frequent and severe lag and numerous 
 crashes that will have you pulling your hair out several times during any given gaming session. 

          Heavy weapons aren't very effective, but at least you can use the scope to check out this 
 guy's hat.     

  Until a recent patch, the shader options in the retail release didn't work on multiple test systems. 
 Unfortunately, the game was better off without them. No amount of bloom lighting or star glow can 
 make War Rock look attractive, and turning them on just makes everything look blurry and run poorly. 
 Textures are low resolution and weapon and vehicle models are chunky -- more on par with Joint Operations 
 than more modern games. War Rock's not exactly ugly, but it is noticeably dated, although its low 
 system requirements allow it to run on a variety of systems without many performance issues. The 
 limp sound effects don't do the game any favors either, since the audio doesn't scream  Saving 
 Private Ryan  as much as it says  GI Joe . The menu music and voice-over cues that inform you of 
 events like a flag capture are fine, though.  

  There are some quality gaming moments to be had in War Rock, though that's more due to the proven 
 gameplay that made Counter-Strike and Battlefield successful than anything new that War Rock brings 
 to the table. And thanks to its nonpaying player base, the game's large community isn't apt to 
 diminish anytime soon. But as a retail product, it's too broken and derivative to be worth purchasing 
 over its superior competitors. Just bear in mind that if you buy the retail box, you aren't getting 
 an inherently better game than the free version -- you're purchasing the chance to get better weapons 
 and items than the players that didn't spend a nickel.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (150 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:37 am PT
Review:  Warrock, when I got it 3 months before Christmas, I was planning to use it as a practise game to 
 practise my gameplay styles for all the big FPS games that would be coming out for the PS3. I was 
 a getting a PS3 for Christmas so wanted to be good at the big shooters like COD4 and 5 and KZ2. 
 Then when I got it I realised that this was'nt a game meant for practising gameplay styles for 
 bigger games. Thats more or less just saying that Warrock sucks and COD4 rules. I saw that it was 
 much better than what I thought it was going to be. I played it a lot to practise for the online 
 for COD. The maps are big, detailed, theres a good variety of weapons and new ones get updated 
 in frequently, 32 players, vehicle use and updated maps for Christmas and speical occssions which 
 shows a dedicated community of people from Warrock ignoring the critisicm from the fans. You can 
 get WarHawk on the PSN for 15 quid but its all a clone, the name and the game itself, copycats!
 
  Anyway, the intense firefights are pretty realistic and physics are as well. Though one really 
 bad thing is about the game is that ( I got this fact from Gamespot) that 39.8% of people who have 
 it use hacks such as the superjump, invisibility and loads more which are available at Warrock 
 hack websites. Why? Why do people have to hack and cheat? I dont go on it as much now, partly because 
 of that and mostly because I go on my PS3 and Gamespot, which are better and if you could rate 
 Gamespot, I'd give it a great big 10/10! Anyway, rounding this review off, its a good game, pretty 
 addictive though if you own a PS3 with COD or KZ2 then eh... you might not be impressed too much 
 but its still a great game and the best part is, its FREE!
  YES ITS FREE, COMPLETELY FREE!!!! So its a good bargain bin as well, right its a good game, though 
 only on multiplayer, with a really tricky long rank-up system that unlock loads of new stuff. 
 
  Thanks for Reading, Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordpeter3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  hey all,
  
  i like this game verry much, I play it about 1,25 years and i still like it its fun.
  Its is 
 quite a good shooter but it is also a kind of chat game so you meat lots of other people becours 
 of thad you keep liking to play it. the down side is thad you have to rent weapons for an ammount 
 of days so i you rented a expensive gun you automaticly play warrock more and if you have not rented 
 a weapon you less play it so thads some variation in when you play more our less. some times there 
 are also hackers, cheaters in game thads no fun but they are banned verry quickly and you get used 
 to in after a while. also a good part is thad the game is free to play. you can pay to upgrade your 
 oppotunities but you dont need thad to play good.
  
  I hope i have informed you enouf.
  sorry for my English its not my mail language.
  
  mvg LordPeter3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanli1995
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Warrock. I had heard quite alot about it from friends so I decided to get it (a story in itself) . 
 Anyway I booted up the game (2gb) to discover it has...3 maps.... and 1 mode for each map..... and 
 half life 1 graphics and a very very high learning curve. 
  
  The 3 modes are a close quarter combat mode similar to de_dust from counter strike, A city combat 
 mode similar to Strike at Karkland from battlefield 2 and an open plain mode also like battlefield 
 2 with weapons.
  
  The game play is similar to other fps's except that you can roll around everywhere which looks 
 absolutely ridiculous and is spammed heaps by pros.
  
  Sound I guess is mediocre with all the standard stuff and the community really sucks, being constantly 
 flamed for sucking and have half the community using hacks cant be good can it?
  
  So in short though it has a good price it is a bad game and only for people who cant play anything 
 else or a really short on cash (though Combat Arms would be a much better option using an engine 
 from the F. E. A. R games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maukka94
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  warrock dont have greate graphics. its graphics are old school but graphics dont mean everything.
 
  What warrock has is fun multiplayer action.
  u can allways buy cs or css but why cost from fps when u can get allmost same game for free.
 
  Warrocks real and allmost only problem is that hackers get there so easily.
  warrock is free online fps. theres premiums that u can buy. Bronze silver and gold. theres all so 
 some weapons that u can only buy by g1 gredits.
  what i like in warrrock is its funny gameplay and clan system. I love to play clan wars.
  so if 
 u have pc and internet download this game. xD
  warrock has all so ranks that u earn. theres over 100 of them .
  i dont know what it is what keeeps 
 u playning warrrock there seems to bee somekind of magic in it.
  
  theres medic assault engineeer sniper and heavy weapon units.
  u can play as any of them and 
 buy new weapons for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:52 am PT
Review:  so now lets talk abut WARROCK game.
  as someone who really like multiplyer games i find WARROCK do the job.. lets start this review 
 now:
  
  graphics: no the graphics is not so good.. i mean really not good, looks bad, even when you play 
 on high it can look really aweful, but the good things are the good visual effects of the "water" 
 that looks really good, WarRock is the only free FPS who has the water effect, and also the explosions 
 are great
  
  sounds: the sounds are great!!, sounds really awesome i think that when you play this game you 
 have to use your headphones its freaking awesome!! 
  
  gameplay: so now lets go to the real deal, the gameplay, what can i say about the gameplay? like 
 every other game, in the game you have three main mods
  
  1. is close COUNTER - its like counter strike, one team need to plant the bomb and the other need 
 to kill the team with the bomb, this mods maps are small
  
  2. i dont remember the maps its URBAN somthing.. anyway the maps in this mod are bigger and the 
 mod includes vehicles, the maps are way bigger than the first mod and in this mod you need to control 
 the flags
  
  3. i cant remember the name of this mod also.. but its like last mod only with huge maps and with 
 planes and more action
  
  
  let me finish by saying thay i find this game really good the graphics in not the best but if you 
 love action and multiplyer you will love this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stocko2k
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  For a game that cost nothing i was expecting doom 1 with little to say was worth playing it for...... 
 BUT this is surprisingly enjoyable,
  
  the level system works well I've only been playing for 3 days but have found that gaining experience 
 is only as hard as you make it, experience is gained through kill count and taking control points.
 
  
  the vehicles are all pretty strait forward planes act like planes the motorbike is as useless in 
 a war zone as i would expect it to be and tanks are only a problem if after the 1st time it blows 
 your ass to kingdom come you don't change to a heavy weapons class and fight on its own terms.
 
  
  character classes are as you would expect engineers, medics, assault troops, snipers and heavy 
 weapons all pretty well balanced and fun.
  
  weapons upgrades are all unlocked through DINAR the games currency as you kill enemies or take 
 control points you gain money and experience the more money you have the better weapons you can 
 buy although you don't buy the weapon permanently you lease them in a sense they stay in your inventory 
 for a maximum of 30 days and then need to be re-bought i could see this becoming a little annoying 
 if you only play sporadically, you could have bought a nice gun your happy with not play for a 
 month and when you go back its gone and you don't have enough money to buy it back. 
  
  all in all I'd say War rock is an enjoyable game that costs the player nothing but gives everything 
 a game like counter strike has to offer with the added bonus of vehicles well worth the download 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomasini_Eagles
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I began playing War Rock not long after its release. I got myself to quite a high rank, bought 
 the game to get the weapon card (which ended up being the gay ass Minigun) and bought 3 months 
 of Gold Premium. After all of money and time spent on this game my account gets banned saying that 
 Punkbuster caught me "hacking the game". I wouldn't even know where to begin on hacking a video 
 game but appently I did.
  
  Good: It's a fun, and "basically" free, version of Counter-Strike. It was MUCH better before they 
 patched it up so much.
  
  Bad: The customer support sucks... I sent them an email about my ban and they just said that they 
 couldn't help me, I was banned and it's over.
  Now that WarRock has been out for sometime they have added so many patches that made it WORSE then 
 version 1.0. For any of you that played WarRock a long time ago... you may remember the reload 
 rolls. They removed them and that was one of the unique things about WarRock. They have also been 
 adding more and more weapons to the game, which may sound like a good thing, but the only weapons 
 all get nerfed (downgraded) and then the new ones are for the Premium members only. Because so 
 many people now pay for Bronze, Silver, or Gold Premium many of the weapons can't be bought unless 
 you have one of the 3 premiums which start at like $5.99 per month (Bronze Premium) last I checked.
 
  
  Examples: Winchester, Barrett .50 Cal, L85, etc. are for Premium members only and they are the 
 better guns in the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Remketh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  It has good game play and variety of guns but it has a lot of hackers and laggers but its free 
 so try it out anyway cause it does have it good parts but when theres a guy shooting you from up 
 in the sky and you cant do anything about it, it starts getting annoying. Though its selection 
 of guns is really good it also has a 5 classes and you really dont have to get premium to get all 
 the features since you can join a game hosted by a premium player and just play there and get all 
 the benefits that come with it. It also has three different servers that can have different amounts 
 of players also it has a good amount of different game types which free for all is the best. Every 
 class has its ups and downs for example all the classes have grenades or mines except medics which 
 have med packs wich are helpful and engineers which have a wrench which is pretty much usless since 
 you can only use it in really big games ok thats it i hope this review has helped you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  As this was my first MMOFPS experience (massive multiplayer online first person shooter) I was 
 expecting big things, most of my mates play counterstrike and from watching them it kinda looked 
 dull, so, of I went.
  You CAN play the game for free but you will be put at a disadvantage with much less money, less 
 maps (this only applies when your hosting a game) and less weapons to play around with.
  
  First heres some details on the game for premium players (if your reading this review it probably 
 means your willing to spend some money on it)
  With premium you get a bonus weapon, the FAMAS, gattlnig gun or a smooth sniper (you should so 
 a sticker on the case of what weapon you will get with your retail) you will keep this weapon forever.
 
  You will also be given basic weapons (sniper rifle, automatics, colts, grenades) to also keep 
 forever.
  Once you've created your account online you then have to choose a sever (don't worry you can choose 
 a different one each time, you don't have to stick with one server like on world of warcraft)
 
  Then you have a choice of close quarters combat (small maps) Urban Ops (larges maps, most of the 
 maps in Urban Ops normally have a vechile or two)
  and finally battleground which contains land and air vechilex (helicopters, tanks and planes etc) 
 battleground fights are also normally fought on huge maps.
  You then have a choice of class, medic, assault, sniper, engineer or heavy trooper, they each have 
 different weapon sets, this is hard to explain, but not all classes can use all weapons, for example, 
 an assault trooper can't use a sniper rifle or rocket launcher and a heavy trooper can't use an 
 automatic.
  Personally I prefer the medic who has the ability to heal his/herself and is the only class capable 
 of that.
  
  Onto graphics, they're not that bad acctually, I'd say they were typical 'solid' pc graphics which 
 dosen't require a super computer to run, I reccomend before buying war rock (or any PC game really) 
 to go and check the specs.
  
  Music is good, it really suits the game, if you have the volume up quite high and the lights dim 
 you really feel like your in the world of war rock :D
  
  There are a few problems with cheaters, since cheaters mostly using the free features if they get 
 banned they will just make a new account, some people cheat by making themselves invisible by using 
 some insane hacks and other really weird cheats.. even though war rock keep trying to stop hackers 
 they've been around for a while now.
  
  But don't worry about having your account stolen, this hardly ever happens on war rock.
  As you 
 get more experience through kills and winning games you raise in rank and eventually get the ability 
 to wield more guns.
  
  To sum war rock up, I think anyone new to MMOFPS will enjoy this game if they have a lot of time, 
 I'll also note you need a tiny bit of patience to get used to the game.. don't be sad if you find 
 yourself being 0wned in the first hour that you play, everyone eventually gets better.
  I hope this review helped! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valherran
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  WarRock is a free to play MMO Arcade FPS, the game takes place in modern day warfare, 2 factions 
 are at war with each other, the NIU Special Forces, and the Derberan Terrorist Forces. Much more 
 Story is included on the main website.
  
  General features include an Account, a Weapon Load-out Menu, EXP/Money System and Marketplace. 
 In order to obtain better equipment for any of the 5 classes listed below, you must use dinars 
 (Middle Eastern Money i believe) In order to obtain these dinars you must either play an unspeakable 
 amount of matches to earn more Dinars and EXP or you can buy some goodies for your account on WarRock 
 via the marketplace using real money (not dinars :-P) . To use certain weapons with a high level 
 requirement you need to gain more levels, CQC mode is preferred (as listed below) .
  
  The Game play, run around kill anything that doesn't wear your stripes, simple? No, it is not, 
 WarRock is based on a world of Realism in modern day warfare, take a bullet to the head and your 
 down, however for Warrock this also is not the case, because this game is an Arcade shooter the 
 designers have made the game using Pseudo Realism, meaning instead of bullet per head (like in 
 CS: S) it is more like 8 bullets per head, if you think about it, it isn't fun to die instantly 
 and have to wait and respawn.
  
  Game Play Modes include Close Quarters Combat (CQC) , Urban Ops, and Battle Group. CQC is a similar 
 game to Counter Strike, defuse the bomb or plant it to win the round. Urban Ops is a mode where 
 the maps are bigger, has vehicles and tanks (with a small assertion of Helicopters) and is set 
 in city scape. Battle Group is all out war in massively sized maps, includes all forms of vehicles, 
 hummers, tanks, helicopters, and even has airplanes! UO and BG game play is similar to that of 
 Battlefield.
  
  The Classes, there are only 5 classes to choose from, Assault class, Medic class, Engineer class, 
 Heavy Trooper, and Sniper. There isnt much difference between the classes other than they use different 
 weapons than others. One of these days the designers may upgrade this. At this day this what the 
 classes are capable of now (a quick run down) :
  
  Assault - 2 Handed Machine Guns, Heavy Machine Guns
  Engineer - Sub-Machine Guns, Ammo Boxes, 
 Traps
  Medic - Sub Machine Guns, Med Kits
  Sniper - Sniper Rifles, Auto Rifles
  Heavy Trooper - Rocket Launchers, Miniguns, Tank-Mines
  
  Sometimes this arsenal is always 
 accurate, you may encounter players with weapons they should not have for a specific class, however 
 this may also not mean that they are cheating, this player may have gotten a hold of an item called 
 a retail item, these retails are sold only in the boxes of the game (found at any local Game Store 
 if your lucky, this is the preferred way to start playing WarRock) . See more setails on the Website.
 
  
  Weapon Load-Out, While in your armory you will see that there are 8 slots total in a class' arsenal, 
 at this time th 1st slot is always occupied by Hand to Hand (H2H, Fists, there is no weapon bashing 
 in this game so dont get your hopes up... yet) .
  
  2nd slot is covering your side arm department, that includes a Pistol or Light Machine Guns, these 
 weapons are a last resort to most, but could be your main weapon if you are good.
  
  3rd slot is used by your primary weapon, PWs vary pending on your class.
  
  4th slot is mainly 
 for grenades, traps, medkits or ammo boxes, the option varies pending on your class.
  
  5th slot, this is for those who have bought this slot out of the marketplace, or have bought a 
 premium membership (always recommended to buy Gold membership to use all WarRock Equipment) . 5th 
 slot allows you to equip a 2nd primary weapon or 5th slot only weapon.
  
  6th and 7th slot are unused at this time, it may change or might be used by a retail included in 
 any WarRock Game Box.
  
  8th slot is only for retail items, the item varies pending on whats on the retail card found inside 
 the WarRock Boxes. 
  
  Now to the Cons of the game, although the game play can be fun, but the game has a problem with 
 lag due to its Peer to Peer system (P2P, runs on player generated rooms as opposed to game servers) 
 another bad part of it being P2P is that the game is easily cheated by hacking, people who suck 
 so bad at the game or just flat out want to piss you off hack the game to ruin your score. This 
 game will require a high performance machine, anything medium quality or below will have tons of 
 crashing and lag.
  
  Although this game has only been out for a year, and that there are other versions of this game 
 with different equipment, it still needs a lot of work, mainly work revolving around keeping their 
 game hacker free and bug free, one of these days if the founders of this game keep up their finances 
 they can get around to making WarRock 2 and hopefully will have fixed very negative detail, this 
 game has got potential but doesn't quite meet it, in order for a good game to arise, show your 
 support and play the game and buy/donate what you can to make it rise, when you play, show the 
 utmost respect possible to all players, and stay hacker free. Thank You!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlameMe
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Very challenging to new comers since many players are higher level. Nice MMO feel added to the 
 game. Its certainly fun to plan but difficult... very difficult. Once you get the hang of things 
 though it can be good fun. And heck for free why not give it a try. Alot of the crashes, lag, ect 
 have been fixed. You still get the occasional hacker which ruins the game your in, but I dont run 
 into too many. I do enjoy sniping alot in this game, the vehicles are nice, could use more maps, 
 occasionally I die and have no idea how. If I had paid $30-50 for the game I would be upset, but 
 for free I can;'t complain to 
 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpfast
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  HACKERS, those damn newbie hackers. They just kill the game for anyone who wantts to have fun playing 
 it legit. This game its so easy to hack that frustrated noobs can become an undeservingly killing 
 machine. I dont see the fun in killing people, in the game, resorting to that. And this doenst 
 happens once in a while, it occurrs almot in every game you enter.
  It's just plainly stupid to know that youre only able to win because the game plays for you. But 
 then again theres all sort of people.
  Then there is the stupid baning system that just allows anyone to be kicked out of the game just 
 cause some teamate resents the other one score, or because someone failed to heal him at some point ( 
 i dont seee the soldiers handing out grenades, why should the doctors heal everyone, no matter 
 what) . Or because some player is playing too well for the rest, so he has to be kicked so they 
 can actually best someone. Its just pathetic and terrible frustrating.
  Then, yet, there are the annoying glitches and crashes (more recently) . The game is just so annoyingly 
 picky... Sometimes it runs extremely well, very fluently. Some other times it stutters a lot, wich 
 can be very annoying gameplay wise.
  All this adds to make this game a terrible pitty, cause it can be also a really fun game to play. 
 The running and shotting mechanics, the maps, the weapons, are all just great fun. Too bad this 
 can loose all of its appealling when damaged by those flaws.
  I still give it a go now and then, and when it actually manages to work as its suposed to (not very 
 often im afraid) , it is very satisfying, give it a go if you thinck you can live with those flaws, 
 since it can be played for free ( although youl need a premium account to be able to play the full 
 game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakanadin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  I, personally, LOVE War Rock, but there are so many flaws to it.. Easy access for hackers, glitches 
 in multiple places, can be laggy at points, making it so people almost HAVE to be members to have 
 any real fun, etc.. There are many flaws to it, but it is also a very fun game with many things 
 to do, like many maps and map types, my personal favorite being Velruf because it is easier for 
 team based tactics, as well as the new Battle Group map Crater, which features Jets, Helicopters, 
 Motorbikes, Humvees, Tanks, Foot Soldier Carriers, etc... the map is also very big and has the 
 ability for Dog Fights. The easy access to hacks makes this game VERY horrible, but hackers are 
 very dumb in the game, and can be easily killed by someone with common knowledge, so it shouldn't 
 be a problem. On a scale of 1-10, I rate this game a 7.5.
  
  Pros: Fun Maps, Multiple Vehicular Access, Class Types, Weaponry.
  
  Cons: Hackers, Too Much 
 Needed to Buy, Glitches, and lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Two of the top most popular multi player games around are Battlefield and Counter Strike. Now lets 
 say that a game tried to take things from both games. That game would be War Rock. War Rock has 
 Battlefield style game play and Counter Strike style game play. War Rocks multi player mode is 
 a game where you have to hold and capture control points, like Battlefield. The gun models, and 
 the way it controls though feels a bit like Counter Strike. THere is also a round base mode, where 
 you either have to plant explosives or kill the other team before they plant explosives. In this 
 mode, if you die, oyu are dead for the rest of the round. Medics can heal you though.
  
  So basically, War Rock is like any other multi player shooter. You have two teams and you just 
 fight. It does not do anything new to multi player games, but is really recycles a lot of things 
 that other multi player shooters have done a few years ago. But War Rock takes a lot of good recycles 
 things, and that is what makes this game fun to play.
  
  Game play style is pretty much the same as Battlefield and Counter Strike, like I said up above. 
 The game mode is the same, and you have kits that you have to select from, like medic, sniper, 
 like in Battlefield. So War Rock is like a Battlefield and Counter Strike wanna be.
  
  The graphics in War Rock are pretty good looking. The character models look nice, and the environments 
 look nice, for a completly free multi player shooter.
  
  The sound is pretty good. You hear things explode around you, and the guns sound pretty good when 
 they fire.
  
  The thing that hold War Rock back are bugs. This game has a bunch of frame rate problems, sometimes 
 it is hard to get into a match. Things can run really laggy at times.
  
  Over all War Rock is a good multi player game, that is free. You can download it right now from 
 Game Spot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquishyNoob
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  When i play this game, i have the feeling that it shouldn't have been released into commercial 
 retail so soon.
  
  War Rock had, and to some extent, still has, some characteristics that make it more than a rip-off 
 of other games.
  For example, rolling to avoid getting hit, ability to invite someone into your room, and overall 
 three different battle scales that fit different play styles: "Close Quarters Combat", or CQC, 
 with small maps and fast paced fights; Urban Ops, medium maps including a few vehicles; Battle 
 Group, large maps, that often have a lot of tanks, helicopters, and aircraft. The best thing about 
 this game is the mix-up of action on foot and in vehicles.
  At this point, you'd be tempted to give it a try. Indeed, it's free to download and play.
  Though, 
 after a few hours - or even minutes, if you're unlucky enough - you'll find yourself facing the 
 numerous issues War Rock has.
  First of all, lag. It needs to be clarified that the developing company - Dream Execution, in short, 
 DE - is based in Korea, and has made several versions of the game, first of all the Korean version.
 
  Other version, including the International one, which is probably the one you'll try, have been 
 made on a second time. International version is currently hosted by another company, K2, that has 
 servers in Europe, America, and some parts of Asia. The game core has been developed to work fine 
 on Korean networks, which are quite advanced and cover short distances. Therefore, the connection 
 system - peer to peer - has serious trouble in wider areas.
  
  Another issue is the game coding. Game programming is very poor: bugs, freezes and crashes are 
 not infrequent. And mostly annoying to legitimate players, hacking.
  The game is extremely vulnerable to hacking, and the programmers took practically no countermeasures. 
 While in other games the worst cheats you'll have to face will be a few aimbots, in Warrock the 
 most terrific hacks keep working, and cheaters run rampant. Prepare to see OPK - One Position Kill 
 - hackers, who kill the entire enemy team. Or also superjumpers, then cheaters with unlimited ammo 
 that fire dozens of rockets from the sky. And what's worse, even people with little experience 
 in game hacking can code cheats: a few memory hacks and code injections are enough to get the job 
 done. Hackers you can't kick out of your room, hackers that can boot you out - or even worse, crash 
 your client to the desktop - at their desire.
  The poor coding also causes memory leaks that makes the game go very inefficiently and, sometimes, 
 crash. You'll wonder how is it supposed to run on low-end computers.
  
  You'll find no interactive environment in game - you can't open doors, blast off crates, or control 
 a machine. There's no way to communicate to your team except a text chat, which is also pretty 
 annoying if you run the game on a low resolution - it basically takes up half your screen.
  Weapons system - that won't really make you like Warrock.
  
  You start off with stock weapons 
 - weapons you'll always have. They're usually all-around guns (in terms of power, accuracy, RoF, 
 recoil, weight, bullet velocity and ammo capacity) but you'll surely get bored after you use them 
 for a while. So there's the Item Shop. There you can rent - not buy, rent - guns. The amount of 
 restrictions is also disappointing - level restrictions, membership restrictions and also guns 
 that you have to rent only with cash money. Also some weapons are very overpowered while other 
 ones are extremely hard to use.
  
  Community is also a weak point in this FPS. Players will yell out at you every time you kill them, 
 with any kind of excuse. You'll often find yourself vote-kicked to the lobby by a teammate who 
 is jealous of your score, who wants to make room for a friend of his, or someone who accuses you 
 of "stealing his kills".
  
  Even with all these issues, the gameplay is sometimes enjoyable, so are sound and graphics, and 
 the game is addictive.
  In any case, you can give it a try. It's free to try, and the "uninstall" button is always within 
 your grasp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish27
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  War Rock, developed by Dream Execution and published by K2 Networks is in the top rankings for 
 free games, and I think that it is in the top for sure.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  War Rock by today's standards of gaming lacks in graphics deeply. However, the first point to note 
 of War Rock is that the game was developed PURPOSELY to be played on computers with lower specs, 
 so people would not have to spend a thousand bucks on a PC.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  The sounds aren't really that great, but they are better than expected from a free game. All of 
 the guns have a unique sound, so it is not hard to tell what's being fired after a week of playing. 
 Occasionally there will be a minor delay in sound (maybe 0.5 - 1 second) , but it is uncommon.
 
  
  In-game Community: 4/10
  War Rock has the WORST in-game community that I have ever seen. If you're score is low in a game, 
 you will be kicked to make room for better players. If you play too well, then you will be accused 
 of being a hacker. This leads me into the next section.
  
  Overall Gameplay: (9 or 6) /10
  War Rock deserves a 9/10 for its gameplay provided that it is free. Everything is done very well, 
 though there is room for improvement. However, this game can also get a 6/10 for gameplay. War 
 Rock has so many hackers and glitches, it's sometimes not worth playing.
  
  The Bottom Line:
  As I said earlier, War Rock is the best free game available. It's based on 
 a peer-to-peer connection, so lag is going to be there. Hackers can make the game unbearable, but 
 a patch is usually out within a week to counter them. And the option to pay a few dollars a month 
 for special guns, weapons, and items makes the game a bit more fun.
  
  Final Score: 8/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinjia32
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Warrock is a FPS, and in a very competitive market, especially since their game is free. Unfortunately, 
 Warrock has dissappointed me in so many ways. I have played tonnes of First Person Shooters, such 
 as Wolfenstien, Americas Army... but Warrock fails to show anything special. They copied the Wolfenstien 
 Enemy Territory's Characther class option. The games graffics, are not much different from Counter 
 Strike. The recoil, is not set correctly, very easy to control, unlike other FPS out there. 
  I also find that the Grenades in the game are odd, just a bit off centre, will send the Grenade 
 flying.
  Overall, Warrock is a mediocre FPS, its worth the time playing for new FPS players, but not for 
 old ones, such as me. I find the game quite boring.
  Graffics 8/10
  Gameplay 4/10
  Learning Block/Difficulty 6/10
  Final Score 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martn101
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  warrock was a good game wen it was in beta but since release it turns out real bad filled with 
 hackers. lagger is so common that its just so sad . and warrock is money hungry u have to pay to 
 get good weapons and items. but not worth it with all the hackers and the laggy server just play 
 it wen real bored and don't pay for premium just save the $15 and add $5 and get counter strike 
 source :D. but still pretty fun if u don't get caught in hackers or someone lagging horrible once 
 those two things are fixed it is a real decent game. i also advice u not to buy and dinar packages 
 if u do pay for the game just get silver or best of all gold. save money and get 5th slot with 
 gold. so summarize it warrock has a lot of potential if it wasn't laggy and had better anti hacker 
 protection form punk buster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaikon7
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  You can't really enjoy this game as there's so much bugs, plenty of lags and amazingly much cheaters 
 around in this game. Its kinda like a counter-strike and battlefield hybrid and in this case it 
 really didnt give anything unique but cost more problems and confused the game much more. "Retailers" 
 will always have an advandage over the "Free game players" don't bealive a word you hear. having 
 a free game but having an disadvandage again others, beside seeing cheaters and laggers running 
 around in every other second game you join. really takes a piss out of you and makes you wanna 
 close the game and play somethin else. Even i kinda liked this game as for time burning, i couldnt 
 really play this game more then a hour a day. Some people will have problems with sound. You actually 
 wont be hearing your gunshots and footsteps and you have to google for the fix if u manage to find 
 it, its another mastery. I found on somebodys blog and it actually helped me to get the sound. 
 If you enjoy games, do not waste your nerves nor your time on this. But the choice is yours, people 
 who rate this game more then "6" obviously never played any decent shooting game before.
  
  5 years of CS in my belt. part of battlefield and much more. And this game is not even comperable 
 for a good shooting game. The good thing is that you don't have to waste a penny to play in online 
 . But I guess thats about how much you can ask from a free game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonknight0
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  This game its one those you have to kill so many players just for like 1K cash but how many you 
 say? ALOT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  Which i hate! And also the weapones have these prices thats insane for a good weapon like a weapon 
 that haves (69% damage, 75% acc, 72% recoil which makes it shakes, which the gun is ok but better 
 then one you start with abset for the SSG heavy recoil sniper gun.
  
  But you have the 5 classes which is ( in order) enginner, medic, assualt, sniper, and heavy. Which 
 can fit into my stly of killing the right person!
  Enginner repairs vechicles in field with three things rench, pipe rench ( which is not out yet) 
 and fire extinger ( which is also not out yet) , haves ook weapones but the start with is that realy 
 good. Medic (girl the only girl!! in the game) heals wounded solders out there ( and herself) but 
 how you know that solder is wounded you say? When a solder is wounded there will be a red cross 
 flashing over the wounded solder head ( you can see it through walls to) but hurry every one bleeds 
 when in very low health ( even the medics) so mite and hurry because when you or he/she die its 
 counts as lost point for your team ( which i well explain later) so use this little shot thing 
 feel but maby blood but I think its medcine, but any way you use it on you or get close to the 
 wounded solder and click to use it ( but HOLD STILL! for it to work) .
  Next is the assualt. Assualts is just guys with good guns for close combats and meduim rang. But 
 main problem is not the range, but the snipers (which i will talk about later) . Assualts is mostly 
 impossible to stop them with thos gun that haves alot of ammo in one clip. Thats basicly what an 
 assualt is.
  Snipers my type of class. Sniper is the most powerfull class reasone why they have this gun is 
 called psg-1 ( but once they have it) which can kill any one with on shot and heres the stats 100% 
 dammage, 30% recoil, speed they dont show ( maby its go so fast that gos the other side of you 
 0_0) 100% accurate. But any way sniper mostly for long rang but eqpuiped with a good pistol its 
 ok for close range fight ( if you have a aug its realy good with all ranges)
  Last one is the heavy! Heavys just basicly just anti-vechiles guys but very power full in close 
 range and meduim but not far long range. But with RPG you better wach out because that is a one 
 shot and dead like the sniper its not good for short range because one shot and miss with any of 
 his main weapones is mostly likely you die because every main weapone is a rocket luancher or gernade 
 luancher but basicly explosive weapons. But any way you miss you have reload for about 5 seconds 
 but yuo can swich to pistol and start shooting after that mistake, then reload after done.
  
  
  But most of the time you just use the lass that fits you but if you train a little with 
 other class you kill that person that basily making every mad.
  For example: Theres a heavy with a RPG and killing everyone and only staying in one spot. You can 
 basicly just use sniper and shoot his head or think of stragey to surpise him to kill him. But 
 it depends on your mine how you  
 ITS TRUE!!!!!!!!!!!!
  But the gaame realy good you lower graphics to get less laggs. But a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Albiewan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game has something from battlefield. It's the same gameplay, it just has a different story 
 and other maps. The story is about a civil war in the country of Derbaran. The Derbaran general 
 rebels and starts the N. I. U (National Independace Union) . The N. I. U isn't bad equipped at all, 
 in fact they have brilliant weaponry and form a threat to the Derbaran goverment. But the Derbaran 
 military has found a strange meteorite, the WarRock. They want to use it as a weapon to destroy 
 the N. I. U. In the game there's all different maps, and almost all of them is about the N. I. U trying 
 to find the WarRock. There's three channels; Close Quarters Combat, the smallest maps, Urban Ops, 
 the most basic maps, and Battle Group, with the largest maps. For an online shooter, not bad at 
 all but they could have done more gamemodes in the game. But for it's great and addictive gameplay 
 an 8.5! Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draksy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Well, this game, isn't that bad, and it's free. It's a combination between Battlefield and Counter 
 Strike. It's a pity, that its graphics are from the CS-part, and the "class", weapon, and vehicle 
 choosing is from the BF-part.
  
  It has an innovation in vehicles: a motorcycle, various tanks and Humvee's. It has transportation-helicopter 
 (tandem rotors) and at least, 2 kinds of jets.
  
  About the weapons: You start with some, for each "class" ( Medic, Engineer, Assault, Heavy Trooper, 
 Sniper) , and you can buy more in Item Shop but, you only buy them for some time. For example, you 
 can buy a SSG for 30-days, for a price, or buy it for 8 days, for an inferior price.
  
  If you play it, you will remember Battlefield, because it's "class" choosing interface and map, 
 are similar to BF's, and some vehicles too. The gameplay part, remembers me Counter Strike.
  
  Currently playing it, but if you want a better and free MMO-FPS/multiplayer fps game, try F. E. A. R. 
 Combat, which has better graphics and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Warrock is an action packed free online game! With dozens of guns to buy and also dozens of levels 
 to explore you wont get bored of this game for a long time. You can choose to become a  
 a heavy trooper. You show your strength with your level badge. The higher the level the more powerful 
 guns you can unlock. Warrock has a great variety of guns from m4AI to M16. Also, if you want to 
 have more power in the game you can buy premium which allows you to have extra slots to hold more 
 weopons and much more. There are many modes you can choose from: Close Quoter Combat, Urbon Ops, 
 Free for All, Battle Group, and Conquest. Some of the Urbon ops and all the battle group levels 
 have a bunch of vehicles. Tanks, humvees, motorcycles, trucks, and jets. And there are more than 
 one for each type of vehicle. Furthermore, the value is the best it can get. This worldwide game 
 can be played non-stop. So you've been warned! People can easily become addicted and attached to 
 this game. Overall, The graphics and sound are great especially for a free game. Warrock is regularly 
 updated with new features, levels, and guns. So you will stay interested. This is one of the best 
 online games you can find. Packed with action, you will feel like your in war. Your heart will 
 be pumping when running through the battle field. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sponngebob_96
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for about a year now and the game is great. Not even one bad thing. Forget 
 about counter strike. I have both games. Forget about the grade from Gamespot. This game is must. 
 So far i have tried 20 games including counter strike, flyff, rappelz, and way more, but nothing 
 can top this. Not even a 9.9 of a grade is good enough. So heres a 10. Good job K2 Network you 
 have a fan who loves your games. Oh yeah i tried Americas army its not good as this. The graphics 
 is a perfect 10 on my list. Only if you have a good graphics card. There are plenty of maps. Did 
 i forget to tell you about the flying and driving. Well thats also available. It's fun but not 
 as fun a first person shooting. I just cant get my eyes off the game. It is just too fun. I hope 
 my review has inspired you to get this game. Remember to thank K2 Network for a wonderful game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dadog91
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  First off, if you've played Counter-strike or other simliar online multiplayer shooters, you'll 
 instantly be familiar with War Rock. It's got basically all the modes you'd expect. There are 3 
 game types: Close Quarters Combat which has the Explosives and Free for All matches; Urban Ops 
 which just has like control points that you capture or something similiar; and then Battle Group 
 which is the most fun for me since it has the most vehicles, such as fighter jets and helicopters. 
 
  Also, the system requirements for this game are quite low compared to other first-person shooters 
 of this nature. If my junky old 7-year old computer could run it until I upgraded, then your computer 
 can too. The max graphics settings could make this game comparable to a Playstation 2 game. The 
 lowest settings would make it look like something from Playstation or Nintendo 64. 
  The gameplay is very standard with wasd movement keys and r for reload and such. The maps are pretty 
 generic and not expertly crafted with cover spots where you need it. There are some exceptions 
 however, such as Ohara where sniping people and owning people with a tank is a blast. As well as 
 Alberon, where one team comes in from a lake and one team starts in a castle with ruins put in 
 the right places for cover when you need it.
  Now, I'll talk about the flaws this game happens to have, which are many. I already talked about 
 how ugly the graphics can look on a bad computer. Now, let's talk about the considerable lag issues 
 and the bad community. Even if you have a top of the line Alienware desktop and a cable connection 
 going at the speed of light... still you must feel the pain of considerable lag spikes that can 
 kill you. There are many hackers out there and the computer takes time to load the OPK and superjump 
 hacks and so creates lag problems for everyone around those hackers. And there are absolutely tons 
 of these hackers. And also many people very, very angry at these hackers. This leads to profanity 
 going every which way when hacking occurs. This has forced me to get my own hack tools myself to 
 combat cocky hackers with their own hacks. War Rock uses a rusty security system called Punkbuster. 
 It supposedly protects against hackers but there are still many of them. Punkbuster now has a problem 
 where it bans players for 0 minutes (forever) unless you submit a ticket which has a little chance 
 of actually being read by Even Balance (the company that runs Punkbuster) , so you're screwed. 
 
  You can pay $15 a month if you wish to get an unfair advantage to more weapons as well as get 
 discounts on weapons bought in the Marketplace with real money. However, I'd think it's a waste 
 of money. In other words, this game is a mediore Counter-strike clone. If you got a weekend with 
 nothing better to do, then i suppose you can use this game to make the weekend fly a little faster, 
 but don't expect much more of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheeseman719
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  When people get killed, they are sprawled on the ground in very grotesque ways, such as them being 
 pretty much folded in half. It seems that instead of rigor mortis, they become ten times more flexible 
 then when they are alive. The rounds go really fast, and a lot of times, the aiming is hard when 
 you have a bad computer (it lags and the screen jerks around) . Hackers are particularly annoying. 
 (you can't win because you can't kill them and i think that you can only win when you kill everyone 
 on the other team. (never figured it out) ) . it would be better if they had better anti-hack stuff. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThomasJamesOBr
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  it wasn't so bad when i first started playing even though the game spot rating was only a 5.5. 
 But i gave it a try and ended up buying the game at best buy. which in turn gave me my forever 
 8 slot m60, med kit 2 and smoke nades. so haha to all those who say this game rips u off. although 
 the real downsides to this particular game are that yes.. there are a lot of hackers. Punk buster 
 (the games' anti hack device) can only boot those nubs so quickly. and its hard for them to constantly 
 keep track of the new hacks. What some players don't understand is that it's up to us to make sure 
 the game stays fun for everyone. Those at K2 also in a way spoil us. First off... the game is free 
 to play. So there's one. Second, the new maps come out and everyone can play. Of course eventually 
 they need to premium user restrict those maps but guess what, those old map become usable for those 
 with non premium accounts. So i rate this game a 7.0 Very fun, action packed and addicting. Plus 
 it has many features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AccessApproved
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Warrock is a good game. I can actually say it's better than Battlefield 2, respectively. However, 
 there are the usual drawbacks that make it the 'best'. So lets review. 
  
  Graphics: For it's time the graphics aren't that bad. The vehicle design in that game is really 
 awesome though. 
  
  Gameplay: Heres where it sinks. The lag and the amassed bugs. Warrock will not run on old systems, 
 trust me. The lag will stop if you have a really high powerful super duper internet and graphics 
 card, but who has this kind of money? I don't. It's a hassle, really. The game sometimes glitches 
 and you get stuck somewhere. 
  
  Sound: Decent. Average sounds. Not too spectacular. 
  
  Value: For a free game, it is a really good game to try! If you don't have that much lag or 
 that any crap, you'll enjoy the game A LOT!! Trust me on this.
  
  Overall a 7.0. Below that is just too unjustly. This game is worth to try, guaranteed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokedbeef
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 16, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Lags and Crashes:
  
  ok first there are many problems with this game like crashes and lag. I have a great comp but when 
 i played this game for a medicore graphic it lags for no reason. Also it crashes at random. 
  
  Gameplay: this game has a bad gameplay in my opinion. U have to buy weapons to be the best. 
 That is not fair for the noob or people who just began this game Its like counter-strike and battlefield2 
 combined. Also SERIOUS problem with vehicles. Even with high powered rpgs or other anti-tank rockets 
 doesnt do enough damage to the vehicle. Like for example when i was playing a vehicle map there 
 was a small tank. I thought I could kill it with about 2-3 sohts with my rpg. But it took 8 shots 
 to destroy that thing. I mean i was like WHAT THE F***. When i played a vehicle map there is always 
 couple of people camping at the spawn point with tanks or something. Also when u leave in middle 
 of a game u lose some money. I mean WHAT THE F***. What if u have to leave for something important 
 and u get punished for that?! Thats retarded. I know some people keep exiting and coming back. 
 Its annoying i know but they should find a better way to control this. Also its pretty hard to 
 get into the game u need to play for like 2 -4 months to get used to it. 
  
  Graphics: well i dont have much to say about the graphics because its alright but its not worth 
 the lag in the game.
  
  RPG system: in this game u get to level up and all that but there is no rpg element into it. There 
 is no point of levels in this game its does NOTHING! Its just shows how good u are but i dont like 
 that idea.
  
  Sound: same as graphics nothing much to say and the sound its alright.
  
  Conclusion: So gerenally or overall its a pretty disappointing game in my opinion. I dunno about 
 u guys but i suggest u shouldnt play this game. Paly something like America's Army or GRAW 2 (Ghost 
 Recon Advance Warfighter 2) Also to those ppl who think this game is great, i think u guys just 
 pwn in tihs game and just ranting how good u guys are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristjanp07
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 20, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  The game experience is absolutely f-d up by hackers, laggers and newbies. One second the opponent 
 is in front of u and the next ur dead cause u cant kill because of the fyckin lagg they have going 
 on. graphics are ok and so on but the hacks and laggs will make suicidal. The game should have 
 a rig tester in the start so the launcher wont let newbs with 120 mb of ram and nvidia 2. series, 
 and with 1 kb net in the game. i cant realy understand how poeple can lagg in the game since the 
 game will run ok on almost anything. So if ur a masochist u should play the game. in the start 
 the laggers wont bother you very much but later u gonna wish u never installed the game. The graphics 
 though are ok and there are some cool weapons but that dont count out the problems that i described 
 earlier. (sorry for my bad english, im from Estonia) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rathswid2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  this is a good game
  warrock has many great things about it
  for a while you will be pretty pleased with the gameplay
  i am very bad at staying on an online 
 game for more then a week
  surprisingly i stayed on this game for almost 2 months
  it is pretty fast paced game
  i like playing fps
  and if i like an fps normally its a good 
 one
  so if you like to play games were the whole point of it is to frag the freaken crap out of someone 
 then this a good game for a cheap price
  
  and yes
  i had to end it with a sales person tone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffdevries
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  I can see where the reviews are coming from; crappy graphics, weak community, among other odd things 
 ... but that doesn't keep this from being a great game. It's kind of like if Battlefield 2's vehicles, 
 maps, theme, and ranking system merged with UT2004's fast-paced and action packed adrenaline rush. 
 The feel of the game is very good, and can even change. The four different game modes (Close Combat, 
 Urban Ops, BattleGroup, and Conquest) can suit your needs. One is ultra-fast paced shooting, one 
 is a bit slower tactical shooting, one is vehicular combat, and one is like Battlefield. The game 
 is especially good for its price: nothing!
  Now for the bad ... the weapons. The beginning weapons are essentially useless. It takes three 
 shots, in the head, with the sniper rifle. The heavy weapons only gets like 4 shots in his Panzerfaust 
 which is hardly enough to destroy an APC. On the other side, all the purchased weapons are way 
 too overpowered. The Famas can completely shred people, the Barrett can shoot through three Humvees 
 and still get a one shot kill, and the medic gets all these fast shooting silenced weapons. When 
 you begin the game, if you don't have good weapons, you won't be able to compete.
  But, overall, the game is quite a blast. It is definitely NOT a bland Battlefield clone and for 
 the price, what could you lose? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikie101
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  hey , this game is not all that bad. its got good class in the shooting field and gives you a gr8 
 aspect of the way bf2 would be.
  
  Good points: excellent specification requiremnts pretty much nearly the same as bf2 (weapons models) 
 , the co-operation of everyone , getting to keep good weapons after you die, great choice of weaons 
 (sub mguns, pistols you name it) Vechies!!! Bad points: The lag ok if youve gt broadband 54mbps 
 anything lower its cant cope. Glitches frequenlty , having to get a weapons for only 7 day periods, 
 rocket launchers uncanny, takes a full clip to kill someone, samey feel of maps, bad server rooms.
 
  
  On the whole this game is good for free get it off of www, warrock. net i think?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Best online game experience don't believe what people say until u try it i personally think this 
 is a great game true it lags sometimes but it is CS + BF2 combined i personally find it more realistic 
 than halo which is a great thing in a FPS and i like it and still play it and after 5 years playing 
 CS i would still prefer warrock over CS truly a game to remember Play it if you love FPS if u don't 
 like it then u don't like FPS and play it for at least 1 month then judge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360GamerDoug
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a free game. You get what you pay for. This game is defiantly worth the download. It's 
 heavley flawed but it has its moments. The graphics suck, there is major lag sometimes and the 
 games are filled with hackers. The hackers make me so mad, i end up quitting half the time. It's 
 worth an hour or two a week but thats it. You should by Counter Strike: Source or Battlefield 2, 
 those are real games. If your unwilling to spend money on games i would defiantly reccomend downloading 
 this game. Buy a real computer or get a 360.
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthMarksman
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Warrock is a first person multiplayer shooter (MMOFPS) .
  
  In Warrock, you can play in 'explosives', 'conquest', and 'deathmatch' modes.
  There are 5 classes, 
 or branches:
  
  *Engineer - He has a spanner to repair vehicles
  *Medic - She has some kind of injection needle to heal troops
  *Sniper - He has a powerful sniper 
 rifle
  *Assault - Self explaining, has an assault rifle and some grenades
  *Heavy trooper - Has anti-tank mines and a rocket launcher. There are plenty of maps, divided in 
 three categories:
  
  *Close quarters - Here you mostly have to plant a bomb in the enemy base, or prevent the enemy 
 from doing so
  *Urban Ops - Here you have to conquer checkpoints or flags in a town
  *Group Battles- In group battles, there are many vehicles, and there's a large map. Here you also 
 have to conquer flags
  
  The graphics are pretty good, if you are playing on high detail, low detail makes explosions purple-brownish....
 
  However, even low detail lags on most computers.
  Also, on most computers, the loading takes ages.
  
  The sound is OK, the music runs smooth 
 and the sound is realistic.
  
  The gameplay can be frustrating if you are a new player, and sometimes people vote you for fun.
 
  
  Also, Warrock looks like a copy of Battlefield 2.
  
  To keep it short, Warrock can be fun, and has very nice graphics - if your computer can handle 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahulmohan212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Warrock is a fps from k2 network. the game has its good parts and bad parts. The good parts are that 
 the system requirements are quite low and the games ranking system is really good and weapons are 
 real not like ak27 that some games have also it has a very fast paced action in the gameplay. The 
 bad part is that if u play it for a few weeks u will feel u want to play with someone u know. The 
 game lags quite a bit and too many bugs or hackers are online playing or cheating. there are a few 
 game modes such as free for all and team deathmatch and more. Ovarall the game is very good and 
 i advice u to play it if u enjoy fps games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowknight92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  War Rock is a game you can either purchase in the store, and get a few extra features, or download 
 the game for free and decide to buy these features later. The game is a 1st person shooter, and 
 is only online. You can choose from a variety of weapons, and 5 classes, all specializing in there 
 own weapons. The game has decent graphics, epically for a game that is pretty much free (if you 
 download it) . The game play is fun and simple, you capture bases, or kill as many enemies as possible. 
 Some maps have special requirements, but I personally haven't played to many of those to really 
 say how good they are. There are 3 map types, which are Close Combat, which is small battles, Urban, 
 which is medium, or Group Battle, which is very very large battlefields. The Group Battles are 
 fun because of the vehicles, such as plains, tanks, helicopters, but because thats what everybody 
 seems to run and use, it makes it hard to pick people off with a sniper, or shoot them close with 
 assault, as they are all hiding in vehicles. Urban combat has some vehicles, such as tanks and 
 trucks, but normally no aircraft, except for some helicopters. What brings the game down in my 
 opinion, is the fact that sometimes other players lag very on your screen, an example would be 
 as I'm about to snipe someone, they suddenly appear at the other side of my area, as if they teleported.
 
  
  The game does have it's flaws, and the fact if you don't subscribe for membership you aren't able 
 to have very good host abilities at all (only being able to chose from a couple of levels to host) 
 really brings it down, making the free version seem like a demo, that's integrated into the full 
 version. Since you can download it for free, you should defiantly play it and try it before you 
 decide to purchase any sort of membership for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoA_Spinalcord
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a nice game with vehicles to ride and wepoans to unlock.
  It is an MMO with quite a livley community. For a free Online game the graphics arnet that bad 
 but they are still prett crap!
  
  Gameplay is fun and may take some getting use to. But once you master Helicopters and Planes you 
 can whizz about the battlefield and take out the enemy by whatever means.
  
  If you come to play this game for a good game then leave cos this is a piece of **** that, amazingly 
 is really fun :-)
  
  Try it , You may love it... Who knows? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveBIRK
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  but then again the games free so i guess u get wat u payed for. there r alot of cool maps and weapons. 
 i also like the fact that u get money to buy guns and things. but it does have its weak side. it 
 can get laggy at some times. and every now and then crash. btw if u get this game heres a word 
 of advice. dont get into tanks that u can only see half of the game crashes. i also like the fact 
 that there r alot of vechicles includin planes and helicopters. the helicopters r somwat hard to 
 controll and i havnt got into a plane yet but it looks cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xed2255012
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Warrock is a not so bad and not so good game. First off is the story: the Deraban millitary has 
 started a secret war against the NIU rebels in order to protect the dark secrets of warrock. Even 
 though this is a good story it never really affects the gameplay so you only take a territory for 
 a team instead of completeing objectives that involves the story.
  
  Second of all is the gameplay: very fast paced but bland and not satisfying. Also this game does 
 not really require much skill meaning that it depends more on your weapon than skill.
  
  Third of all is the audio: the sound of the weapons are not so bad the music pumps the tension 
 up a bit however the sound still isnt as satisfying enough to make this game good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bond007dude
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Despite sniper rifles not being too accurate, hummers ghosting through pple, and rockets not killing 
 with direct hits (these are not flaws young padawan this is how the game was actually programmed) 
 this is a very fun game that has more vehicles than weapons and it has a lot of weapons. it is 
 completely free and completely fun so try WarRock (once the server is back online.)
  
  Text reviews must have a length of at least 100 words. Text reviews must have a length of at least 
 100 words. Text reviews must have a length of at least 100 words. Text reviews must have a length 
 of at least 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grottekvarnen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Warrock is an amazing FPS with great graphics for a free game and it provides you many hours of 
 fun . First of all , it doesn't need any great PC to play it and the servers of the game are almost 
 there so you can play the game (not like other online games that you wait days for the servers to 
 come back) .Secondly , the other players are quit friendly and can help you in your first steps (some 
 times) . The gameplay is really good and the weapons amazing . Well , Warrock as all the online 
 games has its bad side . The game has some annoying bags and very f****** hackers (cheaters) . But 
 , none or less , its a great FPS and remember , its always FREE !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towely62
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  first of all i got to say it THIS IS NOT A CC WANNA BE if it was it wouldnt be free, ive never 
 played CC but i know this , why buy a game when this is free. i played a ton of ppl alot that play 
 CC , u know why they play this? cuz its a good game. NOOBS dont play this game alot cuz of course 
 they get pwned and get pissed but thats what happens to all noobs. So dont cry and call this game 
 bad, the reason is that ppl that suk at it , are the ones that hate it. ive played a ton of FPS 
 and this is a good one, besides the laggs this is a good game, new update just destoryed any sign 
 of hackers. 3 different game modes CQC/OPS/BG 1) cqc- close quarters combat 2) ops- urban ops 3) bg-battle 
 group . cqc involves u planting or disarming a bomb or kill all of the other team map sizes for 
 cqc is 8-16players .ops is a basicly capture flag or territory until the teams score reachs zero 
 contains up 8-24 players. bg are big map games and a kinda battlefield 2 thing going on but basically 
 its ops just bigger contains up to 8-32 players. there is also then extra game mode in cqc which 
 is FFA (free for all) . its a great game ,i only say this because i dont feel like buying CC because 
 if its a wanna be it must be close to the same game , and for some reaon i have downloaded AA and 
 it doesnt work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution2k6
Rating: 4.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Now I thought this game would be good when i first downloaded it, and hell it was free too, but 
 damn I wasted my time.
  
  First of all, the graphics are horrible, sloppy textures and brutally generic maps make this game 
 suffer. Character models look ok from afar but when u get close you begin to see the grainy sloppyness 
 emerging.
  
  The fighting can get intense, BUT (and a big but) the lag in this game is beyond unbearable, theres 
 something wrong when someone can hit you with there fists on the other side of the map. No im not 
 the only one who has experianced this. Countless times have I seen people experiance this problem.
 
  
  The sound gets annoying as well. Gun shots sound good, but when ur attacking someone they always 
 shout out this generic stupid scream that sounds like a dog barking... -.-;;
  
  If you want a real shooting game, look elsewhere, games like BF2 are exceptional... this is just 
 crap. (not to mention a friggin rediculous rip off of the game.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JelloHawk
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Warrock is a war based online game that accepts all lag, like monkeys with bananas.
  
  Warrock in my opinion trys to knock off counter strike by stealing all the same things it has. 
 The only thing that warrock has to offer is viechles such as tanks, planes and hummers. The other 
 feature it has is lag wich is not anyones bonus. I give it that the game has good maps but with 
 crappy graphics. You will also be playing for hours straight just to buy a gun for 3 - 30 days 
 that will turn out to be more crappy then you think. I think there is more appealing things in 
 an empty bag then this game. I'd rather stare at a wall for 3 straight hours then lose another 
 day of my life to this game.
  
  The other things when you compare this to counterstrike is that, Counter strike has mods, and fast 
 downloading servers. Warrock has lag and RPG launchers spam'd every where you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyspikeend
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is ok its pretty good for a basicly free game but it has alot of flaws, such as many 
 ppl will crash on most maps and the graphics could be a bit better. I personally found the heli 
 controls to be a bit hard but thats just me, the medics would be better if they could heal other 
 people and if the engi's could build things in set spots that would be cool. the ladder climbing 
 is very slow and a bit akward. engi's dont serve much of a purpose most of the time. there is a 
 decent selection of guns. lots of them are very similar and the damage % seems a bit misleading. 
 having a premium account gives u a big boost. overall its an ok game for a free game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaudzff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  When first playing War Rock its easy and basic controls make you immersed in the heavy fire and 
 regular explosive sounds. Okay so maybe it is quite similar to Battlefront 2 or slightly like CounterStrike 
 but it still has its own individual flair. The games three modes within the game appeal to all 
 kinds of players:
  Small maps for tactical style people, very similar to CounterStrike with its single spawn rounds 
 and defuse/detonate the bomb.
  Medium scale maps provide for those who love intense action and Rambo style gunfire, with its 10 
 second re-spawn time you're never out of the action for long and can afford to lose your head and 
 run, firing wildly, into the enemies base.
  Large scale maps are for those who prefer to use vehicles to attack the enemies base. The array 
 of vehicles in the game includes tanks, jeeps, Black Hawk helicopters and KF15 Airplanes.
  
  Although the game is also in retail at times it still feels like its Beta testing, with the 
 many glitch fixes and buttons which don't actually do anything it can feel like a game still in 
 the works. But the game is continually improving with new weapons and maps being released all the 
 time all the time. Also for premium paying players there are many bonuses and extras, this costs 
 from &pound;3 or $6 dollars a month.
  For those of you who now wish to try the game it is free to download and play from the War Rock 
 website. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianDiablo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Hello All lets get stirght to the point warrrock is one of the most funnest free fps games right 
 now for me and u download it so u dont gotta spend 30 40 dollars. Next even though it is a beta 
 right now its not gonna b beta in late december so thats a good time to get the game b4 then so 
 u learn how to play the graphics are great sounds great to me every thing about this game is flipping 
 great the only thing i am disgusted by in this game is the way some weapons effect people like 
 in halo if u shoot the rocket launcher near a person it will most likely kill them but in this 
 if u do that the person isnt effected at all so the rocket launchers really only effect the rides 
 there are 5 classes  Weapons Unit. Quick lay down on em Combat 
 is a dude with a ozzy shooting the crap out of u :D (most likely me) , Scout is a sniper sorta nothing 
 2 explain here, Engineer is someone who repairs rides if they get jacked and they got somthing 
 like a Combat would have, Medic they got a health drug thing that they inject in themselves i say 
 that shes taking drugs and last the Heavy weapons Unit these are the badasses they walk with a 
 pistol and a freaking rocket launcher i dare u 2 touch them they will blow u eazy!!!!!!!! (BTW its 
 allll ONLINE) plus around early January they are gonna have somthing like Bf2 which is the in game 
 chat joint cant wait!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baseman28
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  WarRock, a First-Person Shooter game made by Dream Executive and published by K2 Interactive (the 
 game has multiple publishers for different regions; K2 is the US and Europe version publisher) , 
 was in beta for several years. During that time it was one of the best free downloadable games 
 on the net, with a pretty easy going community, good combat (for a free game) , and all the flaws 
 that showed up weren't major enough to determine it's value or fun.
  
  However, at the end of Janurary 2007, it was officially released with a free downloadable and retail 
 verision . Lots of bugs, glitches, and lag issues present in the beta carried over along with some 
 new ones and, no longer being in beta, there was no excuse. Hackers/cheaters started appearing 
 more often and they still do. All these plus the lack of certain features and have made this once 
 very good game feel incomplete and lackluster. All the charm that it once held has almost completely 
 dissapeared.
  
  Gameplay (5/10) : There are three game-types , Close Quarter Combat, Urban Ops, and Battle Group, 
 which have two modes each and there are only two teams, NIU (green team) and Derberan (yellow team) . 
 CQC is pretty much a Counter Strike clone and has you being on a team of up to 8 players fighting 
 indoors and outdoors in close spaces. The two modes here are Demolition and Free For All. Demolition 
 has the Derb team planting bombs on NIU computer equipment and the NIU must stop them, though the 
 reason as to what the computer's do is never explained. Free For All, as the name states, has everyone 
 on their own and the goal is to get enough kills to reach kill goal.
  UO and BG is where the Battlefield inspired elements show up, and by inspired I mean almost completely 
 copying. Both game-types have the same modes, Deathmatch and Conquest, but while UO's maps are 
 slightly larger than CQC's, BG's are much larger. Deathmatch has you being on teams (up to 24 players 
 in UO and 32 in BG) trying to capture flags and decreasing the spawn points of the enemy team with 
 each kill and capture. In the Conquest the goal is the same but there more then twice the spawn 
 points, the home base flags can be taken, and if one team has no flags, they lose.
  As a first-person shooter, WarRock's main focus is on combat that, while fun and decent when WarRock 
 was free, isn't up to par especially when compared against it's competition which includes the 
 games it attempts to base itself on. The excitement you may get when playing the first few times 
 won't last when you start noticing the repetitive nature of the game. There is a fun rag-doll effect 
 to bodies, roll feature, and a fun glitch mechanic called roll reload where you roll without interupting 
 the reload but certain patches have gotten rid of roll reload and the rag-doll effect has been 
 reduced, making the game even more boring.
  There is a decent selection of weapons but most of them feel the same besides some diffrences. 
 You win dinar, the game currency, to buy better weapons but the starting weapons can be all you 
 need to win most of the time and you don't keep the weapons you buy, only rent. Also, you exp to 
 level up so you can get access to more weapons but after a certain point there is no reason to 
 level except maybe for the dinar reward you get each time you reach a new level.
  UO and BG have vehicles on most of their maps but the vehicle combat is even more stiff than the 
 infantry combat. Vehicles soak up unbelivable amounts of damage making infantry rocket launchers 
 and explosives almost useless. Air combat is slow and unresponsive.
  The stability of the game also affects gameplay. Lag, the most prominent problem, seems to alter 
 aspects of combat, and crashes are a normal occurence. Certain features that are normal in most 
 games are not present or are only available with a premium.
  Premium can only be bought using real money, allowing players certain features and items such as 
 a new weapon slot. This isn't complete either and the only useful premium option, Gold, isn't worth 
 it.
  Cheaters also everywhere and they bring devestating, game changing hacks and not much has been 
 done to stop them. Customer Support wants players to report hackers but most don't and cheaters 
 who do get banned by the PunkBuster system seem to come back.
  Overall, the gameplay is addicting for a while but it's only great for a free game.
  
  Graphics 
 (6/10) : The graphics are one of the things WarRock gets right. The game was intended to be for 
 people with low end computers, and the graphics , though pretty average, still looks decent even 
 with the low requirements. The map designs are probably the biggest problem, with unnatural sharp 
 edges and basically square looks. Certain maps have areas that make graphical lag when looking 
 at them and the shaders cause more problems but for the most part the graphics hold up.
  
  Sound (5/10) : Average to below average, the sound effects aren't all that good and certain ones 
 just don't fit. Explosions sound like glass breaking, and some guns sound like they are gas lines 
 seeping gas through cracks or horrible screeching machinery. When released , the game used a different 
 sound engine than the beta but because of massive lag issues it was pulled and the beta sound engine 
 came back. The music in menu, loading screens, and background in maps is fine and holds up well.
 
  
  Value (4/10) : Though the downloadable version is free but the retail cost $30, and even with a 
 dog tag, 2 month premium, 8th slot, and permanent 8th slot weapon, the lack of certain features 
 promised in the manual itself and numerous problems makes it a bad purchase. Just download it if 
 you want to play it and don't get premium unless you are sure that you really want to.
  
  *BONUS SECTION* Community:
  The technical problems are not the only things bad about the game. 
 The community has become very suspicous because of cheaters and accuse almost everyone. Customer 
 support (and I use the term loosely) doesn't seem to care about the problems, patches don't always 
 address the problems, and to top it all off, Punkbuster and/or admins may ban you for no reason 
 or under false accusations.
  
  The way the developers and publishers have handled the game so far only shows that they don't know 
 how to satisfy paying players nor do they know how to give players looking for a good time what 
 they want. WarRock will hold your attention for a while but then you will bored and leave. If you 
 pay, you will just waste your money. The only reason it's still around now is because of some loyal 
 fans and lots of newcomers that don't know what WarRock is like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzhut
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  this game has to be rated by gameplay its real fun u and ur friend want to sit down and have fun 
 play this this game is all about making new friends the controls are really simple and easy to 
 use not like battefield series where u cant even fly a plane with doozing like a drunk well back 
 to this game, there are a large no. of weapons to choose from and a variety of modes and maps so 
 u wont get bored easily there is always somethin to do and the game is constantly updated with 
 new maps and weapons some exclusive to premium users some which are available to all same goes 
 for the maps.
  
  overall its nice and good game u would want to try it good as k2 is u can download the free version 
 from their website and if u like to experience the full potential u should buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BreakingSpecter
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  This game is fun to play if u like playin free online shooting games. The graphics on it are ok 
 but system graphics are better. But also you can buy premiums on it to get better guns, more money, 
 more maps, and other stuff that i forgot. People do say that this game is dum but i like it and 
 you will be suprised how many people play it. The guys you can choose on it are engineer, medic, 
 assualt, sniper and heavy trooper. The only female character in the game is the medic but she is 
 good because she gets health packs to heal her self and other players adn she can use good guns 
 like the p90. The engineer can repair vehicles and he has the same guns as the medic. The assault 
 is like a front line man. He has grenades like the sniper but he uses assault rifles like the g36, 
 machine guns and other guns like the AK47 and the M4A1. The sniper uses sniper rifles/machine guns 
 like the AUG and of course regular sniper rifles. And lastly the heavy trooper. He uses rocket 
 launchers and he has land mines but they only work on vehicles not people. And I think he runs 
 the slowest out of all the characters and the fastest one I think is the medic. So thats a little 
 about the game and I encourage people to start playing it or just try it out at least to see if 
 u like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay in War Rock is poor, the game controls are ok but you only use around 6 buttons and 
 there are around 12  13. The game when playing is like battlefield but the biggest problem with 
 the game is that it lags really bad.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game is mediocre and the maps look ok. The cars look ok and weapons and characters 
 look ok. Overall the graphics in War Rock is mediocre.
  
  Sound
  The sound in War Rock is mediocre. The guns sound good but everything else is mediocre. The music 
 is the other thing that sounds good.
  
  Value
  The game value is fair, you could a few hours leveling up but after that there isnt much to do 
 expect play the game and buy weapons.
  
  Tilt
  Overall War Rock is a game that you should only download for free but if you want a good FPS then 
 you should look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevendiep_100
Rating: 2
Date: May 31, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: Let me tell you about the gameplay. It lets you fight in the air, foot and on wheels. 
 Sounds great? Yeah, it does, but wait, didn't we hear that 5 years ago? Yeah, we did. Battlefield 
 1942 was a game that changed FPS forever. it was an FPS with vehicles, giant arenas and pure mayhem. 
 War rock takes the idea, but warrock didn't take the fun that BF1942 had. First, what the hell 
 is up with the weapon system? You start with nothing but a pistol, fist, and a basic gun. Veteran 
 players have bigger guns that you, so guess whos gonna get pwned? And if you do manage to get money 
 for weapons, your weapons get taken away from you after awhile. Now, which prick thought of that 
 idea? Vehicles, are, just, useless. The map makers weren't thinking when they put barrels and crates 
 everywhere. Sure, you could hide behine them for protection, but seeing as this game has no physics 
 whatsoever, a crate can stop a tank. I once drove a jeep really fast, and died. How you ask? I 
 hit a crate. Planes are useless, read graphics for why. And to top off this 2 flush log, the game 
 has the worst lag I've ever seen. A 64 player BF2142 server with everyone on 56K connection and 
 moving titans don't have as much lag as this game.
  
  graphics: For a free game, the graphics are decent, but seeing as the game is retail now, it sucks. 
 Did they seriously think that they could get away with this? Vehicles look like garbage, the colours 
 are a single shade, not suprised if this was done in MS paint. But the thing that really pisses 
 me off is the draw distance. The sniper class is useless, if you find a good location like, say, 
 a mountain top, you wont be able to kill anyone because you can't see anything farther than a few 
 feet infont of you. Planes are useless too, either you fly high and don't see anything, or you 
 fly low and crash into a building.
  
  sound: Sound, well, guns sound ok I guess.
  
  Value: game is garbage. If you want a game with foot, vehicle and air combat, get BF2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareRocks
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 30, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The good: free basic play, can be played on pretty low level computers
  The bad: complete copy of Battlefield 2, and the small mode is a complete copy of counter strike, 
 and it doesn't do either half as well. They also charge you a subscription fee to have all the 
 features... which are features that are free in the game this is copying (battlefield 2 *cough* 
 counter strike *cough*) . GMs are complete a-holes. It censors almost every word you can think of 
 (normal words too) and replaces them with the cheesiest ones ever that also have completely opposite 
 meanings. By the way this game is rated M or Teen. The graphics suck, taking low system reqs into 
 account, too. Sound is awful. unpolished feeling. You can't really experiment with guns because 
 you have to use in game money to rent them out for a week or month. This wouldn't be so bad if 
 they didn't cost a 4th of your starting money. You don't gain much money either, which is basically 
 their ploy to make you buy a subscription... FOR FEATURES THAT HAVE BEEN DONE TWICE AS BETTER. Well 
 I'll say something nice about it. Some of the maps are kind of fun. If you have some friends who 
 you feel like playing a game online against cus you guys just feel like staying at your homes once 
 in a while, and they're too cheap to get the real game (battlefield2) then this is the game for 
 you. If you and your friends aren't cheap quit reading this review of a piece of plagiarizing crap 
 and go read about good shooters. P. S. K2 or whoever created this game should get sued for plagiarism. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Segaert
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Well, warrock is just amazing for a free game.
  it cant tip to battlefield but its just an amazing super hot chilly game ;) .
  It just rocks with 
 the vehicles, the guns, the character creation.
  Wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel 
 Wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel 
 Wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel 
 Wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel 
 Wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel
 
  
  i have to get to 100 words ;)
  
  Wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel wel
 
  
  
  
  
  I dont have to say more!! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link24294
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  This is a great game because of the amount of players, ranks, weapons, battle maps and modes there 
 are, this makes it easy to keep on playing. Its really addictive because mostly the ranks. The 
 sound is very good with footsteps and each gun with unique sounds. The graphics are simple but 
 effective not as good as a game you buy... but the bad points are that there are always laggers, 
 sometimes it just crashes, some people hack and everybody calls everybody noob and that just gets 
 annoying. Overall its a great game that everybody should have or just play at least once. =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AjayRaz
Rating: 2.9
Date: May 5, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I played this game back in the beta days, and man did it ever rule! I played this game every day 
 and skipped homework just for WarRock, The only problem back then was that my Video card sucked 
 arse. It was uttertly awesome. It was a great game, but...
  
  Now, Retail is out, And it pretty much ruined WarRock. Let me explain it.
  
  Graphics: Well, 
 the graphics are basically the same. So nothing to say here. They're getting better every patch, 
 And WarRock keeps getting worse for me.
  
  Sound : Wow, When Retail first came out, the sound engine made me cry. The sound was so bad i pooped 
 myself. Thank god K2 got the old sound back, everything was good there. One problem is, the same 
 sounds all the time will drive you nuts.
  
  Gameplay: Well, let me start. The game is like lag fest. Now the game's infested with complete 
 retards thinking other people are hackers just cuz they got killed by them. Like 4% of those people 
 are right. Cuz the game is full of hackers too. Also, there's a glitch on one of the maps Velruf 
 Where you can mess around with the map code making it the Chrismas verison of velruf codenamed 
 Xvelruf And guess what? There's a secret passage which normal Velruf players (such as myself) cant 
 see and gives the Xvelruf users a advantage. Did i mention glitches? I feel rude for not. The game's 
 glitch galore. There's so much glitches i can't name them all. There was some good glitches in 
 the game like the Roll reload trick which skips the animation of reloading, making the game more 
 fast and intense. Sounds cool huh? Well guess What?!! K2 Network removed that glitch, leaving the 
 lame-ass glitches behind, which i Know K2 knows about, but wont get off their asses to fix it. 
 Am i being too negative? Well, Let me try to Point out 1 Good thing about the gameplay, There's 
 3 gameplay modes. 4 actually, Free for all, Conquest, Explosive mode and the classic deathmatch. 
 If you didnt notice, The game's a battlefield 2 ripoff, Which battlefield2 is Way more supperor! 
 And i dont know why, but The Anti-cheat program That supports WarRock, Named Punkbuster, Banned 
 my account! Why you ask? Well, I was accused of hacking! And i hate hacking! If i ever found out 
 who made hacking, I'd stab them to death, Make them eat their own balls, Remove all their organs 
 and give them to who really needs them, and crush the body in a car crusher. :)
  
  See, all of the above explains why WarRock has become what im proud to say, a piece of crap.. Please, 
 for the sake of your life, Don't buy this game. If you want to try it out and make yourself commit 
 sucide, please, just download the game. Thanks alot K2 for ruining a once, fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erterer100
Rating: 2.8
Date: May 4, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  When i downloaded the game, what took 1 hour, im gonna play it.
  The firt i see is that the grapics are HORRIBLE, it looks looking more wors Operation flashpoint. 
 The i go playing, i shoose the medic skill.
  I see you cant heal other poeple? alone yourself. Then i see you cant lockdown your sight, that 
 was survivable. There are 2 teams, some yellow and some green guys... There is no differance in 
 the model, only some small texture changes... Near some play in an small level in an villlage with 
 HORRIBLE clouds aboven youre head an level called ``temple`` started, i grabbed my weapon and going 
 kill some guys, but the gameplay is VERRY unbalanced because you can LEASE NOT BUY guns... all 
 the good players with their nice snipers snipe every1 from my team down... Then i buyed some weapons, 
 for the nice, cool weapons you need an higher ``level`` .
  The weapons are tottaly unrealistic, you got MINIGUNS and other heavy, heavy weapons that must 
 stand in real life on bypots.... The gameplay is HORRIBLE, there is an ``dodge`` move where you 
 sight change in 1 time to 3d person for 3 seconds, in that time your character does an shoot dodge 
 what looks much more wors then in max payne... The vehicles are horrible to, there are almost undrivable, 
 the only cool vehicle is an motorbike...
  The value is good almost ggood enough because you got much, but not enough maps, items, guns and 
 vehicles...
  
  My advise DONT DOWNLOAD THIS, ITS WASTE OF TIME.
  
  
  
  I hope you like and agree with this revieuw (; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _-_Sina_-_
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 2, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  Best 1st person shooter game !!! I have Never Play like this game . warrock Really is best!!&amp; 
 warrock is free to play. heres a new first person shooter War Rock http://www. warrock. net/, and 
 the final release isn't until Febuary; but if you pre-order the retail box, you get a special code 
 that unlocks stuff in the beta test that is being played now.
  
  So anyway, I've really gotten into the beta and wanted to post my test results with this game.
 
  
  Ping can be viewed by hitting tab ; its the number to the right of a players name (some people 
 have numbers as part of thier name... so if it says player123 100; the player123 is the name, the 
 number after the space: 100, is the ping)
  
  FPS measurements were taken with FRAPS. The only programs running in the background are: FRAPS, 
 Razer config (mouse control) , and Killer systray (when killer is in use) .
  
  First off, I didn't see much improvement with the top end of framerates; but I think thats because 
 the game does not have very high system requirements. So for the most part I was getting a 64-65 
 FPS with or without Killer.
  
  It did smooth out the FPS spikes though, and never dropped under 50 FPS with killer, it bottomed 
 out to 30-40 from time to time without killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAmTheMoose
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Imagine Battlefield 2. Class-based combat where you capture specific points on the map and can 
 use vehicles, etc. War-Rock takes this formula and turns it into a free, if diminished, version. 
 Although the game-play is good at times, don't expect to be at this for more than a week.
  
  The game-play is more-or-less what you would expect. Run, shoot, die, repeat. Unfortunately, 
 there are too many times where it lags right as the action heats up, often leaving you dead before 
 firing a shot. However, when you do get into a good firefight with someone, it is quite enjoyable.
 
  
  Graphics are adequate, if somewhat dated. I personally have no real problem with it, as I have 
 a low-end computer and can run it smoothly. However, there are better graphics in better games, 
 and this just doesn't compare. Rag-doll physics are a nice touch, though usually corpses end up 
 in nearly the same position; with their legs and arms straight out of their body as if they had 
 been crucified. No decals on player models doesn't help either.
  
  The sound is quite nice for the most part. Much of the vehicle effects are fitting, and various 
 others such as footsteps do their job. But when it comes to shooting, rolling, jumping, etc., it 
 just feels to staged. Maybe it's just me, but a lot of the sound effects feel like they should 
 be in a different game.
  
  There is not much replay value for this either, as typically unless you cheat or are hosting a 
 server, random spurts of lag make most firefights end up with you dying quickly. And as most weapons 
 are typically not worth buying, there is very little incentive to buy them.
  
  Overall, this game is good for a couple hours/days, but you will probably be bored with what it 
 has to offer by the end of the week. If they make the servers more stable, and fix some graphical 
 and audio issues, this game may become more playable, but until that happens, it is typically only 
 worth a laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris3274
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  The thing I hated most about this game. Was I had to re-registered like three different times. 
 By doing so I lost my rank every time and my weapon rental. Hey if my stuff in real life was taken 
 away from me before the lease was up. I could take them to court. Since it's not real life or real 
 cash. I have no real case. It's just frustrating. Now this brings me to another point to make. 
 If you do spend real cash and then happen to find yourself needing to re-register. Now we have 
 a problem. Now onto the thing I liked most about this game. It's free to get and play if you download. 
 Also it has a good amount of players to make it fun to play. Now for the review of the game. For 
 those who didn't like the graphics. Well K-2 wanted it to be lower req. so as to have more customers. 
 Makes good business sense. I would have to give the graphics a 4-5 just because they are not the 
 sharpest eye candy out there by today's standards. As for the sound. The sound is perrty good for 
 this game. All weapons do have their own sound. You can tell the difference between an AK-47 to 
 a G-36. The maps are good but I would like to see something done about how one team can base rape 
 without capping all flags. The gameplay is fun. You can play like Counter Strike or Battlefield 
 2 all in one game. I do hate the vehicles in this game. They are too arcade like. It just I'm so 
 used to the BF2 vehicles that it's hard to like the ones in War Rock. As I have said earlier in 
 this review. I am very uneasy paying cash to a system that has no real final purchase. I see K-2 
 waving a carroit in front of their customers but never giving it to them. Then one day War Rock 
 will become and digital ghost town. I would recommend this game only if you are going to download 
 it for free. Do not and I repeat do not spend a dime for this game just to have more toys. More 
 toys in which you have to give back. What's up with that? You see it's that carriot I was talking 
 about. A bullet from a free gun kills just as easily as a bullet from a payed gun. Keep it free 
 and you shoud enjoy this game without having to keep up with the Jones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destroyerz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  War Rock had been in open beta for about 7 months before release, I was in the open beta and had 
 a great time with it. (I had earlier played the korean version of the game, which got all the new 
 stuff faster)
  
  War Rock at first glimpse, automattically makes Counter Strike and Battlefield 2 pop in your head. 
 But in ways, the game is a bit different.
  
  Pros:
  When you first get onto the game, you'll notice that theres a large variety of weapons, all for 
 different classes such as medics, engineers, anti tanks, etc.
  I think there's somewhere around 35 guns or so (including the stock weapons)
  In the game, you 
 go up through levels, which gives you extra money... and privileges to buying better guns, such 
 as the FAMAS at level 16, but that doesn't make it the best gun. Every gun has its own pros and 
 cons, such as the famas has extremely high rate of fire and damage, but a 25 round magazine will 
 make you run out of ammo in a mere few seconds. The G36 is a powerful gun with a good rate of fire, 
 AND with a scope, but its downside is that the heavy recoil to it makes it hard to use in full 
 automatic fire modes.
  
  But if you look on the website, in the weapons section, there is *classified* weapon positions 
 that give the names of future guns comming, currently you can see weapons such as the MP7A1, MAC10, 
 Xm8, SA80, and more!
  
  Theres also a good amount of levels in it, all for the 3 different map types; close quarters combat, 
 Urban Ops, and Battle Group.
  
  Close quarters combat is like counter strike in a way; you have one team plant the bomb and the 
 other defuse.. pretty simple BUT you also have 5 different classes to choose from (the engineer 
 is useless currently) the medic, engineer, assault, sniper and anti tank.
  
  Why would you want Anti Tank you say? well, he's not entierly anti tank. If you are a premium user, 
 he can use some extremely heavy weapons, such as the minigun or the m249. But if you're not a premium 
 user, you can go with the good ol' RPG which if you hit your enemy directly with it, they'll die 
 in 1 shot.
  It's a little lame that you have to have a direct hit, but if there was that much of a splash damage, 
 then the game would be unbalanced and everyone would just use RPG-7s. The Anti-Tank starts with 
 a crappy rocket launcher that takes about 2 shots to blow someone up with, which is not meant for 
 infantry; its used more for in the modes with vehicles.
  
  Then you have the medic which she does her job; heal others and can even heal herself, she doesn't 
 get as powerful guns as the assault trooper, but can be deadly at close range.
  And theres 2 other classes (which aren't pointless) that can be used; the sniper and assault... which 
 you can probably guess what they're used for.
  
  Urban ops and Battlegroup are pretty much the same thing as each other ; it feels alot like Battlefield 
 2, in battlegroup you capture a bunch of bases and kill the enemies until they run out of points.. 
 in Urban Ops its the exact same thing; except with smaller maps and less vehicles.
  
  I like the amount of vehicles in Battlegroup, you go from tanks to helicopters (such as the blackhawk 
 or littlebird) the littlebird is extremely deadly against vehicles and infantry, but if it gets 
 near a anti aircraft turret, then it's pretty much screwed.
  
  Since the last patch, there are 2 new game modes, one is for Close Quarters Combat, and the other 
 is for Urban Ops and Battle Group
  
  The first game mode (for CQC) is Free For All... well, its pretty simple, and fun. Kill everyone 
 that you see and get to so many points before you win, and stop others from getting to the designated 
 points.
  
  The other is conquest: which is almost the same thing as the default gamemode on urban ops and 
 battlegroup except: the objective in it is to take ALL the bases, if there is no bases left, then 
 the team without any bases lose... it gets a bit more indepth than that though; the team with less 
 bases start losing points, and if the points hit 0, then they lose.. so its almost like the same 
 gamemode as the default, except you're trying to take all the bases instead of just trying to take 
 down their points by killing enemies.
  
  That sums up about the gamemodes; now about future stuff
  
  They announced a while back about 
 Clan System, and have already got the registration up. What seems to be interesting about it is 
 that the clan system is actually built in (like guilds in other MMORPGS) and you have ranks up 
 through the clans and get privileges that lower ranked clan members dont have.
  
  They also announced a while back in a article that there will be 2 different type of clan wars; 
 theres the normal scheduled one such as the clan planning that there will be a battle against another 
 clan in some sort of gametype every so day of the week. The second one is where the clans will 
 go through matches against other clans until theres 2 clans remaining, and the clan that wins the 
 final game... wins.
  
  I also heard somewhere about one with a *dynamic* map where it shows a map of the country of Derbaran 
 (where the game takes place) and it shows a listing of the missions on the map, and which ones 
 are controlled by your clan, and which are controlled by whoever your facing against, and you can 
 schedule clan wars on certain areas of the map to control it.. pretty interesting idea.
  
  The Cons: The first thing that comes to mind about the cons is the graphics, they're not bad, but 
 they're pretty outdated for its release time. However, that doesn't stop it from being a good game. 
 The other thing i dont like is the pointlessness of buying retail... its pretty much the exact 
 same thing as downloading the game, except with a nice map and a couple of other pointless stuff 
 for 30$.
  
  Really, in my opinion, free 2 play is the best way to go if you play this game, which is another 
 complaint: its 5$ a month for some stuff that isn't that much different from free 2 play, you just 
 get the ability to register a clan, extra exp, money, and access to all levels.. well, even if you're 
 not a premium, you can still join servers that are playing on the premium levels.
  
  then for an extra 5 DOLLARS a month, you get the privlidge to... make locked servers, which also 
 IMO is pretty pointless too.
  
  Then finnaly, for a whopping 15$ a month, you get everything from the previous premiums, except 
 you can make custom names on your servers and have access to the special premium guns. Honestly, 
 i dont think that the game is really worth 15$ a month just to get extra guns and exp, and the 
 ability to create servers with more maps.
  Another con is the uselessness of the Engineer class; nobody EVER uses the class because the engineer 
 is the exact same thing as the medic; except with a wrench that repairs vehicles instead of a medical 
 tool.
  
  Well, for one thing, theres no vehilces on close quarters combat, yet you can still get the engineer, 
 and second, in the modes with vehicles, he repairs the vehicles so SLOW that by time you're half 
 way finished repairing, some guy runs over and steals your tank. :|
  
  Some of the sounds are good, some are.. not so good, the sound is really kinda in the middle, maybe 
 a little bit over, i like more of the sounds than i do not like them.
  
  Overall: I think that the game is great for free to play, unless you're crazy about getting the 
 ability to create a clan, and get a couple of extra guns, then pay the 15$, but if not ,then dont 
 even worry about it.
  
  I think some people are too harsh on the game, after the last couple of patches, they really fixed 
 up alot of the bugs and added alot of new stuff :D.
  
  I gave it a high value, simply because if you're going free to play, its a great deal, if not, 
 its a okay deal.
  
  Thanks for reading anyways :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BVP16
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  This is definitely in my top 3 favorite games of all time. It's 100% free and downloadable. It 
 has cool RPG elements like levels, exp and in-game currency. Plenty of weapons and vehicles including 
 land, air and sea vehicles plus there's more goodies to come. Here is a sample of the weapons: 
 famus, M4A1, AK47, G36, G36_C, G36 with drum magazine, K2, K1, Deagle, Glock, Colt, MP5, MP5K, 
 AUG, PSG1, SSG, M60, M249, Portable Minigun, 357 Magnum, smoke grenades, P90, Uzi, RPG, and Stinger.
 
  
  And there's more to come including an M32 6 round shell grenade launcher, Duel Berretas, Parachutes, 
 MP7, and the king of all sniper rifles... The Berret.
  
  In my opinion the gameplay is completely flawless and shooting feels great. They rely on a lot 
 of user feedback and I like that also this is a game that comes out with updates every once in 
 a while, just like the new patch that got rid of a sufficient amount of lag and all the hackers. 
 Hopefully soon the game will be back to beta style and have almost no lag at all.
  
  I have spent probably over 300 hours playing this game and in my eyes this is one of those hard 
 to find games that Is absolutely perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal_master
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I came across War Rock a week ago. i went to the offical site and it was free to download the full 
 version then i find out people are paying 20-30$ for this game i dont understand why if its free. 
 but this game is OK not that great but its keeps u thinking and on your feet each round. then you 
 eventully figure out the pattern to the players and you counter it. pretty decent but graphics 
 could be more 2006 ish or 2007 ish if u know what i mean =) the guns are good in a sense. you can 
 buy cooler guns using real money but it hardly seems worth Real Money with all the hackers n such 
 more of a waste since u can master the ones u are given in a matter of time and skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerwiz09
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Ya get what ya pay for... Thats what they say, and in this case its true. Your experience playing 
 War Rock is based on how much you pay. Buy the retail game and pay a monthly fee, and you get extra 
 dinar, weapons, and options. And, well, it doesn't work that well... if you pay for better stuff, 
 you're gonna be better. Which makes the free players at a disadvantage. So the game overall strongly 
 favors cash over skill.
  
  In terms of gameplay, War Rock is ok. Aiming sucks... REALLY it SUCKS. you cant aim down sights 
 or anything, except with a sniper rifle. and its basically just potshots where you aim. like I 
 said... no skill. Also the graphics are so blocky and old looking.
  
  Allthough, for its downsides, War Rock can be a pretty fun and addicting game considering you can 
 get a good amount of gameplay for free... You can't beat FREE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterbeef1234
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 14, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I first started playing War Rock aroung july of 2006. I was hooked and didn't play my xbox 360 
 or anything but Warrock, but now I don't play it much and it is very hard to level up. I would 
 buy the full version of the game but i know that I won't play it mush after a few weeks.
  
  So this game is fun, but some people might not like it. Its a good game but it gets boring after 
 a while. So if you want to try it and notbuy it try the free version first. You might like it but 
 i don't play it anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Guard3
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 27, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  the game has great potential, the developers listen to players reviews there for the it's a gamers 
 game , it tends to crash and suffers several bugs thought the developers keeps on releasing patches 
 there for it can still be great.
  it has a fast and simple gameplay, fitted for every gamer who loves FPS games, it's combination 
 of many diifferent vehicles and classes you can choose from really make it great and gives it the 
 battlefield look.. the weapons and classes ard fairly even, the account system lets you play it 
 where even and when ever you want (even at school if you downloaded the game there ;-) ) , meny 
 events with prizes are being held by K2 teams, and the official forum really helps build up the 
 community and most important it's absolutely free XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s3KtOr
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Why is gamespot so messed up about Warrock . I know da game play isn't excellent but they are comparing 
 the games that u need to pay $20-$60 (for example CS, UT, HL) a month for. At least for Warrock 
 u don't need to pay any cash for da game. All u need is to kill some hard drive space. I know da 
 game isn't really excellent but at least it'z one of da best downloadable online first person shooter 
 games or mabey da only one. Just give em some time to make da game lotz better. But da only thing 
 I agree about Gamespot is where u have pay to posess a weapon &gt;. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerDooz
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  Ok, so the game isn't the best around, and it aint the most beatuful, but it looks nice enough 
 and no need for high end pc's.
  And let me get all the n00b spam out of here.
  They took the hacks out (some ppl still hack, but all the auto kill hacks and stuff have been taken 
 out)
  
  It does not take place in the future (so the glock dont have 2 be different!=P)
  
  It does just what is had 2 do and its free. Ok so you can buy a retail version, that is wasted 
 money, but for free its just ok. But the weapon leasing system sucks....... i just wanna buy and 
 be over it.
  
  So to make a long (ahem...) story short. Play this game if you dont have a high end pc, like BF2 
 and CSS but cant play, and you dont mind arcade plane and helo controls, and dont have money to 
 buy BF 1942 (of similar older games) , PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillingRemmie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 2, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a good, fun game. It could be frustrating or annoying but if you play with friends (microphone) it 
 is cool, sometimes.
  The graphics is nothing special but not really bad but a lil' bit old fashioned.
  Sound is nothing 
 special too. I'll say just give this game a try but dont expect to much from War Rock but its FOCKING 
 FREE!
  
  ( I need more words so) bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla b b b b b bb b 
 b b bb bb b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b bb b b b 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEAR_1337
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  In the interest of clarity, I'll divide this up into sections..
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Warrock's gameplay represents a regression. While most games layer intersting combat mechanics 
 onto the action, Warrock just goes with the bare minamum. And a poor implemenetation of it at that 
 (there have been generic shooters that are way better.) The colosion detection is horrible. Often, 
 it can take a noticable amount of time for the game to recognize that you've shot somone. The gampleay 
 is over simpliefied as well. No iron sights or melee attacks or anything that would add a little 
 substance. Nothing innovative or intersting whatsoever. It's completely dry.
  
  Probably the worst problem is the lag. As soon as the player count on the server exceeds 6 or so, 
 the game becomes laggy and there goes your experience. The collision detection becomes even more 
 horrid than it already is. SOMETIMES THE LAG IS SO BAD THAT THE GAME JUST FREEZES WITH PEOPLE RUNNIG 
 IN PLACE AND THE ONLY WAY TO QUIT THE GAME IS TO use ctrl alt del (this happens on about 30% of 
 the servers. The lag is even worse on large maps. Thus far, I haven't played a single vehicle combat 
 map that was lag free. Vehicles froze for a few seconds often. The lag just rendered an already 
 mediocre game terrible.
  
  Another one of my complainst is with the boats. They handle horribly. I mean, wheever you exit 
 them, you fall into the water and if you are standing on the deck when the boat starts to move, 
 you fall off too. Boats can be a lot of fun but not in Warrock.
  
  I'm sure you've heard much aobut the bizarre ecomics model in Warrock and let me tell you that 
 it has to be the most poorly concieved feature I have ever seen. It takes forever to earn sufficient 
 funds to buy a gun, and if you play any less than 3 hours a day (if you skip playing for a day, 
 you're toast) , you won't earn enough money to maintain ownership of the gun. Also, as mentioned 
 by gamespot, this system also gives long time players an enormous advantage over newcomers.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The phrase that I would choose to describe Warrock's graphics is it's a joke. In 
 an age of incredible looking games like Crysis, Bioshaock, and Unreal Tournament 3, Warrock just 
 looks ungodly. Gamespots review fails to effectively convey how truly horrible the graphics are. 
 Many games from 2003 look better. Low polygon models and low resolution textures are the beginning. 
 This games doesn't support any of the high end DX9 rendering features, like per pixel lighting 
 or normal mapping. I could go on and on naming standard grpahics features that Warrock neglected.
 
  
  There's nto much chance of this changing because K2 has already stated that they will not revise 
 the graphics.
  
  K2 seems to be under the imprssion that they've created a revolutionary engine because it wil run 
 on low end machines. Yeah right, all they've done is strictly cater soley to owners of low end 
 rigs.
  
  STABILITY
  This games has bugs. Dozens upon dozens of bugs, from serious to minor.
  
  
  
  ============ 
 A year ago Warrock seemed like a promising game. But K2 ignored nearly all the fan feedback. The 
 developers are clearyly unaware of the standards in today's gaming industry and have greatly underestimated 
 what is involved in making a competetive game (on many levels.)
  
  As a fre game, it's already pretty bad, but how K2 thought that this could be a standout in retail 
 is beyond me. It's atrocious and ther is no reason whatsoever to buy warrock. Plenty of superior 
 options exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BunaJ
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is very average. It is not fun at the begining, because you dont have any good weapons. 
 Unlike GS review, I belive that the medics are a little too powerful, I do agree that the heavy 
 weapon units are useless. Urban ops is fun untill you realize that vehicles are unstoppable. I 
 still think that close quarters combat is very enjoyable, and fast paced. I will say that it was 
 MUCH better in the beta. I loved the beta now I only think that it is ok. It is a nice, free download. 
 I is definately not worth the optional subscription fee. All in all very, average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunslingers
Rating: 5.4
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game didn't have a campin mode and is only multiplayer. Its get a wried way that insetd of 
 unlocking wepons you lease them for 30 days. There are a lot of guns you can lease and there is 
 some other cool stuff. The bad thing is if you are a paid meber than you can get a 5th wepon slot 
 to carry to wepons. Also if you are a free mebber than you can't start a game on every map. On 
 some/most maps you have to have a paid mebber start the match, or join a paid mebers match. So 
 If you are going to play this game a lot you may want to consider being a paid meber. There can 
 be lag and it is bad and even the paid mebbers expirence the lag. I would play the game some with 
 the free version before I payed my money for the paid version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhugeMarc
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  A friend introduced me to WarRock when the open beta was still going on. After downloading and 
 installing the client, I was hooked instantly - I'd played a bit of Battlefield 2 and loved it, 
 but didn't have that game, so a chance to play what was essentially a BF2 clone without having 
 to shell out &pound;30 was a dream come true. It wasn't without it's problems, though - during 
 the beta I was experiencing terrible lag for at least the first 10 minutes of every match. That 
 problem has cleared up - at least for me - now the game has been commercially released. Graphically, 
 this game doesn't match up to BF2, but that's one area I'm thankful for, since my graphics card 
 really isn't that great, and I want to be able to play without my framerate dropping like a stone. 
 During the beta, all weapons were available to everyone who had the money, but this has changed 
 with the commercial release. Now people can either buy the game and receive all the best gear, 
 or level up and pay with the in-game money (Dinaar) they earn from matches. This is where frustration 
 can come in, as there are 100 levels/ranks, and levelling even to Rank 3 is painfully slow - typically 
 you can expect about 3% more experience points on the completion of a match, which, given the length 
 most matches are, is grossly unbalanced. The other major problem with the come is that Punkbuster 
 is nowhere to be found, so the game can be freely hacked - and believe me, people are doing so. 
 The beta was pretty much hacker-free, but now you can't enter a match without someone hacking at 
 some point. If you can find a match without hackers, great, but otherwise, be prepared to have 
 wasted your time once the h4xx0r-grenades come out. Overall, it's a fun enough game, but PunkBuster 
 needs to be utilised and a few changes need to be made to the way things work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Noted first off, the reason why I stated why this is a ripoff, because in comparision to Battlefield 
 2, it has almost the same thing even down to the dolphin-diving, only difference is the netcode 
 is suprisingly better in BF2, and cheaters / hackers / lamers aren't a dime a dozen in BF2.
  
  I tried to like this game, heck I loved the sniper rifle, but damn the lack of stability in 
 the netcode, and the cheaters, and let me note its not a nagging back of your mind, where you would 
 think the guy is cheating , in fact you KNOW this person is cheating.
  
  The cheating by itself is really bad, at one point I though CS, had the title, well I am wrong 
 Warrock took that title in one night, today every game, and I do mean every game there has been 
 a cheater, who will blow up the whole entire team repeatedly in less than a second, and note the 
 team can be anywhere , and still die.
  
  Graphically -
  Nothing notably that makes the game pop, I am running a X1950XTX, and I expected at least maybe 
 brass clinking, or more detailed textures , on the weapons. There is only a handfull of of character 
 models, which stands out like a sore thumb on the backgrounds, so snipers be warned you can be 
 spotted pretty much anywhere, unless you hack it then you would be pretty much on par with what 
 I have endured tonight. This game isn't going to win any beauty contests.
  
  Sound -
  Playing with no sound offers the same amount of ambiance, there is nothing stunning each weapon 
 pretty much sounds like the other, and you can pretty much see the enemy in front of you, note 
 my above graphics statement.
  
  Gameplay - Other than the frustration with the cheats, the game contains the same stuff in the 
 pre-patched versions of BF2. Which should be noted once more, if BF2 has attempted to rid itself 
 of dolphin diving wouldn't you think it would be a good idea to rid this game of it as well? The 
 different weapons, well that is a novel approach to upgrade if the extra weapons had anything significant 
 to add then using your hard earned dinar would be worth it, but I can pretty much go through killing 
 anyone with the starter weapons, using them really doesn't leave you at a disadvantage. Otherwise, 
 he who has the better twitch or hack will win.
  
  Value - As long as you do not get the premium account I think you would have something decent here, 
 otherwise if you do since you are freely throwing away that money, if you don't mind could you 
 spot a brother over here some cheese? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0de_red999
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 21, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  dont belive them because everey one says that it is like css or battlefield 2 and they are awsome 
 games! but if you are a noob at thoes games i would not buy css or battlefield because u will totaly 
 get owned. but any way it is a very good game. i mean how may games let u get a g36k and g36c. btw 
 who ever said that the glock looks the same as todays this is propaply the only game that the glock 
 looks good in.
  
  there has to be at least more than 15 guns so just buy it!!! you will be happy you did!!! BY c0de_red 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokingzen
Rating: 3.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  As many other people have explained the general nature of this game i will skip that part. Warock 
 is a game that had been in Beta development for about a year prior to its release this febuary. 
 What we had was a promising online FPS with plenty of mindless run and gun fun, though with not 
 much tactical skill involved. It is, as many have said, a very poor relation to BF2. Since the 
 release of the retail version things have however gone sharply downhill. K2 decided to throw away 
 1 years worth of testing to introduce a completely new set of game features in its retail version, 
 with the result that the game is far worse than the Beta version. The servers are down regularly, 
 the game will crash regularly, in game there are literally hundreds of bugs and glitches, the game 
 lags when there are more than three people on screen because of a new sound system, and maybe most 
 unbearably, if the rest of the problems were not enough, there are serious hackers in every game, 
 who could be anything from invisible, to having the ability to kill your whole team with one grenade. 
 Mix this set of features together and what you get is an almost unplayable rip out your hair type 
 experience. The game is free to download and play, yet you maybe get access to about 20% of the 
 features. Only if you pay monthly will you get access to some, or all, of the game content, including 
 new maps, weapons, etc. All in all you would have to be mad to pay for this game. For the amount 
 you would spend playing this game for 6 months you could buy BF2 twice. As a free game it doesn't 
 even merit being downloaded until all of the very major problems have been rectifies. If K2's previous 
 form is reliable, this could take up to 6 months or more. Until then steer very wide of this game. 
 If you are tempted to download, read their forums first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amanpal47
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 17, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  THE BEST 1ST PERSON SHOOTER. ADDICTIVE. YOU WONT BE BORED OF IT FOR A LONG TIME. 3 MODES OF GAMEPLAY 
 EACH 1 THRILLING AS THE OTHER. TO DOWNLOAD THIS GAME GO ON www. warrock. net AND REGISTER, DOWNLOAD 
 AND PLAY. THIS GAME IS WELL THOUGHT AND A PACTH EVERY WHILE.
  
  You can vuy this game at many shops. its arounf &pound;15. i recomennd www. play. com and HMV has 
 they give extra bonuses. YOU WILL LOVE THIS GAME. YOU WILL PLAY TILL YOU ILL FAINT!
  
  I GOT A FREE AK-47 for 7 days BECASUE I WAS A LOYAL WAR ROCK PLAYER. AND YOU COULD GET A SURPISE 
 ASWELL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jet-Trooper_NA7
Rating: 2.6
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Lousy, no weapon sights, no sniper scope movement, no tactics, dive roll makes the game 
 mindless run and gun, players run way too fast, instant prone allows players to go prone and fire 
 accurately while in close quarter combat, vehicles are even more noobish and overpowering than 
 in games like BF2 and BF2142. Only 2 faction in the game, and the only difference between the two 
 is the color of the camo (desert vs. woodland) models are the same and weapons are the same. Another 
 terrible features is the weapon leasing, if you want anything else than the standard guns, you 
 have to lease better ones that will only last you up to 30 days, plus you have to be a certain 
 rank to even use them, even you have twice the money needed to lease. Graphics: Low poly models, 
 medium res textures, lame color, simply cheap looking. Sound: Bad, very bad, guns sound bad and 
 unlike their actual counterparts. The sounds for the weapon prep and reload animations are all 
 recycled and have similar sounds. The vehicles don't sound realistic either. Value: It's free, 
 so the value would be medium-bad if there wasn't a retail version, but to pay $30 bucks for it, 
 oh man, please, have mercy on my soul. Tilt: Well it might be just my personal opinion, but this 
 game is still full of lame features, and that is just the game, not one's opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pickleking23
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Warrock for pc is a great game just the graphics are not that great and gameplay is okay,
  
  Gameplay: it's easy to get used to just a normal FPS, the button are simple and easy to wrok 
 with.
  
  Graphics: not that great but i know they want everyone to be able to play it even if you got a 
 crappy pc you can still run this game, the graphics aren't bad just not great, runs pretty smooth 
 got lag problems now but patch on it's way.
  
  Weapons: there are alot of weapons to choose from, like mp5k, minigun, sniper and many many more 
 you can buy almost any gun in the shop,
  pistols, machine guns subs anything, you earn money from playing matches then you can go buy stuff 
 in the shop.
  
  the ranking system is great earn lvl ups buy playing matches the higher level you get the more 
 weapons you can buy example for the glock you gotta be on level 6, it lacks a friends list but 
 not a big problem just send invites to your friends, i wish they had voice chat but not to big 
 of a deal, if you like fps games or online shooters than you'll love this it's like counter strike 
 or battlefield kind of a game, so warrock for pc check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unforgiven2870
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  The Game is F2P yea F2P alright! Except for the fact u have a bronze silver and gold  
 You go there it says free to play.
  
  But if you look into it further its not really free, the basic accounts u can't really do anything.
 
  
  http://www. warrock. net/premium. php its not exactly F2P like it was actually promised.
  
  Wow don't ya love false advertising? Its great game but Beta was awesome and really good.
 
  
  Ever sense it came out of beta the game took a complete 180 degree down the drain. When you shoot 
 your gun it would sound as if you are underwater.
  
  In my eyes the game could've been something really special but in this case everyone was slapped 
 in the face by this company K2 networks. Weather it be separated from playing with your friends 
 from other country's or lagging server's.
  
  Expect patches coming soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ph1b3ropt1c
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is just like counter strike. It has three options, close quarter, urban ops, and battle 
 group. the people who gave this bad reviews probably just suck at this game and need to give it 
 a bad review. it is very fun and is an amazing shooter. the graphics are not amazing, but the game 
 doesn't focus on them. It is all game play, which is totally amazing. The sound is also nice with 
 the gun shots and the sound of someone being shot. ,If u like online games that require skill, 
 this is for u!!! i highly recommend buying this, it is a bargin at a mere 30 dollars. if u like 
 counter strike, this is a modern day version for u! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxwain
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  I have been playing warrock since Aug 06 and recently bought battlefield2.
  
  WarRock is a great game for the following reasons.
  1. Easy to navigate room selections
  2. 
 excellent selection of Small, mid and Large Maps
  3. Ample character selection.
  4. Ample weapon selection.
  5. Quick loading maps
  
  Maybe the graphics is not the absolute 
 best out there but the graphics are very good. As well you are not overwhelmed with different choices 
 for weapons and as such keeps the game simple
  
  I really like how when a kill is registered it shows the type of weapon used in graphic from rather 
 than text.
  
  Controls are simple to follow as well.
  
  Overall once your computer is booted you can be playing a game in 3 minutes.
  
  The other thing 
 I like is that K2 hosts all the rooms so you don't get freakish Moderators during play saying that 
 you cant camp and you cant steal the other teams equipment and you can't cant cant..... Hey everyone 
 its a war. And from what I remember during a war there are no rules!
  
  Although it would be nice to have clans and favourite players so you could play with all the same 
 people at the same time, but I think that will be fixed in the full release of the game Feb 7th 
 07
  
  The game doesn't cost you anything to play, it is definitly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Warrock is a pure copy of battlefield, but the fact that it is free and a lot of fun makes it a 
 worthy copy.
  Its an online only game, but its fun.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Very battlefield like
  +Vehicles are a lot fun
  +Includes airplanes WOOT
  -No singleplayer
 
  
  Graphics:
  +Graphics look decent
  +Runs fast on a average computer
  +/- I had no stabikity problems
  
  Sounds:
  +Overall decent sounds
  +Music is decent
 
  
  Value:
  +While there is only multiplayer the game is well build that its addicting
  +features some nice maps
  +Free Battlefield
  -No singleplayer
  
  Tilt:
  +Overall well 
 presented
  +Its a free game that is well build
  +/- No real story (Not that this game needs it)
  +/- Copy of battlefield
  
  If you like battlefield, 
 i say give this game a try.
  Its free and its well put together.
  Cya all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGremp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Well, when you first start playing this gmae, you're going to notice that it's a lot like battlefield. 
 You have your classes, your vehicles, and all ths stuff that you see in battle field, but it's 
 still really fun!
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  the gameplay is really realistic and is always fun. Having multiple classes makes it so that you 
 don't have the same gun the entire time, which would get kinda boring. There are vehicles which 
 can add a whole new aspect to the game; in most games, the vehicles are too overpowered and will 
 crush right throughall footsoldiers, but in this game, one heavy weapons soldier can take down 
 a vehicle without breaking a sweat. The weapons are all cool and are all unique. When you buy them, 
 though, they come with an expiration date, for instance, to buy most guns you have to pay about 
 4,000 Denir (the game currency) for 7 days of use. But Denir is pretty easy to come by, because 
 you start with 30k and get about 100 denir after every match.
  
  Graphics:
  
  the Graphics are good for being a free online game, they're about par with all the other free games 
 such as Soldier Front and Gunz. There are a few visual glitches here and there, though.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound makes you feel as if you're actually in the battle field sometimes. The 
 vehicles and weapons make realistic sounds, and you'll hear someone saying something like I've 
 captured a base every now and then, which makes the atmosphere more believable.
  
  in the end, this game is great especially for being free. Go try it, it won't cost you anything! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imag187
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jan 17, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun for about 3 hours, then you realize that the game is simple and is just a run 
 and gun with no tactics. The game is full of little kids constantly complaining and whining about 
 dieing and how good they are and how every body is a noob, it gets old fast. I couldn't find the 
 feature to disable in game chat but I did find a better feature it's in the games main directory 
 it's called uninstall. exe best part of the game. Not to metion all the other things about it , 
 like the bad vehicle detection/ every thing about it. Don't even download this garbage it's quality 
 shows by its price and its total file size. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 70x7
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  It's just an attempt to buy into the popularity of immersive FPS's like the Battlefield series. 
 They underestimate the funding a game gets when its under the EA leash however. And boy does it 
 show. A half-rate graphics engine, horrible netcode, and a generally screwed gameplay. About the 
 only saving factor is that it's in an indefinite state of beta, so essentially its a free game.
 
  
  It seems like they may have used another free-to-play third party games internet layout for its 
 own, the game being Gunz. Which wouldn't suprise me considering how mediocre everything else is.
 
  
  Don't expect too much from this game. If you have a sub-par computer, and no money then you're 
 about the only demographic that would want to use harddrive space for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 13, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  War Rock is a FPS set in the near future. YOu play as either one of the 2 waring factions. You 
 earn Dinar by killing and you can buy new weapons its a mix of BF2 and CSS you have to capture 
 flags drive tanks and planes. A good idea for a game but fails. Gameplay is fun with lots to kill 
 with and fast paced action. Graphics are horrible even for a BETA of a retail game coming out in 
 feburary. They really do look like a Half Life 1 mod. Sound is good with a few bugs here and there 
 but nothing to bad. The vehicles and guns sound realistic. The game is free now but will be 29.99 
 in Feburary i really hope they can make this game alot better if not retail sales will bomb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasxia1314
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  It looks great on paper but I've yet to play. The servers are limited so players from asia, S. 
 America etc are unable to play. In actual fact, there isn't any servers for players like us!! We 
 will just have to wait... As for the game from a 3rd party view, it's kinda cool. A free battlefield 
 type kinda game... Will interest battlefield / counterstrike players I think. I'm unable to give 
 feedback on the sound, gameplay, graphics etc due to server limitation. K2 or Dream Execution, 
 if you are looking at this, I hope servers will be up for players like us.... Thanx in advance 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogswarts
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  War Rock is a very fast paced 1st person shooter. The game has a ton of different weapons to choose 
 from with nice stats if you can afford them with the money you earn. The graphics could have been 
 better but then what do you expect from a free game. All the sounds from your gun being fired to 
 the guy walking next to you just sound great. Its got a nice ranking system and rewards for your 
 ranks. If you like fast paced 1st person shooters i would get it and if you really like. buy it 
 when it comes out and you'll get a ton of extras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shade_boy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I first heard about this game on the gamespot forums and it sounded like a game that a dial up 
 gamer could play. so i downloaded the game and updated it, from the minute i started it i found 
 it fun. Warrock lets you pick from 3 types of game modes; close quarters, urban warfare, and battlefield. 
 close quarters is just like CS, bomb defuse/plant and or deathmatch. Urban combat is a battlefield 
 style game, which means its just a death match. is really a close quarters combat zone but with 
 vehicales. and bit of a bigger map. Battlefield is just like BF series. you have planes helicopters 
 and plenty of other vehicales. where you fight for territory. Its basically a giant death match.
 
  One of the best features of warrock is the weapon system, you earn money from fighting and than 
 you by weapons, but the interesting thing about this system is that you buy time with the weapons (3 
 days, 1 week, 1 month, ect. ect.) You also earn ranks, you get ext from winning or looseing (you 
 obveosly earn more from winning) which you get to show off you the other players and such.
  I'd say its defenetly worth atleast trying warrock, i found it fun and enjoyable :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbomagic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This game to me... at first looked cheap, and was going to be some crappy graphic piece of ****
 
  however, when i downloaded it, i was very amazed, how brilliantly the game was developed, and 
 reminded me of something like battlefield. This truly is a game that someone should at least look 
 at and try, because i think that you'll like, especially if you like modern war games.
  
  there are a view requirements needed for the game. you have to register with the warrock website 
 (simple things = user name, password and e-mail verification) which is a **** but you can live 
 with it. The whole point of the game is to get as many kill points so you can upgrade to a higher 
 level (Gun + Dead guy = Points) the more points you have, the more things you can buy. at the moment 
 you can only buy guns, but in the future there will probably be cloths and other things.
  
  Most important of all is that you can drive s on the multiplayer game as well, from a Truck, Motorbike 
 to a Black hawk and F16 fighter jet.
  
  What else could ask for from a free Multiplayer War game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Straley
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Either very fast paced in close quarters or slower in urban combat! Either way it's still fun as 
 hell! Easy for anyone to get adjusted to! The guns are awesome and each have different attributes. 
 With several player classes like Medic, Combatant and Mechanic to choose from. There is sometimes 
 lag but never an astronomical amount. It takes about 20 minutes to get used to the controls then 
 the rest of your time playing will probably be spent learning the maps. There are several ways 
 to move throughout each map to ambush your enemy or just rush right up the middle! Overall this 
 game is very good and worth playing if you are looking to play a good paced FPS that is FREE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bundinha
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  When I first discovered the game, and saw it's features in the website, I had to download it. It 
 looked great for me, and still being free. So for me, was worth downloading. When I first started 
 playing, I got a bad impression! The game felt too unrealistic for me. And I couldn't kill too 
 much. Well, first, seeing players crouching, and standing up to avoid getting shooted, looked a 
 bit too weird for me. But it seems to be the same example of people jumping in CS. Both aren't 
 realistic (you won't see especial team forces jumping like nuts in real life lol) , but they are 
 part of the gameplay! In WarRock you will find many great things, as well as some annoying stuff. 
 I'll try to list them below: **You will be able to choose from 5 classes (engineer, combatant, 
 medic, scout, and heavy weapons) , and which one provides a different gameplay, which require different 
 strategies. So in a short time, you will discover which one is the best for each occasion. I recommend 
 to start playing as a combatant, since it is the most neutral unit. And don't think that playing 
 with heavy weapons are only for those who wannna destroy vehicles, as there are some experienced 
 players who specialize themselves into HW gamplay, and will be shooting bazookas at you, killing 
 with one good shot! **Of course they buy better weapons for that. Yes, there is purchaseable guns 
 in the game, and they aren't much expensive, beeing, not easily, but not hardly, accesible for 
 everyone. And the shop system is simple. You buy a gun for a certain amount of time (which goes 
 from 3, to 30 days I think) . So this makes them less expensive, but at the same time, limited. 
 So if you are not planning to play next week, you better don't waste your money buying a gun for 
 too long. **There are also 3 different game modes (there is a new one at the new patch) . Explosive: 
 it's CS-like. Two teams (one terror-like, and other ct-like) , where one have to pant a bomb, and 
 the other have to prevent the explosion in some way. Deathmatch: Battlefield-like, where two teams 
 are placed in a field, with many bases to capture, and a certain amount of lifes (can be 300, 200...) . 
 So the job is to take out the enemies untill the other team doesn't have anymore lifes. And the 
 new one called Conquest: which i never played untill now, but might be something with holding the 
 bases. **A good variety of vehicles to play with **Laggy players might cause some confusion, like 
 2 players killing themselves because of lag (both die) . **Connections lost, also cause some stress.
 
  
  ... that's all I think! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srs_kid
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Hello All lets get stirght to the point warrrock is one of the most funnest free fps games right 
 now for me and u download it so u dont gotta spend 30 40 dollars. Next even though it is a beta 
 right now its not gonna b beta in late december so thats a good time to get the game b4 then so 
 u learn how to play the graphics are great sounds great to me every thing about this game is flipping 
 great the only thing i am disgusted by in this game is the way some weapons effect people like 
 in halo if u shoot the rocket launcher near a person it will most likely kill them but in this 
 if u do that the person isnt effected at all so the rocket launchers really only effect the rides 
 there are 5 classes  Weapons Unit. Quick lay down on em Combat 
 is a dude with a ozzy shooting the crap out of u :D (most likely me) , Scout is a sniper sorta nothing 
 2 explain here, Engineer is someone who repairs rides if they get jacked and they got somthing 
 like a Combat would have, Medic they got a health drug thing that they inject in themselves i say 
 that shes taking drugs and last the Heavy weapons Unit these are the badasses they walk with a 
 pistol and a freaking rocket launcher i dare u 2 touch them they will blow u eazy!!!!!!!! (BTW its 
 allll ONLINE) plus around early January they are gonna have somthing like Bf2 which is the in game 
 chat joint cant wait!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterfo
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Warrock is a pretty good game, It's a free first person shooter. It's like those big major FPS 
 today like Battlefield 2. They have the same flag capturing, objective taking, ticket depleting 
 kind of feel. The game is awesome, but it crashes or lags bad sometimes for unknown reasons.. It 
 shares a concept with Counter Strike, because you buy your weapons with money you get while you 
 play the game. However, in Counter Strike, when you die, you lose your weapons. (Remember when 
 you spend 5000$ on the big machine gun then get sniped in the head by some aimbotter? Aww ****) 
 In Warrock, you keep the weapons for a certain amount of time (Minimum 3 days) Overall, Warrock 
 is a very good game and I recommendit to people that like First Person Shooters and lots of multiplayer 
 carnage.
  
  ~Fo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonga1
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  When i play time this game was in korean vercion, that really is brilliant with constants updates 
 of weapons and maps, its system of clan wars is one of best in the games multiplayers. This vercion 
 suppose that serious or surpass the vercion koreana, but this was not and possibly never should 
 be. The company that administers K2 Network as make all the possible one to ruin this great game, 
 very few updates some useful application like annoying one crosshair, increase of lag restricion 
 of server the bad treatment to complaints of users in the forums of the games. And but the worse 
 thing you see is that k2 Network underestimates the intelligence of the players, for example: 2 
 weeks ago they try to solve to the problem of lag K2 Network realesed 2 new server one for South 
 America and another one in Turkey, but that these server do not located in those regions, instead 
 in the USA !!!. Clear example that that company takes by idiots to users. This game by gameplay, 
 to deserve one good review but by the bad administration of the game this is not would be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazegrenade
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is a decent enough shooter but some players can get very petty and annoying. the game 
 is populated like any other shoot with to many snipers enuf said. Not my game really but if you 
 like shooters and need a challenge then you should try this out. if you like this game try playing 
 tactical ops, delta force or counter strike. The game gets annoying after an while but should be 
 a great game for any fan of shooters. If you like to survive long in a shooter the dont play this 
 game because there are just to many snipers. Unlike other tournement based shooters this game offers 
 a character called amedic which is wat you think it is, it heals but has limited amount of heal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobthomas101
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is not very fun. It is a fps that is pretty much counter strike, but it is free. However, 
 the plan of the company is, you can pay to upgrade your character so they plan to make money off 
 that. I played it a few times, but it is just not that fun. i have counter strike source and that 
 is far superior and worth a buy. Another free download is Return to Castle Wolfenstien: Enemy Territories. 
 If your looking for a good free fps look there. This game is just not very fun and not at all addicting. 
 if ur low on cash and want a game 2 play try it. do not expect anything spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  WarRock started with a unique concept, obviously copied from America's Army, provide a completely 
 free online multiplayer videogame.
  
  All one had to do was download the game, and register on the WarRock website, http://www. warrock. net/. 
 The whole process was so similar to how the US Army designed America's Army. 
  
  Unfortunately, WarRock paled in comparison to America's Army. K2 Network didn't update WarRock 
 nearly as often as America's Army was updated, and since WarRock didn't have nearly the online 
 following of America's Army, the multiplayer experience was not as fun.
  
  WarRock did boast some impressive graphics, but a videogame is not successful on graphics alone.
 
  
  Hopefully WarRock, as a free online successor of sorts to America's Army, started a trend for quality 
 videogames to be released gratis for fans to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John5227
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  War Rock is a really great game, and combines some elements from the highly addictive Battlefield 
 series of games. This game is an arcade style shooter, and has a lot of stuff that Battlefield 
 doesn't. They will be adding in more features soon, in addition to brand new content about every 
 month. There will be an option to buy a box on retail shelves by early next year, or you can visit 
 www. warrock. net in your web-browser to register and download for free. I must say that this is 
 a really great game, and the mulitplayer is really intense! &gt;&gt;&gt; It's really great for a 
 FREE game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redeemer9968
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Warrock is an amazing game, and best of all its free. There are 3 types of game play to choose 
 from, close combat, which takes place in small maps where the objective s to plant or disarm the 
 bomb (depending on which team you are on) or to wipe out the enemy team. The other is like city 
 stealth combat, where you are to capture all the flags and wipe out the other team in a medium 
 sized map and the last is vehicle combat where you are on a large sized map capturing flags and 
 wiping out the team. There is some news that Warrock will be getting a Free for All type of game 
 as well. You can choose between 5 classes of warrior, Engineer, Medic, Scout (sniper) , Combatant, 
 and Heavy Weapons. There are a ton of weapons to choose from, but they are specific weapons for 
 each class. There are multiple vehicles to ride in, Planes, Helicopters, Boats, Tanks, Hummers, 
 trucks, Dirt Bikes, and a couple others. The sound is fantastic and very realistic and the visuals 
 are amazing, but sometimes can get buggy. The game is extremely fun and addicting, with new maps 
 or weapons at least every month, and its not an easy game to get bored of. Its punk buster protected 
 (too bad for hackers ; - ) ) and the game is easy enough that after a few rounds you'll be great 
 at it. The game can be downloaded for free at www. warrock. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2reddy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Warrock is a counterstrike like game, which has a great advantage to Battlefield: It is totaly 
 free!
  
  There are 3 types of maps in Warrock: small maps for infantry fight, medium maps for infantry and 
 small vehicles, and large maps for especially vehicles. In large maps being without a vehicle is 
 a nightmare, because the maps are really huge. These vehicles differ from boats to airplanes.
 
  
  There aer 5 branches for infantry: Engineer, medic, scout (sniper) , combatant, demolition. There 
 are many players and many servers, only one or two of them are very crowded, the others are fine. 
 So, there is no lagging problem (even if you have a slow connection; like me, in Turkey)
  
  There is a weapon shop in the game, you do not buy weapons every turn, you get them before entering 
 a map. Actually, you rent the weapons for a defined amount of time.
  
  There is a level system, but i haven't figured out what bonuses you get when you promote. You only 
 get money for your promotion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja501
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  best free fps ever created, thank god i found it......... the only down point is the lag....... but 
 it is the best still...... graphics r great..... guns r awesome no doubt about it........ if you havent 
 tried it yet, you better try it..... u will love it....... some people will tell that it sucks because 
 of the lagg but those people r just retarded....... if u try it once.... you will love it right a 
 way....... its freackin awesome... even ask other people who play it...... i now this review sucks 
 doesn't it...... believe me this game is great and it is only in open beta now..... also there is 
 a ffa tourney every now and then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best free fps ever. Free to download and free to play. You start out with 3 different 
 war typs bomb planting like on CS. Urban combat, like small battlefield 2 maps and. Battlefield, 
 like the big maps on battlefield 2. On the small bomb planting maps, vary fun, nothing to drive, 
 love the close combat with every one gunning for those kills. Those maps are nice with little places 
 to hide and kill people. Urban Combat, is good, you got some small things to ride around and shoot 
 people with. More people you can fight with and alot more room and the respawns are on too. Now 
 on Battlefield, you got every thing tanks, cars, air planes, choppers, all that good stuff to goof 
 off with and kill people. Now this game has old graphics so it will work on you people with older 
 pcs out there. You can play as 4 or 5 different people, from sniper weapons to rocket lunchers. 
 As you play more, you will get points, more like money to buy better guns to use, but the unlocks 
 only last for as long as you buy them from 3 days to a week so you have to keep getting them points. 
 There are ranks too that you can get to show how good you are to other people. Now I wish this 
 game had more guns to unlock and better graphics, and mabe a knife, but this game has one thing 
 I wish cs and battlefield 2 had and that is, you can roll. In this game you can roll from place 
 to place, doing to you will not get hit by flying shells and other stuff. This would suck so bad, 
 but since you can roll it became so much better. Learning curve is like 5mins if you know how to 
 play cs and battlefield 2. Thanks fpr reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonOtaku7
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Evening.
  
  War Rock is a MMORPG/FPS blend shooter. The only RPG element is levels and experience ,-P.
  
 
  At any rate. The graphics are suited for somewhat older cards, whilst still look nice, albeit 
 empty on higher settings. There are some bugged, funny effects.
  
  Now, let's start with what's what.
  
  GOOD.
  
  Graphics. Like I said, supports older cards. 
 Seven out of ten. Could be worse.
  Sounds : pathetic. They re-use so many sounds, it's... laughable... took them 3 months to fix a FEMALE 
 medic sounding like a guy... 2 out of ten.
  Controls : Standard WASD layout, nothing spectacular. 5 out of ten.
  Concept : Not new, but they 
 do put a lovely spin on things - it's just somehow fast-paced and exciting... five out of ten.
 
  Evolution : fast-ish, atleast one major update a month (It's in beta) . Eight out of ten.
  
  THE BAD.
  
  The anti-cheat protection service punkbuster is The best the market has to 
 offer . Even so ,masses of players complain righteously that they got kicked, or banned. I myself 
 am a victim of an unjust ban. My account got banned - the admins refused to answer to my many pleas. 
 So I made another account, which got banned. And another and another and another. As of July 19 
 2K6 when I started playing and now, Nov 5 when I write this, I have 19 banned accounts *FOR NO 
 REASON*. Their forums are FULL of complaints from banned people that can't log in. There are no 
 notices for why you got kicked or banned. you just get booted and can't log in ever again! Nobody 
 will ever warn you, either, and barely anyone that got unjustly banned, got UNBANNED. This is a 
 minus ten. Another note : Punkbuster actually handled bans, lazy ass admins don't do anything. 
 If, say, PB bans you in WR, cheating or not, and you want to play another PB-protected game - it 
 will ban you there too (Lovely way to break the law isn't it?)
  
  Total and complete corruption of the GM team. I'm serious, I have seen people cheating in varyious 
 ways, promoting or enjoying acts of racism, abusing bugs. In the forums, you can't accuse anyone 
 - you'll get banned and the topic closed or removed entirely. The admins have absolutely no outsde 
 contact info so you have to register on their forum to get ignored.
  They refuse to do simple, basic things and give horrible excuses for it. Such as when people get 
 unjustly PB-banned, they shrug and say You must have been hacking . They will refuse to beleive 
 any and all hacking accusation you have, without a screenshot (Question : How do you screenshot 
 invisible people, aimbotting people, wallhacking people, etc etc?) . Minus ten out of ten. An insane 
 array of bugs. While War Rock is definately fun and lovable for its' fun and potential, there are 
 an insane amount of bugs plaguing the game. Bodyparts sticking through walls, bombs that can be 
 diffused through walls, dying out of nowhere due to lost packets. Patches fix bugs - theirs creates 
 more. Minus four out of ten.
  
  Updated edit : This is a direct link to their forums and how they deal with players : http://forum. warrock. net/index. php? showtopic=27319 
 . Please do look at that. If you get banned, nobody will tell you why. Nobody will care, they will 
 give shady excuses like Aeramil did, that I dealt with you before . Do be wary.
  
  Idiotic people. Since this is an MMO game, expect total retards. On the LONDON server for example, 
 we have a ton of Israelis. They wouldn't use the German server which is closer to them - oh no... 
 let's see, then there are the bug abusers, the downright hackers who aren't shy enough to hide 
 how unskilled they are, followed down to what I call Heli idiots . One group (persia59 in the game 
 for instance) not only admits to hackign with a helicopter to get insane, impsosible scores (88 
 kills 3 deaths for example) , but the admins aren't lifting a finger. He posted a link on their 
 forums once - his own hacking video. He even linked to it, and yet, nothing was done. His group 
 is what I call a heli loser. The heli NOOBS are the people that can maneuever a helicopter with 
 hacks. There is a well-known hack called Hover. It makes your third mouse button's click fly your 
 heli to the location where you clicked - they are mysteriously good as well. 2% of any good heli 
 pilots have real skills, I'm say to say. Minus ten out of ten.
  
  Summary : For a beta game, it's very good. However, K2 games is doing absolutely nothing but sitting 
 on their ass as sponsors pay them. Unjustly removed people cannot get back, some people (Singapore, 
 new zealand, etc) can't even register. Further, they want to break the law and use hardware bans 
 . They get info of your PC and use it against you to keep you off their game (Remember that funny 
 law about how ANONYMOUS data collection is acceptable but using one's own info against one self 
 is against he law ?) . The game desperately, quickly needs to be taken away from K2 and Dream Execution 
 before they turn it into something unimaginably horrible - barely any improvements or bug fixes 
 are being made , yet no support is being given.
  
  Final overall score : 6.9.
  A bright game that we can hope becomes great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -KinGz-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all I was getting bored of playing all the free mmo's and mmorpgs I could find, then 
 I read in a forum about this, it's amazing, let's make a score chart shall we?
  
  Graphics: excellent graphics even for the mosts horrible rigs, nice light and nice structures.
 
  Gameplay: as almost every shooter, this is a WASD kind (I think thats how ppl call them) , in the 
 international version wich is in open beta there are 3 lobbies and every lobby with its kind of 
 gameplay, plus u can change the gameplay in it if u want (not implemented yet but in the 30/10 
 of this year we will use another type FFA or free for all) , currently the gameplay is deathmatch 
 team for all the lobbies, the game is fast paced and has a wide selection of weapons (yeah it's 
 amazing the selection of weapons we have even being in open beta) , the maps are amazingly designed 
 with well placed sniper posts, cracks in walls, and another things for strategical gameplay, the 
 wide selection of vehicles in the stages adds another BIG + to WarRock, I personnally love the 
 Humvee/Avenger and the Rafale plane xD, they both Rock) , oh, currently there are some glitches 
 in the maps (well open betas are open betas :P) but nothing severe, and the matches are VERY action 
 packed.
  Sound: the musics are nice and the background musics go well with atmosphere of a dissastrous combat 
 armaggedon XD, though u sometimes could not hear the musics when playing (that happens to someone 
 else, it sounds at first and then dissapears?) .
  Value: THIS IS COMPLETELY FREE.
  Tilt: I'm very tilted to this game, its free, cool and very fun to play, everyone should try it.
 
  
  SOOOOOO OVERALL: WarRock Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  Take Conter Strike and Battlefield 2 and mix them together and you get WarRock. WarRock takes the 
 definition of FPS to a whole new level. It is still in its Beta stage but does not fail to impress 
 anyone who plays it. The game allows you to choose 5 classes that can be switched even during gameplay. 
 They are - Engineer, Medic, Scout, Combatant and Heavy Weapons Unit and has three types of gameplay 
 - Close Quarters Combat, Urban Ops and Battle Group.
  It has amazing graphics and very interesting gameplay. The sound is also quite good. The only drawback 
 is that since the game is still in its beta stage it experiences some lag and the are not much 
 maps to play in.
  It is freely downloadable from the official site - www. warrock. net after registration. If any of 
 you are playing it then if you see me in any game room then dont be shay to say a hi. My ingame 
 id is archprince. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninian_man
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  What happens when you get bored with your console games? Some people would want to get into the 
 world of online play. Sure, you could have the online play on your console games like Battlefeild 
 2 but that would invole going out and actually buying it. So thats where WarRock comes in.
  First of all its free. YES, FREE! No snags and no catches. Also you can be lazy and very anti-social 
 by staying in your house and downloading it. But be warned. Once you play it you will be absorbed 
 into its feirce, fast paced gameplay. You will not budge from your computer untill your eyes bleed.
 
  Each mode has its own advantages. You get Mission Mode where you and your team must defeat the 
 opposition or defuse a planted bomb. The other mode is Infantry. Now this is just plain fun and 
 team killing. You and your team must take over bases and kill other team members in the process.
 
  Anyone who has an eye for sniping should take advantage of the Montana level or the Ravello level 
 where you can snipe and Pope (kill in a church) at the same time! The last but by all means not 
 least most is Vehicle mode where you can use war vehicles to your advantage. All the levels on 
 this mode have a vast playing area for 32 players to unleash their fury.
  This great game uses the Punkbuster Online servers which will ensure that you will get into a game 
 all the time, just like EA's Battlefield 2. You get a real sense of acheivement when you get your 
 first kill, snipe your first opponent or level up. All of these things are not very easy and they 
 take time and effort to complete.
  Overall WarRock is a great MMOFPS, it will keep you hooked for hours on end and will have you bragging 
 about it to your mates to play. Its best when using Xfire to chat to your mateswhilst playing.
 
  Exellent game K2 now we want MORE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djabzy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  You think Halo online was good maybe even Call of Duty 2 was tactical genius but when it comes 
 to Pure and Simple, Team on Team FPS nothing beats a good ole' game of Warrock. First of all Its 
 FREE, no bluff. Just download open beta and you have unlimited kill time. Secondly the control 
 system is easy to use and does not need to be configured to suit your play type. Finally the 3 
 play modes are all great in their own way and are suited for both basic and advanced gamers.
  Untill a simple online Star wars game comes out with no stupid mission modes and boring background, 
 the warrock servers are the place to be.
  Log in, suit up and kick some online backside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nucly2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  I love this game. At the moment it is free game, and I hope it will stay free... There are some 
 bugs that needs to be fixed, and I hope there will be new mission maps added soon, but it is still 
 beta, so let's just wait a few more days/weeks/months :) I love gameplay, it is just great. The 
 bigest problem is lag (since this game is p2p) , but you get used to it, and it doesn't bother you 
 that much anymore, you just kill from the back :) I mostly play Mission mode, or sometimes Infinitry... 
 Veicle and infinitry are a bit boring for me, so I play mission mode most of my time :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_pickle
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 3, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  Warrock is a great game, I'd just like to mention that first. People say it`s a battlefield clone, 
 a wannabe of online shooters, But this is nothing close to a wannabe. This is battlefield without 
 the fee of buying the game, It`s completly free and just as good. Graphics: the graphics are ok 
 but nothing really special but they are pleasing, just nothing new seen. They kind of remind me 
 of half-life to counterstrike graphics, people say it looks like Call of duty but whatever look 
 at screenshots for you self.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is great!, You have to work with your buddies or with some random online 
 people (which sometimes doesn`t go as planned) to stop the enemy forces from taking bases and put 
 them in your power. Sometimes I like to go as a lonewolf and sniple people of with my ak-47 but 
 either way works, there are also many vehciles to chose from including  
 and etc. Sound: the sound is also ok for warrock but this game is still in open beta so you can`t 
 really rely on it, but wait until it actually comes out to see the full potential.
  
  Controls: the controls are nice and easy with the WASD setup but sometimes your finger might slip 
 and you'll jump out in the middle of a fire fight but it`s mostly a good setup and you can change 
 it to whatever you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gtdriver
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  WarRock is a online multiplayer shooting game, what is in open beta. (It's free!) and i hope it 
 never comes to the shops. In WarRock, you play at the side of Derbaran or N. I. U. and try to help 
 your team for win! The game has 5 character classes: Engineer, Medic, Scout, Combatant and a Heavy 
 Weapons Unit. Engineer is a soldier who uses light weapons and got a special ability to repair 
 broken vehicles. Medic got the same weapons as Engineer, but her special ability is healing. With 
 her Medic Tool, she can heal teammates and herself. Scout is an annoying sniper: D. Combatant is 
 normal soldier who uses often machine guns like AK-47. Heavy Weapons Unit is a specialist of Heavy 
 Weapons, like Stinger and RPG. The game keeps a book in your levels. In battle, you earn EXP what 
 makes you level up. Leveling up have no other effects than getting more respect and 5000 dinars 
 of money. With money, you can buy different weapons from Item Shop. Buying weapons is the worst 
 part: you can only RENT weapons, not really buy them, because after a little period, you lose the 
 weapons and you have to buy them again. And getting EXP is too stupid sometimes. You receive the 
 experience after the round, and rounds can sometimes last veery long. Sometimes you see that the 
 round is almost over, you have good stats and you have to go after two minutes, it feels bad. But 
 the game needs no more words, just download and play it! You're gonna enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkku94
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Great Tactical shooting game. in game there are different kinds of weapons, maps and vehicles. 
 You can have boat and you can fly with chopter or maybe you like use tank? There are lots of guns 
 like PSG os G36C or AK-47. Or maybe you like G36 which is machinegun and has got sniper aim? Still 
 when you play you wont have boring time because everytime you play you got new allys and enemys, 
 because THIS IS Multiplayer game. Game has got Punkbuster which is shield against hackers and thats 
 very good thing, because we have to get in peace. In game there are Clans too so it won`t get boring.
 
  
  Good Things:
  Onlineplaying, Lots of guns, Never get boring, Many maps, No hacks and Great enemys.
  
  Bad 
 Things:
  ?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helluvagood
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Warrock is one of those FPS games that you just get addicted to instantly, the fast paced shooter 
 combines some elements from CounterStrike and Battlefield2, such as eliminating bomb threats, to 
 driving tanks and even piloting jets.
  
  There are basically 3 types of gameplay, mission (bomb threat) , infantry (team death match) , and 
 vehicle match. Each type of gameplay have different maps, so mission maps are the smallest, infantry 
 maps are medium sized, and vehicle maps are large.
  Gameplay is absolutely superb in this game, however it takes a good hour to get to the aiming mechanics 
 and recoil from different guns. The different chars you can play as are combatant (front line uses 
 automatics) , scout (sniper) , medic (medic? ^^) , heavy weapons (RPGS, heavy weapons lol) , and engineer 
 (repair vehicles) . Each char has a specific pro and con, the character most people use depend on 
 the type of map you are playing in and they type of gameplay.
  The graphics are pretty good for a free game, but I cant really tell with my crappy video card, 
 but from the screenshots ive seen, this game has kick ass graphics.
  The sound is ok , could be better, but hey its still in open beta stage right now. The sound effects 
 are ok, guns have pretty nice and defined shooting sounds, however the character sound effects 
 could improve.
  The value is amazing, since there are new maps coming out, and there are already quite a few, diff 
 maps for each gameplay, as I mention, so you really dont get bored.
  
  Overall this is a great FREE game, try it, you might like it, but don't give up in the beginning, 
 you'll feel like you dont have a chance, but once you learn a few tips and tricks, (always go prone 
 c+c when shooting someone, even if they're in front of you) you'll love this game! 9.6/10 Superb! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  WarRock is one awesome online multiplayer game that doesn't require much system requirements but 
 a DSL connection. WarRock offers three modes that you can play on Combat, Infantry, Vehicle. Combat 
 is much like Counter Strike which two team battle to plant and difuse bombs while killing each 
 other. Infantry and Vehicle is all about capturing bases and killing the enemy.
  
  The GOOD: Does not require much system requirements can play it on any low end computer as well. 
 Highly addictive. The best part is it's free, go to www. warrock. net and register and download it 
 for free, it's 270MB, the Lag's pretty low compared to high end games like Quake 4.
  
  The BAD: Bad graphics, and sound but what do you expect from something that is free, it may be 
 best if you have a ADSL connection or there will be alot of Lag. No LAN play and no bots for you 
 to practice with which are down sides cause I love playing Counter Strike and Age Of Empires on 
 LAN.
  
  Overall very exsiting and free game which will keep you busy playing online with other players, 
 interacting with them and giving you a very practical challege not offered by other game, the human 
 touch that online games have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohead92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I signed up almost a week ago and I can't even tell how much I've played this game! Well here is 
 my detailed review:
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is a crazy mix between Counter Strike and any Battlefield Game which I heard 
 are both great games. Basically there are three modes which are small scale maps, which are mission 
 maps where you must either plant or defuse bombs, which have no vehicles, medium scale maps, which 
 you must capture only a couple flags, and may have vehicles, and large scale maps which consists 
 of vehicles and planes and you need to take many flags. Basically the core gamplay is Rambo style, 
 you run, take cover, and shoot crazy like in an action movie. Now in terms of lag, I usually don't 
 have at all since I have an internet connection going at 3mbps (that's real fast) . Also the game 
 could be very hard and painful the first couple days, and takes a little while to learn everything 
 and adapt nicely to the game. Now in every single game in you play, there's always a different 
 strategy you adapt to use in every game to take out the enemy, which brings variety to the table. 
 There is also the weapon renting system which you use dinars (which is basically money you earn 
 by playing games) to "rent" weapons for 3-30 depending on how much you spend, so unless you spend 
 to keep your weapon longer, you won't keep it forever, which teaches you money management. Overall, 
 even at its beta stage, the game is great.
  
  Graphics: They aren't the best, but hell, they're acceptable, especially that it runs nicely in 
 my crappy integrated ATI Xpress 200m graphics at highest settings (excluding the FX) except for 
 large scale maps which has significant slowdowns, which is pretty bad, but I get over it. Also 
 the physics in this game are nicley done. I especially love the rag-doll physics when people fall 
 from tall building and land on an object before finally hitting the ground, or when you fall from 
 an exploding helicopter with two other people falling gracefully to the earth from great heights, 
 its awesome to look at. This is all powered by the new Jindo 3d game engine, which is extremely 
 optimized for lower end computers, meanwhile maintaining pretty solid graphics and physics.
  
  Sound: Although it's not extroadinary, the sound is fine, including the new music and gun sounds, 
 which sound fine.
  
  Value: Now, the replay value of this game is off the charts. You will be playing many hours a day 
 because the replay value is just too great. The main factor is in the ranking system, which you 
 will go up in the ranks as you go on, and even though it doesn't affect gameplay, the ranks could 
 distinguish how experienced you really are with the type of badge, the color of the badge, and 
 the percentage of the current rank you are. Also, you get 5000 dinars which you can rent even more 
 weapons with. That makes it very addictive. And one last thing, it's FREE with easy registration!!!!
 
  
  Tilt: With pretty good production values and somehow original gameplay, especially the weapon renting 
 system, and uses a mix of games, which makes very good tilt for me.
  
  Overall: It's a free, solid game with solid gameplay, graphics, sound, and overall value, and you 
 will be addicted for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnyrigley8984
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  ive been playing this game for a fair few hours now about 60 hours id say now consider i have fitted 
 that in around work and my partner in a week ive not slept it really is good, it is just a beta 
 (at the min) but its got playabilty which is what most if not all free games lack well this sets 
 the new standard and althought it is very ovoius that it is a battle field clone they have done 
 a much better job of 
  
  the thing i really liked about it is i even managed to run it on my old junky computer with out 
 lag at all does not need high spec due to the jinko engine 
  
  all i can really say is download it try it and make your own mind up after all its free 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hokage4
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say but, THIS GAME IS AWESOME! This game is worth playing so everyone should give it 
 a try. But be warned, once you start you will be spending hours a day playing this game. Itll make 
 want to be a total loser so youll want to stay in all day playing this game. I dont no how people 
 like playing Halo so much, but this game is way better imo. The only thing i hate about this game 
 is the long load time when you load a map, laggers, and getting killed. As everyone knows its funner 
 when you win, so just keep practicing! Theres also events ie: Ipod nano give-away. Im not very 
 good at writing things so this is it (explains why i suck in english class) . Just play this game 
 and youll no the feeling of using cocaine. Happy hunting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_leeto
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  Warrock is a Korean developed game and the international English version has just been released 
 as open beta. Their are three game modes, but essentially two different games: Mission mode, which 
 is a Counter-Strike type mode where one team must plant a bomb, while the other has to defuse it. 
 The other two modes, Infantry and Vehicle, are Battlefield type matches where each team has to 
 capture all of the control points while getting the enemy's tickets down to zero. The only difference 
 between Infantry and Vehicle is simple: Infantry maps are smaller and encourage more infantry combat 
 (duh) and have a few vehicles, while vehicle maps are bigger and hence, require you to get into 
 something to get from place to place.
  
  Fortunately, the game modes work pretty well. In Mission mode, there are rarely times where someone 
 will camp the entire match, which ensures you won't have to wait long to get back in the game. 
 Also, the infantry and vehicle modes are also very fun, and even though it feels like you've done 
 this before, the gameplay is addictive enough to keep playing.
  
  One unique part of the game is that to get new weapons, you "rent" them from a shop. Using the 
 ingame money you earn from games, you rent weapons for a certain amount of time, before they get 
 taken from your inventory and your stuck with the default weapons.
  
  The game however, still has its shortcomings. For now, you can't change the key layout so you have 
 to stick with the default controls, which are essentially the same WASD layout, with a few differences, 
 The main ones being the ability to roll around by pressing the SHIFT key and crouch and prone being 
 the C key, depending on how many times you press it. Also, you cant switch to third person mode 
 while playing as a soldier even though the game says you can. These issues are supposedly gonna 
 be addressed when the game is fully released.
  
  The game is open beta, so there are a few bugs here and there. Most of them are small, but one 
 bug i fell upon was my character wouldn't reload or change weapons.
  
  Sound wise, the game is average. The voices are still in Korean, and the weapon sounds don't feel 
 very strong. The graphics are very good seeing how this is a free game, but don't expect anything 
 next-gen. But, the explosions are something neat to watch. The actual gameplay itself is stable 
 enough, but there are times where you will die after a gunfight. This might just be Internet lag, 
 but it is frustrating when you die that way.
  
  The value and tilt are good, seeing how its free, and the promise of deep Clan features will keep 
 me playing the game for a while.
  
  Give the game a chance, and stop comparing it directly to the BF series and this could be a game 
 that will stay on your computer for a long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartanbone03
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  As far as Free2Play FPSs go, you can bet you're not going to get the pick of the litter in graphics 
 and technology. War Rock, however, finds a way to overcome this with integration of great fundamentals 
 and fast-paced gameplay. If you're looking for a good Battlefield 2 clone that's about $50 cheaper, 
 you've found the right game. 
  The beta test of War Rock isn't without a few bugs. I can't tell you how many times I found myself 
 getting shot from behind a wall or sniping at someone's head and hitting an unseen barrier. If 
 you can get past this, though, you'll find that the game does many things well. True, it's very 
 simplistic and the weapon mechanics are nothing special, but in a way, that's what makes it fun.
 
  War Rock really doesn't bring anything new to the table; in fact, it probably brings less to the 
 table (technologically speaking) than most other tactical warfare shooters. At the same time though, 
 it's this extreme simplicity that forces the player to focus more on strategy and cunning to win 
 the game. 
  It sounds a little like the game has nothing to offer, and if you're the type that has to have 
 the best graphics and the most realistic gameplay, this isn't your game. However, if you are looking 
 for a good fundamental FPS to play, then you might have to try War Rock. It's wonderful how such 
 a relatively low-tech and simple game can be so satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuyashagalo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  War rock it's a FPS game. The game is similar to CS, but the graphics and sounds are much better.
 
  To play you have to register and download the game, 270 Mb. The game is online. 
  
  In game, there are 3 modes. Mission, Infantry and Vehicle.
  In Mission, terrorists have to plant 
 the bomb and NIU ( Counter-Terrorists ) have to disarm the bomb.
  
  In Infantry, the objective is to kill guys of the other team. It's a Team Deathmatch. There are 
 vehicles in this mode too.
  
  In Vehicle mode, the name says what you have to do dont cha?
  
  You should try this game and 
 start playing! www. warrock. net
  
  PS: Sorry for my bad english ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torso
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Since the day a friend recommended this to me, it's my new vice, it's a great game, it has all 
 the elements that makes an online FPS a playable highly addictive game, some people say it may 
 be like a battlefield clone, but this game stands alone by itself.
  
  Graphics are nice, i have complains about them, you can run the game with an average computer without 
 problems.
  
  Sounds are Excellent, they consume you
  
  Gameplay is easy to learn, but hard to master so it can't be better.
  
  This is a "Must Have" 
 if you're a fan of strategy and first person shooting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csstevens
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 26, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  It has to be a tough job to brake into the first-person shooter world. Try and make a multiplayer 
 based game and you will inevitably be compared to Battlefield 2 and everybody will ignore you. 
 You will end up with a decent game that nobody is playing in the multiplayer. So what's a ambitious 
 publisher to do? Make the game free of course! It worked for games like Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory 
 which was made freely downloadable on the web.
  
  War Rock comes up with a different concept. The game is free, but you can purchase (everything 
 is free now since its in Beta) weapons to make the game more fun or give you a little bit of an 
 edge. This isn't to say that you NEED to buy weapons, since the game already comes with a decent 
 package with RPG's, machine guns, pistols and such, but you may find it necessary to buy a stinger 
 missle to take down helecoputers a little faster if you wish, or upgrade your colt pistol to a 
 desert eagle for different maps.
  
  Well, the concept sounds good, but how is the game? I assure you that the multiplayer is excellent. 
 The maps come in "Small" Counterstrike-style single spawn-per-round, and "Medium" and "Large" sizes 
 which play like Battlefield. Maybe it is because the game is not as well established and everyone 
 has not memorized the maps, but I had a much easier time playing as a beginner and was not constantly 
 killed instantly (t like Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory for me) , and was able to do a fair share of 
 damage pretty quickly. The basis of the game is taking over bases which can be a gut wrenching 
 experience while you wait for the flag to change while fending off enemy soldiers intent to keep 
 their bases. The vehicles are probably the main component of the medium/large maps and they all 
 take a decent amount of damage before blowing up. You have the choice of five different occupations 
 during the game which you can choose before every spawn: Medic, Combatant, Heavy Weapons Unit, 
 Engineer, and Scout (sniper) and I regularily play all of them.
  
  How about joining multiplayer game? The internal server list woks great and you can be playing 
 and coordinating with people in a matter of seconds. All the servers work nicely (NOT LIKE WOLFENSTEIN) 
 and there is no trouble finding a good place to play. I played this game with a fairly old computer 
 and a slow cable conncetion and it worked beautifully on medium settings. On large maps, the game 
 can catostrophically lock at times where you need to restart your computer (this happens very rarely 
 for me) , but the game is still in its testing phase and is stable just about every other time.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EntwineX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is solid, it doesn't offer any surprises in good or bad. The game is very arcade-like, 
 the character does get a bit tired after running and jumping, but that's about it. There's hardly 
 any weapon recoil or such, players move very fast and can make these jumps forward making them 
 very hard to hit, and you can even chain these jumps or dives forward as long as you have "stamina". 
 So all in all not very realistic.
  
  In the game you fight for the control of the bases in the map, just like in BF2. In order to take 
 over a base you need to exit your vehicle, and wait near the flag for the "meter" to reach 100%. 
 Same way you heal yourself waiting next to a shelf of medic supplies, get more ammo from ammo depot, 
 and fix your vehicles at repair station. Once the base has been taken over your teammates can respawn 
 there after their deaths.
  
  Since the game is only in Beta stage, the graphics cannot be maxed out yet, but it seems that when 
 all the shaders ect. kick in, the game will look very nice. And even now it looks good enough to 
 be enjoyable. Sounds are the basic stuff, not amazingly realistic, but do the job.
  
  The download is completely free, you only need to create an account at www. warrock. net, and then 
 you can download the 270mb file for free and start playing.
  
  The game introduces a wide arsenal of weaponry. There are 5 different character types from which 
 you can choose from before spawning: Medic, Engineer, Scout, Combatant and Heavy combatant. Each 
 has fists + 3 slots which can carry different kind of weaponry, or for medic and engineer, medpacks 
 and tools. Combatant is the basic soldier with assault rifle, scout has sniper rifle, and heavy 
 combatant has anti-vehicle weaponry like bazooka and mines. Weapons cannot be picked up from dead 
 enemies or teammates.
  
  Better weapons can be "rented" for few days with dinars earned for e. g from leveling up. But all 
 the weapons are well balanced and don't give big advantage to anyone. Only problem is that the 
 some of the weapons don't do enough damage IMO, sniper rifle takes usually 2 hits to kill, not 
 to mention how much punishment helicopters and airplanes can take before coming down. Destroying 
 an enemy tank at your spawn point usually requires someone to make a suicide run with mines at 
 it, bazookas ect. won't do much damage. Also killing an enemy foot soldier with the machineguns 
 of the "airdefence tank" is for some reason almost impossible.
  
  The game's vehicles include motorbikes, boats, humvees, trucks, tanks, helicopters (both assault 
 and transport) , fighters (airplanes) , and some other "machinegun at the top vehicles". All vehicles 
 can be controlled by one player, pressing number keys you change you position from driver to machinegunner 
 ect. Most vehicles can carry several players and have several weapons, but fighters and smaller 
 helicopters are one-man vehicles. The most feared weapon is propably the fighter that can drop 
 bombs which destroy an enemy tank instantly even without direct hit. The game also introduces weapons 
 like airdefence cannon that naturally cannot be moved.
  
  The game has 3 play modes, the mission based mode which I haven't tried out much yet, the infantry 
 combat mode with smaller CS-style maps, and the vehicle combat mode with BF2-like maps. Still all 
 modes include vehicles to some extent. The map desing is good, but for now there is just too few 
 maps to keep players interested for longer times, hopefully more is on the way.
  
  WarRock is a quaranteed fun for few hours, but untill the devs. introduce more maps and weapons, 
 better graphics, better balanced weapon damage, and solutions to numerous smaller problems, like 
 not being able to change keys, automatic log-in not working, occasional lag, too long pauses between 
 sessions caused by players not hitting the "ready key" ect. The game remains to be just a "few 
 hours of fun". 
  
  Try it out yourself, the download is smaller that most demos' these days and the game should run 
 fine even on a bit older machines.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VietN1nja
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game since it's closed beta, and I can tell you, for a free game it's pretty 
 good compared to any game. While this game may not be an America's Army, It is really fun, and 
 contains a nice community of gamers. The game offers a unique shop system, allowing you to buy 
 guns from g36cs to m4s. It's graphics are good, at least for a free game, no where near Battlefield 
 2 status but still good. The sound and menu's could use work though, you constantly here some korean 
 guy saying something you don't understand, and there are many sound bugs. This game will last you 
 a pretty long time if you like free fps shooters, so give this game a try, and you might find yourself 
 still playing it 4 months after you downloaded it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargetony1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  I liked this game from the get go. I would like much bigger maps that allow you to go more places 
 and do more things, but this is only the beta and they are promising much more. It is a lot of 
 fun, very much like battlefields with out the refinement. I think the hardest part of the game 
 is the competition. I would like to see more accurate weapons (since I am in the US Army) but if 
 I were too worried about it I would play America's Army. I am really looking forward to this being 
 released and I hope that those of us that have been with the game since early beta will get a discount 
 on the purchase of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper5904
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  After hearing one of my floormates begging me to play this game, I decided to give it a shot. For 
 one, he's a WOW player so playing an fps over WOW, is a feat in itself, and he's also terrible 
 at fps, so if this was able to captivate him, it must be worth a look.
  
  And he was right, this is a pretty good game; albeit not very original, but still pretty good. 
 If you're wondering if this is anything like battlefield 2; it almost exactly the same. The graphics 
 aren't as sharp (but it's still in beta to be fair) and there aren't as many vehicles; regardless, 
 the fact that the game is FREE is worth it.
  
  The points system is interesting, but designed for credit card users in mind. The designers are 
 able to keep this game free due to the pay for what you want content. You basically can pay real 
 money so that you can purchase superior weapons in the game. Of course, this is not the only way 
 to get better weapons; the economy system is designed in manner that the more flags, and kills 
 you make nets you virtual money to purchase better weapons as well.
  
  There are some bugs that need to be addressed such as all talk (dead can speak to the living and 
 reveal enemy positions) , and territory capturing as capturing a majority of territories and flags 
 does not really benefit the players except having a new spawn point, nor can you ever capture their 
 first spawn point. This can often draw out battles much longer than they should be and encourages 
 spawn camping.
  
  As a person going beginning to play this game expecting something really bad or not polished, I 
 was quite astounded by what I got. Compared to other free games like America's Army, this is a 
 more arcade like and, in my opinion, more fun game. It does feel like a South Korean recruitment 
 tool, but cartoonish feel of it does lighten the politics and makes it enjoyable.
  
  Overall, it's an easy recommend to someone who enjoys FPS's and battlefield type shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: journyman
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Ive known about WarRock for sometime. It came up when i was looking for an alternative to BF2. 
 Due to the fact the game doesnt run that great on my machine. War Rock is being called a MMOTFPS 
 or a Massivly Multiplayer Online Tactical First Person Shooter. After I saw War Rock screens and 
 Trailers id became minorly interested. The Graphics where okay nothing special. Then i heard it 
 was free. So when the beta was released I jumped upon it. After playing it extensivly the last 
 few days Ive got to say War Rock is a fun shooter. And can be considered a little unstable at the 
 moment. As most games are when they are first released in this type of genre. And this is only 
 a beta so I have to give it some slack. War Rock is a game that has the potential to become worth 
 valuble gamers time who have play games like Battlefield. But with the lack of content right now 
 it doesnt seem very catching. Graphicly War Rock is at a weakness. At first glance agianst other 
 current gen pc shooters War Rock is about 2 years behind. But after a while i discovered away to 
 add special effects to the game. Stuff like Bloom, high res water effects and so forth. This does 
 spruce up the game quite a bit. However, most of the "Fx" features arent very flushed out yet. 
 And some of the featues dont work right. Or just plain out dont look right. Like Bloom. When Bloom 
 is turned on the entire level becomes brighter. The sand in beach levels makes this espcialy anoying. 
 However, Water Effects and the Camera Image are two features I highly recomend turning on. This 
 spruces up the game quite a bit. But still on levels without water and such the game still looks 
 like its a bit behind the times. To cover their tracks the developers list this as a feature. Saying 
 that the game can work on a high range of systems. New and old. Which to say should be true looking 
 at the graphics. However, at this moment it doesnt seem to be the case. As you enter online you 
 relize that the game lags quite a bit. At first the game seemed to run fine. But after playing 
 it many times the less and less games i got with a smooth play. It might be the servers or just 
 the people hosting them. I dont know. As i said earlier War Rock is being called a MMOTFPS. Now 
 in reality the only thing Massivly Multiplayer about it is the game is run entirly off of servers. 
 And a peristant rank is kept under your user name. This is a nice touch. The fact you can play 
 with your stats at any comptuter is a neat idea. But is being done in more and more games. War 
 Rocks gameplay is fast paced and can be fun from time to time. It tries to combine elements from 
 both Counter Strike and Battleifield franchies. Including the large maps and vehical use from Battlefield 
 2 as well as sqauds. Which has yet to be activated for our use. And the ability to buy weapons 
 as you earn more money. Like in Counter Strike. Now your credits are saved from game to game. So 
 you can save up to get all the weapons you want. However they are only rentals and can be kept 
 up to seven days. If u pay that much. The weapons we got to use felt very underpowered. Even the 
 rocket launcher takes 3 shots to take down even the weakest of vehicals. Which puts infantry at 
 a high disadvantage agianst tanks. ANd makes for huge problems with spawn camping. However unlike 
 in batttlefield 2 the snipers are very effective. Another major complaint I have with this game 
 is the amount of variery that is offerd. Both Armies have the same vehicals and the same weapons. 
 And too boot the only thing differnt looking about the armies is thier camo. Which at times i still 
 got confused who was who. This is the kind thing that really turns you off to a game like this. 
 Something that could of been so simple to do. It makes you feel like your playing a really old 
 game because of this endevor. However the vehical handling is generally handled very well. The 
 land vehicals and water vehicals are very easy to control and require little to no skill to master. 
 However Air vehicals can be differnt. Though still easier then in games like Battlefield Vietnam. 
 They can still be quite difficult to fly. Especily durring laggy matches. As a regular game War 
 Rock so far doesnt look like its enough to gain a huge fan following. Espcially if the company 
 hopes to attract battlefield 2 gamers. However if your a gamer who wants to play Battlefield 2 
 but cant this is a great game to pick up and try. As in its current state I felt i couldnt give 
 it a hire rating. War Rock is a fun game and if the game shapes up and fixes its bugs and adds 
 more content I beleive it has the potential to become a hit arround the free gaming community! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  WarRock feels like a faster paced version of CSS and BF2 all at the same time. The ranks are cool 
 but can be confusing for a noob and the item shop is where you can buy better guns for money. WR 
 includes many maps that have tons of spots for chances to kill the enemy. If you can't find a friend 
 just invite them to the server with the easy-to-use system provided in the game. The loads are 
 quick along with the nice physics that will have you laughing even when your the one who dies. 
 The animations and moves in WR give it a unique gameplay feel and you are even rewarded for being 
 the best in a round with the ability to change the nextmap and even kick players! Even though WR 
 copies from BF2 and CSS it doesn't have as many weapons and can be hard at times to manuever vehicles. 
 Another negative aspect is there is no way to map your controls to the way you want them along 
 with many game glitches. Overall WarRock is a rising FPS that blends different experiences and 
 it is also FREE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  This Game is bad , not I dont want to play this bad .But Like tie me naked to a ant hill covered 
 in honey bad .The graphics are sub standard and the game control is weak .It may be free but you 
 pay with your time . Wasting it on this game when you could be playing something else .Tactical 
 shooter it is not you cant even aim down the barrel. If you like the nontactical shooters with 
 the magic crosshairs .And like to run and gun or spray and pray shooters this one is for you. This 
 is the biggest pile of crap (shooter) i have played in a long long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lethalweaponhar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is wild and fast, you can do team work or go ala rambo, though if other people doing 
 team work, you would die easly, you fanboys f talking about this game being a clone of BF2, you 
 have no clue, war rock was released way before BF2.
  
  as the other user saidit never really gets old. Despite what most people say, this game is in 
 no-way like BF2, except for the fact that it has guns and pilotable vehicles." 
  
  War Rock its way more complex then BF2, more modes, more style and amazing ragdoll engine, its 
 superb when you shot some one and the character go flying from a room through the window, the rolling 
 movements makes the gameplay more fast and cool, you can do left and right lean behind walls, you 
 can punch people, you can med your self, etc... BF2 have none of it, you can choose the type of 
 games you would like to play, from big maps to small maps, the graphics are good and can be quiet 
 amazing if you know how to crank them up, BF2 have better graphics, true, but 99% of the players 
 dont play with quality as they want to do better ingame they need performace, so mostly play with 
 low quality, while in WAR ROCK you can get the best graphic with peformace, im just saying that 
 in many points War Rock is better then BF2 and others points BF2 is better then War Rock.
  
  The game also have ranks and stats, who ever played the Korean version knows what im talking 
 about, you can buy items (weapons, etc...) , with the game money.
  
  Plus the game play is like 0ms, what you see is what you need to shot, but as always like in any 
 other game, what gonna help you to do better is your ping, fast ping will have the advantage to 
 take the 1st action, be shooting, punching or whatever...
  
  Now some negatives points of war rock, though some of them may not be that negative, for instance 
 you cant make your own server and your own maps, but you can make "rooms" in the official server.
 
  
  Due the level of free gameplay, where the game do not force you to play a certain way, where you 
 dont need to get stuck with vehicles or camp alot to do good or have fun, War Rock is one of most 
 entertaining games i ever played, so dont say its not a worth just because you and your friends 
 got stuck with BF2 or AA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  WarRock is a free to play online shooter with gameplay mechanics much akin to games like Battlefield 
 and Counter-Strike.
  
  The entire game is a free download, and it's free to play. The game's opening menus are incredibly 
 smooth and feel pretty slick for a free game. After setting up your settings and registering an 
 account, you can join 5 servers set up in different parts of the world and join a "room", which 
 are set up by the players themselves. There is an objective based mode, in which one team of mercenaries 
 sets up bombs at a certain location on the map and there is also a deathmatch mode, in which both 
 teams to players frag each other with anything at their disposal.
  
  There are 5 different classes to play with. There are medics, scouts, heavy assualt guys, your 
 average grunts, and combat engineers. Each class has different advantages and disadvantages.
  
  Before you play, there is also an option to "buy" non-default weapons. The system feels much 
 like a "rental" instead of a "buy" because you buy weapons to use for a maximum of 30 days only 
 before you have to buy that weapon again. There is a medium selection of real world weapons, like 
 the G36C, RPG 7's and even more.
  
  There are also plenty of vehicles to play with. There are tanks, anti-aircraft platforms, aircraft 
 and helicopters, as well as APCs, jeeps, and even motorcylces. But these are only available on 
 vehicle maps and can slow things down significantly for people with poorer connections.
  
  Graphics-wise, the game can look good for a free online multiplayer game. The animations for the 
 characters can look quite jerky and the map design feels rather linear, but the vehicles look great, 
 and unlike the the character animations, actually feel natural. But as again, for a free game, 
 the graphics are quite nice and if the animations are further improved, it can look and feel even 
 better.
  
  Sound-wise, this is the game's weakest aspect. When a gun fires, it feels like a airsoft gun is 
 firing, with odd popping sounds that sound very unnatural. Music plays very quietly and feels like 
 generic military music, with heavy percussion that isn't that great to listen to, even in the game.
 
  
  Overall, for this free game, most people will simply play it for a week or two before shelving 
 it. The game is quite fun and has its moments, but overall, it doesn't set anything really notable 
 or special to the table and relies on that old-school fun factor.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_of_chaos
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Today I tried out a game called War Rock. I've played the beta 1 last year, but now the game has 
 really improved and is looking good and it's still beta 2. The beta was officialy released the 
 13th july.
  
  Ok enough with the background, this game is an online FPS and a battlefield 2 lookalike. The gameplay 
 is really awsome with a growing comunity and the graphics look good even on my GeForce fx 5600xt 
 (My card sucks) There's lot's of features for the new graphic cards with shadder 3 support so I 
 imagine that they'll look even better.
  
  With the new beta release, you get three main modes: Mission infantry and vehicles. The only diffrence 
 between vehicle and infantry modes is that theres more vehicles in vehicle (obviously) and the 
 maps are huge and open in vehicle mode. Mission is a mode with a kind of terrorist team and assault 
 team. The mission ends when all terrorists or assault team is dead. But you also need to disarm 
 two boms if you can't kill all the terrorists within 2:30 minutes.
  
  You'll never get tired of all the maps and their diffrences.
  The game also features exp & levels 
 and buyable items with money you make by playing. I think everyone should try this game. You can 
 either download the 200mb (supprisantly comressed) installer on gamespot or on http://warrock. net/ 
 and don't forget to make an account on the game's official site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briangogo
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, It looks like Dream Execution just took the concept of other games and mixed them 
 up into one game. This is very unoriginal, as it is copying gameplay from battlefield 2 (Flag capture, 
 different job classes, vehicles, etc.) and putting it all into a short counter-strike round (kill/complete 
 objective, start new round, kill/complete objective, start new round.) Also, the experience point 
 gain should be balanced. Playing in mission mode gets you about as much exp as infantry or vehicle 
 mode (and mission mode is much more fun anyways) . You're better off just sticking to whatever game 
 you're currently playing. I don't think this game will go far, but we'll just have to see about 
 that when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiclasKennel
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  Warrock is a really fun game to play with nice graphics and easy connection.
  While not as good as the flashy Battlefield 2 it does't really focus on that scale battles, because 
 if you want you can play smaller maps in Counter Strike style . In my opinion this game is 10x 
 more fun to play than the super-serious Americas Army (another free online shooter) .
  
  The graphics are neat and clean, and runs good on older PCs. The audio isn't that good, with soundeffects 
 missing and korean voices.
  
  Plus sign goes to the internet connection speed, very fast and easy to get in.
  
  In summary, 
 a very good download. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hizabiz
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  nothing beats battlefield 2 but this one might prove to be at least computer friendly for some 
 friends that dont have gaming computers. at least now they can play something kinda team orientened. 
 for my clan that half play HL2dm and desert combat. anyone want to play with us hit me back at, 
 guddatsiding@yahoo. com. our clan is called addicted to conflict. must be at least 19 or older, 
 just no little kids please!! and no hackers!!! I hope they unlock some more of the video tweaks 
 and make the server screen alittle more user freindly. also what they plan to due with the rewards 
 or ranking system, also a way to find your freinds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss2703
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  This game is obviously trying to be Battlefield 2, the similarities between the two games being 
 so many that writing them here would be just a waste of time. But let's put that aside and evaluate 
 the game.
  Graphics wise the game doesn't bother the eye but they are far from the graphics of current games. I 
 mean don't expect it to look like Battlefield 2 or to have any spectacular effects. Also, the game 
 doesn't look remotely as good as in the screenshots, but the game is still in its beta testing 
 phase and the graphics engine can still be improved.
  The gameplay is very similar to the gameplay of the Battlefield series, all the soldier classes 
 being still intact and the fact that the game features many vehicles from Battlefield 2 give it 
 credibility as a war simulator (if you can call it that) . The only bad thing is that the weapon 
 stats are messed up. The accuracies of the weapons are very wrong, almost all weapons having a gigantic 
 miss rate and inflicting a much smaller damage quantity that they should. Also the weapons don't 
 give you the feeling of power because of the pretty weak sounds that they make.
  The game sounds reasonable, the only music you'll hear being when the map is being loaded. As i 
 said earlier the weapon sounds are weak and so are the vehicle sounds.
  Oh, and since the game is still beta there are still some issues on the bigger maps where you may 
 encounter some sudden inexplicable lag but that will most probably be fixed and don't forget that 
 it's still free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junaxx
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  hi guys , could anyone help me how to register on the korean version of warrock. i really wana 
 challenge you guys and feel those bllod splotiing on the walls.. wel its your blood and not mine. 
 Well unless youll prove it first if your good. But first help me on the favor ive ask from you 
 guys. hope someone could help me on this. if you want it to be secret so pls email me instead. 
 i promise your secret would be safely kept. heres my email add muaddibsweet@yahoo. com . thannx 
 in advance write me soon. by the way i hope you could write it in details ok?? again my email add 
 is muaddibsweet@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obodotG
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game in International version when it first came out. It only had a few 
 maps vehicles and weapons and I was very suprised by the overall quality. After a few months a 
 friend and I figured out how to register and play the korean version (thank you google translator) 
 and the Korean version was much further along. With a fully functional community, rankings, clans, 
 clan emblems and clan sites. The game is still in beta and new maps are still being released along 
 with new weapons and vehicles. Overall the game is very unrealisitic but has it's own style that 
 makes it fun. It has "CS mode" (counter strike type scenario, no-vehicles)
  "Infantry" and "Air combat" so it never really gets old. Despite what most people say, this game 
 is in no-way like BF2, except for the fact that it has guns and pilotable vehicles.
  
  If you have not tried it yet, it's free so check it out.
  
  www. warrock. nexon. com 
  
  -you'll 
 have to figure out how to reg yourself, i aint givin up my secret :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morpheus009
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Warrock is a game including ragdoll physics and shadows its a game you
  get stuck with for the next comming days the ragdoll physics wasnet like in
  other ragdoll games 
 like "Counter-Strike: Source" cause when the server is using mods ( only a 10-30 servers) the ragdoll 
 can go CRAZY like when i played it got shot standig close to a HUMVEE got shot then i just got 
 stuck in the car and others could drive around with me on the side.
  But if nott using mods and other Stuff its a great game every class got chance against the other 
 thats the good with this game as i said nott superb but good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I was amazed to find this cool little game that worked on my computer (which has really crappy 
 graphics) . The graphics are amazingly realistic and look fantastic. The jeeps and different guns 
 and places all look really good. The control is tight and hardly ever slips out. The sound is decent 
 but doesn't have any music but some good sound effects. I don't like how theres almost no singleplayer 
 besides just cruising around in the handful of maps. Thats another problem: There's only about 
 10 maps. None are really that great but they do have cars and there are some cool guns so that 
 makes it worth it. But hey this is a free game. Free. With great grpahics. Its not Battlefiele 
 (which I've never played) but I still had fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltmatthew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  War Rock is a Korean multiplayer game that is currently in beta testing outside of Korea. If you 
 have ever played Battlefield 2 or any other Battlefield game for that matter than you would quickly 
 realize that this game is pretty much the same thing. But there are things that make this different 
 there is a good ranking system and a point system that lets you buy things from an item shop 
 items range from better pistols to stinger missiles. There is a clan format in place can tell people 
 your screen name and under it what clan you belong to. The game does suffer from strange ballistics 
 and there is a poor anti-cheat in the beta. Also all this is that this is all in the retail Korean 
 version the American version doesnt have any of these features. YET. The American is still in 
 a beta tessting stage so hopefully when the real version does come out it will have the features 
 that I am explaining.
  
  ps. i'm rating this on the beta not the korean verson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choas_theory
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  Good battlefield 2 style of game this is a good game for people who like FPS's while using vehciles 
 like  and jets as well as changing classes like  
 or an heavy weapons expert you can play from over 6 maps 4 small maps and 2 big maps this game 
 is like cs but with only death match rules easy to master how to play if u know how to play battlefiled 
 or counter strike you need a good grapich card and a good internet connection to play this game 
 propally other wise you will suffer lag which sucks when you play
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirmixalot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  DreamExecution, a Korean game development company, has done an absolutely amazing job on this game. 
 There are currently 2 versions: the one especially for Koreans, and the one for the rest of the 
 world. The majority of the people rating this game have only played the internation version, which 
 has lagged far behind the Korean version. I have the Korean version and it blows the International 
 version out of the water. You guys are going to be amazed when all of the features finally go international. 
 The best part of the game is that's it's a MMORPG and maintains a ranking system. As you rise in 
 the ranks, you are able to buy more items, including guns and flashbang grenades. Gameplay is varied 
 greatly between maps. Some maps are very CS-like while others are big and open like Battlefield 
 2. Vehicles include motorcycles, humvees, tanks, helicopters, airplanes, boats, and even more. 
 I will gladly buy this game once it leaves it's Beta period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonekill9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Note : The game is still in beta and is not yet complete.
  
  WarRock is an exellent TFPS resembling Battlefield 2. Depending on what you want to do, you have 
 five classes available to you : Engeinner, Medic, Scout, Combatant and Heavy Weapons. Each classes 
 has unique functions that are pretty obivious. 
  
  WarRock's graphics are beautiful and the use of particles for explosions is excellent. Plus, you 
 do not need a ridiculously high system specs to play with maximum settings plus a 1024 x 768 resolution. 
 I own a Radeon 9600 Pro and it works just fine. Very fluid and no slowdowns, even in large battles 
 with lots of explosions.
  
  The sounds are the opposite to the graphics. The sounds are good, but way too repetitive. 
  
 
  At the moment, you cannot buy any new weapons using the cash you get from fighting and your level 
 has no meaning, yet. 
  
  The game has currently 6 maps, 4 weapons, 1 grenade type, 1 melee weapon (your fists) and 5 vehicles 
 (A tank, a Humm-vee, a APC, a transport truck and a bike) . 
  
  The game is 184 Mb big and is frequently updated with fixes and new content. It also uses GameGuard 
 has an Anti-Hack.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who likes FPSes. It's worth it , and I can't wait for the 
 full game to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is very entertaining unless you just can't stand lag. The graphics are decent and the 
 gameplay is very well built. It's one in a million free games that can keep you hooked. It boots 
 fairly quickly is great for a casual gamer such as myself, I can just rotate between this and Gunz 
 the Duel, and be pleased for months. 
  
  Character Creation goes by in a snap as long as you realize that you need to go to the website 
 to register. Athough there is nothing in the way of editing the controls they are very solid and 
 basic for any computer FPS. Games are the perfect size for a pick-up and play when your up for 
 some gaming, and can be exited quickly whenever something else comes up. They don't get tiresome 
 and are just enough gaming for me. 
  
  Level designs are fairly basic but do have a certain strategic element to them, playing like a 
 low end version of BF2 and CS melted together. Overall its very fun and exceeds my normal expectations 
 for games that are completely free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freak8791
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm 19, And A Korean Who Likes To play FPS games. The Good Things About Warrock Is that It is Free, Great 
 when you play with your friends afterschool If you have nothing to do .And It does not need high 
 computer 
  requirement like battlefield for example my computer is cpu 2.0 512ram
  geforce5200, the game is smooth. thats all. 
  
  In Korea, FPS maniacs dont like Warrock. Because 
 They think It has copy Battlefield. It has used the same sound file of battlefield: desert combat 
 and planning to update the Skynet system Same as Commander system in BF2. There are lots of freaky 
 thinginside the game. If you crash a blackhawk with your motorcycle it blows, and if you jumpout (there 
 is no parachute) before your rafale or F15 hit the ground you live, most of all if your blackhawk 
 goes into the water It doesnt blows When you jump out the plane in the skies you just roll 3 times 
 before you hit the ground you live.. Funny huh
  Its a good Game But I think BF2 is better 
  If you like Arcade Games You Might like It . And If you are good in bf2 heli ,and jetplane controlling 
 you might be the best in Warrock because warrock is much easy to control.
  sorry for the wield review 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gakselso
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I installed this game with low expectations and was actually quite pleased, for a little while. 
 It plays like an even more arcadey battlefield 2, with the fun addition of motorbikes and dive 
 rolls! I _loooove_ the dive rolls -- if you've played and seen some idiot somersaulting around 
 the open spaces, that'd be me :-)
  
  In general there's some definite lag effect... you just drop dead occasionally well after the fatal 
 shot was reported. I can't describe it exactly, except for some disgruntlement over delayed sniper 
 deaths, and once when a tank fired a shell near me and I dropped dead several seconds later - it's 
 a very delayed reaction. 
  
  Another minor gripe I had was the setup process. It wasn't entirely intuitive how to create an 
 account when I did it (dec 2005) ; it may have changed since then. Regardless, I seem to recall 
 taking a few wrong turns trying to get the account created so I could play online.
  
  That aside I really enjoy the game when I have time, it's a stellar product for free! I just got 
 the full version of bf2 (I was playing the demo for months) and probably won't go back to it for 
 awhile. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
