-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warrior Kings
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warriorkings/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  8, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 141 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microids
Developer: Black Cactus
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Apr 13, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warrior Kings is a very good 3D real-time strategy game that could have been great. 

 Warrior Kings is a very good 3D real-time strategy game that could have been great. The underlying 
 design is excellent, and it adds some interesting complexities to the standard structure of the 
 typical real-time strategy game. But Warrior Kings' creativity is also its biggest shortcoming. 
 The developer, Black Cactus, produced a great premise, full of unique units, an interesting economic 
 structure, and mystical elements that lead to powerful units and spells. However, this premise 
 is the stage for a campaign made up of linear puzzle missions that require very little strategy 
 and a whole lot of patience. The multiplayer mode doesn't have these problems, but since there's 
 no skirmish option available for playing the core strategic game against the computer, the game's 
 appeal is a lot more limited than it might have been.           A strong economy makes for a strong 
 military.    

  Warrior Kings takes place in a world torn between religion and technology. There are two primary 
 factions, the imperials and the pagans, each with unique units and divine powers. Both factions 
 can incorporate renaissance elements, such as siege engines and gunpowder, but by doing so, they 
 sacrifice access to their most powerful units.   

  The single-player campaign follows the story of Artos, exiled heir to the throne. After seeing 
 his father ambushed and betrayed, Artos flees his homeland to gather forces and plot his revenge. 
 The campaign lets you follow several paths, and it branches based on the choices you make at a 
 few key moments. For instance, in the second mission, you must choose whether or not to execute 
 your enemy once you have him cornered. Kill him, and you'll follow the pagan path, which lets you 
 command huge beasts and strange magic. Spare his life, and you'll move down the imperial path toward 
 religion and fanatical righteousness. Later, you'll have the option to stay on a pure pagan or 
 imperial path or incorporate elements of technology, again altering the campaign. It's great that 
 the campaign goes in such different directions based on your choices -- you won't just get different 
 units, but an entirely different game with unique missions.   

  While the branching campaign is an interesting idea, the actual method of branching is disappointing. 
 Instead of letting you choose your path through a strategic decision, you simply answer yes/no 
 questions at predetermined points along the way. The choices you make come without warning, occasionally 
 at the end of a mission and other times at the beginning. Unless you have some luckily timed saved 
 games, you'll undoubtedly need to play through large chunks of the game to try different paths. 
 Essentially, it makes the first few missions of the campaign one lengthy options screen you must 
 play through again and again to try the different factions.           Battles can involve an impressive 
 number of troops.    

  The missions themselves are full of numerous objectives and challenges, but at times you'll feel 
 frustrated that you never just get to play the game. The campaign is full of puzzle missions, and 
 many give you a set number of units with which to accomplish your goals. You don't get to do much 
 town building, especially in the early missions -- the designers seemed to consciously try to avoid 
 the standard real-time strategy formula of build a town, build an army, destroy your enemies, raze 
 their town. It may seem like a good thing that Warrior Kings bucks the trend, but it's strange 
 that the single-player game seems so shy about letting you explore the more innovative features, 
 like building a huge civic center or invoking the benefits of your chosen faction. Most of the 
 time, your town will be built for you -- then you just build standard units and go attack your enemy. 
   

  Even if you won't see it often in the campaign, the basic structure of the game is excellent. You 
 must build a town, starting with peasants to harvest food and lumber. Carts transport the basic 
 commodities to your civic center, and they provide an interesting strategic element, since they 
 can be waylaid and stolen by the enemy. Certain buildings can be built only near your civic center, 
 and the walls that surround this vital area expand automatically. Based on your faction, you can 
 build huge siege engines or powerful religious units. There are numerous military units, ranging 
 from standard spearman and archers to holy knights, soldiers, and enormous monsters that breathe 
 fire.    

 The combat is good and makes effective use of the 3D terrain. High ground is a significant tactical 
 advantage, giving your archers more range and even letting your mounted units gather speed as they 
 gallop downhill, making for effective charges. Scout units can ascend steep hills and survey the 
 landscape. Your military units gain experience as they fight, and you can set up training dummies 
 to keep them occupied during times of peace. You can easily group units with a single click, which 
 selects all units of a particular type. With groups of eight or more units, you can set them in 
 four different formations -- a row, a wedge, a column, and a circle -- and these give different and 
 distinct benefits. Occasionally, units won't respond to your orders to rout or engage, but for 
 the most part, the combat is satisfying and easy to control.           Zoom out for an impressive 
 bird's eye view...    

  Playing a multiplayer game gives you more access to all of this than the single-player game does. 
 You get to choose the technology tree you'll follow based on the buildings you construct. You get 
 to plan your enormous town center and watch it expand into an impressive city. You get to assemble 
 huge armies and march them against your enemy. You get to invoke the powers of gods and even summon 
 them to fight alongside you. The multiplayer game makes the single-player game seem all the more 
 disappointing -- with so much potential for epic, strategic battles, Warrior Kings instead gives 
 you missions like one in which you simply guide three units dressed as monks down a preordained 
 path, making no real strategic decisions along the way.   

  Many of the missions in the single-player campaign are so rigid that they simply become an exercise 
 in saving and reloading, which is even more frustrating than it sounds, considering the game's 
 inexcusably long load times. There are some other significant technical problems, such as crashes 
 and some problems with multiplayer connections, but these will reportedly be addressed with upcoming 
 patches. Perhaps the worst technical problem is the unit pathfinding -- you will occasionally see 
 a whole battalion go off in some undesired direction or a mounted regiment riding in crazy circles 
 trying to regroup. The interface has some issues too, but only because it breaks with some of the 
 real-time strategy conventions you're probably used to.   

  What Warrior Kings really needs is a skirmish mode that lets you enjoy the fun of the multiplayer 
 game in matches against a decent computer opponent. But there is no skirmish mode. This is not 
 surprising, considering that even in the campaign, you are rarely playing against a computer opponent. 
 Instead, you trigger prebuilt units from prebuilt cities to attack you. The artificial intelligence, 
 for the most part, is nonexistent. Enemy units rush as soon as they see you, letting you take out 
 overwhelming forces with an inferior army simply by building huge groups of archers to pick them 
 off as they advance.           ... or zoom in to see the white of your units' eyes.    

  You'll face huge armies in Warrior Kings, and you'll raze huge cities. One of the great things 
 about the game is that it lets you build massive armies and sprawling towns. The game looks good, 
 and you can zoom high above the landscape and see birds flying over your town or zoom down to the 
 ground and watch a peasant's face as he harvests a field. There is some significant slowdown when 
 there are numerous units on the screen, but for the most part, the game performs well. The music 
 is excellent, with flutes and lutes and other typical renaissance instrumentations. The sound effects 
 are even better, from your units' comments to the realistic sound of lumber being harvested and 
 even to the sonic cues that tell you an archer has been built or research has been completed.  

  It may seem strange to criticize a game for not being formulaic, but it's hard not to wish that 
 Warrior Kings included more run-of-the-mill real-time strategy missions. Despite the disappointing 
 campaign, it's a testament to the quality of the fundamental design that multiplayer games are 
 so enjoyable and that the lack of a skirmish option seems like such a major oversight.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fisheagle
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 12, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  It lacks in the control area. Not being able to find your units, or hero instantly is a pain. Having 
 to scroll around the map to find your units makes it time consuming and tends to make you lose 
 grip of things at times. The graphics are nice, and the audio is better than a lot of other I have 
 seen but it bewilders one to find that you are moving south when you move the mouse up when you 
 want to move north!!
  
  Saving did not work, reasons unknown. Everything was there, audio and comments and the mouse moved 
 normally but none of the units would move anywhere. I think that it is a wonderful game for kids 
 but lacks AI involvement to be a good strategey game for experienced gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 9, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  My biggest quarrel with Warrior Kings is its inability to run properly in its unpatched form. When 
 I picked up the game from ==&gt; a bargain bin o_O, I thought hey, $4.99 game and I looked at that 
 back, hey that seems pretty cool. Unfortunately that $4.99 was probably the worst I've spent on 
 any game for quite some time. When I tried to load it up on my computer (a emachines Athlon 64 
 3400+) , it keeps spewing up crap about not being able to run. Eventually and after running several 
 patches (and about an hour and a half) later I was able to get into the game.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty standard 3D RTS, which didn't really hold up too well after 3 years. The story 
 was ok, but I think it was too bland for today's tastes.
  
  Graphics: Doesn't compare to Warcraft 3 (also of the same period) . But has its moments. Decent 
 use of scale and might even have been a great if they polished up a bit.
  
  Sound: Mediocre... enough said
  
  Value: No one plays online, and 1 go at the campaign is pretty 
 much enough, needless to say, probably not worth my 4.99 and the pains of getting the game to run. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 1, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  Warrior Kings isn't bad in any area really, but there's no doubt that all areas could have used 
 improvements. 
  
  The graphics are great as long as you stay zoomed out. The graphics become extremely pixelated, 
 though units and buildings remain decent. Sound is decent, but somewhat scarce and not too interesting. 
 
  
  The camera takes a bit of getting used to since there's no other game like it (as far as I know) . 
 Be prepared to spend a little time getting used to that since you'll need to be moving the camera 
 around quite often. 
  
  The maps in this game are huge, much bigger than most strategy games. While often they may not 
 look like they're the biggest thing you've ever seen, the slow speed of units will defenintly make 
 you feel like it. It might take a good 10 minutes for your troops to reach the enemies base. 
 
  
  Now, the thing about that is, you now must make very tactical attacks since it might take 30 minutes 
 to rebuild your troops and attack again. In many other strategy games, running in with enough units 
 usually means you win, but in Warrior Kings, alot more consideration must be placed on what units 
 you select. Some units no matter what the number will fall to the enemy, while others can stand 
 up to 10 times their number. 
  
  Combat is a big part of the game, but there is one other part. As with most strategy games, you 
 need to build up defenses, recruit units, and gather resources. An interesting part of this game 
 is that you can only have one 'warehouse' to store your resources, so you need a way to get them 
 there when the resources are far away. Towns can be built which peasants will take resorces too, 
 which will then be loaded onto a cart and taken to your 'warehouse'. Nothing much, but it is an 
 enteresting step in the resource gathering. 
  
  Warrior Kings is a nice tactical strategy that, while not the best game around, is still fun nonetheless. 
 Intersting missions and nice tactical combat are the things that make this game fun, and if that's 
 the type of stuff you like, Warior Kings is something to look into.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
