-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warrior Kings: Battles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warriorkingsbattles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 29, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 7.4, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 108 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Black Cactus
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warrior Kings: Battles fails to measure up, primarily because of maddening technical issues that 
 impair user control. 

  Warrior Kings: Battles is Black Cactus' follow-up to its 2001 real-time strategy game, Warrior 
 Kings. The developer has addressed a number of criticisms about the first game, most notably by 
 adding in a robust skirmish mode. But despite this new addition, and the interesting dynamic tech 
 tree that was a hallmark of the original game, Warrior Kings: Battles fails to measure up, primarily 
 because of maddening technical issues that impair user control.  

          The Imperials construct churches, cathedrals, and other religious edifices.     

  The 
 game is set in the fantasy world of Orbis, which bears a resemblance to feudal Europe. You'll even 
 face numerous warlords in the campaign, which requires you to conquer 22 different territories. 
 The similarities to history end there, as the game's three factions each have their own unique 
 units ranging from the fantasy-style monsters of the Pagans, to the religious Imperials and their 
 clergy, and finally to the technology-minded Renaissance who can bring guns and cannons to bear 
 in battle.  

  Warrior Kings: Battles sets itself apart from other games in that you do not explicitly choose 
 a faction at the start of the campaign. Instead, the choices you make in advancing up the tech 
 tree ultimately decide which faction's units are available to you. For example, creating a church 
 at the outset of a game starts you down the Imperial path. This precludes you from building the 
 Pagan equivalent, which is the maypole. Depending on your choices, you may end up with one of two 
 different hybrids of the three factions: Imperial Renaissance or Pagan Renaissance. These hybrids 
 open up more strategic choices for you in terms of what type of army you can field. The variability 
 between the factions, and the flexibility you're given from game to game, is one of the greatest 
 strengths of Warrior Kings: Battles.  

  Unfortunately the game's tutorial doesn't do a good job of explaining the dynamic tech tree, nor 
 does it tell you much about the strengths and weaknesses of the various factions. You'll need to 
 spend a good deal of time perusing the manual and documentation on the CD to learn the advanced 
 functions of the game and the abilities of the various units, instead of learning about these within 
 the context of the game's early missions.  

  The economy in Warrior Kings: Battles offers more complexity than your standard RTS game. Whether 
 or not this complexity is a good thing, however, is open to interpretation. There are three basic 
 resources in the game: food, materials (harvested from wood or stone) , and gold. Peasants out in 
 the field gather the resources and bring them back to a village, situated outside the walls surrounding 
 your manor, which is the center of your base. From the village, a cart transports the stockpiled 
 resources to the manor or to a warehouse where it is finally added to your coffers, ready for spending. 
 It is a rather convoluted way of doing things, but it does allow the possibility (and marginal 
 utility) of raiding and capturing a cart in transit.  

          As you add to your manor, the walls are automatically expanded to fit the new structures. 
     

  Most of the buildings you create, especially the ones that create combat units, must be built within 
 close proximity to your manor. The walls surrounding your manor are automatically torn down to 
 create space where necessary, and new wall foundations are set up automatically for your peasants 
 to rebuild. This means any expansion you make leaves your walls temporarily open to attack.  

 
  Another interesting twist is that each farm you build generates food and opens up food support 
 slots for your military. As you create military units, they not only take up food support units, 
 but also reduce the actual amount of food your farms collectively generate. The larger your standing 
 army, the slower your rate of food production will be, which mimics the artificial upkeep of Warcraft 
 III. However, Warrior Kings: Battles' system lets you create an army that exceeds the number of 
 food support units you have. The oversized army will then start draining your stockpile of food 
 until it reaches zero -- at that point your units start taking damage.  

  What it all adds up to is that the economic buildup in Warrior Kings: Battles feels rather slow 
 compared to other RTS games these days. Creating a large army or getting up the tech tree requires 
 a tremendous amount of time and resources invested into your economy at the outset. Also, the vastness 
 of the maps and the travel time required to get from one end to the other make rushing tactics 
 rather ineffective if you have more than one opponent to worry about, so you're pretty much forced 
 to advance to the later stages instead of attacking early. Pathfinding is also poor, to the point 
 that units will even ignore waypoints you set. Add to this the fact that only siege weapons can 
 do significant damage to structures, and it's almost pointless to build an early strike force to 
 trek across a map. If you decide to build one anyway, or just some troops for base defense, that 
 slows your economy down even further. The game seems heavily slanted in favor of the defense, particularly 
 in the early and mid game.     

  Warrior Kings: Battles' 3D engine has some good points, but in other ways it isn't nearly as impressive. 
 While it offers huge maps and varied terrain with support for hundreds of units in battle, much 
 like the Total War games, the individual units, buildings, and terrain features don't look all 
 that great, particularly if you're zoomed in. The game's sound effects aren't dazzling either; 
 while the music tracks are passable enough, the voice acting is amateurish, particularly the battle 
 yells and death cries.  

          Archer units get a big advantage with elevation.     

  The vastness of Warrior Kings: Battles' maps also makes it pretty easy to lose track of the position 
 of your units as you send them all over the battlefield. For some reason, the game doesn't allow 
 you to snap the point of view to the position of a specific control group, as you can in most other 
 RTS games. The camera allows a large degree of zoom, full rotation, and adjustable angles, but 
 it can be a little difficult to control at times. Jumping from one part of the map to another also 
 feels clunky and awkward, as the camera slides rather slowly, instead of snapping your view quickly. 

  On the plus side, the game does take terrain heavily into account in the battles. Archers and other 
 missile units located on hills fire farther and hit harder than they would on level terrain. Cavalry 
 and other troops attempting to charge up a slope are slowed down. You're also able to form groups 
 of like units into different formations, including column, which allows them to march faster; wedge, 
 for offensive charges; orb, for defense; and line, which is a general formation.  

  That brings us to Warrior Kings: Battles' greatest failing, which is poor unit AI and control -- always 
 a huge flaw for an RTS game. There are too many times when you order a group to attack and they 
 simply do not move. Sometimes they do follow orders, and sometimes a small percentage of the group 
 decides to move out and attack the target while the rest sit still and ignore orders. Once you 
 get caught in a pitched battle, you'll lose all semblance of control. Cavalry will break formation, 
 scattering to chase after far-flung targets when other, more-significant threats remain unharmed, 
 standing close by. Archers and other ranged units will often stop firing once their initial targets 
 are dead or have moved out of range, even as plenty of other targets move in and out of range. 
 Attempting to gather and rally scattered units for a more concerted effort doesn't always work 
 either; for some bizarre reason, individual units often become unbound from their control groups 
 somehow as they scatter. To sum up, the poor unit AI requires you to heavily micromanage your battles, 
 but the lack of responsiveness to your orders makes doing so an exercise in futility.  

          Skirmish is this game's version of instant action.     

  Warrior Kings: Battles fares 
 a little better in its skirmish mode, which includes a special "Valhalla" setting. This mode is 
 similar to king of the hill, where you must control several areas on the map to earn points. Before 
 the battle, you pick different units to make up your army and start the game out with a ready group 
 of hundreds of units, skipping the frustratingly slow economic buildup of the standard game entirely. 
 As your troops die off, new ones respawn at your starting point, making for some fairly bloody 
 mayhem. You can choose from dozens of different AI generals, each with a different skill level 
 and tendencies in different areas including aggression level, predilection for infantry over cavalry, 
 and more. However, all the frustration with unit control and AI still applies here.  

  Warrior Kings: Battles supports up to eight players in multiplayer; the online aspects, however, 
 seem a bit shaky at this point. A couple of games we tried crashed to desktop, and a couple of 
 others lost connection from the server. Reports from European players (the game was released overseas 
 several months ago) on the official game forums confirm stability problems while playing multiplayer 
 matches.  

  Despite its being a follow-up product, Warrior Kings: Battles is a game of unrealized potential. 
 The underlying design is solid, but the execution, particularly the lack of control given to the 
 player, makes the game frustrating to play. The lack of an adequate tutorial and the slow buildup 
 of action also make the game difficult to recommend in light of so many better alternatives in 
 the highly competitive RTS genre. The inclusion of a lengthy campaign and dozens of AI generals 
 to skirmish against certainly gives Warrior Kings: Battles a lot of value out of the box, but whether 
 you'll feel compelled to slog through all of it is another question.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dasha8su
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  This one could have been perfect had it been polished some more, the main drawbacks are the clunky 
 GUI and performance issues.
  
  To put it simply the game was coded very roughly, and the result being you won't see any performance 
 change from using a 10 year old PC as opposed to a new one.
  
  Considering the rather average textures used for the game maps the game runs very slow in comparison 
 to any new RTS titles.
  
  While extrememly fun to play, especially if you like defensive combat techniques and long battles, 
 the game does get a little too easy, mainly due to overpowered unit classes like the Holy warrior 
 which is a heavy cavalry unit that can heal, much like a palladin. add this to the rather daft 
 AI and its very easy to to dominate in the main campaign.
  
  Much work needs to be done on increasing the AI armies efficiency in battle if they stand to deliver 
 any challenge to the player. If you are playing defensively which most likely you will be unless 
 you want the battle to last 10 minutes, the enemy will send raids into your province, the AI actually 
 does a good job of finding weak spots in your defenses and will alter their attack paths according 
 to where you situate your defense forces. if you heavily defend a position on the map they will 
 learn not access that point and look for other ways into your province which is pretty neat.
  
  
  However, comming back to the AI flaws, another problem is AI economy - they start off strong 
 most of the time depending on the specific General you are up against and very quickly run out 
 of resources resulting in very weak raids that drag out for hours, while the player could easily 
 destroy the enemy it harms to longevity of the battle and nagates from the initially fun defensive 
 strategies the player can use.
  
  After a few campaign maps and advancing in the techology tree of choice the player can easily advance 
 to the highest level in that tree before the enemy and destroy 3 enemy provinces whithout loosing 
 a single troop, but thats not what this game intended players to do, its much more fun to play 
 defensive combat in WKB and although it still delivers some good elements of strategic gameplay, 
 the AI fall well short of giving enough challenge to the player.
  
  Given some more work on improving performance issues and fixing the GUI and AI flaws this would 
 have been a very strong title.
  
  One last thing about performance - if you are on map with more than one opposing force and you 
 have a relatively big population the game struggles to keep all your units active resulting in 
 units frozen and unresponsive units .. this needs to be fixed !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  In this day and age of World in Conflict, Company of Heroes and Total War, the strategy genre has 
 been sewn up and is going is far as it can to do the two following: Come up a new mechanic and 
 make it console friendly to. Now the later of course it another way of calling it dumbed down 
 which I can agree with, otherwise it will be a broken version of the PC version. It can be done 
 on a console but just not to the same level as the PC games which leads me onto the former (don't 
 worry I am making a point that goes with the review) , which is there needs to be a new mechanic. 
 You can't just collect resources in a real-time strategy, it has to be new and unconventional and 
 you can't have a straight up fight in a real-time tactics, it has to be bigger and more realistic. 
 Well of course that makes sense as nobody want to play the same things again and again (unless 
 you're Japanese) but where are we going to turn to get the old school experience if that's no longer 
 the focus for developers? Well here is a game, which has all that plus a unique twist of it own.
 
  
  To cut things short, this game is another Warrior Kings game, meaning if you played it you already 
 know whether to hate it and move on or love it and buy this as well. But for those who might be 
 just casually looking then read on. Warrior Kings: Battles (or WKB from now on) is the 2003 sequel 
 to the 2002 Warrior Kings real-time strategy game for the PC (well duh) so the first thing going 
 through your mind is how does it stack up given it being many years old? Personally, it's good 
 and rationally still good, as the base management is less than conventional while still retaining 
 much of that to.
  
  The game takes 100 years after the events in the first Warrior Kings and being an RTS the story 
 is less than most games and is barely mentioned that there were even events before those in WKB. 
 The plot unfolds in the world of Orbis, which is basically a heavily fictionalised Europe and 
 that is an understatement. In the campaign you take the role of a general from Angland (my spell 
 checker is quick to tell me a spelt you know what wrong) in order to reunite the Empire of Orbis 
 that has fragmented after the thrown was usurped by a Duke Ignis Hagens. And that's all you get, 
 there are no cut scenes (except for the battle hungry opening cut scene) or dialogue exchanges, 
 but only the voice of an unknown narrator who may or may not be the guy who does voice-overs for 
 UK trailers. He acts more as an adviser *cough*tutorial*cough* to your military campaign and he 
 serves it up in an acceptable dosage and buggers off ASAP! Now of course you'd think what's the 
 point of playing the campaign without any substance? Better yet why play if all you do each mission 
 is just to destroy the enemy's base? Well let me explain this as I go into the gameplay as each 
 mission is a real challenge and doesn't play out the same each time, plus each has a general with 
 a heap of backstory if you're willing to read it all and it has non-linear Risk style map structure 
 where certain provinces provide certain bonuses next game. Its been done before and since then 
 but hey its a good formula still... just don't expect the Total War experience here.
  
  While the basic RTS mechanic of build base an harvest the usual suspects of food, gold, wood and 
 the non-conformitist fourth resource that actually conforms given that it's a noticeable trend 
 in the RTS genre (in WKB's case it's basically mana but called otherwise depending on your faction) . 
 The difference here is you don't get to you the resource once you've farmed it, no first you drop 
 it off at the nearest village, which is then transported by cart to your main base, only then is 
 it usable. Now this might seem like a bit of a chore to get your armies up and running and I won't 
 lie to you, it is BUT its still fun as the enhanced realism of it all makes your development, along 
 with another gameplay aspect I will explain in the next paragraph, once you get to the warpath 
 stage you feel a great sense of achievement as opposed to the simple assembly line of troops. This 
 of course turns up the challenge and that's not mentioning the food consumption and most buildings 
 requiring to be built by your starting main base. This is a hardcore gamer's game to be blunt so 
 if you're more casual then you're now asking me why I didn't highlight this earlier like I did 
 with the original Warrior Kings fans? Mostly because I'm writing as I go along like many reviews 
 to be honest and so you don't feel to robbed I'll recommend you buy one of the mainstream titles 
 and play it on the easiest difficulty (no that's not an insult so don't be offended but you should 
 know that most hardcore gamers don't like you) .
  
  Anyway back to the review. The much advertised point of this game is the fact there are no default 
 factions. Everyone starts as a basic peasant like community and through construction of certain 
 buildings and troops you develop into a unique faction. There are three prime alignments to take 
 along with two hybrids being Imperial, Pagan, Renaissance, Imperial Renaissance and Pagan Renaissance. 
 The Imperial are a bunch of overly religious zealous knights while the Pagan are their obvious 
 rivals being well Pagans but unlike the countless real world Pagans that were slaughtered in the 
 Dark Ages, these defend themselves with black magic and demonic hordes. The Renaissance on the 
 other hand rejects faith both ways and put instead have put their minds to science and thus harbour 
 slow yet heavy-duty gunpowder siege weapons. The hybrids on the other hand are just like the Imperial 
 and Pagan but with a few different unit choices. The development process is intriguing at first 
 as there isn't much help to begin with so you might find your play style and favoured faction but 
 accident. This calls for less than predictable games and all units are nicely designed so you aren't 
 stuck with the super effective warrior who's great in battle but dressed like a clown. Tactics 
 are also important as ammunition can and will run out without supply carts nearby and tree and 
 hills need to be used to their advantage. And besides the many clashes of troops that will ensue 
 there's also espionage like setting buildings on fire which is amusing actually as you get to see 
 villagers run over with buckets, in most cases being feeble attempts hehehe! Magic also plays a 
 small but important role. It can turn battles in an instant such as helping your economy, raining 
 fire down to give you foe a bloody nose long enough to gather yourself up or even convert the next 
 charge of opposing enemies to your side. You get a great sense of triumph when you perform this 
 and a quick need for revenge if it happens to you. And of course due to the different play types 
 that come with each you'll want to play as all of them throughout the campaign. There's also skirmish 
 with custom AI generals and a Total War scale capture the flag esc game mode to boot. The multiplayer? 
 Empty sorry about that. But hey I bet you could find someone on a forum or a friend erm nah, 
 just plain sorry again. But the AI is so brutal at times its makes up for it, if not more so given 
 the more generals and maps you can unlock throughout the campaign.
  
  Graphics are outdated, that's a given being it 2008 and the game first being released in 2003. 
 Yet even 5 years down the line it still looks good due to its retro charm. Play Age of Empires 
 II or any WarCraft game and you'll know what I mean. Sound on the other hand is great in terms 
 of soldiers yelling out as swords and spears clash and where volleys of various projectiles rain 
 down of soldier and structure alike. The voice acting on the other hand is so so not dramatic 
 or emotive but no really cheesy. Loading times are fairly slow but not to the extent of the Sims 
 6th add-on or Mark of Chaos, plus it comes with an epic battle drums and horns soundtrack which 
 comes in nicely during the larger scale fights. Until those however you get a warm light-hearted 
 chime as you gather build. It's not epic but it fits the mood. There are patches now so any little 
 bugs previous reviews b*tched about far less but the formation and AI path finding is still a little 
 off. It doesn't degrade the gameplay much; it's just something I could see being easily fixed.
 
  
  All in all, WKB is a challenging experience but not an unfair one (unless on the hardest difficulty 
 but who really plays on those?) along with the unique alignment system and variety in play, it 
 comes together as a nice rekindle of the good old RTS days while still providing some freshness 
 to the worn out genre and while its not perfect and far from totally unconventional, for 5 years 
 old its holds up nicely.
  
  Pros:
  - Variety in units and tactics
  - Alignment system allows a change of pace and play
  - Long campaign
  - A real challenge, and 
 a fair one
  - Great soundtrack, both epic and calm
  
  Cons:
  - Empty multiplayer
  - Some technical issues
  - Resource management and base development might be to slow paced for 
 some 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
