-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wars and Warriors: Joan of Arc
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/joanofarc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 13, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.3, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 200 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Enlight Software
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 7, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Designer Trevor Chan's first foray into action games yields mixed results, because this third-person 
 hack-and-slash suffers from some rookie mistakes. 

  Designer Trevor Chan has a reputation for making strategy games that slip under most people's radars 
 but deliver very good gameplay experiences. In particular, though they might not have been best-sellers, 
 Chan's Seven Kingdoms and Capitalism games earned great reviews from critics and strategy fans 
 alike. Wars and Warriors: Joan of Arc represents Chan's first foray into the action genre. While 
 it does incorporate strategy elements, the game is mainly an arcade action offering about France's 
 most famous heroine. Though we wanted to like Joan of Arc, we found it burdened by a number of 
 rookie mistakes, including a bad camera, poor pathfinding, and lackluster artificial intelligence. 

          Every French maiden-turned-warrior-general wants a pony to ride in to battle.     

 
  With its emphasis on combo moves and hack-and-slash gameplay, Joan of Arc bears a lot of resemblance 
 to the Dynasty Warriors action games for the PlayStation 2. In fact, it feels very much like a 
 console-style action game, and Enlight actually does have plans to publish an Xbox version of Joan 
 of Arc later this year. Though there's nothing wrong with this, you might get the impression that 
 Joan of Arc was designed first and foremost as a console game, rather than having taken advantage 
 of the PC platform's unique advantages.  

  You'll play as Joan of Arc and several other famous French military commanders of the era. The 
 action takes place mainly from a third-person perspective -- though you can switch to first-person 
 when using ranged weapons like longbows and crossbows -- and you spend most of the game running around 
 looking for mobs of English soldiers to slay. These include pikemen, macemen, knights, and the 
 dreaded longbowmen. Even though you'll often find yourself facing 30-to-1 odds or greater, you 
 can usually beat all of your foes relatively easily. The key is in using combo moves and special 
 attacks to keep knocking your foes down. Once they're down, you can use other combo moves to deliver 
 killing blows.  

  The combo moves are rather easy to execute, and there are no mouse gestures required, like in the 
 Jedi Knight games. All you need to do is click the left and right mouse buttons in certain sequences. 
 As Joan gains experience over time, she can learn new combo moves, enhance old ones, or improve 
 her stats and hit points. The combat definitely has a Diablo-like feel to it. Any time your health 
 drops, you can pause the game by accessing your inventory. Then you can eat a loaf of bread or 
 a fish, which restores your hits points. You can then unpause the game. It's the equivalent of 
 hitting the F1 key to quaff a healing potion in Diablo during the middle of a fight.  

  The game takes place over eight missions, which doesn't sound like a lot, but these are huge missions. 
 The latter ones average between three to five hours apiece, since you usually have multiple towns, 
 villages, cities, and castles to liberate, as well as hundreds of Englishmen to kill. While the 
 levels are huge, there are also invisible walls everywhere that limit where you can go. For instance, 
 you can't go over a hill, even if the slope isn't that steep. Rather, you have to follow the path 
 around it. Similarly, you can't cut straight through a forest. Instead you have to follow the mazelike 
 paths through it. Everywhere is the invisible hand of the designer, who forces you to follow his 
 path. It can be frustrating when you have to go around an obstacle that shouldn't be an obstacle 
 in the first place.  

          Joan and her men find themselves outnumbered after storming the walls of a city.     

 
  The camera tends to be one of the most important elements in third-person action games. You don't 
 even notice the camera if it works well, but if it works badly, you curse it a lot. The camera 
 in Joan of Arc works rather well when the action takes place out in the open, though it does have 
 the occasional nasty habit of suddenly cutting to a different angle in the middle of a fight. This, 
 of course, causes you to momentarily lose your orientation. Aside from this minor annoyance, the 
 camera has serious problems when combat takes place in the close confines of a city or a forest. 
 It constantly swings around to different angles in a sudden, jarring, and dizzying manner. Solid 
 objects, like walls and roofs, often swing into view and block the action. Though sometimes they're 
 made semitransparent, they're still not transparent enough to actually allow you to discern what's 
 going on. The only way out is to keep hacking-and-slashing so that you can bust out into the open, 
 where the camera will return to normal.     

   

  You can ride and fight on horseback, which is one of the cool aspects of the game. Riding into 
 a crowd of Englishmen is a lot like watching the cavalry charges in the  Lord of the Rings  movies, 
 though only Joan can ride a horse. However, the horse controls are very awkward. As a result, riding 
 the horse is a lot like trying to drive a bumper car since you run into invisible obstacles and 
 have to back up and turn. Additionally, the camera has a way of bending out of position in a fight 
 until it eventually presents Joan from the side. You need to constantly get off and remount the 
 horse to reset the camera.  

          In RTS mode, you can maneuver these cannons around to destroy defensive towers.     

 
  There is a strategy element in Joan of Arc, since you can toggle between the third-person action 
 and a traditional top-down real-time strategy view. This allows you to lasso units with the mouse 
 and then direct them on the map. Though good in concept, it's a bit clunky in execution. It's basically 
 useful for moving large numbers of units from point A to point B. Yet this is hampered by poor 
 unit pathfinding. Entire squads can easily get stuck behind a hill or mountain, so you have to 
 hold their hands around the obstacles.  

  Enemy AI is rather simple, so soldiers will either run around randomly, or they'll stand around 
 until you get close enough to trigger them. Then they'll swarm you from all angles, thus making 
 it easier for you to knock them over like dominoes. The AI for bosses is utterly predictable, so 
 all you have to do is allow them to get close and then dodge as they execute their special attacks. 
 As soon as they finish, you can run up and combo strike them to knock them down. They'll get up 
 and charge you again, so you'll have to repeat the process -- about 10 or 15 more times. There's 
 obviously no discernable cunning or intelligence at work here.  

  The graphics in Joan of Arc look good but don't incorporate any of the eye candy that we've come 
 to expect from action games. There's no bump mapping, glittering water surfaces, or shiny suits 
 of armor. The visuals do a fairly good job of rendering huge melee fights with more than a hundred 
 warriors on the screen, though. Towns and cities are nicely rendered, but there's not a lot of 
 interactivity with the environment. On the other hand, there's some excellent music in the game 
 that captures the bombastic tones found in Hollywood movies such as  Gladiator . However, the voice 
 acting suffers both from bad delivery and bad mixing. Voices sound tinny or muted, and there are 
 times when you can barely hear them over the music.  

          Boss battles are pretty easy once you figure out how to dodge the boss's combo attacks. 
     

  Joan of Arc does not ship with any multiplayer component, which is a shame, because there's the 
 potential for some wild player-versus-player melee matches here. Since the official title of the 
 game is Wars and Warriors: Joan of Arc, it seems likely that Trevor Chan plans on making additional 
 Wars and Warriors games about other famous warriors. Hopefully, he and his development team can 
 learn from their experiences and can consequently iron out the PC version's camera and AI issues 
 for the Xbox version. Then, Chan will be able to build on Joan of Arc for future games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dewytripp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game was not that bad for a first time designer. Yes it had some annoying flaws and yes it 
 was very repetitive but all in all beating the crap out of a bunch of baddies is kinda fun. First 
 problem I noticed while playing this game is that if you die and you havn't saved your game you 
 have to restart the entire mission. There are 8 missions in the game and all of them excluding 
 the first one take more than an hour and a half to complete. Not a terrible prob but be sure to 
 save at major checkpoints while on a mission (killing a boss capturing a castle etc) . another problem 
 is the AI. there are parts in the game where you have to climb small staircases then kill some 
 dudes to complete a task. If you are leading troops at those points they clog the stairways and 
 it is almost impossible to get out. Also while following you your troops can easily get snagged 
 by objects in their direct path (buildings, trees, siege machines etc..) Last big problem with the 
 gameplay is the RTS (real-time-strategy) . You need to switch rom 3d person to RTS to command sieges 
 and to order units to attack enemies. Firstly the angle of the RTS screen is too low so if your 
 units are spaced out its impossible to box them all at once. Also when moving the RTS screen it 
 dosn't move the same way as in 3d person if you move your mouse to the right the screen goes left 
 down.. weird glitch that still dosn't make any sense to me. Aside from the gameplay and the repetitiveness 
 of the game (lay sieges, kill baddies, kill bosses, buy stuff, lay sieges, kill baddies... etc) 
 I liked the graphics and the object of going around and swashbuckling your way into enemy lines 
 is very enjoyable (although I doubt Joan of Arc ever did it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshianup06
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Well, historical events are buffed up with interesting, fancy and stylish characters as well as 
 heavy fantasy action which includes of one-man army going through historical battles. Third person 
 view works pretty good with camera following you around, captures majority of your own movements 
 and enemies' movements but not helping you to key point of the game. Enemies are dumb, improves 
 and gets tougher with your own achievements, so difficulty is pretty linear, but the game is about 
 war, not fight so enemy easily outnumber you, which get more fun as you go hardcore, piercing your 
 hot knife in butter, the part that i liked the most about this game. Graphic is pretty texture 
 based, beautiful but with less object detail and more texture detail. I personally liked this game, 
 and any "non-perfectionist" gamer would love this game. The game play is very very smooth and easy 
 to handle, few movements but lots of character attribute improvement options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Julio_Brutal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  The combat system is great, and the game overall is very cool. Nice lvling system also. I liked 
 the way to feed your army and taking over towns and all that, the maps are also very good.
  I just found it boring and hard to complete a few missions, mostly on using machines like catapults, 
 really hard to manage, since the controls are not good on doing so. And the game is a little bit 
 short. But besides that, its just perfect.
  
  That is my review of this great game. Can't remember much, it's been years since I played it.
 
  
  Why do I have to finish writing like 800 caracters if my review is finished dammit... i almost 
 delete everything i wrote cuz this pisses me off, but i wont cuz not many people have reviewed 
 this game and it deserves something better, i really think its underaprecciated!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Hack and slash, dodge a projectile, shoot an arrow, order up your units in RTS mode, and more hack 
 and slash; that pretty much sums up the gameplay in Wars and Warriors: Joan of Arc. While this 
 simplistic formula may sound uninteresting and can get repetitive for some, I found it to be tremendously 
 enjoyable. Though not without its flaws (especially in RTS mode) , Joan of Arc is a simple yet fun 
 action game, that any fan of France's greatest heroine or anyone looking to blow some steam while 
 experimenting a nice mix of gaming elements can truly enjoy.
  
  One thing that I have to clarify from the beginning is that this game is not historically accurate. 
 The characters and settings are real, but this is more of a "happy version" of the Joan of Arc 
 story. This can be a turnoff for some people, but truth to be told an action game where your main 
 character dies at the end just wouldn't be right. Also, as good as a warrior Joan might have been 
 in real life, I highly doubt she could single-handedly take on 200 English warriors and live to 
 fight another day. With that little disclaimer out of the way, let's move on.
  
  As previously mentioned, the gameplay is very simple hacking and slashing. This is for the most 
 part an action game, though it incorporates a couple of strategy elements along the way (and a 
 few RPG elements) . Hacking and slashing is the bread and butter of the combat and thankfully it 
 is truly excellent. Joan starts as a simple warrior who can execute a few moves, but as her experience 
 grows you can adjust her attributes to turn her into a mighty warrior (RPG style) . Along the way, 
 you'll also learn plenty of combo moves that are simply a joy to execute. This combo moves will 
 come in handy when you're placed against overwhelming forces of English warriors, and boy will 
 you be thrown against hordes of enemies. The battles in this game are truly awe inspiring; you 
 will be outnumbered in practically every battle (at times it can be Joan by herself against 30-50 
 enemies) and while this can be intimidating at first, once you develop you warrior skills, mowing 
 down the enemies isn't hard at all (plus you will always have access to healing items, which you 
 can use during the middle of the battles) . It all comes down to properly using the combos (especially 
 the heavy attack combos) so that you can knock down the enemies, while delivering killer blows 
 as they lie on the floor. Knocking down large groups of enemies is perhaps the best example of 
 the "simple yet fun" aspect of this game.
  
  But you won't always fight alone, along the journey you'll fight alongside several French commanders 
 (some of which you can also directly control and develop their skills) and plenty of supporting 
 units. This is where the RTS portion of Joan of Arc comes into play, seeing how it's relatively 
 easier to control a large army in RTS mode, and I say relatively because the RTS mode is a little 
 clunky in execution. For starters one of the games biggest flaws (if not the biggest) is the poor 
 pathfinding of your units; they tend to get stuck in trees, siege weapons, castles, other units, 
 or any other obstacle so you always have to keep an eye on them. Another thing that hampers the 
 RTS mode is the camera, which tends to rotate itself in weird angles every time you enter RTS mode 
 and this can be somehow confusing, especially in the heat of battle. It's not so much that the 
 game isn't enjoyable in RTS mode, it's just that it isn't very well implemented. Fortunately, you 
 can spend most of the game in action mode and only enter RTS mode when you need to lasso up a large 
 group units and move them across the map.
  
  The game is divided in eight missions, which at first may make you think this is another 8-10 hour 
 game, but the missions in this game (specifically missions four and above) are plain and simply, 
 huge. Starting with mission four, I spent an average 5 hours on each mission, which is in part 
 due to the fact that I did every single main and side quest available. The sheer number of objectives 
 that show up at the beginning of every mission is once again overwhelming, but it adds a lot to 
 the epic feel of every mission. Most quests involve taking over castles, towns, liberating prisoners 
 or acquiring a certain treasure or pack of goods. Completing the main quests will allow you to 
 move on to the next mission, while completing each side quest will usually yield a special reward, 
 like gemstones or amulets that enhance your skills, as well as hard to find weapons (one of the 
 side quests in mission four in particular is extremely important if you wish to turn Joan into 
 a truly fearsome warrior) .
  
  The great thing about the missions in this game is that they make you feel like you're a small 
 part of an epic battle; watching arrows fly from the towers (or arbalests) , siege weapons bring 
 down gates, allied generals exchanging blows with enemy generals, all while you're infiltrating 
 the enemy lines and trying to bring down your opponent from the inside, makes up an epic medieval 
 warfare environment. One thing that should be said is that all the action taking place can be too 
 overwhelming for some people and thus can lead to some frustration. The first three missions aren't 
 that difficult since you don't have to take down any castles, but the missions that require you 
 to take over castles, will force you to first break down the enemies outer defences and then deal 
 with all their internal defences (hundreds of archers on walls and towers) , all while being attacked 
 by their ground forces. If you're the kind of gamer that doesn't like being overwhelmed or is easily 
 frustrated, you may have a hard time dealing with this. Still, on the normal difficulty, the game 
 is relatively easy, so as long as you're moderately good at games, you shouldn't have too much 
 of a hard time. For the record, my favourite strategy was to let all my generals deal with the 
 ground forces, while Joan infiltrated the castles and took down most of the archers.
  
  Another flaw in the game that must be mentioned, is the poor AI displayed by both the enemy and 
 your allies. This is mostly noticeable during the fights with enemy generals; your units will walk 
 into their heavy attacks and will constantly get beaten down (all while consuming your healing 
 items) , and once these guys are down, the enemy generals will charge after you following a very 
 predictable pattern, which makes them relatively easy to defeat (although defeating them will be 
 a time consuming affair) .
  
  The graphics in this game are nothing spectacular, though they're not bad either. The environments 
 look lively and the weather effects, as well as the transition between night and day, are a nice 
 touch. However almost every unit looks rather bland and generic (except from your generals of course) , 
 and their movements are rather awkward (for instance villagers don't walk, they just sort of float 
 around) . The game does maintain a smooth framerate even during the larger battles, which considering 
 the amount of units on screen, is a great accomplishment.
  
  The sound on the other hand is absolutely fantastic for the most part. As you walk around exploring, 
 classy and mellow tunes play in the background, but as soon as you enter a battle the game switches 
 to some spectacular and pompous tunes that do a lot to enhance the epic feel of the battles. The 
 sound of weapons is also excellent, from the swords clashing with armour to the siege weapons laying 
 waste on a castle, and every combo move executed by a general is accompanied with a really cool 
 "whoosh" sound. Combine the epic music with the great sound of weapons, and the battles are elevated 
 to an entirely different level. The only thing that holds down the audio department a bit is the 
 poor voice acting. Joan herself rarely says anything (aside from her usual taunt, "come on, there's 
 a country to be saved") , and the rest of the French generals have some awkward voices (except for 
 Alencon) . There are also some cutscenes where there is no voiceover. Still, the good far outweighs 
 the bad in this department, since the epic music does a lot to enhance the experience, while the 
 voice acting doesn't hurt it so much.
  
  This game is certainly not for everyone; gamers with discriminating tastes will find it too simplistic 
 (and the clunky RTS mode will annoy them) and others can find it occasionally frustrating, but 
 for me it was an awesome gaming experience. From beginning to end, it never lost that epic feel 
 that is so critical in an action game of this nature. It may be historically inaccurate, but the 
 Joan of Arc story is great no matter what spin you put on it. For those who admire the life and 
 accomplishments of the Saint, it's a very worthy purchase. Those who demand perfection from their 
 games may want to give it a pass, but for anyone who's willing to forgive a few technical shortcomings, 
 this is one nice blend of action, strategy and RPG elements that I can certainly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirtheonly
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The good: Massive battles, character leveling up system, terrain and scenery, wide map, accurate 
 radar.
  The bad: Too short, repititive, not that interesting to waste your bucks on.
  The ugly: Almost no storyline.
  
  First impressions: Good hack-n-slash with some graphics to 
 look at, but What am I doing here? will be your first question.
  
  Sounds: Satisfactory; ambient sounds are fine, swords clashing sounds are somewhat the same every 
 time, dialogues and voice work is a trifle poor, but I think the background music's not that disappointing.
 
  
  Graphics: As simple as they're good; the terrain's great, character models are somewhat robot-looking, 
 buildings and castles are amazing to watch, grass and trees are quite good.
  
  Gameplay: Great if you like to wade through groups of different soldiers (archers, swordsmen, their 
 commanders etc) and let your sword do its job. At a lot of points, the game was a bit too difficult; 
 it needed tactics and some use of your head, but other than that, you almost always have the advantage 
 in battles, meaning it's neither hard nor easy. The battles against the English armies guarding 
 their castles or attacking yours was something I always enjoyed; when I have only Joan, and I have 
 to cut through all the tens of them. I also especially liked the leveling up system, that is, after 
 you've killed a number of enemies, you get enough experience points to level up. You get some points 
 to add to your attributes (strength, dexterity, defense or leadership) and a less number to improve 
 your attacks and buy combos and such stuff. For example, you start with AAA (3 slahses in a row) 
 attack at power 1, then when you have gained a level, you can increase its power by 1, or buy the 
 AAAA attack (that's 4 continuous slashes.) But beyond the Characters - Joan herself, De Metz, La 
 Heire, D'Alencon etc - and the character leveling up system - that of 30 levels which allows perfect 
 specialisation of your Heroes - I think the game story was almost the same every level - forgot 
 to say you finish a map, then play the next one and finish it etc like Chaos Legion - where you 
 simply charge into a group of English troops and nail them, or just siege their city and slay its 
 keepers; that was pretty boring at some times, but it was always fun - to me at least - to explore 
 the wide map and do the side quests.
  
  Overall view: I personally liked this game, that's because I am a Chaos Legion fan, and I have 
 pure fun brandishing my sword and slicing my enemy's guts, and you should expect the same with 
 you if you're my type of games. Still, I bet you'd only play it once, I know I did. But if you 
 weren't a fan of such hack-n-slash games, don't look for a storyline in this game; it's just the 
 same young French maiden who walks here and there and fights these and those, nothing at all interesting. 
 Thus, think a million times before buying this game; do you seek to just have your unique set of 
 characters who can make burger out of the invading English, or you seek something, say ... deeper?
 
  
  Final advice: Unless you're Bill Gates or Oprah, don't spend more than 10$ on it ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Joan of arc is a kind of game that has historical background. If you like the clanking of swords, 
 you definitely like this game. You can also find the main character Joan of arc as a hero in age 
 of empire. It is a big game. Some of the 
  graphical effect of this game are really fantastic, like the dynamic 
  grass. The goal of this 
 game is to defeat England Empire, as you are 
  in the French side. The battle is in between England and France. You can play 
  with various 
 French general like Joan de Metz, La hire etc, each has
  their own style of fighting & weapons. You can switch between available generals during battles. 
 The enemy of the game is not so hard so 
  beat, but the archers behind the wall and in the tower can give you 
  a large problem. The enemy 
 A. I. is fair enough. There are some irritating 
  things I faced while playing the game, sometimes you could see that the 
  maps are very much 
 similar to each other. And one thing the England 
  generals come back again and again after you beat them in a battle. You 
  have to beat a general 
 a numbers of time. But if one of your generals
  died in battle, it's game over. You can ride horse and there are two view - normal third person 
 view & the strategic view like normal strategy game. The game doesn't give consistence frame rate 
 all the time during the game play especially in the battle time.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
