-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: War Wind II: Human Onslaught
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warwind2humanonslaught/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 23, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.4, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 34 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: DreamForge
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may not be the most highly talked-about game ever to crash the real-time party, but it is certainly 
 one of the most entertaining. 

 Enormously successful games - particularly the Warcraft and Command &amp; Conquer franchises - have 
 a unique way of spurring growth in the industry, opening up new avenues and opportunities for intrepid 
 developers and publishers while attracting important new blood into the hobby. However, on a short-term 
 basis, banner titles have a strange way of overshadowing equally compelling titles, crowding out 
 those games unfortunate enough to have been released within the same launch window and that, as 
 a result, lack the same fanfare afforded the more anticipated titles.   

 In the case of War Wind - DreamForge Intertainment's first foray into the now inundated real-time 
 strategy genre - the game was initially greeted by a lukewarm reception, ignored, in large part, 
 due to the highly publicized arrival of Warcraft II. Now, about a year and a half later, gamers 
 who, for whatever reason, may have overlooked the precursor can seize the bull by the horns and 
 scrutinize the sequel a wee bit closer, perhaps rediscovering this little real-time gem amidst 
 the pile of mediocrity suffocating the marketplace.  

 SSI's War Wind II: The Human Onslaught is a fitting follow-on to War Wind, relating, in exquisite 
 detail, the war-torn saga that has enveloped the distant planet of Yavaun. Silently residing at 
 the edge of the universe, Yavaun, as you may or may not recall, has been beset by decades of civil 
 unrest, immersed in a colossal war that threatens the very fabric of life on the aged planet. Four 
 radically divergent factions - the Tha' Roon, the Obblinox, the Shama'Li, and the Eaggra - have 
 been at odds for some time, enjoined in a genocidal war with but one obvious if reprehensible conclusion. 
 Years have passed since their first world war, and, exhausted by the struggle, the four dissimilar 
 races have temporarily set aside their differences to regroup and recover.   

 As we soon learn, members of the human race have unknowingly been dragged into the latest conflagration, 
 teleported from their own Arctic hinterland, across the galaxy, and onto Yavaun's savage surface. 
 It seems a scientific expedition, bolstered by a powerful US Marine detachment, was, at the time 
 of its kidnapping, attempting to unearth an otherworldly stone firmly wedged in the polar ice. 
 When the expedition finally freed the stone, a mystical spell, conjured up by powerful necromancers 
 on Yavaun, succeeded in dematerializing then rematerializing the humans and their equipment to 
 their all-new tropical environs.   

 Essentially, with the introduction of the humans, the plot on Yavaun has now thickened. As we discover, 
 the Tha' Roon and the Obblinox have joined forces, as have the Shama'Li and the Eaggra. Meanwhile, 
 the human faction has somehow managed to splinter into two sects: one tracing the struggle of the 
 human scientists, the other following the exploits of the Marines. As you've no doubt already guessed, 
 each group attempts to rise to power over the other three, employing its own innate characteristics 
 and traits to best its opponents and set the record straight.  

 As was the case before, War Wind II infuses an intriguing RPG element into the somewhat staid real-time 
 wargaming genre. Player characters are selected prior to mission start-up and must locate and acquire 
 various objects scattered about the map, storing, using, or exchanging these items to suit the 
 victory conditions or improve their overall status. And, while your forces must continually do 
 battle with indigenous life forms and other hostile creatures haphazardly mingling amidst the tropical 
 landscape, there are situations where your player characters must holster their weapons and interact 
 with various non-player characters to gain invaluable information. To keep the game fresh and appealing, 
 new units - such as the Overlord's two-headed giants - have been integrated into the original order 
 of battle, which helps to flesh out the world of Yavaun apart from what we already know. Like any 
 ambitious title, there are a few niggling problems that tend to complicate gameplay. For instance, 
 the Marine units, clad in olive drab uniforms, are especially difficult to discern as they saunter 
 about in the bright green foliage. Time and again, I lost track of these units when they intermingled 
 with the lush green flora. And, although the interface is intuitive, War Wind II utilizes a fairly 
 complex method of highlighting units. Instead of selecting and deselecting multiple units with 
 a single mouse click, I was often forced to repeat certain commands because I had inadvertently 
 clicked on more than one unit with the impromptu group command.   

 Four campaigns - comprising over 46 imaginative scenarios - help to tell the all-new saga engulfing 
 the world of Yavaun. Together with a robust scenario editor and various multiplayer options, War 
 Wind II, in the final analysis, may not be the most highly talked-about game ever to crash the 
 real-time party, but it is certainly one of the most entertaining.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gelugon_baat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 1:16 am PT
Review:  This game is a mixture of many genres as rocks are mixtures of minerals. Unfortunately, like the 
 said geological deposits, this game is naturally (pun intended) sharp and craggy on the edges, 
 and hardly homogeneous (pun again intended) .
  
  Like the first game, this game plays like an RTS that attempts to emulate an RPG. A handful of 
 units can be transferred forward to later levels, together with their loot and upgrades.
  
  The odd tech tree is still there, though some chinks have fortunately been ironed out (like the 
 need to build some useless vehicles before certain techs can be unlocked) . This sequel has also 
 thrown in some novel ideas into the mix, like recruiting troops from peasantry and having peasantry 
 of two different potentials, which result in stronger units and later different units altogether.
 
  
  The game has also introduce two different types of resources, one of which is somewhat like Vespene 
 Gas from Starcraft (which is made and released later, so SSI die-hards can actually claim that 
 Vespene Gas is not an original design of an RTS resource) . The other is Supplies, which is required 
 for the maintenance of units.
  
  The sequel also introduces two new factions into the mix, both of which are comprised of humans, 
 in order to introduce a storyline twist to the universe of War Wind. The original factions have 
 been merged into two camps, such that each faction can have entirely different sets of units suited 
 for commanders with different tastes in strategies. There are even different commander units for 
 each faction.
  
  All of the new things mentioned above are quite fresh to the RTS genre actually. With all these 
 new features, one would think that War Wind II would stand out of the crowd.
  
  Unfortunately, the developers and publisher of War Wind II must have made the mistake of thinking 
 that new ideas are good ideas. New ideas are only good, but if and only if they are well implemented. 
 And they were all quite poorly implemented really.
  
  First off, I chastise the need to recruit from peasantry. The first game used the Inn Hiring system, 
 wherein inns respawn recruits that can be hired. The developers must have thought that with multiple 
 inns and enough resources, an overwhelming army can be created - something that they detested as 
 there were many games such as this. However, they fail to realize that the uniform (and high) cost 
 of hiring recruits pretty much ensures that overwhelming armies can never be sustained, and once 
 broken, that player is doomed. The developers retained the high recruitment costs, and limited 
 the number of peasants in every map. Unfortunately, veteran players would be quick to realize that 
 there are peasants of certain races, and that their villagers can be quite far from the bases of 
 factions that require their recruitment. Therefore, it is to be expected that unscrupulous players 
 resort to genocide to deprive their enemies of soldiers. The Overlords are particularly vulnerable 
 to this tactic.
  
  If a present day game includes this feature, it would be shunned for having gameplay balance issues 
 - which this game has in doles.
  
  Next, the inclusion of two extra resource types in addition to the standard one and the influence 
 meter. Butanium is required for proper running of vehicles and mecha units. Running out would result 
 in their performance deteriorating. That is acceptable, and in fact, many latter day games utilize 
 such a type of resource. Having a hit to influence when there is a deficiency of butanium fuel 
 is also quite acceptable. The same can be said for Supplies. Unfortunately, the functions of both 
 resources are not conducive to another feature of the game, which is to transfer units from one 
 level to the next. Granted that some units, and upgrades for some units, and the starting units 
 for a level, may well all use Butanium and most certainly Supplies, it could result in deficiencies 
 and hits to influence rather quickly. In fact, the developers seem to realize this and infused 
 extra resources whenever there is a scenario that negates base-building. This adds unneeded and 
 incomprehensible urgency to certain levels. Moreover, the inclusion of toggling between the traditional 
 unit limits/capacity and the aforementioned unit upkeep functions for the Supplies resource is 
 pretty much proof that the developers are not really confident of this idea. 
  
  Juggling multiple resources is not simple, even in present-day games like Civilizations and Sins 
 of a Solar Empire, which often utilize dumb-downs to streamline gameplay.
  
  Next, the squeezing of the original factions. The original factions were defined quite uniquely 
 from each other, so one would think that having the Overlords and the S. U. N. would have very unique 
 potent mixes of flavors now. Unfortunately, gameplay balance is quite an issue with these two. 
 The Overlords require peasants of two different races, which once recruited, result in a footsoldier 
 and worker respectively. Clever enemies would simply commit the aforementioned genocidal tactic, 
 albeit in a more targeted fashion to hobble the Overlord player either militarily or economically. 
 The S. U. N., on the other hand, can only access most of their best units by recruiting Shama'Li 
 peasants, so enemies can hobble their army with - again - targeted genocide.
  
  Then, we have the two new factions. Unlike the S. U. N. and Overlords, which seem quite well balanced 
 in comparison (though both still have issues, as mentioned above) , the human factions of the Marines 
 and the Descendants are what present-day developers and gamers would immediately deplore as "imba". 
 The Marines have, obviously, the most powerful and toughest units in the game. With high damage, 
 high armor, high hitpoints and high-everything-else and no effective counter-balancing, the Marines 
 would tend to be able to wipe everyone else off the map rather quickly. In contrast, the Descendants 
 can be described as pansies who can only field units half as strong as the S. U. N.'s, who at least 
 have the advantages of speed and attack rate. Sure, the pansies have fast and efficient worker 
 units, but being overall terrible at combat is a serious deficiency that should have been realized 
 and corrected by the developers.
  
  In any case, the best worthwhile contribution of War Wind II to the RTS genre would be to show 
 the effectiveness of targeted genocide, which is NOT a plus point for the game and certainly not 
 an intention of its developers. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
