-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Warzone 2100
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/warzone2100/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 21, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 8.0, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 286 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Pumpkin Studios
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Apr 10, 1999 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Warzone 2100's highly navigable 3D engine, unique campaign structure, and multiplayer gameplay should 
 please most real-time strategy fans. 

 The recession period of the real-time strategy game nears an end. Over the next several months, 
 you should be able to sink your collective resource gatherers into a host of highly anticipated 
 real-time strategy games, including Total Annihilation: Kingdoms and Command &amp; Conquer 2: Tiberian 
 Sun. But how has the real-time strategy game changed during the genre's extended absence? Warzone 
 2100, from Eidos Interactive and Pumpkin Studios, marks a slight deviation from the formula, emphasizing 
 action over strategy and combat over base micromanagement. Impressive in some areas yet lacking 
 in others, Warzone 2100's highly navigable 3D engine, unique campaign structure, and multiplayer 
 gameplay should please most real-time strategy fans.  

 In the year 2085, the system designed to protect North America from nuclear warfare malfunctions. 
 Instead of defending against an assault, the NASDA satellite system launches a first attack against 
 the major cities around the world, and targeted countries soon retaliate against North America 
 with their own set of missiles. Fast-forward to 2100 - a group of survivors form The Project to 
 search for pre-collapse technologies. As a commander heading up the effort, you'll realize over 
 the course of the game's three campaigns that you aren't alone in the search for old technology. 

 Like most real-time strategy games, Warzone 2100 follows a basic formula: Gather resources, construct 
 your base, and then engage enemy defenses. Although the formula remains intact, there are several 
 twists. Warzone 2100 eschews the art of resource management for the most part, particularly in 
 the single-player campaign. Gone is the need to create dozens of resource gatherers, like Command 
 &amp; Conquer's harvesters or Starcraft's SCVs. And you won't have to concentrate on multiple moneymaking 
 endeavors. Just one commodity exists in the future: oil. Locate the oil source, construct an oil 
 derrick and a power station, and the "money" begins pouring in. Trucks, the chief builders in the 
 game, serve simply for building base structures and repairing them.  

 Moving the focus away from the - some would argue - tedious micromanagement of resource gathering 
 makes room for Warzone 2100's extensive research tech tree and unit design. Instead of dishing 
 out generic tanks, jeeps, and planes, Warzone 2100 permits you to design units based on whichever 
 chassis, wheels, weapons, and special abilities have been researched. For instance, perhaps you 
 need a small, fast, reconnaissance unit; just open up the design menu, select the various components, 
 then begin construction at a factory. Once the weaker units become obsolete (as you're sure to 
 eventually research better components) , you can delete the design and even recycle the old units 
 for the new and improved variety. Unit types include tanks, hovercraft, VTOLs (aircraft) , and cyborg 
 infantry, and weapons such as rockets, mortars, machine guns, cannons, and cluster bombs can be 
 fitted to the designs. Although the box touts over 2,000 different unit design combinations, the 
 actual number seems more limited. For instance, tanks have five different body styles on which 
 you can affix several different tracks and weaponry, leaving you with five similar tanks (though 
 the more-powerful body styles receive the better weapon choices) . The artificial intelligence of 
 units is impressive, though most of the positive effects rely on various interface options. Units 
 can be ordered to retreat when damaged, fire at long range, or attach themselves to sensor towers 
 to attack enemies within range. Additionally, units gain experience based on the number of kills; 
 a unit with more experience will fire more accurately and withstand more punishment. A glance at 
 the game manual reveals that if a unit manages to amass 512 kills, it will achieve hero status. 
 Although that figure seems absurd, there are so many enemy units in Warzone 2100 (and you'll build 
 plenty yourself) , that a high kill count isn't necessarily out of reach. Another nice touch in 
 Warzone 2100 is unit autonomy. A repair bot will commence repairs on any nearby damaged unit without 
 being handheld through the process. Despite their intelligence, units can't seem to get from point 
 A to point B correctly each time, and Warzone 2100 features some moderate unit-pathfinding frustrations. 

 Warzone 2100's best feature is the 3D engine - it looks great, with detailed terrain and weather 
 effects, and it's extremely fast, especially when coupled with a Direct3D-supported 3D accelerator 
 (the software mode is understandably less appealing) . In a visual style quite close to Cavedog's 
 Total Annihilation, the battlefield comes alive with rolling terrain, elevated plateaus, deep valleys, 
 and more than enough colorful weapon and explosion effects. Video clips play in between and even 
 during missions, providing the lowdown on the task ahead. To complement the excellent 3D engine 
 is an easy-to-use and highly configurable interface. Keyboard commands can be completely remapped, 
 a handy feature considering how freely you can maneuver the floating camera.  

 As mentioned before, the single-player game emphasizes action over construction, and this is reflected 
 in the campaign structure. Instead of building a brand-new base for each mission, your belongings, 
 including units and experience points, are carried over to subsequent missions within that campaign. 
 Not only does this put an emphasis on defensive structures, of which there are plenty, but it encourages 
 you to keep experienced units alive. Most players will welcome the unique mission structure, but 
 the concept isn't without a few problems. The majority of missions include the dreaded timer, a 
 potential annoyance when objectives change midmission. The timer becomes most irritating, though, 
 in the "kill everything that moves" missions, when an occasional pesky enemy tank hides meekly 
 in the corner of the map. Also, the single-player game starts off quite slow with the first 12 
 or 13 missions being little more than the "destroy the enemy base" variety. Fortunately, the interest 
 level picks up in the second and third campaign, offering new terrain sets, a few new mission goals, 
 and different explosive toys to play with.   

 Although Warzone 2100 slips a bit in the single-player game, the multiplayer experience takes in 
 the slack. The usual gamut of protocols are supported (LAN, modem, TCP/IP Internet as well as Mplayer) , 
 and Warzone 2100 offers several game options like unit restrictions, initial base layout, teams, 
 alliances, and a number of computer opponents. A single-player skirmish mode is also included for 
 multiplayer practice. The multiplayer game builds on Warzone 2100's key concepts, specifically 
 how to manage your  ratio and puts resource gathering and base 
 construction more on the forefront.   

 After the dust has settled, Warzone 2100 will be remembered most for its elaborate interface and 
 beautiful 3D engine. The single-player game, while including some innovative features, starts slowly 
 and never really reaches an engaging level. Multiplayer, however, should interest most, particularly 
 real-time strategy fans who prefer action-oriented gameplay over resource gathering and micromanagement. 
 Promises of additional maps and units from the designers, coupled with the extensive multiplayer 
 features, make for a real-time strategy game that, while not the pinnacle of its genre, is still 
 worth a look.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: garrvo99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  As old school as this game is compared to all the new graphics and whatnot, it is still fun to 
 play. I wish that Pumpkin Studios would have continued supporting and developing the WarZone series. 
 Fun to play with plenty of ways to dominate your competition. Whether you like the vehicles or 
 pounding the crap out of your enemies with endless artillery, fire, its always fun to watch a base 
 BURN!!!
  
  The single player campaign is challenging and offers rewarding gameplay, but the game truely shines 
 in its multiplayer experience. Grab some Dew and a bag of Doritios! Once you start, its hard to 
 stop. Usually the only thing that puts a end to long nights of blowing each other to nothingness 
 is our wives complaining that we have stayed up way to late . . . if only they would join in. Then, 
 they could come to know what so many already do - WarZone 2100 rocks!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyDragoon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best RTS i've ever played. I played it back in the days, and when I found it 
 out in the net, I knew I had to get it. The Warzone Ressurection team did a great job so far, fixing 
 bugs and allowing people to get the game and enjoy it for free. The costumization is one of the 
 best concepts I saw in the last few years, and of all games I've ever played, Earth 2150 was the 
 only one that approached that idea. You really feel proud when your heaviest forces wipe the enemy 
 out, especially a batallion of Heavy Cannon Tiger Tracks :)
  
  So, i say it's a good game to play, and some new additions to game, (New AI, still in the BETA 
 version 2.0) makes the game even more promising for the future.
  
  The thing is: The timer takes away some of the fun...
  
  Another good thing is the artillery 
 assignment to a sensor, allowing it to fire with help from the sensor. That comes in handy when 
 attacking or defending (although defense with indirect fire isn't THAT effective, IMHO)
  
  About the multiplayer, it has some fun things, like the super-heavy bodies (won't spoil them here! 
 :D) and the fortresses. (BIG fire power, i can tell you that.)
  
  Last but not the least, the weapons. The wide arsenal in Warzone 2100 allows for different strategies 
 for the same situation, using different weapons. Need to shred Cyborgs? Assault Guns will do just 
 fine. Tanks in the way? Just blow'em with the Heavy Cannons or with AT rockets!
  
  So, you've got to try it. I think this was one of the best games out there i've played, although 
 it won't compare to a generals or Red Alert 2. Then again, they are different concepts, though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I was looking around net looking for some more Opensource games to download and came across Warzone 
 2100. Checked out some screenshots and downloaded it to give a try, and this game turned out to 
 one suprisingly addictive RTS game!
  The sight and sound on the Opensource version may not be much at first (compared today's RTS selection) , 
 but the gameplay IMO is what makes Warzone 2100 so addictive. It feels like C&amp; C mixed with 
 Z: Steel Soldiers in terms of the basic gameplay control setup, but what I find makes this so unique 
 is that you can Design (Create and Name) your own weapons (being vehicles) using a reasonable selection 
 of components.
  Bottom line...
  
  If you're looking for a good RTS on the Opensource market... This is IT!
  
  Here's the url 
 where to get it...
  
  www. wz2100. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OverGod
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Damn those ho shutdown the Pumpkin Studios founds ............... if they dont do that the game 
 have many series.
  I like this game, i think this is the best rts game and the first whit 3D engine.
  This game 
 have many units to create more then any outher rts games
  The story is good.......... gameplay its superb.
  I play this game every day whit my friends.
 
  LONG LIVE THE WARZONE2100 
 
  LONG LIVE THE WARZONE2100 
 
  LONG LIVE THE WARZONE2100 
 
  LONG LIVE THE WARZONE2100 
 
  LONG LIVE THE WARZONE2100 
 
  LONG LIVE THE WARZONE2100 
 
  LONG LIVE THE WARZONE2100 
 
  LONG LIVE THE WARZONE2100 
 
  LONG LIVE THE WARZONE2100 
 
  LONG LIVE THE WARZONE2100  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snkatk
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 10, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  with 5 types of propultion (Wheals, Half Tracks, Tracks, Hovercraft, VTOLs) 14 bodys, and dozens 
 and dozens of weapons warzone obtained a lvl of balance that most other stratagy games could not. 
 most stratagy games have about 20 unit choices, which is bad, but the problem is that with that 
 few units it is hard to get balance. you will usualy end up with one unit that is better then the 
 rest, and this makes the game boaring; working with just one unit. but in warzone you have to diversify 
 to servive. you can't have an army that consists of just one unit type. there will be somthing 
 that it is weak agaist. also unlike other games (exept Total Annihilation) may have artilary, but 
 they will shoot one screen; maybe 2. but in warzone you have artilary that is shooting all the 
 way acrost the map and then some. the ability to fight wars useing artiliry alone is an enjoyable 
 one. but also your artilary need sensors to tell it where to fire, and units to protect them and 
 those sensors. what ever you staratagy you need sensors, units, and artilary. and with thousands 
 of units (4200ish) you have plenty to choose from. as i have said there are dozens upon dozens of 
 weapons, but there is also upgrades for thos weapons, and sensors, and a bunch of other things. 
 all this adds up. the tech tree printed out for Warzone 2100 useing standard 1 inch picturse is 
 as almost as big as a twin bed. there is just so much to dig your teeth in to, the game doesn't 
 become boaring fast.
  
  the first section of the campains can be kinda boaring at times, you are just out classed at the 
 most annoying times. by the end, you out class your enemy by a long shot. The second section is 
 pure fun, you get used to fighting with artilery and defending you forward bases from VTOL strikes, 
 and keeping you units in good health. you will need every bit of skill you can get your grimmy 
 little hands on. The last is pure chalange as you enter an area where you are out gunned, and out 
 match in every way shape and form. your only hope to get through is your wits. So you had better 
 be pretty darn smart if you want to get through these campains.
  
  Graphics aren't that great. but come on; you get to a point where graphics doesn't improve game 
 play. we are at that point. The are cheap enough to make the game run smooth yet detailed enough 
 to provide a plesurable game play. All in all it is probably the greatest RTS game up to Supreme 
 Commander and TotalA. It has its home amongest the legends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forger
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  You start out with six measly units at your disposal and you quickly feel the to explore you start 
 to build some structures here and there. Then you start to build and manufacture your units... 
 a couple of units later turn into twenty, forty, eighty all at your destructive will. You start 
 feeling the desire to expand surly this little spot can't hold your never ending thirst to have 
 the most invincible army around, so you go out and conquer others take there natural resources 
 build on there land create an even bigger army.... by the time you reached the third campaign the 
 game just keeps throwing surprises at you keeping you always at the edge of your seat. The game 
 dosn't just pull you along no matter what you do towards the end of the game it becomes really 
 difficult which keeps it challenging. The stunning sounds and visuals keep you in-tune to the game, 
 the storyline is surprisingly good, the briefing for a mission are detailed and interesting. I 
 give this game a ten out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 28, 2005 4:02 am PT
Review:  Warzone 2100, as they say, puts resource gathering and base building in the back seat, though one 
 could argue they were left at home entirely. Resource management is, simply put, finding an oil 
 site and building a derrick on it. That's it. No carriers or what have you to transport it, nothing. 
 Base building offers a little more than that, though it mostly is defensive buildings. You'll have 
 basic buildings such as your factory that produces units, and a research facility where you can 
 research new parts and defensive buildings and upgrades. There are ALOT of things to research, 
 and you'll find yourself researching various technologies just about the entire game.
  
  In order to gain technologies to research you must find them by destroying enemy bases. It's simple 
 yet addicting. You'll be rushing to destroy every base you can just to see what you can research 
 next. But why would you even want to find these, you ask? Because most technologies you can research 
 include new parts to expand your designing options. While the box says you can design over 2000 
 units, and while it's technically true, it will feel like a whole lot less. This is because a different 
 unit can just be a change in wheels or something small like that, that has no significant change 
 over another. Even so, there is still alot to design that will definintly keep you addicted.
  
  After talking about designing units for so long, I suppose I should actually comment on designing. 
 When you select to design a new unit, you're presented with an opague model of a tank and a selection 
 of wheels to choose from. Now, of course, this all depends on how many wheels you have researched. 
 That goes for all other parts as well. Next you'll decide on what chasis to use. And finally on 
 what you actually want the unit to do. You can make it a fighter unit by selecting a gun (which 
 ranges from mini guns to rocket launchers. There are ALOT of options) . Or, you can make it a service 
 by selecting one of the services, such as a radar to make a scanning unit.
  
  Creating units is one thing, but seeing them in action is an entirely differet. Thankfully, the 
 game focuses on action so you'll be seeing the effects of your units often. Most missions will 
 just require you to destroy bases, or hold off for reinforcements, or build up a base while waves 
 of enemies come at you, etc... etc... Amazingly, the combat never really gets boring, and is always 
 fun to get into skirmishes on the way to an objective. Every gun has tracers so you can see the 
 all the different guns. Large battles can be quite fun to watch because of that.
  
  If you're looking for an addictive strategy game, Warzone 2100 is definintly that. Being able to 
 design your own units and use them in battle often while keep you playing for hours! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
