-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Watchmen: The End Is Nigh
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/watchmen/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Enjoyable array of different attacks.
 Lively animations pack a punch.
 Impressively detailed environments.
 Dramatic lighting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No online co-op.
 High price point.
 Can get repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.6, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 177 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Deadline Games
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date:     Mar 4, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The End Is Nigh serves up light beat-'em-up fare with a Watchmen flavor. Those hungry for anything 
 substantial will be disappointed. 

  With all the critical acclaim for the Watchmen comic series and all the hype surrounding the new 
 movie adaptation, it's possible that folks might have certain expectations for the new video game 
 set in the same universe. However, if you are hoping to find some of the comic's depth and maturity 
 here, or are looking forward to reliving your favorite scenes from the movie, you will be sorely 
 disappointed. Watchmen: The End Is Nigh is a shallow beat-'em-up game set years before the events 
 of the comic. Its narrow scope may disappoint some, and the Watchmen veneer isn't very deep. Yet 
 thanks to lively, brutal combat and impressive visuals, Watchmen: The End Is Nigh is a fun, fist-flinging 
 romp for the few hours that it lasts. The $20 price tag is a steep one, but for anyone who enjoys 
 a good old-fashioned beat-'em-up, The End Is Nigh delivers.  

           On the streets or in the prison yard, no criminal is safe from Rorschach's fury.      
 

  Pretty much all you do for the entire game is beat up bad guys, and the combat is good enough to 
 stay fun throughout. Whether you're playing as Rorschach or Nite Owl (the only two playable characters) , 
 the fundamentals are simple: light attack, heavy attack, block, and throw. Peppering your opponent 
 with attacks works well, and there are some nice animation touches that make even this basic combat 
 enjoyable. Throwing enemies is particularly delightful, whether it be into a crowd, off of a ledge, 
 or into a wall. As you progress, you'll encounter tougher enemies that block your basic attacks, 
 so you have to use the various combos you learn along the way in order to stun them or knock them 
 down. These combos add new animations to the mix and are generally a bit nastier than your normal 
 attacks. However, the best animations are the finishers, which you activate by matching the button 
 prompt that appears over the head of a weakened enemy. The camera zooms in during these brutal 
 flurries, allowing you to appreciate every blow. While Nite Owl's no slouch, Rorschach is the clear 
 standout here: his finishers are so manic and so vicious that you can't help but cringe and cackle 
 with delight as he just keeps hitting a guy who is clearly unconscious.  

  Basic attacks, combos, throws, and finishers make up the bulk of your fighting move set, but Rorschach 
 and Nite Owl have a few other tricks up their sleeves. They can each counterattack easily, disarming 
 any armed opponents and positioning themselves for a strike. Rorschach will even hold onto these 
 weapons, and his brutal finishers get even nastier when there is a crowbar involved, though watching 
 him wield a knife like a bludgeon is a bit silly. Each hero also has two special attacks that drain 
 energy from a meter in the corner of the screen. Rorschach can do a short bull rush or freak out 
 and do more damage for a short period of time. Nite Owl's grenade stuns anyone nearby, and he can 
 use the electric charge in his suit to zap a large radius of foes.  

  As you fight your way through the rough areas of town, you'll encounter a few different breeds 
 of thug and lowlife, some tougher than others. It's easy to die if you get yourself surrounded 
 and try to punch your way out, but judicious use of counterattacks and special moves should be 
 enough to get you out of any tight situation. There are throwaway actions here and there, like 
 lever-pulling or valve-turning, and an oddly tricky lock-picking minigame that seems a bit out 
 of place in a game that's all about brute force. Despite these extraneous tasks, a creeping sense 
 of repetition looms over The End Is Nigh, and it's possible you'll grow weary of pounding your 
 way through wave after wave of goons. Though the game mixes up your enemies' fighting styles in 
 order to make you use your entire arsenal, the action can often teeter on the edge of button-mashing 
 boredom. Those inclined to revel in the perverse joy of cracking skulls will be able to keep repetition 
 at bay, but the relatively simple gameplay will quickly wear thin for others.  

           It ain't gonna be pretty when that fist comes down.      

  For all its merits, the 
 combat wouldn't be nearly as fun if it wasn't paired with top-notch graphics. The sharp character 
 models are fashioned after the movie costumes, and the smooth, realistic animations make the action 
 exciting and extremely satisfying. You'll chuckle when Rorschach jams his hands in his overcoat 
 immediately after furiously maiming an entire biker gang, and both he and Nite Owl pack a wickedly 
 pleasing punch. There are occasional physics-based oddities, especially when throwing your enemies, 
 but the animation is still consistently impressive. The detailed environments provide a rich setting 
 for your beatdowns, and stark lights and deep shadows (occasionally too deep) create a dramatic 
 look. The quasi-animated cutscenes provide a few pages' worth of story across the six chapters 
 of the game, and the sinister machinations at work fit nicely into the Watchmen universe.  

  Though you can have some split-screen fun with a friend, it's baffling that there is no online 
 cooperative mode. That would have made the $20 price tag a little easier to swallow, but as it 
 stands the price feels a bit greedy. Those inclined to tire of repetitive gameplay will find the 
 price of entry too high, but there is some value here. The impressively animated combat is fun 
 and brutal, and the sumptuous environments provide the perfect pugilistic playground. The many 
 unlockable combos provide some replay incentive, and the combat is surprisingly fun to come back 
 to even after you've beaten the game. Though it may be shallow, overpriced, and likely to disappoint 
 anyone hoping for more weighty fare, Watchmen: The End Is Nigh is ultimately a simple, well-crafted 
 game that will please those looking to dish out some good old-fashioned beatdowns.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CrazzyyDanyy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  
  Graphics: They are pretty breathtaking. While the textures can be rather plain at times, the effects 
 and the models of Rorshack and Night Owl are fantastic. When I saw Rorschach and Night Owl standing 
 in front of the headlights of the air ship in the rain, my jaw just dropped. If you have a good 
 enough computer, I cannot stress how awesome the game just looks.
  
  Satisfying: While repetitive and plain, I have to say that there is a good amount of satisfaction 
 gained from whacking a man in the junk, sliding under them and then snapping their neck from behind.
 
  
  Brutal: The combat can be very visceral at times, and the shear brutality of some of the basic 
 moves is just great. For example, in the first level I kicked a man in the face and then essentially 
 delivered a slap so hard that there was a large stream of blood from it on the floor.
  
  Controls: On PC, I found that the controls worked rather well. WASD and space move the character 
 around, while the mouse controls camera and attacks. The hits are separated into quick jabs, hard 
 hits and throws, which are all mapped on the mouse. While it seems awkward at first and has a few 
 moments of wonkyness, I felt it worked rather well.
  
  License: It is probably just my fanboyishness of The Watchmen getting to me, but I found a large 
 amount of fun in just beating people with Rorschach (and Night Owl, but frankly who cares about 
 him) .
  
  Difference Between Characters: Despite the fact that I played through with Rorschach, the time 
 I spent with Night Owl led me to believe that they are very different. Rorschach is more focused 
 on hitting one enemy at a time, while Night Owl is more geared to focusing on larger numbers at 
 a time.
  
  Bad:
  
  Rage!: There is a rage system in the game, where you build up anger over getting hit or hitting 
 someone else. This goes completely against who The Watchmen characters were. Rorschach was always 
 calculating, psychotic and always kept his emotions in check. Night Owl was even more calm about 
 things than Rorshach (though with less of the calculating psychoticness) .
  
  Shallow: Beyond a few special moves, there really isn't much to this game. The only thing that 
 the game does as you progress is throw you larger groups of enemies, or ones that use cheap moves 
 or cant be thrown.
  
  Not Brutal Enough: While the amount of brutality here is appreciated (and admittedly really cool) , 
 I felt like they could have done more with it. For some reason, most of Rorschach's special moves 
 end up with some sort of neck snap. They couldn't have had more than that? Maybe I just got the 
 wrong ones, but I felt like the developers could have taken this to almost God of War type levels.
 
  
  Not Enough Interactivity: There are so many cases where the environment should have been used in 
 combat. For example, there are tons of trash cans littered around a back alley level that I would 
 have just loved to chuck at an enemy. While it doesn't take much away from the game itself, it 
 feels like a missed opportunity.
  
  Short: 3 hours long. Only a few hours and levels for a steep price.
  
  Wallet Rape: The game 
 is $20. Yes 20 bucks. No I am not kidding, 20 dollars for a 3 hour game. You could probably go 
 download Braid for 15 and get at least twice as much time out of it than this.
  
  License: While its really awesome to play as Rorschach and Night Owl, I cant help but feel like 
 I am letting the game slide a bit because of the characters. If it were any other random game or 
 license, I probably wouldn't have gotten as much fun out of this as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3772,0. html
  
  Watchmen has historically been called an "impossible" franchise to transfer into other mediums. 
 With the announcement of a Hollywood adaptation, many expected some sort of video game tie-in to 
 capitalize on the franchise's new-found popularity. The result? Deadline Games, makers of the fun 
 but disappointing Total Overdose: A Gunslinger's Tale, have released the first installment of Watchmen: 
 The End is Nigh, a series of downloadable episodes that develop a story set before the mystery 
 of the graphic novel and film. Creating a beat-em-up in such a universe might be seen as a strange 
 choice, but one realizes that there aren't many other genres that would fit either the setting 
 or the episodic model. So, is the End of Nigh worth twenty of your precious smackeroos?
  
  From the start, gameplay is simple and easy to master when you play as either Rorschach or Nite 
 Owl, the two protaganists of this tale. Whichever character you choose will be able to employ quick 
 or heavy attacks. The basic combat is enjoyable: I found myself settling into a rhytmic pattern 
 as I dished out a series of quick strikes and punches. After a short while, you start unlocking 
 different combos that can be used to finish off enemies quicker or defeat new foes that are able 
 to defend against your basic attacks. Once you get an enemy into the proper position, you'll be 
 able to execute a finisher that gruesomely takes them out. The two characters have some other moves, 
 including a counterattack that makes it easier to fight armed foes and disarm them in addition 
 to two special attacks: a bull rush and a Rage mode for Rorschach, and a stun grenade and area-of-effect 
 electrical blast for Nite Owl.
  
  The game does try to mix it up through the introduction of new environments and several different 
 types of criminal lowlife, but it ultimately ends up being repetitive as your characters will be 
 doing little more than pounding through waves of enemies. Ultimately, you're paying $20 for five 
 hours of the same gameplay mechanics recycled over and over, hardly an appealing prospect for most.
 
  
  For a downloadable game, Watchmen showcases some pretty high graphical standards. The character 
 models are great given this generation's standards and the animations make the fights impressively 
 believable. The detailed environments are great and there is a surprising amount of special effects 
 and shadowing at work. There are some decent, comic-styled cutscenes in between, but they don't 
 particularly leave you with a lasting impression.
  
  Despite all of its pluses, The End is Nigh is ultimately too little for too much. It becomes repetitive 
 an hour in and is simply a terrible value for the $20 price-point. Chances are you won't come back 
 after you beat the game the first time, essentially making it a waste of both time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LVpaulo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:48 am PT
Review:  Its prity nice game to play in multyplayer mod! :)
  In solo Player its not so god, but multyplayer is realy awesom!
  The bouth players have to do 
 something not just one of them is doing something, but the other one sits there and waits! this 
 game is realy awesom in co-op but in single player not so god, just there isnt enought egsitment 
 to play it alone but for two players its just perfect! :) So if your frends come wisit you weary 
 often yous hould buy it, but if you are alweys sitting alone in your home and fealing loneley you 
 should buy another game. This game isnt just for one player its for a crew. If you want to play 
 it and enjoy playing it you should buy some scrips and coke, invite youre frend to come ower and 
 sith there and just keap on playing. There is just one minus in this game its to short. But if 
 you dont like to spend 50 hours in your PC its the perfect game for you and youre frend! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiLi
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:53 am PT
Review:  Well I have to say that i'm pretty letdown when i tried this game. I bought it without even studying 
 what it really was. I juat saw "beat em' up" and i thought hell yea. I miss the old beat em up 
 games on the old consoles.
  
  But this games fights are so boring, I regret buying in such a haste. Everything goes in slow motion. 
 And the kicks punches are delivered so damn slow, it makes me yawn. No proper multiplayer option.
 
  
  In beat em up games I really wanna kick ass. And glady with characters who can really devastate 
 their oppenents. The more unreal the abilities the better.
  
  Sadly for me this game comes off as merchandise for the movie. It shouldn't be called a game, it 
 should be called a prequel to the movie or sumthin. :)
  
  But damn i fell for it.. Good thing it was only 17 euro. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  As you well know, "Watchmen" the film comes out tomorrow, based upon the lauded graphic novel by 
 Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons. Of course, you can't have a comic book film without a game and that's 
 where The End is Nigh comes in. It's not a retail product and is only available as digital download 
 through Steam, or Xbox 360 LIVE and PSN if you're on the consoles. It's $20, which is a little 
 high but since I'm a huge fan of Watchmen, I got my money's worth. The game serves as a prequel 
 to the comic and if you remember, there was an off-handed mention of how Rorschach and Nite-Owl 
 take down Underboss during the 'Crimebusters' era of the 1970's. Well, this game takes that and 
 builds a decent side story around it, written by comic veteran Len Wein (of Wolverine fame) . It's 
 told through in-game cutscenes and through comic book style cutscenes that look like they drawn 
 by Gibbons himself. The graphics are rather good for a 1.6 GB game and the texture work is amazing. 
 Rorschach and Nite-Owl character models features nice detail and the environments are dilapidated 
 back alleys and sewers, though they suffer from what I call 'Halo Level Syndrome.' This means that 
 most of the textures are cut and paste and sometimes you might be confused about where you need 
 to go. Thankfully there are signs that say, "This Way Up." Can't get any simpler then that! Sound 
 is pretty good too as Jackie Earle Haley and Patrick Wilson reprise their respective roles. Haley 
 seems to put in the most effort and generally enjoys playing Rorschach. The music is just generic 
 action themes. Gameplay is rather simple, you advance and see thugs, you beat up said thugs, rinse 
 and repeat. Of course, the game actually discourages button-mashing and you'll have to time your 
 combos and evades so you can bash everyone's head. Rorschach is generally a brute, flailing around 
 and wacking people in the most bloody way possible. He has a rage mode where he roars and runs 
 around beating everyone up in one punch. Nite-Owl is more agile and features a refined, martial-arts 
 way of fighting. He also has a few gadgets up his sleeve. There's not much enemy variety and you'll 
 think all the goons are from some clone-facility. The game will take you 5 to 6 hours to complete 
 and most people will play as Rorschach and then leave it at that. There's co-op play if you plug 
 in a controller but that's about it. Watchmen The End is Nigh is not a horrible game, just a good 
 one that'll keep you occupied during the weekend if you find yourself with nothing to play. Just 
 wish it was cheaper, like $10-$15. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralExar1710
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty excited over this, although I was a bit worried about the fact that it was a movie 
 game. But honestly, its pretty good!
  The graphics are awesome. The raindrops on Nite Owl's suit, the dirty alleyways, and Rorschachs 
 shifting mask all look great. Its no button mashing either. The combat is fun too.
  One of my gripes though is that it can get quite repetitive, the level sub-areas seem copy-pasted 
 sometimes and there are only like 5 types of goons at any given level.
  There are loads of combos which all look quite painful (Teeth even fly out) . Nite Owl fights better 
 one on one with some wierd wrestling moves (I'll let that pass) , and Rorschach fights groups with 
 some AOE attacks, he's also able to pick up weapons like crowbars or bottles.
  Its a little on the short side though. Guess thats what you get for that kind of price...
  
 
  I'd say it is worth it if you've got 17 bucks to spare and are a fan of the book or the movie. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
