-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Waterloo: Napoleon's Last Battle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/waterloonapoleonslastbattle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.2, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: BreakAway Games
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Mar 25, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though the game engine is definitely showing its age, hard-core strategy game players should 
 still find a lot to like about Waterloo. 

  Based on the game engine used in both Sid Meier's Gettysburg and its follow-up, Antietam, Waterloo: 
 Napoleon's Last Battle combines real-time strategy with some turn-based combat mechanics to depict 
 the epic battle of 1815. The gameplay is solid enough to warrant the interest of hard-core fans 
 of the genre and the time period, but the game does have some problems, and its graphics engine 
 can be rather choppy and slow even on a well-equipped system.           Waterloo uses the same 
 engine as Sid Meier's Gettyburg and Antietam    

  Developed by BreakAway Games, the same group that created Sid Meier's Antietam, Waterloo is in 
 many ways a faithful update of the Civil War games published by Firaxis. The graphics have been 
 enhanced with 16-bit color, and a variety of new unit formations have been added, but the underlying 
 mechanics are the same as before. You scroll around a nicely detailed depiction of the battlefield, 
 selecting units with a simple mouse click. To move the units, you drag the mouse to a destination 
 and select a formation. Brigades can be moved by issuing orders to their commanding generals, followed 
 again by selecting a formation. Units will move when and where they can but will often be forced 
 to halt and defend themselves if you carelessly move them into the line of fire.   

  Whether moving or engaged in combat, all units are animated. However, most of the animations comprise 
 only a few frames, so movement can seem jerky at times. This is especially true of the cavalry 
 units, whose movement pace is a bit too fast for the animation that accompanies it.   

  In light of the vibrant and often spectacular uniforms worn during the Napoleonic Era, Waterloo 
 includes more than 60 different uniform types. Zoom in on any unit on the battlefield, and you'll 
 see a respectable level of detail in the various uniforms depicted. Also, key figures, such as 
 Napoleon himself and the Duke of Wellington, are represented by unique sprites that are fairly 
 easy to pick out in a crowd.   

  The game includes more than 30 historical and hypothetical scenarios, ranging from small-scale 
 meeting engagements to the full-blown (and quite lengthy) Battle of Waterloo. As in the Civil War 
 games, you can generate random battles of varying sizes. A new feature in Waterloo also lets you 
 custom-design new scenarios: You can determine key objectives, troops to be included, and the marching 
 orders for all the soldiers involved.   

  New gameplay features include the ability to occupy buildings on the battlefield. This lets key 
 historic landmarks, like the farmhouse of La Haye Sainte, play an important role in the game. Also, 
 Waterloo offers several new unit formations, such as the infantry square (which is critical for 
 defending against cavalry attacks) , the four-deep line, and the attack column.   

  The cavalry units themselves are worthy to note, as they play a much more important role in this 
 game (and this period) than they did in the Firaxis games. Cavalry attacks can completely devastate 
 a poorly arranged defensive line, and the computer often uses these attacks with disturbing effectiveness. 
   

  Waterloo does have some problems, mostly in that the game's performance leaves a lot to be desired. 
 Despite the somewhat dated graphics engine, the gameplay can bog down alarmingly when several units 
 are on the screen at the same time. Scrolling around the battlefield causes some visual stuttering 
 as well and can be quite frustrating when you're trying to issue critical movement orders.     
       Cavalry play an important part in the battles featured in the game    

  The game is also inconsistent in the way in which it determines possession of battlefield objectives. 
 Often, the computer will be given credit for holding a key ridge or hill, even when your troops 
 are arranged all over the spot and his are still cowering at the foot of the slope. In one instance, 
 a single French cavalry unit claimed a major objective area, despite being surrounded at close 
 range by no less than eight British infantry squares.   

  Nevertheless, Waterloo should have a long life home on many wargamers' hard drives. The gameplay 
 is generally quite good, even with the graphic slowdowns and the other occasional problems. After 
 all, the underlying game design was already top-notch in Waterloo's predecessors, and the improvements 
 added for Waterloo are impressive. So even though the game engine is definitely showing its age, 
 hard-core strategy game players should still find a lot to like about Waterloo.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Him006
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  A highly enthralling near addictive game for the average strategy player but does have enough substance 
 in it to hook on onto an experienced player. Graphics do need quite some improvement and in game 
 controls slightly more smoother especially when movement of troops comes into question. Furthermore 
 the terrain seems as though it could do a bit more by increasing the objects and decreasing the 
 slopes which are usually ostentatiously high but the battles and audio are the things that really 
 get you along with the complex strategies that need to be formed every other minute as everything 
 is quite unpredictable in the tougher difficulty levels. The creators have done a good enough job 
 but seems as though they were not quite capable of keeping up with the ever growing and never ceasing 
 demands of the gamers. All in all it is one game that definitely needs to be tried at least once. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Waterloo: Napoleon's last Battle's gameplay is based on the game engine used in both 
 Sid Meier's Gettysburg. This game combines real-time strategy with some turn-based combat mechanics 
 to depict the epic battle of 1815. The gameplay is solid enough to warrant the interest of hard-core 
 fans of the genre and the time period. This game is pretty much an updated version of the Civil 
 War games that Sid mier's did a number of years back. The game also comes with fictional scenarios 
 that are essentially 'what-if' situations: things that might have happened had the famed general 
 made different decisions. This game take advantage of strategic points on the map well, like builds 
 for troops to hide in and taking hirer ground to ward off a larger group of men. To move the units, 
 you drag the mouse to a destination and select a formation. Brigades can be moved by issuing orders 
 to their commanding generals, followed again by selecting a formation. Units will move when and 
 where they can but will often be forced to halt and defend themselves if you carelessly move them 
 into the line of fire. There is also a multiplayer portion of the game to play after you are done 
 with the single player fights. Playing online is quite fun and challenging. Heck even the single 
 player maps of the game are quite challanging. This game includes more than 30 historical and hypothetical 
 scenarios, ranging from small-scale meeting engagements to the full-blown (and quite lengthy) Battle 
 of Waterloo. As in the Civil War games, you can generate random battles of varying sizes.
  
  Graphics: This game was relased in 2001 and the graphics are nice in the game are really starting 
 to show it's age. But the graphics have been enhanced with 16-bit color. Waterloo includes more 
 than 60 different uniform types. Zoom in on any unit on the battlefield, and you'll see a respectable 
 level of detail in the various uniforms depicted. Also, key figures, such as Napoleon himself and 
 the Duke of Wellington, are represented by unique sprites that are fairly easy to pick out in a 
 crowd. Sound: The sound is really good in this game, from the marching to the gun fire. Even the 
 voice acting is very well done. There is not much sound scores in the game so can't say much about 
 it, but there is some music on the main menu of the game which is quite nice.
  
  Value: All in all this is quite a fun game to play but quite challenging if you are not paying 
 attention to one area where you troops are fighting. Also the replay value is very good were you 
 can play the maps over quitea few times and after that there is the multiplay part you can play 
 around with. What I did not like about it was the graphics looked a but dated for the time it wa 
 released and the graphics where choppy at times. I also wanted to see individual men getting hit 
 and fall but o well it was based off the the old Gettysburg game so can't compain there. All in 
 all I give this game 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
