-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Western Outlaw: Wanted Dead or Alive
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/westernoutlaw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 22, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3
Critic Score: 3.0, 4.5 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 76 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Groove Games
Developer: Jarhead Games
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Sep 28, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Western Outlaw's primitive production values, brain-dead AI, and shamefully brief campaign make 
 it a game that everyone should definitely avoid. 

  While the game industry has seen a bumper crop of World War II-themed first-person shooters in 
 the past couple of years, shooters set in the Old West have been few and far between. The last 
 notable one was LucasArts' Outlaws, which was released more than six years ago. Groove Games and 
 Jarhead Games have attempted to fill the void in Western-themed games with their own shooter, Western 
 Outlaw. Unfortunately, the game suffers from terrible graphics, lackluster sound, and dated gameplay 
 that will remind you more of a bad Quake II mod than a modern first-person shooter.  

          Though it may look like a 17th century cannon, it's supposed to be a Gatling gun. Honest! 
     

  According to the manual, Western Outlaw's graphics engine is the Lithtech Talon system, which is 
 the same one used in Aliens Versus Predator 2. Even knowing this makes it difficult to believe 
 that the two games are related in any way, shape, or form. Western Outlaw's graphics are riddled 
 with drab, blurry textures that are stretched on top of extremely low-detail, blocky character 
 models. Hands don't consist of discrete, separate fingers. Rather, they look like oven mitts with 
 lines drawn to delineate one finger from the next. Dinner plates and rolls of bandages, which should 
 look round, instead look more like stop signs.  

  The bandits you fight in the game consist of just three or four different clones, with only slightly 
 varying outfits. It's probably appropriate that all the enemies look the same. They all use the 
 same cheap one-liners over and over again as well. If the game wasn't so short, we'd have gotten 
 tired of hearing "Come on out, stranger!" and "Argh, you got me!"  

  Aside from being so poorly detailed, the game's characters are also animated rather badly. This 
 is most evident during cutscenes, where you'll see every character in the game blatantly sliding 
 along the ground as if he or she was an animatronic mannequin from a Disneyland ride. Western Outlaw 
 also suffers from some particularly bad clipping problems, so dead enemies will fall right through 
 walls before magically disappearing. In several instances, we actually witnessed the arms and legs 
 of enemies as they clipped right through the wood of closed doors.  

  As you may have guessed from this anecdote, the enemies in Western Outlaw aren't particularly bright, 
 though they  will  sometimes lean around corners to shoot. Unfortunately, we've also watched as 
 enemies leaned around nothing before opening fire while standing in the middle of an open field. 
 To add insult to injury, your enemies are usually pretty bad shots. In spite of the fact that the 
 game includes a lean function that allows you to shoot from behind partial cover, you won't need 
 to rely on the feature very much, as it's easy enough to run-and-gun your way right through most 
 missions. Even if you do get shot up a bit, there are plenty of bandages lying around the levels 
 to refresh your health, so you won't have to worry too much about dying.  

          This stagecoach driver is so talented, he doesn't even need reins to keep control of his 
 horses.     

  Western Outlaw's story is pretty hackneyed, as you play a nameless stranger who gets mixed up in 
 an evil land baron's attempt to buy out all of the smaller landowners in the area. A young lady 
 you meet on a train is inexplicably kidnapped by the villains, so you set off to rescue this damsel 
 in distress. Though the plot plays out over 10 missions spread across stereotypically Western settings -- like 
 a ghost town and an abandoned mine -- it takes less than three hours to fight your way through all 
 of it. With no multiplayer mode included, there really isn't much else to do with Western Outlaw 
 once you've finished it. Increasing the difficulty level only changes how much damage the enemies 
 do to you with each shot, so even at the "pale rider" setting, the AI is still as dumb as a brick. 

  Perhaps the only redeeming quality in Western Outlaw is how well the developers modeled the game's 
 weapons. You start the game with a single-action revolver, and as you make your way through, you'll 
 collect double-action .45 caliber revolvers, a shotgun, a Sharps buffalo rifle, and a Winchester 
 repeating rifle. The animation for firing and reloading each of these weapons is pretty realistic, 
 and the sound effects aren't quite as bad as the rest of the game, either. Since none of the weapons 
 carry a lot of shots and reloading is very time consuming, you'll actually have to use a bit of 
 strategy in the later levels when you face several enemies at once. Still, the game's interesting 
 weapons aren't enough to carry the rest of the package, which is very poor overall.  

  Fans of cowboys and spaghetti Westerns will have to continue waiting for a good Old West-themed 
 shooter. Western Outlaw's primitive production values, brain-dead AI, and shamefully brief campaign 
 make it a game that everyone should definitely avoid.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  With a quick glance at my profile, anyone can see that Im pretty forgiving of most FPS titles. 
 I love the genre in general so much that most games of that type are good, at least in some way. 
 I equate my first-person fandom to a true movie buff whose love of a particular series  like James 
 Bond films or anything categorized as sci-fi  means that he or she will take the good works with 
 the bad, just to say theyve seen it all.
  That said, I must confess that Western Outlaw tested my unconditional preference for first-person 
 shooters just a bit. The story wasnt all that important  in fact, it didnt really make all that 
 much sense, even with a second playthrough  as it amounts to a basic save-the-damsel quest across 
 a number of standard Western settings. I can appreciate the fact that a lot of budget shooters 
 are born out of the programmers own affection for either that kind of game or a particular type 
 of story (or both) , with the end product a labor of love more than a testament to their skills. 
 The folks at Jarhead Games certainly know their Man with No Name and the lawless world he inhabits. 
 However, as with most ValuSoft and Groove titles, no amount of the passion invested in Western 
 Outlaw can overcome the fact that its distinct lack of polish robs the game of its fun.
  Western Outlaw is apparently influenced by LucasArts Outlaws, which was the first FPS to pay homage 
 to the spur-sporting set. Even though the younger title stands firmly in the shadow of Marshall 
 Andersons well-realized yarn, it follows the same basic gameplay setup (albeit with many frustrating 
 technical gaffes) with more detailed scenery. I wouldnt dare to compare the two games any more 
 than to say that those who enjoyed Outlaws immensely may find a few things worth liking in Western 
 Outlaw.
  Anyone who buys Western Outlaw out of a specific appreciation for Old West-style stories may find 
 himself disappointed. Fans of FPSs in general, however, might enjoy this game as a quick snack 
 between bigger and better titles like Quake 4 and Call of Duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalni
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 27, 2003 11:16 pm PT
Review:  This game was a disappointment to say the least. It is basically just a pure shooter. Graphics 
 are not very good, but are good enough to get the job done. The game is based on a western theme 
 in the late 1800's. I don't think the idea was that bad, but the result wasn't very good. Better 
 Graphics and having more to do would have helped this game. As a shooter I think it is ok. Lots 
 of shooting action. The music is not bad. You basically run around in a maze. If you see a place 
 you want to go, you can't just go there. It may be blocked by wagons etc. You have to complete 
 the "maze". 
  
  Anyone who is a big fan of westerns might want to check this game out. I think it may have some 
 appeal. But remember, it's mostly a pure shooter with poor graphics. If the game had better graphics, 
 a story line, and places to visit such as saloons etc, where you could maybe interact with other 
 characters, it would have been much better. As it stands, it's just a shooter game with below average 
 graphics. I have to admit though I found myself playing this game constantly until I finished it. 
 I think I was hoping if I completed a level, something more exciting would be waiting for me. Also 
 I think I wanted to finish it so I could uninstall it from my computer.
  
  Nice try, but next time they need better graphics, storyline and more interaction for the player. 
 Not a horrible game, but if you are bored and want to just waste some time, this is ok. If you 
 like western themes. Just make sure you pick it up for less than five dollars. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
