-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Whirlwind Over Vietnam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/whirlwindofvietnam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Vietnam setting.
 Choppers are a great change of pace from the usual plane-oriented flight sims.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Difficult flight model and no tutorial or documentation to ease the learning curve.
 Boring, overly long missions.
 Awkward keyboard controls.
 A few bugs and performance problems.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.6
Critic Score: 5.7, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 4.6, 78 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Evolved Games
Developer: G5 Software
Genre: Helicopter Sim
Date:     Apr 13, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The novelty of the Vietnam War setting is just about all that Whirlwind Over Vietnam has going for 
 it. 

  Developer G5 Software deserves a lot of praise for its chopper sim Whirlwind Over Vietnam. Unfortunately, 
 virtually all of these kudos are for the company's decision to skip World War II and set a flight 
 sim in Southeast Asia, not for anything to do with gameplay. Everything beyond the offbeat setting 
 ranges from merely pedestrian to downright bad, thanks in large part to problematic controls that 
 won't satisfy serious simmers or casual fliers, overly long shoot-'em-up missions, and some serious 
 technical glitches.  

          Even with all the problems, it's still pretty neat to watch the Hueys of the 7th Air Cav 
 in flight.     

  Controls are the biggest issue. As you might expect, piloting a Huey helicopter is a bit more complex 
 than something like a Spitfire or an Me-109. But the game does almost nothing to prepare you for 
 that challenge. There is no flight school; there are no training missions. You're simply set free 
 to tackle the 10 historical missions included in the game (that's all you get in the game, actually, 
 as there is no multiplayer support) with nothing more than a couple of brief pages in the pamphlet-size 
 manual detailing the basics of takeoff, thrust, and flight control, along with some tips and chopper-specific 
 dangers like the vortex ring. Much of this text is incomprehensible, too, as the manual appears 
 to have been translated from the original Russian by someone who needs to brush up on English articles 
 and prepositions.  

  Of course, you need a lot more guidance than this to feel comfortable at the helm of a helicopter. 
 While the few hundred words dedicated to basic flying are enough to get you off the ground, this 
 game is crying for an interactive tutorial of some sort. Even if you switch off a lot of the more 
 treacherous chopper physics effects like air cushion and that dreaded vortex ring, you still need 
 to go through loads of trial and error before figuring out how to keep your bird in the air and 
 positioned correctly to fire rockets and riddle Charlie with bullets. Also, the keyboard controls 
 are awkward, so you need a flight-sim joystick with a hat to have a good shot at becoming a Huey 
 pro.  

  You can skip this piloting rigmarole and switch on an autopilot feature, but it has a couple of 
 serious problems. For starters, sometimes it doesn't function properly. Switch it on and you might 
 twirl in a circle, or you'll meander along your patrol route so oddly that you're moving sideways 
 as much as you are forward. Second, switching on the autopilot removes the flight sim characteristics 
 entirely and turns Whirlwind into a rail shooter. Missions mostly feature simplistic search-and-destroy 
 patrols or hold-a-location objectives to protect ground troops. So with the autopilot on, all you 
 do is gun down Viet Cong and North Vietnamese Army regulars on the ground with your Huey's two 
 side miniguns and watch air support light up the jungle with napalm.  

  Even this isn't as entertaining as it could be. Missions are long, drawn-out affairs where you 
 spend much of your time flying from one location to another, so if you're not sitting in the pilot's 
 or copilot's seat, you generally don't have a whole lot to do. Fast-forwarding is available, and 
 it does help some, although even at 8x it can take a minute or more to get from one point of interest 
 to another. And just like with the autopilot, sometimes it doesn't seem to work. Crank the FF up 
 all the way and you do nothing but crawl along the patrol route on some occasions, a problem that 
 can't be fixed without reloading the mission. Also, shooting the minicannon is tough because bullets 
 leave no tracers for your eye to follow. As you're generally some distance away from your targets, 
 it can be really hard to aim; moreover, your bullets always seem to kick up sand or water when 
 they hit terra firma.  

          Now that's a hot LZ.     

  Performance problems also make the game tougher than a tour of duty in Ia Drang. Sometimes, the 
 game just doesn't want to load. It will appear to start fine, but then the splash screen disappears 
 and you're left on the Windows desktop and forced to shut down the WV. com process manually before 
 making a second try. On other occasions, it boots perfectly. Loading times are spectacularly long. 
 Missions take two to three minutes to load, and the progress bar typically doesn't move from its 
 starting point for the first 30 seconds or so, leading you to believe that the game has crashed. 
 The look of levels isn't worth the wait, either. Choppers are impressive in flight but jaggy, the 
 Vietnamese jungle terrain is a mostly uniform blurry green, yet despite this you've got to dial 
 down a lot of the visual settings on a midrange machine to get acceptable frame rates. Only nifty 
 napalm flame effects and smoke give the game a Nam look, although both of these effects murder 
 the frame rate. Well-acted and varied radio commentary from pilots brings the game's audio effects 
 to life, at least, although the constant braap-braap of chopper guns is thin and annoying.  

  Great idea and setting aside, Whirlwind Over Vietnam makes mistakes on just about every level. 
 While you've got to appreciate G5's willingness to just say no to WWII, all of the issues with 
 ease of use, mission design, and performance make the game hard to endure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SgtBallou
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for a good helo sim for a LONG time and I thought who better to make one than the 
 guys that had something to do with IL-2!!!
  Those guys made a great detailed game that was fun to play and who could complain about a modable 
 game with dynamic missions!
  
  Then comes WoV great looking graphics but the game play was lame! spend most of the time being 
 lead around from point a to point b... I would rather watch a movie then play in a movie. No dynamic 
 play or even free flight mode just to fly the damn chopper around! Even a long time after its out 
 I see that no one is modding anything and not sure if it can be. What a shame. For those of us 
 who enjoy helicopter sims i guess its back to MSF or Vietnam Med-Evac... which by the way was pretty 
 good just way outdated now. I was hoping WoV was going to be that updated VME but I was sadly mistakin!
 
  
  Don't waste you money unless you just want a box on your shelve with a Huey on it.
  
  btw i gave it a 2.5 for the graphics but my real score is -30 (bucks that is) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Whirlwind of Vietnam UH-1, WoV, is a rather interesting game. I say this because its one of very 
 few games that are based on a war other than World War 2. As the name suggests, WoV is a helicopter 
 simulation that is based on the Vietnam War of the 1960s. Now, this in its self is a point worth 
 applauding but unfortunately, thats the only point to applaud. WoV may introduce gamers to the 
 Vietnam War but thats all it does. The game is dogged with many problems ranging from control 
 issues to buggy game play. The game is divided into ten, rather long winded missions based on historical 
 battles that occurred during the Vietnam War. These missions might have entertainment value but 
 the terrible control scheme just makes them more of a chore.
  
  The standard keyboard controls are almost impossible at times and make the game a rather difficult 
 one. Add that to the lack of any kind of tutorial and WoV becomes one very hard game to play with 
 one hell of a steep learning curve. The manual is poorly written and at times makes no sense at 
 all. The manual might have been translated from Russian but whoever did the translation needs some 
 extra English lessons. If you managed to somehow get your Huey off the ground, you will be greeted 
 by a cocktail of frustration and buggy game play. To counteract the frustrations of the controls, 
 the developer have included a much needed autopilot option, this reduces the game to an aim and 
 shoot experience and thats assuming the autopilot doesnt crash you copper into a nearby jungle 
 choosing not to use the autopilot on the other hand reduces the game to a trial and error experience.
 
  Graphically, the game leaves a lot to be desired. The helicopters are rendered well but the landscape 
 is fairly dull with very little detail. The Vietnamese jungles are a green blur and even though 
 they stretch out for miles on end, there is no reason to explain the games extremely long load 
 times. Sometimes, these stretch up to 3 minutes and in most cases, the missions arent worth the 
 wait.
  
  Overall, the only good thing about Whirlwind of Vietnam is the setting and the game sound, which 
 ironically includes some of the greatest radio chatter heard in a game. These are the only saving 
 graces of a rather bad game. If you have a flight sim joystick then the controls become a lot better 
 but they are still rather unacceptable. You wont be missing much if you dont play this game, 
 well other than frustration and boredom, so give it a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalay_BG
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  I dont understand the low score votes but i think the game is good . Nice missions , really cool 
 gunnery control , auto pilot when needed and so on .. GOOD Game but nothing more , they could have 
 worked more on the graphics and they are some minor glitches but they are no problem . The only 
 think that made me upset was that the game is really hard . You have to play some missions over 
 and over again ... I am not sure but the only game from Evolved Games i have seen is Knights of 
 the temple and she is far from this genre . Good Job . if you like Helicopter sims that games is 
 a must for you ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 1.3
Date: May 2, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Put aside the fact that it takes place during a cool war to play games in (Vietnam) and the idea 
 that flying brave soldiers in and out of combat seems like a sound idea.
  
  This game does nothing mentioned above. While it attempts to make a tight helicopter simulator 
 and hacks its way into immersion by sending you on confusing and mind numbing missions of little 
 or no importance to anything going on the the actual game, it doesn't even come close to achieving 
 that goal.
  
  The models are horrid. The ground texturing alone seemed reminiscance of a Flight Simulator 1 beta 
 version.
  
  The sound is worse. While the heli rotor sound is cool, you only hear it when the sound system 
 doesn't screw up and drown it out by the guns, only to not bring the rotor sound back into the 
 foreground. So you fly with no sound, except the annoying voice overs by the other [AI] pilots.
 
  
  The controls are clunky (gamepad and/or kb + mouse combos) .
  
  Save this one for extra burning materials when you run out of wood in the middle of the night. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akwar
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Having been a hard core flight sim player for years I was really waiting for Whirlwind Of Vietnam 
 for some time. There are very few helicopter simulations out there and especially on the subject 
 of vietnam. Sadly WOV is a total disappountment. Only 10 missions are included. There are not even 
 any training missions or free flight in the sim. Not even so much as a mission editor is included. You 
 can tell by the campaign page that there is an incomplete list which hints at an unfinished game. One 
 problem is some people are reporting joystick issues (me included) I cannot get the sim to properly 
 recognize some joystick commands like left or right and up and down movement. Others are also reporting 
 this issue and the publishers tech support email address is no help. (No one replies back to your 
 technical issues) Its really a let down because theres could be so much to like here but theres 
 just not enough. In the end I cannot recommend this title to anyone. At best its a tease and your 
 better off avoiding this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richklink
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I seem to be in the minority here, but I think it's actually a very good game. I think the problem 
 is that people expect to be able to pick it up, fly nap-of-the-earth while whacking Charlie to 
 arrive back for tea and medals! This is clearly what EG did NOT have in their planning. A lot of 
 thought has gone into the control surface of the game - albeit very hard to pick up because of 
 the total lack of training on offer, but hardedned flight sims will pick it up in half an hour 
 of so. Most impressive is the realistic flight model with the three control surfaces - Throttle, 
 Collective and Cyclic. Fortunately with the Saitek X52 HOTAS it's pretty easy to assign these controls 
 so no major problems there.
  
  It's a pity WoV does not support TrackIR Pro, I feel quite restricted with my field of vision being 
 mapped to one of my HAT switches, but easily able to switch to 3rd person pannable view makes things 
 a bit easier when tring to manage the controls AND perform attack runs!
  
  I quite like the ability to be able to jump into the Left and Right gunner seats to whack Charlie 
 on a low level flypast, gives that added bit of fun!
  
  In summary, I think the harsh reviews have been given by players who are ultimately not hardened 
 simmers, and should cut EG some slack, they have done the best Helicopter Flight Sim so far.
  
  ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is bad. I mean naughty. It is not for the action flight sim fans. I mean a fan of a game 
 that tries to depict that you are really flying in a real helicopter. And not for fans of the games 
 in which you have nothing to do in the game. (More or less a purpose) . The missions are repetitive 
 and immutable. The rifle or gun sites for the m-60 are very inaccurate. The m-60 will chamber a 
 306 round the will give a fair amount of recoil even with a muzzle break.. And still yet in this 
 representation of the Vietnam war. There is a slight to no recoil what so ever. For a person who 
 wishes to that part in a game in which you will fly from check point to check point with very little 
 to nothing at all to do but fly. Then may you may revel in the mission simplicity of this game. 
 And I trust this review will not make anybody cry. Ok back to the basics. The missions are simple 
 trees, trees, trees turn, trees and then a landing zone. Shoot into the tree line at absolutely 
 nothing mission complete. In short this game is craptastic, but you cant stretch that out for 
 120 words. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
