-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Who Wants to be a Millionaire?
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/whowantstobeamillionaire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 17, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.6, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 207 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive
Developer: Jellyvision
Genre: Trivia / Game Show
Date:     Nov 23, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Perhaps like Regis Philbin himself, the game appreciates its own mediocrity, but it executes its 
 blandness extremely well. 

 Most hard-core gamers probably gnash their teeth at the thought of Regis Philbin and his simple-minded 
 trivia game outselling every other supposedly respectable game on the market. The TV game show 
 that has every executive from other networks feverishly reshuffling his prime-time grid is also 
 burning up the computer entertainment charts. With more than a million copies sold and no end in 
 sight, Who Wants to Be a Millionaire is the people's choice, whether fraggers like it or not.  
 

 Much like the TV show, and perhaps like Regis Philbin himself, Millionaire the computer game appreciates 
 its own mediocrity, but it executes its blandness extremely well. First of all, the price is low 
 enough ($19.95) to make it an ideal impulse buy. Second, it's got Regis himself, who's key to the 
 game show's success. After all, Millionaire is about achieving unearned success by showing mastery 
 of trivial knowledge that otherwise gets people nowhere in life. Who better to usher these average 
 Americans into the Hot Seat and give them a shot at accidental wealth than a common-man celebrity 
 like Regis?  

 While the game doesn't reproduce the social drama that makes the TV show so popular, it makes do 
 with the bare-bones gameplay and adds some of the design qualities of the developer's signature 
 product, the much better You Don't Know Jack. Each aspect of the show is re-created in the computer 
 game in some fashion. In single-player mode, you go right into the Hot Seat, where you must ascend 
 a ladder of 15 multiple-choice trivia questions to win. Reaching the one thousand and thirty-two 
 thousand dollar milestones guarantees you will win at least that much if you lose later, though 
 it hardly matters. All you'll get is an onscreen check with Regis' signature.  

 When you feel stumped, you have three "lifelines" to use throughout the climb. The 50/50 option 
 removes two of the three wrong answers to a question. You can ask to poll the audience, which gives 
 you the actual results taken from a sample group for each question. The most impressive re-creation 
 is the phone-a-friend lifeline, in which Regis calls one of his friends, who then struggles to 
 offer a suggestion that may or may not be right.  

 Jellyvision and Disney evidently invested the necessary resources to give the game as much of the 
 TV feel as possible. While Regis doesn't actually read off all of the questions, he does offer 
 the color commentary about where you are on the ladder and banters with the phone-a-friend character. 
 Even after many hours of play, there still wasn't any tedious redundancy in his comments, and the 
 question database seemed sufficiently deep to avoid frequent repeats.  

 With years of You Don't Know Jack experience under their belts, the Jellyvision designers know how 
 important a smooth audio-visual experience is to keeping a simple game interesting. In addition 
 to the melodramatic music, the questions - which pop in and out, causing the screen to rearrange 
 itself - are animated well. Regis comments on the game without any telltale sound splices or lag 
 times for disk access. However, the questions are noticeably more media and pop-culture-related 
 than those in the TV version, suggesting that Jellyvision may have been dipping into the You Don't 
 Know Jack database.  

 Unfortunately, the Fastest Finger multiplayer qualifying round is the weakest part of the game. 
 On TV, more than a dozen contestants must arrange four items (like movies or historical events) 
 into the correct order, usually chronological. Getting the fastest correct answer sends you to 
 the Hot Seat. The computer variant struggles to re-create this by letting any number of people 
 choose a letter as their own on the PC keyboard. The computer then shuffles the four items into 
 different orders. The first person to press a key when the right order comes up wins, and then 
 the standard single-player mode starts.  

 Who Wants to Be a Millionaire could have been a better game in other ways as well. It's hard to 
 say whether a network-play variant could have worked better than the Fastest Finger option, which 
 just doesn't make Millionaire into the party game that You Don't Know Jack is. A head-to-head or 
 multiplayer contest in which players simply respond to the same multiple-choice questions simultaneously 
 until one player remains would have probably worked better. And since the central drama of Millionaire 
 has to do with the money at stake, it would have been interesting to link the home and on-air versions 
 somehow. For instance, home players who consistently reach the top of the money ladder could automatically 
 apply to be TV contestants.  

 But for $19.95, one probably shouldn't complain that Jellyvision didn't explore any extensions to 
 the basic gameplay. As it stands, Who Wants to be a Millionaire is both a faithful and entertaining 
 simulation of the TV show. You Don't Know Jack is far and away the better trivia game, as it's 
 both more entertaining and more appropriate for party play. But it's definitely the game for those 
 who want to see how well they would do in the infamous Hot Seat. It may also be the best way to 
 permanently shut up that irritating, know-it-all family member who barks out the answers to all 
 of the questions whenever the show is on TV.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  *** WHO WANTS TO BE A MILLIONAIRE ***
  
  THE GOOD 
  -Decent graphics
  -Challenging questions
  -Music and sound make you feel like you are really on the show
  
 
  THE BAD
  -Regis is your host
  -Low replay value because questions repeat quickly
  -Game is very short
  -Shallow gameplay
  
  OVERVIEW
  So, you really want to be a millionaire 
 huh? Well now you get to play the game show of Who Wants to be a Millionaire from the comfort of 
 your own home. This game is played just like the TV show from the game format to the three life 
 lines. As an added bonus, your host is the one and only Regis Philbin! Lets face it, Regis was 
 annoying on the show and you guessed it, he is annoying in this game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  If your not familiar with the TV show then I'll tell you how the game works. You sit in the "hot 
 seat" next to Mr. Loud Mouth (Regis Philbin) . Regis will ask you a series of questions with four 
 multiple choice answers. There are a total of 15 questions with the money value and question difficulty 
 increasing as you progress through the game. There are safe spots after question 5 and 10 so if 
 you get a question wrong you won't lose everything. Now along the way you have a chance to use 
 any of your three LifeLines. These LifeLines are optional but will help you in answering the questions. 
 The LifeLines are 50/50 (which eliminates two wrong answers) , Ask the Audience (polls the audience 
 for the correct answer) and Phone-A-Friend (the computer calls a random fake person to give you 
 their answer) .
  
  Aside from the annoying host this game offers very little replay value because the questions start 
 to repeat rather quickly. You really see this happen on the first 5 easy questions. Now I will 
 give credit to this game for using some very challenging questions. This just makes the reward 
 of getting one million dollars more worth while. Unfortunately, the entire game can be played in 
 about 10 to 15 minutes. So, not only does Who Wants to be a Millionaire have a low replay value 
 but it can be played so quick that you'll be bored with this game after a few short hours. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals are decent for this game. The lighting and stage design will give you 
 an authentic feel.
  
  SOUND
  Regis's TV show game excels in this department. Again like the visuals, the audio (music and sound) 
 is just like the TV show. This really gives the player a "white knuckling" feel just like the show.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Millionaire does a good job at making you feel like you are on the show with its graphics and sound. 
 Unfortunately, this game only does that well and really lacks the depth of other good trivia games. 
 With that said, I would only recommend renting this game if you like the show, because even the 
 avid TV show junky will get bored quickly. So, sorry Regis my "Final Answer" is no! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  I know a lot of people who love this gameshow. I am one of them, but if you're going to buy this 
 game in hopes of it being as cool as the show, then stop right now, and get off this. It's not.
 
  
  The game has a nice variety of questions, but if you've played quite a few rounds, they repeat 
 themselves, thus shooting the replay value down. The graphics in this game just plain suck. There's 
 no other way of putting it. They suck. The sound isn't great either. It features the half-a-dozen 
 sound effects from the gameshow... But that's it really.
  
  All around, this game is mediocre. You will have fun the first few times, and it is pretty cool 
 to be up there on stage with Regis, but other than that, it gets boring real fast, so stay away!
 
  
  I don't really reccomend this title to anyone unless you are a frantic Millionaire fan. It does 
 have some fun to be found, and I feel guilty telling people not to get this game because my parents 
 got it for me a long time ago, but truth is, it's not that great. Stay away, but not too far away. 
 Happy Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 70 % This game is based on a tv show and i think this game is fun but gets boring when 
 you play a couple of times because this game doesn't have allot of action even know its a trivia 
 game. This game could be better but its not hard to win the million dollars when you play the game 
 again and again. But if you like the Tv show i think you should check this game out.
  
  Graphics 70 % The graphics are just fine this game has allot of miniclips like the show but this 
 game freeze's sometime.
  
  Sound 70 % This game has good music like the show i think thats the best part of the game. The 
 sound is fine i think this game needs more special effects.
  
  I reccomend this game for people that like the tv series but if you dont really like trivia games 
 dont buy this game. 
  
  7.0 Out of 10.0
  
  Written by :DGDFDGFBBYT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebi_Furya
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  I really liked the show on TV and when I saw they had a game based on the TV Show, I thought I 
 would give it a try. Right off the bat, I was surprised to find that Regis wasn't in the game. 
 There was neither a 3D model or video footage of him anywhere. His face was on the box and nowhere 
 else. No big deal, but still... he's the host of the show and he's not in the game.
  
  Once I got in and playing the game, I found that a lot of the questions were a little difficult, 
 but after playing through the game a few times, they began to repeat. There simply weren't enough 
 questions to keep you going for a long time.
  
  The music was great. It was the only thing that really saved the game. Regis's voice acting wasn't 
 bad, but it got annoying after a while of him saying the same phrases over... and over... and over 
 again.
  
  If you have money to waste and can find it used for $5, then try it out. Otherwise, steer clear 
 of this game and watch it on TV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica_fan42
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  Who Wants to be a Millionaire is the tv based game of the same premises. Yes you sit in the hot 
 seat, yes you answer questions that go from the 100 dollar question to the million dollar question, 
 and yes the question's get increasingly hard each question. Sounds great right, wrong. First of 
 all alot of the easier questions will get repeated quite often. The phone a friend is where regis 
 phone's his friend and talks to him, which would be ok if you were able to select a friend from 
 his list to call. When you finally do lose Regis spouts these god awful sayings that just get down 
 right annoying. There is fast finger, but it doesn't play apart in the game, it's just something 
 your able to do, not do that to get into the hotseat. If you are truly a fan of the show, then 
 check this game out, but it doesn't have too much to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaxter342
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 1, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out and I played it a couple times but it isn't aything like 
 the show. Cause you are not timed on the show. I think they should have not put a timer on this 
 game cause you get 60 seconds to answer questions that you have no idea what the answer is and 
 you need more time to think than 60 seconds. They don't have a timer on the show. I also noticed 
 that there are no more than like 300 questions cause I got some of the same questions over again. 
 There also isn't really a challenge to the game. I played this game probably 20 or 30 times and 
 I have won probably 15 of them. It is really not that hard. I hope if they make another game they 
 need to add alot more questions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Please do not send me hate mail regarding this review. I will simply report it as offensive. 
 
  
  When I have a chance to watch the TV show Who wants to be a Millionare on ABC, I usually watch 
 it from beginning to end. This game is a disgrace to the television series. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is just horrible. You have to choose A, B, C or D. Nothing special. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics really need improvement. For example, take Half-Life. Half-Life was made a year before 
 this game was released, and it's graphics are much better than this game's. 
  
  Sound:
  The sound is poorly recorded and acted, so it gets a 4. 
  
  Value:
  If you want a trivia 
 game, play trivia pursuit. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
