-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Will Rock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/willrock/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 19, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.6, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 264 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Saber Interactive
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Jun 9, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a Serious Sam knockoff that fails to recapture the magic. 

  After coming out of virtually nowhere to win GameSpot's 2001 PC Game of the Year award, Serious 
 Sam has now officially reached the next level of success: It has its very own knockoff. From the 
 goofy title, to the nearly plot-free frantic shooting action, to the budget price, Saber Interactive's 
 Will Rock is a blatant attempt to recapture the magic of Croteam's game. Unfortunately, while it 
 gets the broad strokes more or less right, many of the details that made Serious Sam great are 
 simply missing.  

          Jumping over lava.     

  Not that it matters, but you play as an archeologist named Will Rock whose mentor has been murdered 
 by the Olympian Restoration Army, a secret cult dedicated to resurrecting the ancient civilization 
 of the Greeks. To make a short story even shorter, some other things happen and you end up running 
 around a Doric-temple-filled lost city while chucking grenades at about 20,000 berserk monsters. 

  In theory, Will Rock includes all the elements that made Serious Sam a great shooter. It features 
 large mobs of simpleminded enemies and huge, open levels in which to fight them. But something 
 just isn't right. For starters, Will Rock lacks Sam's endearingly nutty, go-for-broke atmosphere. 
 Even though it's filled with (lame, even for a shooter) one-liners and mythological beasts, Rock's 
 never as colorful, funny, or surprising as its inspiration. It's over-the-top, but in a completely 
 forgettable way.  

  The level and combat design also aren't as interesting as they could have been. Visually, Rock's 
 10 large levels favor darker, slightly less open, and more barren environments. If you had to compare 
 the two games, the graphics engine appears to be about on par with Croteam's Serious engine, though, 
 again, some small but noticeable details, such as grass and thick foliage, are missing. Sam's levels 
 had a straightforward, generally puzzle-free flow that effortlessly moved you from one large battle 
 to another -- a strategy that complemented the game's focus on pure action. Rock, on the other hand, 
 often leaves you to wander around a hublike area searching for the triggers that will permit you 
 to keep moving forward. These switch searches don't qualify as puzzles; they're just busywork that 
 frustrates your attempts to get on with the action.  

  In addition, the battles themselves seem a bit lacking in design. Will Rock's environments tend 
 to spew enemies close to you, but in a seemingly arbitrarily manner, which gives the combat -- even 
 when it occurs in large, open areas -- a more cramped, less epic feel.  

  Worse, Rock relies heavily on jumping puzzles, which have generally never worked well in first-person 
 action games. These sections are made more aggravating by the way in which enemy attacks push you 
 back a few feet, often knocking you off your tiny perch.  

  The game's occasionally unreliable mouse control also detracts from the combat. No matter how you 
 set your sensitivity, the control never feels quite right. Mouse movement speeds up and slows down 
 seemingly at random, making aiming much more difficult than it should be. A recent patch has made 
 this problem a little less noticeable, though it's still not perfect.  

  On the bright side, the character models and animation are great. Some enemies, such as a series 
 of living statues that shatter in a satisfying shower of masonry, move with a convincing fluidity 
 that's really impressive. The game's four boss battles are also pretty spectacular, though there's 
 nothing that competes with Sam's legendary final battle.  

          Some more lava jumping.     

  Will Rock's competitive multiplayer is a bit thin; all 
 you get is standard deathmatch and a team-based deathmatch variant called treasure hunt. Thankfully, 
 up to four people can play the single-player game cooperatively.  

  One of Serious Sam's most memorable enemies is the beheaded kamikaze, a headless, screaming soldier 
 who sprints toward you and then explodes. When a beheaded kamikaze detonates, its blast radius 
 damages nearby enemies, which, besides creating a satisfying chain reaction of destruction, adds 
 some tactical depth to the decision of where and when to shoot it. Will Rock includes its own version 
 of this monster -- a rat with a bomb strapped to its back. However, the rat's explosion has no blast 
 radius, removing one of the most interesting features of the monster it's based on. It may not 
 seem like a big deal, but it's a perfect example of Will Rock's problem: It mimics Serious Sam, 
 but without any apparent understanding of the subtle particulars that made Sam more than just another 
 generic shooter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Half-Life_man
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I was introduced to Will Rock way back when we got our new computer. It came free with the graphics 
 card, I guess they randomly walked down the aisle at Wal-Mart glancing at the back of boxes, because 
 packaging this game for free is probably more of a punishment than a gift.
  
  Alright, let's start unravelling this mess of a yarn ball by discussing the graphics. The textures 
 are quite good, and graphic effects such as lightning spewing from alters looks rather nice, but 
 things such as skyboxes and enviornments are a little less good. The sky looks like it's a giant 
 painted tarp set up two hundred feet above you. The buildings in the distance are in the same texture 
 file as the sky, so you move and the building moves an inch, and the cloud behind it moves an inch. 
 The enviornments are hauntingly empty. A couple spiderwebs, tools, and bones are thrown in but 
 other than that you just walk down long, empty hallways and into large, empty rooms.
  
  With that out of the way, we'll talk about sound. There are a few songs, some of them are kind 
 of cool, but just like that pogo stick you got for Christmas when you were ten, it is cool for 
 about five minutes. The songs play over and over again. You might hum one of them while waiting 
 for a bus or something, but they really aren't that great. The enemies making the same noises dozens 
 of times in a row doesn't redeem it. The music might get your adrenaline flowing a little bit, 
 but soon it will get your frustration flowing as well.
  
  Ho-kay, now onto the enemies themselves. There are tons of them. Skeletons, minotaurs, fat guys 
 throwing stuff at you, statues, cyclopses, and a whole lot more where that came from. They all 
 have unique attacks and stuff, but basically all you will be doing is either running from them, 
 or running from what they're throwing at you. The boss battles are kind of cool, there are quite 
 a few of them, but basically you're just finding whatever gun is best for killing them, and using 
 it repeatedly.
  
  How the story? There isn't one. No, this isn't based on a four hundred page book, but throwing 
 in some type of twist somewhere might help to keep your attention. There are two cutscenes, one 
 at the beginning, one at the end. They are a couple minutes in lenth each, and cram about three 
 sentences worth of story in. But it isn't really that big of a deal, you'll mostly just be killing 
 stuff anyway.
  
  Onto the enviornments. You pull levers. You rotate giant cable wheels. You run mindlessly through 
 mazes. That's pretty much the only puzzles in the game. Twenty feet behind me is a giant gate... right 
 in front of me is a big lever randomly stuck in the wall... hmm.... This game isn't hard, I think 
 one of the developers had a kid in the room bugging him and therefore let him design the puzzles, 
 because if you drive to the daycare and pick a random kid and put him in your computer chair, they 
 can get through the maps. The only difficulty here is the jumping requiered. You'll fall to the 
 floor, and run through a maze to get back to where you started climbing. If you're lucky, though, 
 you'll fall into burning lava and have your flesh seared off until you die, a perfect spot to hit 
 Escape, and click Quit. 
  
  If there are thirty games piled next to your computer and you beat them all, you can give this 
 a try. If you're new to gaming, pass this up, there are much better games out there. If you're 
 saying "Man, this looks awesome, I'm going to buy it!" you should throw your computer off a cliff 
 and hang your head in shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Saber Interactive's Will Rock (2003) is a Serious Sam knockoff. So, you'll expect some big arenas, 
 lots of monsters coming from nowhere and powerful weapons in this game. The problem is: everything 
 that was inspired from Serious Sam is now missing the most important qualities.
  
  First of all, you play with an archeologist named Will Rock, who is trying to stop the Olympian 
 Restoration Army from resurrecting the old Greek civilization. Their plan has already begun, and 
 your character 'will rock' (that sounds very silly) while beating the hordes of monsters from the 
 Greek mythology.
  
  Before you think Will Rock is a bad game, let me say that the action sequences are usually good, 
 not to mention the graphics engine that is really impressive. I found most levels very well designed, 
 and so are the artistic paints on the walls, floors and objects. Some monsters are so well animated 
 that will keep you interested for a while. There're satyrs, minotaurs, ancient warriors and even 
 living statues. Unfortunately, the undeads don't look good, and that's particularly bad because 
 you'll see them very often.
  
  So, what's ripped from Serious Sam that's not right? To start, several weapons are useless, not 
 because they're weak, but due to the fact you have at your disposal really overpowered ones. I 
 used only five weapons in the entire game, despite the fact you have eleven in your arsenal. It 
 would be spoiler if I put here all the weapons you'll get, but let me say that the 'bizarre' ones 
 are the useless stuff. However, I think it won't hurt if I speak about the earlier weapons: The 
 pistol has unlimited ammo, and fires with a great precision; the shotgun, although is bad designed, 
 is extremely powerful, no matter what distance is your target; another bad looking weapon is the 
 machine gun, but it's very useful because it fires with good rate and doesn't need to be reloaded 
 (while most weapons do) .
  
  Another problem are your enemies. Most of them have the same behavior, and you deal exactly in 
 the same way with all of them. Obviously all your foes must be killed by shooting, but you don't 
 have actually a strategy to beat them. In Serious Sam (sorry for the constant comparison, but it 
 is necessary) , most monsters were killed in different ways. For example, the bull you have to sidestep 
 when he attacks, and them fire against him from behind while he's maneuvering. There're many other 
 examples, but in Will Rock it's always the same pattern: dodge and shoot, without any tactical 
 decisions.
  
  The levels aren't very different from each other, although they all look great: sky, buildings, 
 mountains, water, pedestals, destructible objects etc. There are only 10 levels, but they're quite 
 extensive and provide a good 7 or 8 hours of gameplay in total. There is some lava jumping, as 
 well rooms with some lethal traps. Many of these moments will probably remind you Montezuma's Revenge, 
 because if you miss (and, in general, that isn't a difficult task) , you die. Depending on your 
 taste, that can be a pain in the ***.
  
  If you're expecting huge arenas, then you'll be disappointed. In Will Rock, there're some large 
 areas, but nothing colossal. At least, the boss battles are awesome and provide a good challenge, 
 especially in the final confrontation. I played in the regular difficult setting, and I had some 
 trouble in several places, which provided really good, disputed moments.
  
  I found some minor bugs even in the patched 1.2 version. In some of the boss battles, I could simply 
 ignore the giant monster by easily opening a door and ending the level. The intention, obviously, 
 was to let the door locked, to be unlocked only after defeating the boss. But I decided to go without 
 cheating and killed the giant, and so the same door opened (as if it couldn't be done before) . 
 Also, I once got stuck between a wall and a big door that was just opened. So, I used an explosive 
 and hurt myself to get way from that unbelievable prison. There're some few graphical problems, 
 but they don't mess with the gameplay.
  
  Sound effects and music are fine. The soundtrack isn't much variety, and sometimes the same music 
 is repeated over the levels. But I didn't find it that bad, since some of the background music 
 is rock or heavy-metal. Naturally, it's your taste that will say if it's good or not.
  
  Will Rock deserves a credit by offering a simple, but working multiplayer. You have the 'Deathmach' 
 and 'Cooperative' modes, which extends the life of this game. As I said, you can finish the game 
 pretty quickly, but you can replay it in a higher difficult setting (called 'Will Die', very hard) 
 with some friends. So, if you're an old-school gamer and liked Serious Sam, give Will Rock a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Sam "Serious" Stone. Will Rock. Stone. Rock. Sheesh.
  
  Nevertheless, Will Rock has its own style. Here the historic theme is Ancient Greece, and although 
 some of the enemies seem very similar to those in Serious Sam (for example, there are centaurs 
  and their undead counterparts, the skeletaurs  that will buck you into the air similar to the 
 Werebulls) , many are quite different as well. And some of these critters have pretty good AI; their 
 aim can be deadly, and they often move erratically and evasively.
  
  Furthermore, the weapons in Will Rock feel different and unique. They look good, they sound good, 
 and some of them are rather unusual.
  
  I particularly like the sniper-crossbow, which fires a high-velocity flaming arrow that utterly 
 incinerates any lesser target over the course of a few seconds. Also, there is a really useful 
 acid gun that causes some enemies to swell up with a grotesque rubber-squeegee noise until they 
 finally pop. The minigun looks and sounds ferocious, with a belt-changing reload animation that's 
 pretty snazzy. And there are others. Pretty nifty weaponry, all in all.
  
  Then there's this goofy-looking, very effective shotgun they give you. The object model is all 
 wrong but it feels and shoots right: it's not exactly real-world ballistics, but it has far less 
 spread than your traditional FPS shotgun. At close range it can still take down several enemies 
 clustered together, but you actually have to aim it, even when the adversary is right in your face. 
 And, the pattern and spread are such that the shotgun remains somewhat effective even when the 
 enemy is far off. Thus, it behaves more like a real shotgun. On the downside, the model for the 
 shotgun looks like a lever-action repeating rifle, and if you look closely, the shotgun-shell ammo 
 boxes are filled with high-velocity rifle rounds  bullets, in other words. Not sure what happened 
 there. It shoots like a scattergun but is dressed up like a rifle.
  
  Aside from the "Henry rifle"-looking shotgun, though, the other weapon models look very good.
 
  
  I played on the "you will die" difficulty setting, and while the pacing and intensity were not 
 at the level of Serious Sam, it still offered some challenges. Some of the boss battles were quite 
 tough  most notably, the first boss was extremely difficult. Midway into the game, ammo becomes 
 almost too plentiful, and some of the more powerful weapons seem wasted on the machinegun-fodder 
 enemies that are common throughout the game. Nevertheless, there are some notable moments when 
 you get the chance to unleash your firepower, or die trying.
  
  Considering that it was released several years ago, Will Rock looks fantastic. And it plays very, 
 very smoothly with a good graphics card. I experienced virtually no slowing of frame rates with 
 every visual setting maxed out. (I have an older P4 2.66 Ghz system with 2GB of RAM and a GeForce 
 7800 GS.) Will Rock's visuals are not quite on the same level as some of the most recent games, 
 but the game still looks good. These same praises could be said for Serious Sam.
  
  (By the way, I've heard it mentioned before with regard to other games, but where does Gamespot 
 get its screenshots? The images here look like the game is running at 640x480 or something. I run 
 this one at 1280x1024 with antialiasing on and it looks very sharp  especially so because of the 
 absolutely fluid frame rates.)
  
  Looky here now: if you haven't yet played Serious Sam and Serious Sam: the Second Encounter, then 
 drop everything and locate a place to purchase those titles. They are worth every penny, and those 
 two games represent perhaps the greatest and most intense first-person-shooter experience ever 
 devised, to this day. If you've already played those, and like that cartoonish, all-out-mayhem 
 gameplay style, then you're probably going to get a kick out of Will Rock.
  
  The Gamespot review says it "fails to recapture [Serious Sam's] magic." Now, that seems a bit unfair, 
 and sounds like a synopsis coming from a very jaded gamer who is required to "play" games for their 
 work. Serious Sam was definitely pure magic, but expecting this "knockoff" to live up to that is 
 like expecting a Quarter Pounder to rival the filet mignon you had at a 5-star restaurant. Nevertheless, 
 if you're a hungry carnivore, the Quarter Pounder still hits the spot, right?
  
  The blatant "borrowing" aside, Will Rock is a pretty neat little game, and a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natsist
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  "Serious Sam ,but without the magic of the first"_Hey dudes what is that-WILL ROCK ROCKS!
  Hyper dynamic action (just select will die difficulty level and you can just imagine to reach level 
 3 :) perfect graphics and effects (blood everywhere)
  ancient levels, incredible music, original enemyes, intensive gameplay, good created multyplayer-what 
 more can want man?
  The game have only 10 levels but they are created in Secon encounter syle. Have mean they are long 
 and with many (and huge arenas in first encounter style) arena. The game mechanism is like in Serious 
 Sam 1-you entering in the arena / hall / yard / room, and all exit are lock in the same moment. Then 
 coming the enemy armies, you are trying to shoot them, the music is turning in to Hard rok and the 
 your coolbar going to MAX! Whaen i said "ARMIES" i have mean ARMIES!!! On the second level ( i playing 
 on hard difficulti now) i have killed up to 800 MONSTERS! If you don't kill the boss they are spawning, and 
 spawning, and spawning... And can't kill the bos becouse the spawning monsters killing you, and you 
 must kill first them, but you can't becouse after that are spawning new... GOD, that's my dream!!
 
  You have 11 weapons
  1Shovel (i'm not kidding you that is a weapon for mass destruction)
  2. Pistol (if you can clicking fast on the mouse you can turn it in to machine gun)
  3. ShotGun
 
  4. Machinegun (good gun there are no pauses for reloading)
  5. Sniper Crossbow (burn in hellfire)
  6. Fireball thrower (relax it's a bazooka)
  7. MiniGun 
 (aka thousand bullets in the air per second)
  8. AcidGun (the best in the game)
  9. Medusa Gun (make statues by your enemyes)
  10. Atomic Gun-piece of nuclear death :)
  11. Handgrenades.
 
  About this game i have one advice-play it with friends in cooperative-it's great fun!
  So what you reading that, get the acid gun and get ready to ROCK!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 30mhdc
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Piss-take yank aside - Mr Rock himself - the game is very
  atmospheric with a wonderfully evocative soundtrack.
  On this level, the oft-mentioned Serious 
 Sam does not
  compare.
  
  I've been through all the major titles since this game
  was released yet this is the only game I regularly come
  back to.
  
  Ridiculed by many, therefore, 
 unlikely to happen, I just wish
  they'd bring out a sequel. The intriguing fusing of Classical
  Mediterranean antiquity with 'Shock 
 and Awe' weaponry
  is merely hinted at here and could do with being expanded
  upon with a high budget exploration - Donald Rumsfeld as
  Achilles perhaps... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  I wasnt in much of a hurry to try Will Rock as a me-too reproduction of Serious Sams pitched 
 battles in one massive arena after another. Frankly, I was a bit tired of Sams repetitive scenarios 
 by the end of his second encounter with Mental and company, despite the jaw-dropping architectural 
 aesthetics on display in Croteams powerful homegrown game engine. The price was just right for 
 Will Rock, however; WR was released as a budget title, just like its big brother Sam, although 
 the quality invested in the design and playability of both releases is head-and-shoulders above 
 any bargain bin offerings with the word Valu in their name.
  
  The similarities between Will Rock and Sam dont end with the games price tag, of course. WR also 
 sports the same premise as its muse: players can expect to find themselves hemmed in by hordes 
 of imaginatively nasty monsters, their only salvation an arsenal of both practical and fantastical 
 weapons of mass destruction. Although the size of WRs menagerie kept the game interesting from 
 one level to the next  the appearance of each scion of Greek lore was paced very well, with a 
 new type of critter thrown into the mix every few stages  the actual headcount of each galloping 
 detachment seemed smaller than the horizon-darkening legions of Mentals army that carpet the exotic 
 territories of Serious Sam. Still, the variety in Zeus posse commendably kept my curiosity piqued; 
 even though not all of the creatures were difficult to handle  the mitotic minotaurs were horribly 
 deadly if they managed to surround me, but the skeletal warriors were never more than machine gun 
 fodder  most of them looked great and complemented each others style of attack when mixed together 
 just right.
  
  Although the more fanciful elements of Wills phalanx-busting toolkit are limited to only a few 
 items, each of them quickly became my favorite toys over the games traditional projectile-slingers. 
 The acid gun was especially dear to me, with each shot resulting in a wonderfully grody area effect 
 reminiscent of Duke Nukem Atomics devastating Expander ray. The crossbows flaming bolts were 
 also entertaining: the manner in which enemies kept firing or clawing at me even as they were incinerated 
 to a crumbling husk was a nice effect. The Medusa gun granted Will the same abilities as the wild-haired 
 old Gorgon herself, transmogrifying any monsters caught within the spritz of its chthonic power 
 into stone.
  
  Overall, Will Rock is a nice, humble, tightly-coded little game worth mentioning beside such glorious 
 gladiatorial gangbangs as Serious Sam and Painkiller. WRs scenery is spacious and detailed, even 
 though its Doric temples and craggy cliffs grew repetitive after a while. However, WR is of just 
 the right length; the moment I felt the first pang of restlessness over the games thoroughly-emptied 
 bag of tricks, I found myself standing at the foot of the Stairway to Olympus, a truly excellent 
 level that pits the player against a hail of Atlas celestial spheres in an uphill affair that 
 overshadows the mediocre final boss battle. I recommend Will Rock for anyone who lacks the latest 
 and greatest in PC hardware but needs a quick and effective adrenaline fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch_Demonz
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 1, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  played this game a while ago, got no publicity, perhaps for good reason, wasnt an incredible game, 
 but wasnt a bad one either, i like to think of this game as one of the kings of low budget FPS, 
 was enjoyable enough to play till end, some difficult parts that were hard to understand, but either 
 than that a nice fun action packed, intense gameplay experience
  
  fairly repetitive gameplay, but had some nice environments, if you see this in the $2 bin, even 
 though its pretty old, give it a fair chance, has a nice little energy to it, pretty unique, u 
 might enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AINISA
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Although the concept of the game ( borrowed from Serious Sam ) is good, but the action aspect is 
 rather undermined by the puzzles. On top of that, it is the buggiest game I have seen to date. 
 For example, ever spear-trap (doorway with 3 sets of spears coming out) is a closed door. There 
 is no opening for the player to get through them since the game just pushes you away from the door 
 as if you have run into a wall. To slove this problem, you have to download a patch, and another 
 patch. There are other situations where the character gets stuck in certain places and is unable 
 to get out without wiggling or repeated jumping. All in all, I believe this game could have used 
 some more beta testing and bug fixing before it got thrown into public arena. The price seems good, 
 but remember, you get what you pay for.
  
  I giw 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raoul_haa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Will rock is a very simple game, shoot to all sides, watch your back and if you passed this part, 
 SAVE.
  
  The game is only for instant-action lovers.
  The graphics are quite good and beautiful; the sound is not bad ether.
  There are lots of guns 
 to choose from, shotgun, machinegun, acid gun, grenades and others.
  
  The things that make you hate the game are:
  1. Difficulty I started at medium- I barely survived, 
 I've tried easy- too easy, hard- a no-doubt-death.
  2. it's very easy to get killed, every five minutes you need to save because you are going to die.
 
  3. The bosses are easy to defeat, unlike their servants.
  4. no multiplayer fun!, no rooms are opened on the list.
  
  Oh, and the music is good, very 
 good. 
  
  This game is only for particular types.
  
  Stay in contact,
  
  Raoul_haa.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nsr81
Rating: 4.2
Date: Sep 25, 2003 9:43 am PT
Review:  Although the concept of the game ( borrowed from Serious Sam ) is good, but the action aspect is 
 rather undermined by the puzzles. On top of that, it is the buggiest game I have seen to date. 
 For example, ever spear-trap (doorway with 3 sets of spears coming out) is a closed door. There 
 is no opening for the player to get through them since the game just pushes you away from the door 
 as if you have run into a wall. To slove this problem, you have to download a patch, and another 
 patch. There are other situations where the character gets stuck in certain places and is unable 
 to get out without wiggling or repeated jumping. All in all, I believe this game could have used 
 some more beta testing and bug fixing before it got thrown into public arena. The price seems good, 
 but remember, you get what you pay for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kabbage
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2003 8:27 pm PT
Review:  In 3 words: THIS GAME ROCKS!
  
  Pros:
  THE VALUE: For $20, it is the best value game out right now. In fact, it is better than some of 
 the more expensive titles on the market right now. If you enjoy the sheer fun of blasting ton's 
 of weird monsters (ala Serious Sam) , then this game is for you. Comparisons to Serious Sam are 
 inevitable, and deserved. Will this game get Game of the Year too? Likely not, but it can easily 
 be recommended to your friends without hesitation. You can play this game over and over at the 
 higher skill levels.
  
  THE GRAPHICS: At any price range, there graphics are great. They are not super splashy... no extreme 
 shadow or lighting effects... but they are crisp, have a wide range of palettes and textures, have 
 well modeled 3-D figures. Again, it's no Unreal II, but it's also WAY better than Soldier of Fortune 
 II, James Bond: Nightfire, and The Hulk, all of which cost more than this game. If you have an 
 ATI Radeon (7500 chipset or better) , then this game will look spectacular (the screen shots in 
 the back of the ATI Radeon 9600 Pro box are from this game) . 
  
  Cons:
  GAMEPLAY: The overall gameplay of the game is typical of 1st person shooters, which is good, but 
 there were two recurring glitches. First, when the player is hit by an enemy, the player's gun 
 is left pointing at the ground or the ceiling, or somewhere OTHER than where it was originally. 
 The controls basically jerked around from time to time (especially after brief cutscenes or level 
 loads) , and there didn't seem to be a proper mouse speed setting that fixed this. Second, The weapons 
 balancing. The game starts you out with a .45 pistol that doesn't run out of ammo and has decent 
 power. The next weapon you get a shotgun - which has unlimited range and accuracy, and good power. 
 The other weapons aren't as great. The s****er-like crossbow has too slow a rate of fire to make 
 it useful against multiple enemies (which is what you're facing the majority of the time) , the 
 machine has a great rate of fire but little power, the rocket launcher weapon and the other gimmick 
 weapons also suffer slow fire rates. You'll find yourself using the shotgun way late into the game. 
 
  
  NO QUICKSAVE: The game didn't seem to have a quick save system that I could find. I looked for 
 a hotkey, but found none. You could still save wherever you like, but you had to momentarily exit 
 the game - which can take the edge off of this visceral game.
  
  Recommendations:
  More TITAN POWERS (Power-ups) . The power ups should have been more abundant. Since they are so 
 sparse, you will inevitably end up saving them for the bosses, and never using them IN the game's 
 levels. 
  
  Wider open areas to fight in. The areas in this game are definitely smaller than Serious Sam, which 
 means that the game can't throw as many monsters at you simultaneously. Also, the variety of monsters 
 seems small, again, likely due to other graphic considerations. 
  
  Overall: 
  This game is a must-have for shooter fans. If you enjoyed Serious Sam in the least bit, then you 
 will like Will Rock. It is a game stripped down to the bare necessities: FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pakbadazz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 17, 2003 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is quite fun espacially for the funs of Serious Sam it could just as well be 
 its replacement. The gameplay is smooth, works well and is bug free. The graphics are quite good 
 perhaps the refined version of Serious Sam, its surrounding remind me more of films like Benhur 
 or Gladiator. There is one thing wrong with the graphics it just that i could see the shadow of 
 an enemy standing on the other side of the wall this happened occasionally but tis a problem developer 
 must have seen and fixed. The sounds are a just a bit of track espacially when i tried to bang 
 tent and it made same noise as the ground right at the begining. There are a few witty remarks 
 but i think there should be more. This game is quite challenging and will try to keep you playing 
 for a while if you want to end it and there is a fun level in it which just might compel you to 
 do so.
  P. S I am reviewin this game espacially to see if i get close to gamespots ratings (which i think 
 i might they'll probally give it round about 7.9-8.5) lets see if iam right 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
