-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Will of Steel
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/willofsteel/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some destructible environments, but that's about it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating gameplay.
 Horrible pathfinding.
 Only 16 single-player missions.
 Bland graphics.
 Voice recognition a gimmick.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 26, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 4.6, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GMX Media
Developer: Gameyus
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Feb 4, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Frustrating gameplay, bad graphics, and a careless regard for historical detail make Will of Steel 
 a trying experience. 

  Will of Steel is aptly named, and that's because you'll need a will of steel to get through this 
 lame real-time strategy game about the war on terror. There are so many problems with Will of Steel 
 that it's hard to know where to begin in terms of describing them, but trust us when we say to 
 spare yourself the frustration and avoid this decidedly lackluster game.  

          In Will of Steel, US Marines equipped with Vietnam-era tanks fight the Taliban in 2003. 
     

  Will of Steel features only two single-player campaigns -- one set during Afghanistan in 2001 and 
 the other in Iraq in 2003 -- and both are equally crummy. It's one thing to take liberties with historical 
 facts for gameplay's sake (and many games do) , but the campaigns in Will of Steel don't even resemble 
 reality. Despite the fact that the Afghan campaign was pretty much fought by proxy by enlisting 
 Afghanistan warlords to the US cause, the way Will of Steel tells it, the US wages the war with 
 ill-equipped Marine forces battling superior Taliban armies. For example, the Marines in Will of 
 Steel are equipped with weapon systems that have been retired for almost a decade, such as M-60 
 Patton and M-551 Sheridan tanks. Not that it matters, though, because modern-day armor wouldn't 
 fare any better thanks to the screwed-up weapon balancing that results in infantrymen dishing out 
 far more damage than tanks and other vehicles. Just watch as a single rocket-propelled grenade-toting 
 Taliban unloads a dozen warheads in the time it takes a tank to reload its main gun, and you'll 
 discover the meaning of frustration.  

  To make things even worse, Will of Steel features brain-dead artificial intelligence and pathfinding, 
 which means that you have to handhold your units constantly to avoid pileups. And even then you'll 
 watch as half of your force arrives at the destination only to get chewed up, while the other half 
 manages to jam itself onto various pieces of terrain, like mountains. The game tries to incorporate 
 some depth, as there are tactical controls, as well as various unit statistics to keep track of, 
 but they're all worthless when it can't even get the basics down right. Plus, you're far too busy 
 trying to get units to untangle to worry about formation controls. But wait, it gets worse. There 
 is no save-game functionality, which means that you've got to start each mission over from scratch 
 each time something goes wrong, and trust us when we say things go wrong far more than they go 
 right in this game. It's so bad that we found that the best way to get through missions is simply 
 to control just one or two units and slowly inch across the map, repairing all the time. It's a 
 grindingly slow and painful pace that's not that much fun. Meanwhile, the game's built-in voice 
 recognition system, which allows you to give verbal commands, is just a gimmick for the most part. 
 While the system does let you quickly select specific types of units, such as engineers, you still 
 have to interact with your keyboard heavily in order to give out orders.  

  The mission design isn't any better, or any more logical. Despite the fact that the US has detailed, 
 satellite-generated maps of every inch of the planet in case it has to invade a country (not to 
 mention complete control of the air, so it has a bird's-eye view of everything) , your minimap is 
 just a plain black grid, so you have no idea what the battlefield looks like until you uncover 
 the fog of war. And speaking of the fog of war, your units can't see anything more than 40 yards 
 away from them, so they'll stumble into ambushes left and right simply because you can't see the 
 enemy. And good luck trying to zoom out, as the camera can't pull back any decent distance, so 
 you're unable to get a big picture of the surrounding area. Even worse, helicopter units literally 
 fill up about a third of the screen because you can't pull the camera back any farther.  

  Even though the game touts its "stunning" graphical effects, Will of Steel is decidedly lackluster 
 in appearance. It simply looks dated in comparison to modern games. There are a couple of nice 
 effects, such as partially distributable environments, but units and buildings are blocky in appearance, 
 textures are murky and muddled, and there's an overall level of blandness. The environments are 
 plain and not very detailed, and everything looks crude. And since you can't pull the camera back, 
 these dull visuals are in your face the entire time. The music sounds like someone's garage band 
 riffing too much on the guitar solos, the sound effects are average, and the voice-overs are bad. 

          The elite American military can't even drive through a tunnel without creating a pileup, 
 thanks to crummy pathfinding.     

  Will of Steel lacks any sort of multiplayer component, so once you're through the game's 16 missions, 
 it's the end of gameplay. Those 16 missions won't take you that long (say about 10 hours) , even 
 with the lack of a save-game feature. But those 10 hours aren't going to be much fun, as you'll 
 spend a lot of time yelling in frustration at seeing elite troops run around in circles and get 
 stuck on mountains, while multimillion-dollar tanks are chewed up by a single guy with an RPG. 
 Yes, Will of Steel tries, and it shows some heart, but there are simply so many other  better  
 real-time strategy games out there. And if you want to play around with modern military equipment, 
 we suggest you try any of them over this.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PlasmaPlague
Rating: 1.1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  i know it is truly a thing that if u call it a thing then u r insulting everything in this world...&amp; 
 it just dont worth the space it taking up.. i mean in our universe..
  can u guys believe that this nonsense stuff is selling in China with a totally different name (global 
 guard) &amp; cove that nobody can figure out what game it actually is?... maybe they really planed 
 to earn some from this crap..
  &amp; PLUS THE MOST UNACCEPTABLE THING IS ---A BEST 3D SLG OF E3 MARK ON IT`S BOX..
  hope somebody 
 can do something to correct such silly name-switching actions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thartman
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  I make it a habit of getting the demo first then buying the game if it isn't too bad. I did pull 
 down the demo and found the game play frustratingly bad so deleted the demo and forgot about it. 
 I was playing other games but was looking for something with modern but not futuristic vehicles. 
 I was a Platoon Sergeant of a Bradley platoon so when saw the cover art in the store and didn't 
 associate it with the demo I had played, I thought this might be good. I put it back and thought 
 I'll look to see if they have a demo. By the time I thought about it I couldn't remember the name. 
 I saw it again a couple of weeks later at the store and thought, How bad can it be? 
  
  It is really bad. The missions make no sense it has the feel of World War II. We don't load up 
 in trucks any more to go take a bridge. The balance is all off. It is my own fault they have a 
 demo and it is so bad that I gave up before finishing one mission. The AI is terrible and pathfinding 
 is ridiculous. For some reason the mini map seems to invert the mouse controls. I'm sure if I worked 
 with it I might have been able to fix it but since I can't fix that unbalanced play, poor AI, terrible 
 pathfinding, silly units, and any semblance to reality it wasn't worth it. 
  
  Congratulation to the marketing guys the art on the box is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinman1321
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Will of Steel is a great idea but executed poorly. 
  
  First, the system requirements are steep for what you get. Why the game wouldnt support the NVidea 
 MX440 is beyond me, but I got an ATI 9600 which made me very disappointed with the graphics in 
 that the game doesn't really use the power of the card. I originally bought the game because the 
 the ability to use the voice command system. It didn't work! 
  I can deal with bad AI, but that is the one feature that sets this game apart should work. 
  
 
  The documentation is non-existent and therefore knowing how to employ your units effectivly is 
 painful at best. I actually went through the first campaign and didnt have the heart to do the 
 second one. The other reviewers were upset about the authenticity, I would just have been happy 
 if the game had worked as advertized. 
  
  Bottom Line: Stay away, stay far away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROBERTBOBBY91
Rating: 1.6
Date: May 5, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks -on its website its braggs at its "superior graphics power" -my ass! the houses 
 look like boxes! and the vehicles suck!- it claims its a superier RTS! well, if i was the developer 
 i would never call it will of steel, i would call it vietnam time warp! why u ask? well, were to 
 begin? i guess i could begin by stating that vietnam era military crap has been retired from combat 
 for WELL over 20 years, because i do not remember the US kiking the terrerists asses with pattons 
 and m113s! thats right, u got a frekin 1970 patton up against a 2001 RPG. HA! what kind of crap 
 is that! and do u remember those good old 1975 round and odd looking hellicopters from vietnam 
 war movies? yep! u gussed it -they got them in this messed up game too! i do not remember the afganistan 
 and iraq wars being in 1985 or 75 ! take it from me
  
  DO NOT BY WILL OF STEEL
  
  P. S. mouse clicks have a delay in responding when holding ctrl of shift!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 24, 2005 3:42 am PT
Review:  This game was no fun for me at all. There are plenty other RTS games out there based on the same 
 theme that are much better. I found myself bored after 20 minutes of play. The sounds are weak 
 and characters repeat way to much speech over and over. 
  The graphics are very out dated. 
  The game play is unrealistic. I found many times that tactics 
 that should work dont. It seemed to me that the best way to play this game was to send all your 
 units head on with an all out attack to win, which is hardly realistic or fun.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
