-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wing Commander: Prophecy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/wingcommanderprophecy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 16, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.2, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 413 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Origin
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Nov 30, 1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The new design team has shifted the emphasis from screenplay to gameplay, and the result is an engaging, 
 but somewhat different, Wing Commander experience. 

 For the fifth chapter in Origin's space-combat series, the designers have abandoned the game's recent 
 tendency toward the cinematic. The last two Wing Commander chapters have seen gameplay give way 
 to lengthy expository film sequences, with missions often seeming like no more than a way to kill 
 time until the next big plot point. Not any more. With original series creator Chris Roberts gone 
 to head up Digital Anvil (and reportedly direct the Wing Commander film) , the new design team has 
 shifted the emphasis from screenplay to gameplay, and the result is an engaging, but somewhat different, 
 Wing Commander experience.  

 Why different? Primarily because the shift away from FMV has been accompanied by a shift away from 
 plot in general, a significant departure for a series that has been associated with some of the 
 most intricate and gripping storylines in recent gaming memory. It's true that the game introduces 
 a new crew of characters, and some old favorites - such as Blair and Maniac, played by Mark Hamill 
 and Tom Wilson, respectively - are still around. And there's a new alien species invading Confederation 
 territory, wreaking havoc on the crippled Kilrathi (who were all but annihilated over the course 
 of the first three games) and bent on destroying everything in its path. The modest attempts to 
 develop these characters aren't very interesting, and the plot is largely devoid of the types of 
 intrigue and surprise we've come to expect from the Wing Commander series. The game also lacks 
 significant dialogue choices to make, and hence, storyline branches. Prophecy is almost totally 
 linear, with only one or two minor exceptions based on mission performance.  

 All this means that Wing Commander: Prophecy stands or falls based on its gameplay. Fortunately 
 it stands up quite well. As rookie Confed pilot Lance Casey, your role is simple and straightforward: 
 Work your way up the ranks of Confed pilots by taking out as many alien targets as you humanly 
 can. Encounters with the aliens are the most fascinating aspect of the game - thanks in large measure 
 to designer Syd Mead, whose previous work includes production design for Ridley Scott's Blade Runner. 
 Mead has crafted a menacing, insect-like alien race, piloting ships that look like, behave like, 
 and are even named after sea-creatures. Even better, the invaders dart and dodge through space, 
 with a distinctly different flare than opponents from earlier chapters in the series.  

 Most of the missions center around simply destroying as many of these aquatic-like craft as possible. 
 There's a heavy emphasis on patrol missions, in which you fly from one Nav point to the next fighting 
 any enemies encountered along the way, but there are a few really brilliant missions strewn throughout 
 the game. You'll take out massive cruisers and transports, and you'll encounter immense battleships 
 armed with devastating weapons. The last mission is particularly notable - it makes the rest of 
 the game worthwhile, truly creating a sense of suspense as you desperately try to achieve your 
 final objectives against overwhelming odds. It's also possible to fail many of the missions and 
 still continue - though your next sortie will be made a little more difficult as a result.   

 
 Undoubtedly, some will find a few of the mission conventions a little frustrating. Except in rare 
 cases, you no longer get to choose your ship, and you never get to choose your wingmen or your 
 weapons loadout. But this adds a welcome challenge, as you can't always rely upon the best combination. 
 It should also be mentioned that many of the missions are quite lengthy and there's no way to incrementally 
 save your game. While that fact alone isn't too much of a problem, it is a problem when the designers 
 string two of these missions together without giving you a chance to save in between. It may heighten 
 the drama, but it occasionally escalates the frustration.  

 But even with these quirks, this game is difficult to stop playing, and for one simple reason: Wing 
 Commander: Prophecy is one of the finest looking games ever created. Along with Quake II, it may 
 be the only reason you need to justify purchasing a 3D accelerator. While the nonaccelerated version 
 is quite nice, the accelerated version is downright awe-inspiring. The bleak black space of previous 
 chapters has been replaced by a more visually dazzling backdrop, filled with colorful gasses and 
 treacherous asteroids. The ships contain an amazing amount of detail and the explosions - not your 
 basic fireballs mind you, but huge rings of light and hurtling debris - are incredible. The flight 
 engine, while still very familiar, has been improved, especially in terms of raw speed.  

 The only real problem with Wing Commander: Prophecy is that it ends too soon. And as a result of 
 the linear storyline and lack of multiplayer support, this is not a game you'll be returning to 
 over and over. You'll long for a little more substance once you've finished, but the engaging gameplay, 
 solid mission design, and mesmerizing visuals make Wing Commander: Prophecy a blast while it lasts. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sarevokmb
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I found an old copy of Wing Commander: Prophecy a while ago, and installed it on my computer, not 
 really expecting much. The game was almost ten years old, and judging from the pictures on the 
 back of the box, had horrible graphics. When I began playing, I was surprised to find that the 
 game was excellent.
  
  STORY:
  Without spoiling too much, the plot is about a young pilot who is assigned to a squadron of fighter 
 pilots to fight an alien race. It may sound like a generic plot by the way that I described it 
 (and it does start out pretty slowly) , but it gets very involved and exciting about half-way through.
 
  
  The story is told through cutscenes with actual actors, with some famous ones too ( Including Mark 
 Hamill, who played Luke Skywalker in Star Wars ) . The acting in these scenes isn't great from the 
 supporting cast, but the main characters are excellent.
  
  Story Score: 9 / 10
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  While the graphics do look a bit dated, they are still passable. If it wasn't 
 for the blocky look when objects are near, it may even have looked better than most of the Playstation 
 2 launch games.
  
  There are two major downfalls for the graphics though. The first is that most of the guns look 
 bad when fired, unlike the amazing missile effects.
  
  Another problem is that the cutscenes are very low in visual quality, and are extremely blurry, 
 even on my high-end computer.
  
  The graphics must have been very impressive at the time the game was made, but they don't hold 
 up to most games made for PC anymore (which can be expected with a nine year old game) .
  
  Graphics Score: 6 / 10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This is the far best part of the game. For the most 
 part, the controls work wonderfully, and feel natural. Some of the actions don't seem to fit on 
 certain keys on the keyboard, but they are, thankfully, customizable.
  
  Electronic Arts also did a great job on the mission design- not only does each mission feel different, 
 with new enemies and goals in each one, but they also change depending on how you did in the previous 
 mission. If, for example, you were tasked with protecting a friendly space ship, and you failed, 
 the story would take a complete turn- the ship would not be in the next mission, you may be disliked 
 by certain other pilots for your failure, and a different mission would be available.
  
  The ability to change the story just by your actions on the battlefield makes the replay value 
 for the game very high. Dedicated players will want to play all of the missions, and view all of 
 the endings.
  
  My only problem with the gameplay is that all of the missions take place in space, and the same 
 space backdrop gets boring quickly. Depending on your location there will be different planets, 
 moons, and stars, but they all look basically the same.
  
  Gameplay Score: 9.5 / 10
  
  Overall, Wing Commander: Prophecy is a great game. The only real problems are that the graphics 
 are a bit dated, and the space background gets boring after a while. I would highly recommend picking 
 this up if you could find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  WARNING:
  I wrote the following review nearly 10 years ago, shocking grammar follows. This is your only warning!
 
  
  At long last it has been released the much awaited Wing Commander 5. The wing commander series 
 has always been a rival to the X-Wing series and still manages to hold its own 8 years on from 
 the original games. The Wing Commander series started on the PC but also appeared on the consoles 
 I actually own a copy of the original Wing Commander for the SNES and I also own a Secret missions 
 version of it. At the time the graphics were great, flying through an asteroid belt landing at 
 the Victory star ship and the animated cut-scenes but the game still had a major problem, it was 
 sprite based. All this changed come Wing Commander 3 with its video cut-scenes and possibly the 
 biggest computer game budget until Wing Commander 4. Even though the Wing Commander series has 
 been going so long it was never quite as popular as Tie-Fighter and now with the release of Wing 
 Commander 5 (Prophecy) perhaps X-Wing Vs Tie-Fighter can be beaten.
  
  Unlike Lucas arts X-Wing Vs Tie-Fighter this game lacks any multi-player options which some would 
 say is a good thing allowing more of an in depth story for the 1 player mode and not allowing the 
 game to turn into X-Wing Vs Tie-Fighter with all the main focus on 2-8 player melees. The problem 
 with this is that the game may have a great idea behind it with a non-linear plot with different 
 missions occurring depending on how wall your doing in the fight, but the whole experience does 
 not last long enough. The game is on 3 CDs so I would of expected a long game but my the time 
 I was hoping for a middle, I was at the end and it would seem that the 3CDs are mainly full of 
 cut-scenes. Because of a lack of a multi-player mode, the fact that I completed it and the 120 
 odd Megs of space it uses, after 3 days it was uninstalled. Dont get me wrong there are good points 
 to the game but they mainly revolve around the graphics as this game has some of the greatest graphics 
 ever seen in a computer game even without a 3DFX. If you are lucky enough to have a 3DFX accelerator 
 then the graphical treats are many including smart lens flair (although that seems to standard 
 for all 3d games nowadays) and the missile trails and colours look fantastic not to mention the 
 much faster game frame rate. Frame rate is a good point because this game is REALLY processor hungry 
 because with my Matrox mystique it jerks noticeably on my Cyrix 200 but with the same machine with 
 a 3DFX card it runs like Linford Christy from Joe brand
  
  Final Judgement
  Strangely Wing commander 4 seemed to have more appeal than this besides its dated graphics it 
 had a better lastability and once again a Wing Commander game falls short of beating a Star wars 
 game You will need
  P166 No 3DFX
  P133 With 3DFX
  32Mb Ram
  Win 95
  150Mb hard disk space
  
  Supports
  3DFX, D3D, Power VR
  
  Details
  Web adress:
  WWW. ORIGIN. COM
 
  Phone:
  01753-549442
  Price:
  &pound;29.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:07 am PT
Review:  I love this series, but I really feel like it peeked at the last game. Even that one felt like 
 more of a prologue. This one tries really hard to start a new war and bring the universe into a 
 different direction. After all, we nuked the Kiltrathi good two games ago.
  
  I just don't think it works. It's a nice try. It's ok on some levels. The other problem is that 
 the genre was definitely falling out of favor at the time. This is really the last of it's kind. 
 I still think Chris Roberts is a genius, even though he attempts things he sucks at (like directing 
 ) . A few more games would be necessary to see where things were really going, especially since 
 there is a crappy hanging ending that implies that SOMETHING is going to happen in the next game. 
 Instead, it just sucks. The worst part is, when I played it, I knew this would be the last one, 
 it just wasn't the same anymore. They aren't as appreciated as they used to be.
  
  So, why couldn't THEY see that and wrap things up at the end. Better yet, why wouldn't they wrap 
 it up with the previous game (which was a GREAT way to end the series, I think) and just do a single 
 spin off here.
  
  The game plays and looks great. It was tons of fun. It just didn't have the same like as the other 
 games. I loved the books and such and felt like the Kilrathi were interesting and complex. These 
 new enemies were just lame. Too ambitious without any heart to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxdemobster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  OVERALL: This game is yet another great success of Wing Commander series by EA. I got this game 
 about 4 years ago and I still play it.
  
  GAME PLAY: One of the reasons is in the story - it is one of the most realistic war stories ever 
 that reminds you, how can just a small army of highly skilled, motivated and courageous pilots 
 and marines defeat an enemy, that has better technology and is in far greater numbers.
  You play as Lt. Lance Casey, a son of legendary war hero, Iceman, who has been assigned to a new 
 mega carrier, the Midway. An interesting new feature are the real movies - yes, they are not computer 
 produced. The whole game is actually one big story, where you can also watch peoples various emotions, 
 feelings, their morale and also big events - all of these in both those movies and the actual game.
 
  Another reason is in the communication with your comrades and even your enemy. Your comrades will 
 give you for example a compliment of good shot - some of them will be impressed, some of them wil 
 just say:    Not bad, for a plebe.   You can not stop me, fail creature!   I salute you, my slayer! 
 human   robotic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krakerjack
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 29, 2004 2:09 pm PT
Review:  It's been a very long time since I played this game and I felt a trip down nostalgy lane was worthwhile. 
 Since my machine coulnd't handle this in '97, it took (of all things) StarCraft to make me buy 
 a new computer and thus be able to play this fantastic game. However, the reason I made sure my 
 new pc came with a 3d accelerator was I saw how it looked on a friends computer without 3d. It 
 looked good. A proper step above Wing Commander IV. But when I saw this game with 3d acceleration, 
 holy cow!. Missles now glided through the air leaving trails behind them that were beautiful. The 
 image of a impact was even more beautiful. The game engine was beautiful, but unfortunately the 
 game just didn't have the same depth that the previous wing commanders had.
  
  I'm still utterly upset that they discontinued the Wing Commander series. I fell in love with these 
 games when I was 10 years old and loved every single one of em.
  
  So to the Wing Commander series, R. I. P, it was fun while it lasted. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
