-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wings of War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/wingsofwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  9, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.9, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 70 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Silver Wish Games
Genre: WWI Flight Sim
Date:     Aug 30, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wings of War is a surprisingly polished game that covers some unique ground in a thoroughly enjoyable 
 way. 

  Wings of War is a World War-I themed flight combat game from an unknown Czech developer that arrived 
 with virtually no publicity and a budget price tag. Not exactly a pedigree that inspires much confidence 
 in the final product. Against the odds, however, Wings of War turns out to be a pleasant surprise. 
 It's a solid, polished action game set in a refreshingly underused era.  

          During some missions, you'll man the plane's rear gun.     

  Although it features a 
 historical setting and combat between realistic-looking period aircraft, about the only thing Wings 
 of War has in common with a hardcore flight sim is that they both feature objects suspended in 
 the air. At its default settings, the game's flight model is arcadelike and wildly forgiving (though 
 you can tweak the controls to make them significantly more realistic, resulting in a game that's 
 more difficult and more rewarding) . It's almost impossible to stall the planes, you can bounce 
 them off of obstacles with relative impunity, and, for the most part, they turn less like actual 
 aircraft and more like the light cycles in Tron. They're also equipped with some distinctly non-period 
 gear such as radar, shields, and missiles. On top of all this, the landscape is dotted with pickups 
 that impart standard gamey bonuses like health and speed boosts. It's enough to give cranky flight 
 sim fans a massive, collective stroke, but it's a solid foundation for a decent action game.  

 
  This simplified flight model would have benefited from mouse control. As it is, however, only 
 keyboard and joystick controls are supported. The mouse can be used, but only to look around in 
 cockpit view.  

  The game's campaign takes place across 12 huge levels, each one requiring at least an hour to complete. 
 Rather than tell any sort of story, each level is simply a series of 20 or so vaguely connected 
 tasks. Generally, they're doled out linearly, with your next task being assigned immediately upon 
 completion of the current one. However, there are usually five or six optional bonus challenges 
 that can be attempted at various points throughout each level. The variety of mission types is 
 impressive: there's straight dogfighting, bombing runs, escort jobs, one-on-one duels, timed races, 
 and even reconnaissance missions during which you'll snap pictures of ground targets. You'll also 
 occasionally mount the rear gunner's position while a computer-controlled pilot flies the plane. 

  The tasks within a level are strung together with virtually no downtime between them, and except 
 for the occasional timed or escort mission, you're generally free to take as long as you like to 
 complete them. This gives you time to break off from the main fighting and scour the countryside 
 looking for power-ups, which are either hidden inside destroyable objects, such as buildings and 
 zeppelins, or placed inside open-ended hangars through which you need to fly. Not every enemy plane 
 is part of a mission goal, either, and you'll often try to down a few in direct combat simply to 
 keep them from harassing you during the mission. This open-ended structure leads to some pretty 
 thrilling moments of risk versus reward as you fly defensively with a few planes on your tail, 
 searching for a health or shield power-up that'll give you a better chance of finishing a particular 
 task.  

  Once you've finished the campaign, there's also an instant action mode in which you can set up 
 deathmatch or team deathmatch games with up to 29 other planes across a variety of terrain types, 
 seasons, and times of day.  

  There are also several multiplayer modes included. These modes feature up to 30 players in air-based 
 versions of deathmatch, team deatchmatch, capture the flag, and an all-against-one variation of 
 tag. The multiplayer appears to work as advertised, but, at this point, the few available servers 
 are pretty much empty at all times.  

  The game's action is complemented by impressive, detailed visuals. The landscapes are beautifully 
 rendered and feature a virtually limitless horizon, excellent sky and weather effects, the occasional 
 flock of birds, and lots of activity on the ground. The two dozen or so types of available aircraft 
 are carefully modeled, right down to unique cockpits with moving instruments for each one. The 
 aircraft also break apart progressively, sloughing off a satisfying variety of flames, smoke, ripped 
 canvas, and flying chunks of wood and metal. Enemy pilots will even occasionally manage a successful 
 crash landing.  

          The environments feature an impressive view distance.     

  Unfortunately, the plane details are largely cosmetic. Regardless of how they look, and even though 
 each aircraft is rated in four categories, they're almost indistinguishable from each other within 
 the relaxed flight model. This removes a lot of the incentive to unlock them, and robs the game 
 of some needed extra depth.  

  The sound doesn't quite live up to the graphics. The voice acting is professional enough, but there 
 are too few in-mission lines of dialogue, and they're repeated much too often. There also isn't 
 much of an audio cue when enemies connect with your plane.  

  Wings of War is a budget title done right. It takes a simple but satisfying central gameplay mechanic 
 and then milks it for all its worth. It's a surprisingly polished game that covers some unique 
 ground in a thoroughly enjoyable way.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gamehereo92
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Wings of war is a fun enjoyable game that is not to hard and any one can pretty much play it. The 
 game covers a very overlooked and neglected era in flight. It is one of the few World War 1 era 
 combat games I have found. A must buy. The many game features like the multi-camera views, the 
 variety of un lockable aircraft, the many weapon configurations make it an enjoyable experience. 
 The ability to switch the difficulty to what you want is great. The training missions are fun, 
 the campaign mode is fun but long, and the Instant Action is addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MosinNagant1930
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  OVERALL: 8.7 - It is fun but, the is game is too arcade based to be an accurate simulator. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10 
  Good: 
  Fun, Intense Combat
  Good selection of flyable, historic planes
 
  Good a. i.
  Jumping from plane to plane (halarious!)
  Shooting from the baskets of balloons, armored trains
  Landing on the ground to capture enemy 
 planes
  Adding guns to planes mid-mission
  Stunt flying during combat
  Bad:
  Shooting down, like, 70 planes per mission and 10,000 per campaign is too much.
  Even though 
 you encounter and shoot down the same ace (Max) like 7 or 8 times, he just keeps coming back
  Quick Play is too based on multiplayer to provide enough situations to make it fun.
  Gaining 
 more armor and guns by flying through floating boxes is a little silly
  Planes seem way too agile, especially the Fokker Triplane
  
  GRAPHICS: 9/10 - Graphics are 
 very good for a budget game, planes have damage models, things on the ground can be destroyed.
 
  
  SOUND: 8/10 - Tons of gunfire and explosions always sound good, if you head-on-pass an enemy, you 
 can sometime hear the pilot screaming in the cockpit, sound could be better.
  
  VALUE: 8/10 - Worth the $30 bucks I paid for it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: satori
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 27, 2004 1:19 am PT
Review:  I've been looking for a half decent WW1 sim for ages, but something that wasn't too real. I'm not 
 great at true flight sims, I'm more of a BF42/BFV flight jockey and I'm pretty damn good at that 
 as well. If I get a real flight sim I tend to be a little more into a slightly towned down sense 
 of realism. This game brings me exactly that. Fun-fun-fun. I've been looking for a half decent 
 WW1 sim for ages, but something that wasn't too real. I'm not great at true flight sims, I'm more 
 of a BF42/BFV flight jockey and I'm pretty damn good at that as well. If I get a real flight sim 
 I tend to be a little more into a slightly towned down sense of realism. This game brings me exactly 
 that. Fun-fun-fun. I've been looking for a half decent WW1 sim for ages, but something that wasn't 
 too real. I'm not great at true flight sims, I'm more of a BF42/BFV flight jockey and I'm pretty 
 damn good at that as well. If I get a real flight sim I tend to be a little more into a slightly 
 towned down sense of realism. This game brings me exactly that. Fun-fun-fun. I've been looking for 
 a half decent WW1 sim for ages, but something that wasn't too real. I'm not great at true flight 
 sims, I'm more of a BF42/BFV flight jockey and I'm pretty damn good at that as well. If I get a 
 real flight sim I tend to be a little more into a slightly towned down sense of realism. This game 
 brings me exactly that. Fun-fun-fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braj
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2004 8:15 am PT
Review:  Some sim purists might not like this game because it does away with any notion of reality and goes 
 for the gusto as an all-out arcade shooter. But this is exactly the kind of game I wanted. It has 
 most of the niceties we expect from pure sims like multiple views, especially in cocpit, POV control, 
 and actual landing, but the flying is kept super simple and fun. Other games like this that have 
 been released lately went too far away from the basic sim controls to the point you could only 
 look forward or you lacked a real in-the-plane POV. The graphics are great, with lots of stuff 
 going on in the sky and on the ground. Check out the windsocks at the landing strips, they move 
 with the wind, the weather changes constantly etc. The level of detail is extrordinary. I would 
 have bought the game for double the price, but the budget deal is definitely appreciated. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
