-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wing Commander IV: The Price of Freedom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/wingcommander4thepof/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 382 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date:     Dec 31, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wing Commander IV is a great chapter in this excellent series, and will prove an enthralling experience 
 for long-time fans and newcomers alike. 

 For more than half a decade and half a dozen games, Origin Systems' Wing Commander saga has been 
 a perennial favorite among computer gamers. From its humble space combat beginnings to the big-budget 
 epic of Wing Commander III: Heart of the Tiger, the popular sci-fi series has stayed on the cutting 
 edge of computer game technology and interactive storytelling.   

 Wing Commander IV: The Price of Freedom stays true to the formula of WCIII, alternating interactive 
 movie sequences with Origin's excellent space combat simulator. But WCIV manages to surpass even 
 the excellence of its predecessor. This is due largely to its spellbinding story line, a tale of 
 military corruption and relentless ambition much more complex than the Us vs. Them 
 theme of previous Wing Commander games.  

 The long-standing war between the human Confederation and their arch enemies the Kilrathi has ended, 
 ushering in an unstable era of peace. As Christopher Blair (once again portrayed by Mark Hamill) , 
 you must return to active duty to quell a small rebellion. But all is not as it seems, and you'll 
 be constantly questioning your alliances as the true nature of the insurrection is slowly revealed. 
   

 The game's interactive movie element has been noticeably improved, with better production and many 
 more paths for the story to follow. The computer generated backgrounds of WCIII have been replaced 
 with physical sets, making the film sequences much more realistic, and your decisions during these 
 movies seem to carry more weight, with a multitude of plot twists and endings.  

 The space combat is everything Wing Commander fans have come to expect, and there are plenty of 
 options for novices including the ability to make yourself invincible if the battle gets too tough. 
 The varied missions add to the suspense of the story, seamlessly blending the two distinct areas 
 of the game. Wing Commander IV is a great chapter in this excellent series, and will prove an enthralling 
 experience for long-time fans and newcomers alike.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jordank23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Simple put, they just don't make them like this anymore, maybe it's because I was 14 at the time, 
 locked in my bedroom till 3/4am... wanting to know what happened next like a great movie, only in 
 this movie I was part of the show, I made choices... I felt important.
  
  I'm still a gamer 14 years later, but out of all the games I've played, only a few stick in my 
 mind as "SPECIAL". This is obviously one of those times. 
  
  Having played WCIII, the first thing I remember was WOW, the video looks so much better LOL. The 
 combat more fun and varied and more pulse pounding.
  
  Forget how techinally advanced for it's time this was, it just heat the HEART of a TIGER, finding 
 the PRICE of FREEDOM. Games now days just lack the magic, the heart that these games had. It's 
 like old hollywood, they didn't have much and they had to be as creative as they could (when I 
 say they didn't have much, might I add this at the time, and might still be the most expensive 
 game ever made) they used there imaginations to the fulliest, with technology 100x less then today.
 
  
  Todays games all feel like flash with no substance. Sure I loved Gears of War, Final Fantasys, 
 Half Lifes and KOTORS, but even those fun/awesome games... well they don't and won't have the heart 
 this did for me.
  
  Ya, maybe it was because I was 14 and just got my first PC a year before playing WCIII all night... but 
 maybe.... just maybe it was like an old hollywood classic... MAGIC.
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  What can you say about this series that hasn't already been said: In my opinion it was the best 
 series of all time and the spin-off Privateer, was my favorite game of all time. Its hard to believe 
 that at this writing, this game is 12 years old and with the Windows patch- that you can download 
 from Game spot- this babe is still a thing of beauty. I marvel as I enter my 20th year as a semi-pro 
 game player (Yes I am over 50!) how far this PC games have advanced. Yet as I play this game, how 
 little they have come. When you see games like Privateer, Dune2, WC3&amp;4, Panzer Generals 1,2, 
 &amp;3, its amazing how little they have come and how much they did back then.
  Yes I know, I also went broke trying to keep up with Chris Roberts always pushing the outside of 
 the gaming envelope but it was worth it. He regrets not making a movie while filming the games 
 WC3&amp;4, the movie they made with Prinz jr. was not even close to the games. I wish could afford 
 to buy the rights to this dead series, give it over to experts just have them update the sound, 
 graphics, and interface and I would be good to go for years more, to heck with waiting for Halo 
 after Halo. Wing Commander 4, with it's twisted plot of how Presidents and Generals can go bad 
 if you dont hold them to the rules is more timeless now than then. I loved this game then I love 
 it even more now. obiken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  This is one of my all time favorite series of games, and this is definitely the last good one they 
 ever made. It was a brilliant conclusion to the series. It had a lot of upsets and surprises that 
 seemed a little bit out of character, but it worked and it surprises you.
  
  The game after this one was kind of lame. They needed a new enemy, and it just wasn't the same. 
 The Kilrathi are complex, scary interdimensional dudes are.... strange.
  
  Enough of that, this game rocks. I like FMV games though. If you don't like them.... this might 
 bug you. It's a shame this didn't get refined further over the years, oh well.
  
  Action is good. Space combat genre kind of turned into real time strategy after this. It's a shame, 
 and it sucks. I just want to blow s$#t up, not control a whole friggin fleet. What's wrong with 
 the world? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarusmk3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  With a bigger budget than in Wing Commander III, Chris Roberts was able to weave a tale of intrigue 
 behind the traditional Space Sim. While not on the scale and grandeur of the epic battles in Wing 
 Commander III, it definitely has better production values and improvements in many accounts (in 
 particular cinematography and story telling) . It is by far the deepest stories in the Wing Commander 
 universe, and is my personal favourite of the entire series.
  
  Wing Commander IV branches from WC3, in that you're efforts leads to the opposing team to the Confederation 
 and fight along side the Border Worlders against the tyranny of Earth. By far the most interesting 
 addition to the WC universe is the inclusion of the Black Lance, basically the elite special forces 
 of the Confederation that does the dirty work for Admiral Tolwyn, i. e. genocide (via bio weapons) , 
 attacking unarmed transports. Each faction's ships/planes are well varied and really adds to the 
 scope of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaveli111
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  I love Wingcommander 3 and 4 they my most favorite so i will be rating WC3 and WC4 using this one 
 because for some reason originial WC3 in gamespot cant be scored by players but i do it here along 
 with part 4 but this game very good and love that FMV and most of all I want to replay it again 
 but it wont work i probaly have to buy old pc of that era like 233mhz pc with win95 because i used 
 to have one and wing3 and 4 worked like a charmed on it. those type of pc probaly wont cost much 
 so its worth buying old pc and play all the games from that period 90 to 96 all dos games u cant 
 play now. i have both wc3 and wc4 just want to play again i love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalleema
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  First off, I have to let you know that I would give this game a rating of 10, based on my own personal 
 feelings. I gave it a 9.4 for the follwoing reasons:
  
  Gameplay: This game was just plain FUN. Sure, the actual flying missions where just there to get 
 you from one cinematic to the next but you were eager to do it just to see what happens next, which 
 made it a joy. Graphics: While the VGA was nothing flashy, the FMV was top rate at the time, and 
 I could run this game all day on a 100 MHz PI. On my monitor, the FMV was just a good as any movie, 
 that's something.
  
  Sound: While the score will never be a prize winner, the sound quality in the FMV was on the same 
 level as a movie, and in game sound was good too. The voice acting didn't sound forced, and the 
 weapons fire was spot on.
  
  Value: Even at 40 bucks, for 6 disks worth of game that was so enjoyable to play, this was a good 
 deal.
  
  Personal score: 10.
  
  This has to be my favorite game of all time. I first played it when I was 16, and picked it up 
 just cause it looked like it might be "cool". This game is the reason why I became addicted to 
 video games.
  
  The first time I played this game, I remember staying up till 3 am, just cause I had to know what 
 happened next. When the Border Worlds destroyed the medical transport in the intro movie, I was 
 ready to kill so Border Worlder Scum! Needless to say I was shocked when the plot twisted back 
 around.
  
  Looking back, I realise now that it was a pretty easy plot to guess at, but for a 16 year old who 
 had never seen anything like this in a game, I was pretty blown away. I played this game so much 
 that I wore out my joystick, and had to go buy "Heart of the Tiger" and a new stick just to find 
 out who these "Kilrathi" guys are. This game has always held a certain magic for me, and I STILL 
 want to play it. I have this game in it's original box to this day, and bought a gameport joystick 
 so I could play it on XP.
  
  I hope everyone has the kind of great experiance this game gave me with their personal favorite 
 game, this will always be number 1 for me, and I miss the days when game had stories like this 
 one, where you cared about them and laughed at them and just had to know what happens next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaKn-Powerslave
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Many years passed, but still this conception of Space Combat Simulation driven by an epic meaningful 
 scenario, glorified by the captivating and diamond figures of top class actors of the big screen, 
 was, is and shall be for ever, the lost treasure of pc gaming, sadly and curiously forgotten, waiting 
 to be rediscovered again.
  Its a shame and a big question mark, for all who have played this epic saga, that the gaming industry 
 missed the need of gamers to live and play an interactive blockbuster, where all other game genres 
 have failed, all these years.
  Whereas Freespace came to ease the pain of Wing Commander Series coming to a halt, and its example 
 found no brainiers to catch gamers interest, led to biggest lost opportunity of gaming revolution.
 
  Intermingling combat with motive, guided by movie actors which the gamer seeks to identify with, 
 and fight for them and with them, was the true success of Wing Commander, so big that noone dares 
 to repeat it, cause its the ultimate challenge, too complex yet so simple to create again, even 
 for the most sophisticated games to date, which fail to win the heart of gamers.
  Makes me wonder, after all those years, how many can be so blind not to see that games like this 
 one, are those that boosted the gaming industry to what it is today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I have ALL game of that serie. I was working as a Vice-manager in a computer store and I remember 
 taking the computer demo home with the game (I was able to convince my boss that showing this game 
 on the computer would sell the computer faster) every saturday night at home, played Wing Commander 
 all night saturday, all day Sunday, all night Sunday and then returning early at the store to re-install 
 the computer before my boss came in. 
  
  The game play was fun. Fast paced combat, great graphic, everything to make you want to play one 
 more mission. But what got me in that game was the story. I remember when Wing Commander III got 
 out with its FMV, I played it a easy level, just to be able see the story unfold faster. "Luke 
 skywalker" (mark Hamill) was great in his role and taking him throughout four games and see the 
 evolution of the caracter... it was great. The treason of the forth game was good story telling. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krakerjack
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2004 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I recall taking the bus home from school the day this game was released. I couldn't sit still. 
 I looked around at the fellow bus riders and couldn't beleve everyone wasn't as excited as I was 
 that Wing Commander IV was coming out.
  
  I got home, called up Egg Head Software and they had it in stock. My mom worked near them and she 
 said she would pick it up. Unfortunately Mom wouldn't be home til around 11pm that night. Luckly 
 my friend from the Marine Corps was in town and we decided to drive down to North Pier to play 
 some BattleTech ( any of you Remember BattleTech!? Wow did I spend a lot of money on that, Thor 
 V6 all the way) .
  
  Anyway, when I got home, there the box laid on my bed. I quickly installed it and we both were 
 shocked at how amazing the opening cinematic was. It was about 10 minutes long and completely got 
 me excited to play again. Here was Blair, washed up, and Maniac of all people was bringing you 
 back. The fact that you got to "play the intro" with a simple dog fight, and to get to see the 
 Border World Fighters in action was awesome.
  
  It's been so long since I played this game, but I recall replaying this game for months at a time. 
 I actually beat the game in about three sittings because I couldn't stop playing. I chose every 
 option during the final court room scene with Tolwyn. I found this game on Ebay a year or so ago 
 and coulnd't play it because of the new Windows format. 
  
  This game holds a special place in my heart. It inspired me in ways I never would have imagined. 
 This is getting corny so I'll cut it short, but this game was my friend for months. It didn't make 
 fun of me for liking video games, it didn't tease me because I didn't have a girlfriend. All these 
 wonderful things that a video game can do for a shy kid growning up with practically no friends. 
 (all my friends moved or were in the military) . So when I think of me being 15, this game comes 
 to mind. 
  
  I wish they would still continue making these sorts of games, but I guess the new craze is FPS 
 and RTS. I love those forms of games too, but no game has ever affected me as much as this one. 
 Thank you Origin and thank you Chris Roberts. Oh and Chris don't ever make another movie again, 
 stick to interactive story telling :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
