-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wings Over Vietnam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/wingsovervietnam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 13, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.0, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 124 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bold Games
Developer: Third Wire
Genre: Jet Sim
Date:     Nov 8, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Those who will only settle for the best in terms of flight model fidelity and cutting-edge graphics 
 should let this one fly on by. 

  The Vietnam War is a fascinating and underused setting for air combat simulations. Planes of the 
 era were transitioning from subsonic and transonic fighters that relied mainly on guns to down 
 other aircraft to extremely powerful and fast fighters like the F-4 Phantom that were built as 
 missile-delivery platforms. These fledgling wonder weapons weren't nearly as effective as planners 
 had anticipated, and American pilots had to face the dual threats of enemy aircraft that were designed 
 for dogfighting and the most sophisticated network of antiaircraft defenses the world had ever 
 seen. Wings Over Vietnam lets you experience much of the flavor of the conflict, but it's fraught 
 with problems that can be very difficult to ignore.  

          With any luck, we'll live to receive our Purple Heart.     

  A number of fighters and 
 strike planes from the period are flyable, including several variants of the versatile F-4 Phantom 
 II, nimble A-4 Skyhawks, ponderous A-6 Intruders, and the tough F-105 Thunderchief. Players also 
 can climb into the cockpit of the obsolescent F-100 Super Sabre, the A-7 Corsair II, and the F-8E 
 Crusader. Planes from the other side of the conflict sadly are not flyable, and while each plane's 
 strengths and weaknesses are represented well overall, the flight models aren't exactly cutting 
 edge. Planes can pull off extreme maneuvers that would turn real pilots into puddles of flesh from 
 sustaining too many Gs, and some of the planes like the F-4 and F-8 are extremely difficult to 
 stall no matter what crazy stick inputs you use. Pulling too many Gs causes a pilot to black out, 
 but the plane still responds to stick input, making it possible to switch to an external view and 
 continue with your extreme maneuvers. The drawback is that the plane bleeds off a lot of energy 
 if you keep this up, but it still makes it possible to cheat by switching to an external view just 
 long enough to line up a tricky shot. Quirks aside, each plane still works best in its intended 
 role, and if you don't abuse the flight model, there's plenty of entertainment value in this package. 

  Three campaigns are included: Operation Rolling Thunder, Linebacker, and Linebacker II. They are 
 dynamic, but the lack of mission variety makes it difficult to sustain interest. Each sortie begins 
 at base, where players can arm their aircraft via an excellent loadout interface. With all of the 
 realism settings enabled, setting up a plane so that it can properly strike its mission target, 
 defend itself, and still have enough fuel to make it home is tricky, since it is often necessary 
 to trade bombs for external fuel tanks. Air-to-air refueling unfortunately is not implemented. 

  Mission briefings are absurdly terse, and no information is provided about what weapons are best 
 suited for the assigned task. This won't be a problem for Vietnam buffs who know better than to 
 take 250-pound bombs to blow up the Dragon's Jaw bridge. It's the beginners that face a steep learning 
 curve. Most missions involve multiple flights of aircraft, with fighters providing top cover for 
 the strike planes. However, the briefings provide no information about the other types of planes 
 involved in the mission.  

  In the air, dogfighting has its moments of intensity, but the computer-controlled pilots -- both 
 friends and foes -- routinely make idiotic mistakes. F-4s tend to get into extended turning engagements 
 with vastly more maneuverable MiGs, and they also tend to close to a very short range instead of 
 engaging targets from miles away using radar-guided missiles. A few of the enemy planes we flew 
 against were tenacious fighters, but most were glad to fly in perfectly straight lines as we fired 
 missile after missile up their tailpipes, regardless of the difficulty settings that were chosen. 
 Sim jockeys that are itching for a real fight will be relegated to playing in multiplayer mode, 
 which relies on the HyperLobby matchmaking interface.  

  In the simulation, as in the historical situation, fledgling heat-seeking and radar-guided air-to-air 
 missiles rarely live up to their published specifications, and much of the excitement in air-to-air 
 combat involves setting up perfect launch parameters for a missile attack. With the radar-guided 
 weapons this means identifying and targeting enemies from the maximum possible distance, waiting 
 impatiently for the system to lock onto the target, and trying everything possible to maintain 
 that lock until the missile hits its target. In the meantime, pressure from surface-to-air missiles 
 (SAMs) , antiaircraft fire, and other enemy aircraft make flying straight ahead and holding the 
 lock a harrowing proposition.  

  Using heat-seeking missiles effectively means getting on an enemy's tail so the missile can lock 
 onto the hot exhaust pipe, and when faced with opponents who put up a fight, that means a lot of 
 tricky maneuvering. The seeker head in the missile growls constantly when the weapon is selected, 
 and you must strain over all the other cockpit noise to hear the growl intensify, signifying that 
 the seeker has found a target. The problem is that the missile rarely works if it is launched when 
 you are pulling too many Gs, so in an intense dogfight the opportunities to take a shot that has 
 a reasonable chance of hitting are fleeting.  

          This little A-4 is loaded for bear.     

  Guns sap some of the fun out of dogfighting 
 because they are immensely powerful. It takes only a few shells to obliterate a target, even when 
 the guns are toned down to their most realistic setting, and even then, lining up a shot takes 
 very little practice.  

  The opposite is true during ground strikes, where limited cockpit view settings and a lack of adjustable 
 sights combine to make bomb drops a crapshoot. It doesn't take long to become fairly proficient 
 at dive-bombing, but that's extremely dangerous in this game since it requires popping up above 
 targets that are usually ringed by antiaircraft guns and SAM launchers. Level bombing at low altitudes 
 and high speeds is much safer but nearly impossible without hours of practice.     

  Guns are extremely powerful during certain ground attack missions. They won't penetrate tank armor 
 or take out a bridge, but during one mission where we were tasked with destroying a convoy of supply 
 trucks, our trusty cannon demolished 23 of the hapless vehicles in a single firing pass. The other 
 trucks blindly trundled on in a straight line and they were quickly finished off. This was all 
 done without having to drop any of the cluster bombs dangling from our fuselage.  

          The refueling boom on this A-6 is just for show -- there are no tankers in the game.     
 

  The game tracks an immense number of statistics, and at the end of the mission it's possible to 
 see the precise time that you shot a particular weapon, what that weapon hit (if anything) , and 
 what hit you if your luck ran out. Medals also are awarded after missions if you've accomplished 
 some appropriately heroic deeds or been unfortunate enough to earn a Purple Heart.  

  If you're not up for a full campaign there is an Instant Action option, which immediately flings 
 you into a sky filled with enemies, or use the Single Mission option to access drop-down menus 
 that let you quickly set up a customized sortie. We spent most of our time in this mode since it 
 spits out the same types of missions generated in the campaign, but it let us select the aircraft 
 we wanted to fly, the date, the mission type, and other parameters to keep things interesting. 

  One of the few things the campaign provides that the single missions do not is the chance to fly 
 from and land on carriers, but it's no great loss. Carrier ops were obviously shoehorned in, as 
 the massive ships don't move and don't have arresting wires. Instead, planes plop down on the deck 
 and stick there as if the entire top of the ship is coated with industrial-strength flypaper.  
 

  Wings Over Vietnam is based on the Strike Fighters: Project 1 engine, and the graphics are better 
 than those found in its predecessor, but not by much. Plane models are excellent, packed with little 
 details like leading-edge slats that pop out of the Skyhawk's wings, and a great deal of research 
 obviously went into the creation of aircraft markings and camouflage patterns. Unfortunately, all 
 of the textures in the game are low-resolution, compared to other simulations like Pacific Fighters 
 and Lock On: Modern Air Combat, so planes and cockpits don't look particularly good up close. Cockpits 
 look particularly dated, with only a few key instruments being crisp enough to remain legible, 
 while the rest of the cockpit looks blotchy and blocky in comparison.  

  The terrain varies a lot in elevation, ranging from undulating fields to relatively tall mountain 
 ranges. This makes low-level strikes a blast, particularly at night when terrain-following radar 
 must be employed. The terrain still looks extremely plain and there are no forests. Cities are 
 represented by swaths of brown terrain dotted with small buildings, but it is impossible to collide 
 with the structures, as planes simply pass right through them. The special effects are decent, 
 and smoke and muzzle flashes from guns looks particularly good, but this certainly isn't the best-looking 
 sim on the market.  

  Overall the audio is decent, with good explosion, engine, and weapon sounds, but everything is 
 overshadowed by the awful radio chatter. Having the same voice screech "SAM launch, SAM launch!" 
 repeatedly is annoying at best, and it is completely unhelpful in the game because it is rarely 
 possible to tell whether they're talking about you or about some other plane five miles away.  
 

          Carriers are crudely implemented, but that F-4 sure is pretty.     

  Wings Over Vietnam's difficulty scales to accommodate nearly every skill level, and those who want 
 the ultimate in realism will have their hands full just identifying and keeping track of targets. 
 Newcomers can add all manner of helpful information to the heads-up display, and a skip-to-the-next-event 
 feature lets them get to the action quickly. The major drawback for those who don't know much about 
 the period is that there is no information on the planes in the manual or in the game, and there's 
 very little information about the weapons you can carry and the weapons you'll face. Several premade 
 single missions are included, for example, but there is absolutely no historical context provided 
 to help players who haven't studied the conflict. When setting up a campaign you select a squadron 
 from a pull-down menu instead of a plane, so if you have no clue what types of aircraft each unit 
 flew, picking the right campaign is a matter of trial and error. Some users have reported unexpected 
 crashes, although on our test hardware the game only crashed twice during our entire testing period, 
 and we were unable to replicate the crashes by re-creating the circumstances that led up to them. 
 A patch is already available for the game, but it was not installed for this review.  

  If you know enough or care enough to get past those shortcomings, put up with the game's various 
 other foibles, and look past the dated graphics, there's a lot of fun to be had in this sim, particularly 
 during ground attack missions. However, those who will only settle for the best in terms of flight 
 model fidelity and cutting-edge graphics should let this one fly on by.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Fighterpiliot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  If a game that really gives the experence of a combat mission better than WoV is on the market 
 it must be a subscription for a one month time machiene excursion to Vietnam for a tour of duity. 
 This game really takes the cake when it comes to what fighter combat in Vietnam must have been 
 like, sure the guns are a bit too powerful for reality but with 35 air to air victories under my 
 belt I'm not complaining. (Most of them scored on, you guessed it, guns.) It really gives Bold Games 
 and Third Wire Productions a good name. One small hint is to read the manual, and if you have a 
 joystick to set it to joystick mode, it really makes a difference. It has crashed three thimes 
 in three hours but it isn't serious, the game works just fine when you restart it. The only small 
 problem is that on multiplayer people playing with you seem to jump around on the screen. I'm installing 
 a patch that will hopefully fix it. Even though the official review says you can't fly migs, in 
 multiplayer mode you can.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iffy350
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Its a game that you can pick up and play and in time you will grow to enjoy 
 it. It has great sound and the graphics are nice for a game thats over three years old. The game 
 has more of an arcade feel when it comes to control. This is not Falcon 4.0! If you want a super 
 realistic and unforgiving flight simulator than why not pick up IL-2:1946 or Lock On: Modern Air 
 Combat. This game does not require a joystick and is great for long trips in the car or if you 
 are sitting in the air port waiting for your flight. Yes, I actually sat in DAB waiting for my 
 flight while shooting down two MiG-17 Fresco A's in the process. You use the arrow keys to control 
 the planes pitch and roll. The , and . keys control the rudder. If I might gripe about one thing 
 is that on hard mode this game is REAL DIFFICULT where as on the normal setting I had no trouble 
 at all shooting down enemy planes with missiles and guns. Thats also part of the problem. The missiles 
 are more likely too shoot down the enemy so you will find that its almost way too easy to get three 
 kills on your first mission. If you get lost you can use the 'autopilot' key (default a) and the 
 plane will fly auto fly to your next waypoint. This is a useful feature if you are trying to get 
 use to the games control setup. I was a bit disappointed that you could not fly a campaign for 
 the North Vietnamese Air Force. I would bet that if your a fan of Ace Combat and have never played 
 a true Combat Flight sim before then instead of jumping right into Falcon 4.0 or Lock On you might 
 want to give WoV a try and see if you like it. Falcon and Lock On are very difficult for a no sim 
 fans to pick up and play. Overall I give the game a 7.5 because a 6.9 just doesn't seem fair. This 
 game is easy to overlook. If you want to try a game that is not hardcore like falcon 4.0 but not 
 way unrealistic like Ace Combat then you should pick this title up. Check your bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liddster
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 14, 2005 12:33 am PT
Review:  So far the game has been pretty fun, easy but fun. I've had some problems with it however and I'll 
 find out if the patch fixes it or not. Experienced a few crashes. Once after mission complete and 
 heading back to base, once while starting up a game and a few times after a mission was completed 
 and going on to the other mission. It just crashed as soon as the loading screen went to 100% and 
 the game started. Booted me out to WIN XP and asked to send the error report to Microsoft. Not 
 sure if it was my video card or what. The biggest problem with this crash was when I went back 
 into the game, there were no enemy planes to fight in campaign mode. The only fix was to start 
 a new campaign up and do the missions all over again. I'll see if the patch fixes this crash at 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark4875
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 2, 2004 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Is WoV a good game? Well, by today's standards of flight simulations, it's really NOT!! This is 
 basically what Strike Fighters should have been when it was rushed out the door a year ago. It's 
 finally set in a Vietnam setting (instaed of the imaginary mercenary war setting of Strike Fighters) . 
 The fixes that Strike Fighters sorely needed are finally in Wings Over Vietnam.
  
  Overall, you will find that the only people who like this game are people who like to keep downloading 
 new mods and putting them in game. There really isn't much of gameplay that's actually recommendable 
 about WoV. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
