-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wizards & Warriors
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/wizardswarriors/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.7, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 102 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Heuristic Park
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Sep 27, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wizards & Warriors suffers from a handful of problems that compromise an otherwise solid role-playing 
 game. 

 Activision's Wizards &amp; Warriors is a first-person 3D role-playing game designed by D. W. Bradley, 
 who helped create the fifth, sixth, and seventh episodes of the classic Wizardry role-playing series. 
 According to Bradley, Wizards &amp; Warriors is intended to be something of a return to such involving, 
 addictive first-person role-playing games, and in that regard, it succeeds for the most part. Like 
 many role-playing games before it, Wizards &amp; Warriors lets you create a party of adventurers 
 of different character classes and races and explore vast overland areas and dank dungeons in search 
 of fearsome monsters, powerful weapons and items, and experience levels. Unfortunately, Wizards 
 &amp; Warriors suffers from a handful of problems that compromise an otherwise solid game.   

 
  The game itself is a 3D role-playing game played entirely from a first-person perspective. You 
 can create a party of up to six different adventurers by choosing from ten different races and 
 four basic character classes. These ten different races include stock fantasy races, like elves 
 and dwarves, but also a number of completely original races, like the reptilian lizzords, the elephantine 
 oomphaz, and the furry ratlings. Each race is interesting enough, and nearly every one has a distinctive 
 special ability and a predisposition toward a specific character class; these traits and abilities 
 will let you build a strong and balanced war party from the ground up.   

  Wizards &amp; Warriors was four long years in the making, and unfortunately, it shows. The game 
 offers two graphics settings: Direct3D acceleration and software rendering. Wizards &amp; Warriors' 
 Direct3D performance with certain video cards (especially TNT and GeForce cards) is problematic; 
 in such cases, the graphics and text become blurry and unclear. The only other option is to run 
 in software mode at 640x480 resolution; the display becomes clearer but unflatteringly blocky and 
 pixilated. And unfortunately, most of the game's graphics are indeed this pixilated - the various 
 dungeons and open areas you explore, the special effects on magic spells, and the monsters you 
 face all tend to look blocky and coarse.   

  Wizards &amp; Warriors doesn't sound especially impressive either. For the most part, the game's 
 music is ambient but otherwise unremarkable and largely inoffensive. Unfortunately, the same cannot 
 be said for much of the game's prerecorded speech. Though you'll likely appreciate the articulate 
 narrator's informative descriptions of significant locations as you find them, you'll just as likely 
 come to dread speaking with many of the game's long-winded nonplayer characters. A few of these 
 characters' lines are actually delivered convincingly, while others are clearly overdone - but 
 regardless of the quality of each nonplayer characters' voice-over, most of these characters tend 
 to drone on and on about the inane or the obvious. They'll often talk about subjects that aren't 
 even pertinent to your characters' quest. Throughout the course of the game, you'll need to speak 
 to many such characters and engage in conversations that will seem to last more than a little too 
 long.   

  But the most disappointing thing about Wizards &amp; Warriors is its clumsy and unintuitive interface. 
 The game is almost entirely mouse-driven; you manipulate each of its many menus by pointing and 
 clicking, and you use the mouse for both freelook and forward movement. While this may sound convenient, 
 the game suffers from a lack of even the simplest keyboard shortcuts; you won't even be able to 
 use the Escape key to exit from any of the game's many option menus. Instead, you'll have to make 
 sure to carefully click on the correct icon to open or close the right menu; otherwise, nothing 
 will happen, or worse, you'll end up opening a completely unrelated menu that you'll also have 
 to close.    

 Wizards &amp; Warriors also has a seemingly arbitrary save/load system. Instead of having a convenient 
 save-anywhere/load-anywhere system, Wizards &amp; Warriors doesn't let you load games when you're 
 out adventuring in the world (you need to quit the current game instead) , and when you're within 
 the safe walls of the nearest town, you can't save at all. You'll probably also have trouble getting 
 used to the game's odd character- and enemy-targeting system, which requires that you move your 
 cursor onto your intended target (which you intend to speak with, fight, cast a spell at, or use 
 an item on) , then click on it. It sounds simple enough, but when performing actions like trading 
 or buying, you'll need to open up character menus, then either click on your target or click on 
 a choice on the menu, then control-click on your target or some illogical combination thereof. 
 The game's targeting system is at its absolute worst when your characters are doing battle with 
 their enemies. If your enemies move about onscreen, you may have a hard time keeping them targeted, 
 and even if they're not moving, it's often difficult to tell if they're within striking distance. 
   

  These shortcomings are all the more unfortunate when you consider the fact that Wizards &amp; Warriors 
 is otherwise a decent role-playing game. The game's story, which dictates that you must find a 
 powerful magical sword to defeat a newly awakened evil, is certainly trite, but along the way, 
 your characters will find themselves involved in a tremendous number of different quests, many 
 of which are interesting and challenging. Among the most interesting of these are the quests given 
 by guilds - the organized groups of warriors, wizards, thieves, or priests that your characters 
 may join based on their particular class. Joining a guild lets your characters perform the very 
 important and very rewarding act of changing their character class. In the beginning of the game, 
 you're only allowed to choose from four basic professions, but joining a guild will let your humble 
 novice warriors become destructive barbarians or multitalented samurai and let your wizards and 
 priests become powerful warlocks. When your characters join a guild, they'll also receive guild-related 
 quests that they can perform to advance their standing in their guild. As such, while you play 
 Wizards &amp; Warriors, if you're not stumbling around the game's occasionally convoluted dungeons, 
 you'll rarely find yourself at a loss for something to do, as you'll often find yourself on a quest 
 to advance one character or another within that character's own specific guild.   

  And you'll find that in Wizards &amp; Warriors, there's much to do and many places to explore. 
 Although traveling from one major area to another incurs a fairly severe loading time, each of 
 Wizards &amp; Warriors' individual areas is large, if not huge. Some of the game's dungeons have 
 the unfortunate tendency of bottlenecking around a single locked door (which can only be opened 
 by a single switch halfway across the dungeon or with a key that can only be found halfway across 
 the dungeon) , but most of the areas in the game actually allow for a great deal of fruitful exploration. 
 Some of the larger outdoor areas feature a great many monsters to fight, hidden treasure caches 
 to loot, and quests to undertake.   

  On the surface, Wizards &amp; Warriors doesn't look like anything special. In fact, it looks and 
 sounds unimpressive, and at first, its poorly designed interface may seem like more trouble than 
 it's worth to master and will likely continue to seem cumbersome even after you've gotten used 
 to it. In order to enjoy the game, you'll have to come to terms with these shortcomings - but once 
 you do, you probably will enjoy the many hours of exploration and character building it offers. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 27, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This older game had very poor DirectX support. It looks better in OpenGL mode, but it still has 
 plenty of graphical quirks and anomalies that no patch ever fixed. After you play for while you'll 
 get the impression the game was very rushed to market.
  
  But there are a few dungeons within the game that are well-made and imaginitively conceived. Each 
 dungeon has a "story" to it with NPC characters and quests. The game showed its potential here 
 and there. Unfortunately, you can make your character so strong by he middle of the game, you will 
 find the game far too easy. 
  
  One hopes their new RPG that is about to be released is better, and better play-tested. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
