-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Wizardry 8
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/wizardry8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 30, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.6, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 776 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sirtech
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 14, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Its engaging gameplay and surprisingly good graphics and sound make it a worthy finale to the Wizardry 
 series, as well as an excellent RPG in and of itself. 

 Sirtech's latest and probably last role-playing game, Wizardry 8, has been in some form of development 
 for more than four years. During that time, the developer not only lost its regular US publisher, 
 but also went through numerous development changes and finally saw the light of day by means of 
 a direct-distribution deal with retailer Electronics Boutique. If you consider all the difficulties 
 that Sirtech has had bringing the game to market, you'll probably agree that creating a game of 
 Wizardry 8's size, technical stability, and overall quality is truly a remarkable achievement. 
 But you don't need a history lesson on the game's difficult development to appreciate Wizardry 
 8, because it's a solid, deep, and enjoyable RPG in its own right.           Wizardry 8 uses hand-drawn 
 character portraits...    

  The thing you'll notice first about Wizardry 8 is its appearance. Surprisingly enough, it actually 
 looks quite good. Wizardry 8 is the first game with 3D polygonal graphics that Sirtech has ever 
 developed, but you wouldn't know that by looking at the game. Take a quick glance, and you might 
 be put off by the game's character portraits, which have the same sort of quirky, low-resolution 
 look as the portraits in Sirtech's Jagged Alliance strategy games. But aside from the character 
 portraits and much of the game's interface, all of Wizardry 8's graphics are 3D, and they all look 
 quite good. For instance, the game's monsters and onscreen characters are represented by large, 
 healthy-looking 3D models. These models may not be exceptionally detailed, but they're designed 
 well, animated well, and certainly more than adequate. The same can be said for Wizardry 8's environments; 
 though some parts of the game, particularly outdoor zones, tend to look rather blocky, they're 
 all textured simply but cleanly and all do an excellent job of looking like distinct areas, including 
 stony dungeons, treetop cities, and open roads.   

  Wizardry 8 also sounds good. Both the game's music and sound effects are generally subdued but 
 certainly appropriate. While you explore the game's world, you'll hear ambient music and sound 
 that are decent enough, and when your stalwart band of adventurers fights a group of enemies, you'll 
 hear the swinging of weapons and the casting of magic spells, as well as a lot of commentary from 
 your own party members. Wizardry 8's voice acting is consistently good and often quite funny. Both 
 the characters in your party and the nonplayer characters you'll meet are portrayed by the same 
 actors who provided the voice work for Sirtech's Jagged Alliance strategy series. So you can create 
 a party of mild-mannered characters who speak in typical high-fantasy prose, or, if you prefer, 
 you can create a group that speaks with spirited Italian, French, or British accents. In any case, 
 you'll find that the game's voice acting will grow on you and that it adds a great deal of personality 
 to the game.           ... but surprisingly good-looking 3D graphics too.    

  When you actually start playing the game, you'll find that Wizardry 8 builds upon the previous 
 games in the series, but you won't need to have played any of them to get a good idea of how the 
 game works. As with the other games in the series, you'll begin with a party of up to six characters 
 you create yourself (or import from Wizardry VII) and explore the game's different areas with a 
 first-person view. And just like Wizardry VII, Wizardry 8 lets you create a party of characters 
 from a variety of playable races, including humans, elves, dwarves, and more fanciful races, such 
 as faeries and lizardmen. You can choose from 15 different character classes -- including the series' 
 more-advanced prestige classes, such as the lord, samurai, and bishop -- from the get-go. It's safe 
 to say that you'll probably want to experiment with several of the game's interesting character 
 professions, and like the other games in the series, Wizardry 8 will let you change your characters' 
 classes, so you won't necessarily be stuck with the same characters throughout the entire game. 
   

  You'll have plenty of time to change your characters' classes -- and do lots of other interesting 
 things -- in Wizardry 8. The game's base install size of 1.2GB hard drive space (1.8GB for a full 
 install) is a pretty good indication that the game is long -- at least 70 hours, if not more. Over 
 the course of the game, your adventurers will fight lots of different enemies, gain experience 
 levels, acquire powerful new weapons and armor, and meet interesting characters to recruit into 
 their party. You'll also find numerous optional subquests and secrets that you can discover independent 
 of the game's main story.            Robots and elves coexist in Wizardry 8, but not always 
 peacefully.    

  Wizardry 8's setting and story are also interesting enough; the game's story actually follows the 
 events of Wizardry VII: Crusaders of the Dark Savant, a game that featured both traditional high-fantasy 
 sorcery and advanced futuristic technology. You'll see many examples of this sort of technology -- such 
 as spaceships, hologram images, and androids -- and though it may initially seem strange, even objectionable 
 if you're a high-fantasy purist, it's consistent throughout the game and largely inoffensive. Technology 
 is especially prevalent on the planet of Dominus -- on which your party is marooned -- because it's 
 been invaded by the mysterious and technologically advanced villain of Wizardry VII, the Dark Savant. 
 It seems that the Savant has seized an ancient treasure and is seeking to reunite it with another 
 similarly powerful artifact to become all-powerful, and it's up to your party to find that artifact 
 first. Wizardry 8's story isn't especially deep, but it's more than enough to keep you exploring 
 and hacking and slashing your way through the game.   

  You'll do a lot of hacking and slashing through fights with monsters and enemy characters in Wizardry 
 8. Though the game features a combat system reminiscent of classic first-person RPGs, it works 
 surprisingly well. You can set your party's battle formations (by default, the first half of your 
 party will be in the front lines, and the other half will be in the back row) and do battle with 
 monsters that appear in groups. Though you'll find it's slow going at first, Wizardry 8 actually 
 has a good variety of monsters with different abilities. Many of them will use simple but effective 
 strategies, like surrounding your party to get at the rear ranks or blocking off your party from 
 the front to defend their own archers or wizards. Wizardry 8 features a turn-based combat system 
 (as well as an optional but less-useful continuous combat option) that's based intuitively on character 
 speed and initiative. Since the game uses a first-person perspective at all times (you can't actually 
 see your party members) , fights may not seem all that impressive at first, since you'll simply 
 be staring at the polygonal monsters you're engaged with and watching them move about, attack, 
 and flinch when damaged. In fights against big groups of monsters, combat can drag on longer than 
 it should, since monsters will often spend inordinate amounts of time repositioning themselves, 
 sometimes behind an obstacle or corner, which will remove them from the fight so that you'll have 
 to chase them down later. But Wizardry 8's combat becomes much more interesting once your party 
 becomes powerful enough to deal damaging melee attacks and devastating magic spells that affect 
 entire groups of monsters.           Developing characters is addictive and fun.    

  In fact, developing your characters by increasing their skills and experience levels is one of 
 the most enjoyable things about Wizardry 8, if not the most enjoyable. Each of the game's character 
 classes becomes noticeably more powerful as they gain experience levels; fighters will gain additional 
 attacks; monks, ninjas, rangers, and samurai will perform lethal critical hits; and mages can rain 
 fireballs and nuclear strikes on their enemies' heads. Wizardry 8 also features a skill system 
 that resembles that of online RPGs such as EverQuest and Asheron's Call; you can increase your 
 character's skill by either spending skill points (which you gain each level) or by using that 
 skill repeatedly. And each time a character gains a level, it'll gain more statistics points, such 
 as strength, intelligence, and dexterity; and once a character reaches extremely high statistics, 
 it'll gain access to even more powerful high-level skills, like power-casting magic spells or armor-piercing 
 power-strike melee attacks. All these things basically mean that each time you win a fight, you'll 
 often see members of your party increase in skills, often in multiple skills. Wizardry 8 gives 
 you lots of visual indicators that your characters are growing stronger with each fight. As with 
 previous games in the series, it can be extremely satisfying to watch your humble party of beginners 
 grow into a group of highly skilled powerhouses. Though Wizardry 8 allows you some freedom to explore 
 the game's world and meet its inhabitants, the most compelling reason to replay the game after 
 you've completed it is to create a new party of different characters and develop their high-level 
 abilities and skills.   

  2001 hasn't been a very strong year for PC role-playing games, and it's more than a little ironic 
 that the best single-player RPG this year is also probably the last game that Sirtech will ever 
 produce. The original Wizardry game was one of the first great RPGs ever to appear on a computer, 
 and both Sirtech and the Wizardry series have been around for about 20 years. However, if Wizardry 
 8 truly is the last game in the series proper, its engaging and addictive gameplay and surprisingly 
 good graphics and sound make it a worthy finale to the Wizardry series, as well as an excellent 
 RPG in and of itself.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: f_nastase
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  I have enjoyed Wizardry alot - old school games and must say that along with Might & Magic and 
 Elder Scrolls it is the only game i've played each part from the series. Bit hard as you have to 
 swap weapons and choose your attacks wisely to succeed in some combats but well made, good graphics 
 and fun. I remember that the turn based combat system was somehow frustrating and took me more 
 that the expected 70 hours to finish it. It is one of the games that made me addictive to computer 
 games and i warmly recommend it - probably still available on the on-line shops.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smadiso1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  It's true that Wizardry 8 is well past it's prime time in the new realm of Vista and the many high 
 powered graphical games. But for hardcore, nostalgic RPG loving players if you ever happen to run 
 across this little gem in a bargain bin then pick it up and never let it go. I have played the 
 Wizardry series ever since I was in the third grade. My dad got me hooked on videogames with the 
 first Wizardry and it's ony fitting that this game found a place in my collection as well. Granted 
 it is not an RPG that will fit everyone's taste perfectly but I can say that for those who love 
 to put many an hour into exploring, treasure hunting and the all to common party perfecting it 
 will be a pleasureable gaming experience. Now on to the review:
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Wizardry has always shined in the gameplay aspect. The designers always find a great mixture of 
 story, combat, and gameplay mechanics that just keeps you coming back for more. I will warn players 
 that there is a steep learning curve in the beginning. In fact the location 'Arnika Road' has been 
 known to drive fear and utter contempt to many who are familiar with this game. Don't be discouraged 
 if you have to restart many times to find the right balance of characters that meld well and actually 
 allows you to progress through the game without wanting to scream at the computer every minute. 
 With some trial and error a player will eventually find combinations that work well for them and 
 with a few levels it becomes a little easier to get around. Eventually (like in any RPG) you get 
 the feel for everything and notice your party can rip through just about everything leaving little 
 frustration. Secrets are plentiful in this game and I dare say that there are still some undiscovered 
 or at least lesser known ones out there still. Graphics: 10
  Grading from a scale of today's graphical standards this game certainly would not score this high. 
 Instead I chose to grade it based on what was coming out around the time it was released and how 
 well it has appeared on today's new machines. I played the game on a Pentium 3 700mhz with just 
 a basic grapics card when I first bought it. It looked good then but struggled in same areas. A 
 year later I upgraded to a Pentium 4 3.0 gig dual core drive and an ATI 9600 256RAM graphics card 
 and the graphics took on an immense improvement. So while computers back in the day made this game 
 look good, what we have now make it look even better and play even faster. Just don't expect anything 
 on par to Elder Scrolls: Oblivion and you'll still enjoy the sights. Sound: 9.5
  The music scores are really well done. Each area takes on different score and even fades out and 
 starts again to keep the repetition down to a minimum. The one fault it has here is in the battle 
 music realm. There are only three scores (maybe four?) for battles and after you'eve heard them 
 several thousands of times it does get really annoying. In fact I play the game with music off 
 more often now but that's only because I've played it so many times that I just can't stand to 
 listen to the battle music much any more. The voice acting is quite good and there are numerous 
 hidden voiceovers that are just hilarious. A few character voices are annoying but you have the 
 option to change them in game if one particulr voice gets too annoying. Sound effects are great 
 and include everything from the grateful clank on a shield to the sickening crunch of a mace on 
 bare skin. Spells come alive too and have their own distinct rings when fired off.
  Value: 10
  There are few games out there that you can put down for a year and then get the urge 
 to dive into again. Wizardry 8 gives you so much replay since each game has the potential to turn 
 out slightly differently each time. Of course having numerous classes and races adds to the replay 
 making you wonder if a particular group will work better than your last. I've found that every 
 time I play I seem to alway use the same group and just find ways to make them even better so there's 
 always that option too. As I mentioned before there are plenty of secrets too. It seems that on 
 every new adventure I always run across an item I had never found previously. While some are useless 
 there's always the occsional powerful find that makes the game all the more interesting. If you 
 do ever happen to come across this game in a garage sale or a bargain pick be sure to pick it up 
 and just hide it somewhere safe when you've had you're fill; I can guarentee in a year or two you 
 will want to dig it out just to see what else you can do in it again.
  Tilt: 10
  RPG's seldom give you so many options to customize your characters let alone have so much control 
 over them and options to have more than one at your disposal. Wizardry 8 gives you so much control 
 over you characters and even some recuitable NPCs that you'd wonder why no one else has tried the 
 same mechanics. I will say that patience and careful planning can be the difference between a decent 
 group and a wholly powerful and near unstoppable group (and that's without using cheats or trainers) . 
 The options are plentiful in this game but the player just has to decide exactly how they want 
 to use what's at their disposal.
  
  In summary, the Wizardry series is wrapped up nicely in this last addition and this chapter is 
 clearly a superior version to all the rest. While I miss the classic bar option from Wizardry 1 
 (allowing you to have numerous characters to pull from for an outing) it is a minor gripe and its 
 inclusion probably wouldn't fit into the story line well. For those fortunate to have a working 
 copy (let alone a computer that can still play it) of Wizardry 7 I definitely recommended playing 
 through it first, checking the FAQs for importable items and then getting your group outfitted 
 with the nicest and choice items you can bring from 7 into 8. There are unfortunately some items 
 that either can only be imported from 7 or are just extremely rare in 8 that you may never even 
 see them. The *Light Sword* and *Light Shield* are the predominant examples as I have yet to come 
 across them in 8 after four full adventures. Even without powerful items from the previous game, 
 Wizardry 8 packs plenty of great items, adventures and the chance to put together a great party 
 that will have you coming back to play for years on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnjaha99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  Even though Sir-Tech closed its doors after this game, they will always be able to smile for this 
 landmark of a RPG they developed. This is the only true oldschool RPG to date that successfully 
 integrates a modern 3d engine. At the time of release it was a performance hog, but on todays machines 
 it runs silky smooth at 1600x1200. This game doesn't pull punches, it expects its player base to 
 know what they're doing as you are thrown right in to a fairly large monastary/dungeon that you 
 must navigate to even reach the first city. There is no tutorial in Wizardry with some obnoxious 
 ex army seargant yelling at you to move the mouse around. You learn as you go along, but the game 
 rewards you for it. They were compassionate enough to give you a automap and 3 settings of combat 
 which can be changed at any time. Even the novice setting can get challenging at times though, 
 especially if you draw two packs of random encounters which is pretty easy to do. The roaming enemies 
 tend to be somewhat of a heat seeking missle once they appear as blips on your minimap. And trying 
 to camp with any enemies even remotely nearby will result in a rude awakening.
  
  Having said that combat may sound like a drag but it is quite the opposite. As I said this is a 
 oldschool RPG with a 6 (up to 8 with followers) man party which adds a huge amount of strategy 
 to every battle. An advanced party formation system makes you pay attention to positioning it is 
 not a constant hack n slash affair. The enemies look good enough but the game truly dazzles with 
 its arcade quality sound and spell effects. Sir-Tech deserves major props for not skimping in this 
 department when it would have been so easy to. Expect to spend 50-70 hours on this game, it cannot 
 be rushed through. Its also a good idea to schedule a few vacation days before starting it as once 
 your party starts taking off you wont be wanting to do much else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keithburgun
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Awesome turn-based strategy combat, innovative party system, great character 
 creation system with TONS of races and classes to pick from, also you can multiclass... it's just 
 a lot of fun. It's a bit more linear than a fan of Fallout or Arcanum may be used to, but it's 
 fun all the time. This game was made in the spirit of those great CRPGs who actually try to make 
 a convincing world that you can interact with. Note that the bad side of this game is that the 
 combat can be slow and tedious sometimes, like when you're fighting 10 little insects and eahc 
 of their turns takes like 10 seconds, it takes awhile to get it going.
  
  But definitely check out Wizardry 8 if you like turn-based RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: writincat
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 15, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Big, but clear enough objectives and tasks that you don't get bored (unlike Wiz 7) . Great replay 
 ability, fantastic variations, great graphics &amp; sound for it's day and the best gaming system 
 every made for RPG's. They just don't make em like this anymore and good as Baldur's gate and 
 Neverwinter are it is never as much fun moving little miniatures from a top down perspective; fantastic 
 as Oblivion/Morrowind are it's so much cooler to control a party. Balancing the character skills 
 you need with how many to take to achieve maximum experience points and still stay alive is the 
 essence of party building, a lost art that some of us geeks perfected with D&amp; D. Wizardry was 
 the best and 8 was the crowning achievement, with honorable mention going to 1 and 6. Thank you 
 sir Tech! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  This was the first Wizardry game I had ever played and I believe, unfortunately, the last in the 
 series.
  
  The game play style of wizardry 8 is done in a first person perspective. There is quite a large 
 selection of species and classes to choose from which is great since this the greatest enjoyment 
 in the game has to be advancing your characters skills.
  
  The combat system is setup like this. Image a ball (unless you've played the game then you have 
 seen it) divided into four sections. A front, back, left and right side. In the middle of the ball 
 is another ball. What you do is assign your characters to each section of the ball and depending 
 on where the enemy is attacking you from those in that section of the ball can fight back more 
 effectively. This made it simple to use and required some strategy in the assignment you gave to 
 your characters. The combat can also be run in real-time or turn-based depending on your individual 
 likes, but I found it more fulfilling to use turn-based for most battles.
  
  The graphics are actually kind of rough in some areas, but they are so well designed that you can 
 easily discern the different environments becuase of the textures used. The animations are also 
 done very nicely and actually fit in well to the rest of the game.
  
  Now being setup in a first person design means that physical actions are done as a group. Running, 
 jumping or falling basically means everyone is going for the ride. Now if a character has higher 
 agility that others than he might not take any damage or a lot less than others from a fall. Running 
 is controlled by endurance and basically means the one with the highest is how far you can run. 
 The problem is everyone else with a lower endurance passes out as your running and has to regain 
 consciousness by resting for a few seconds. This can mean trouble if you are surrounded by enemies 
 and everyone is still trying to recover.
  
  The musical score is actually prety good and ebbs and flows at all the right moments. Definitely 
 something woth listening too.
  
  Now the story involves you saving the galaxy from the Dark Savant after you crash land on this 
 planet. To add to the intrigue there are two advance races at war with each other and you can either 
 assist one in dominating the other or try and mediate the conflict to get assistance in fighting 
 the Dark Savants army.
  
  By the time I was done playing this game I immediately went back at it for more and used different 
 characters this time to get a feel for all the classes. As a matter of fact and did this at least 
 5 times in a row, which is how much I enjoyed playing this game.
  
  If this is truly the end to the series then it definitely went out on a very high note in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPC666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  ... well, except for Jade Empire, which tied.
  
  Now, on to what I like about it.
  
  This game, it has so many choices and things you can do. You can create the whole party yourself 
 instead of premade NPCs. This is great; say in a different game like NWN2 you are trying to decide 
 what class and you are stuck between Wizard and Fighter - not a problem in Wizardry 8, because 
 you get six Player Characters.
  
  Gadgeteers. I don't know that many other RPGs have that sort of class playable. It was my favourite; 
 putting together gadgets, upgrading my Omnigun all the way from MK 1 to MK 12, using my gadgets 
 and omnigun in battle...
  
  Storyline. Now, I won't be giving anything away, but it has one of the best storylines in a game, 
 ever. Jade Empire came close but never actually beat it.
  
  Races. More diverse than other series. T'Rang, Umpani, Trynnies, Rapax, and all the playable races. 
 It's wonderful.
  
  Soundtrack. It's on my list of songs that I play where non-gamers would listen to regular music 
 (SupCom, GoW, DoW, JE, NWN2 are also on my list. That sort of music. Where most people listen to 
 regular music, I listen to game soundtracks.)
  
  Game World. What can I say? SirTech has combined technology and fantasy flawlessly.
  
  I could 
 go on but in the end I'd just be listing the entire game itself in word format, so I will stop 
 here.
  
  Stuff that's not so good:
  
  Graphics. Good in their day, not so good now. But hey, it's a fair trade for the wealth of freedom 
 and variety in the characters, items, quests, etc. So I give them a 10 because what with all the 
 effort they put into anything else, what they have here is really all you could expect.
  
  Combat. Difficult, though not so bad after you push through the first combats and start to level. 
 Enemies. There are LOTS of them. But you know, in other games people often complain there aren't 
 enough enemies. And of course, more enemies means more XP.
  
  Stuff I wish there was:
  
  Multiplayer. I'm no MMO fan, but I would have liked to play multiplayer on a LAN connection.
 
  
  A sequel. Just like in Jade Empire, this game NEEDS a sequel to continue the amazing storyline.
 
  
  A Full Editor. Failing a sequel, I would have liked a nice deep editor. By which I mean one as 
 deep as the TESCS of Morrowind. I mean, after beating the game a couple times, I find an editor, 
 sure. It only lets me edit my characters, though. I do find some hidden items that are not findable 
 otherwise, but I cannot really edit beyond that, say to let the Omnigun continue up beyond Mk 12, 
 and I sure can't make new areas. If I did have an editor, I would probably be able to just make 
 my own Wizardry 9 since the game's objects are very simple. Actually, a full editor might even 
 get new people into the game and maybe get SirTech enough money to come back in business.
  
  All in all, it breaks my heart that this series is not continuing. This game is THE pinnacle 
 of the gaming industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  ... although Planescape: Torment would certainly be in the running, if only for the unparalleled 
 storyline that game offered.
  
  Wizardry 8 has all the elements that make for good RPG: pure, old-school RPG system, good interface 
 and game mechanics, tough battles, decent story, and great atmosphere. Mainly, though, it has the 
 RPG gameplay formula down to both an art and a science: the tactical elements of combat, the contemplation 
 required to properly outfit your party, and the many interesting toys with which to battle your 
 enemies; these are what make Wizardry 8 so rich.
  
  At first the interface may seem a bit confusing, but it's really exceptionally good. You never 
 get to see your characters' actual presence in the game world; you will face the world from a first-person 
 perspective, and from a first-person perspective only.
  
  Characters are represented by their portraits (which can be hidden) along the screen edges, by 
 their paper dolls, and by a formation map with which you can set the relative positions of your 
 characters as they move together as a unit throughout the game. Using this formation tool, you 
 can place your melee fighters in the front lines, and put your spellcasters with low hit points 
 at the central rear, perhaps flanked by somewhat more robust ranged attackers. (Or not. If you're 
 suicidal, by all means let your pixie wizard soak up the damage on the front lines while your mighty 
 swordsmen play cribbage behind her. Whatever suits you.)
  
  You get full control over all eight characters -- meaning that you can outfit them, assign which 
 of them leads, and determine their actions during each and every combat round. And so forth. The 
 ability to fully control a squad of diverse characters is one of the best facets of the RPG genre. 
 Given the near legendary status of Baldur's Gate in the CRPG world, you would think this would 
 be an essential feature for most RPGs. But it has been lacking in some notable, over-hyped titles, 
 such as Neverwinter Nights (which is still very good, don't get me wrong -- just overhyped) and 
 even Morrowind, which looked great but grew tedious rather quickly. Wizardry 8 lets you fully configure 
 your starting party and, upon picking up a comrade or three along the way, you get full control 
 over up to eight potentially very diverse characters. It's a party-building RPG in the fullest 
 sense, and makes for some very deep and satisfying gameplay, with all the good aspects of character 
 management that RPG'ers crave.
  
  The graphics are adequate (for the date this was made) if not altogether stunning, but the game 
 world is quite interesting, with many gadgets, weapons, monsters, and strange goings-on. The game's 
 atmosphere, good storyline, classic RPG combat system, and rich array of controllable, customizable 
 characters make this one of the great computer RPG's of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MessiahKnot
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Like many people, I had never heard of Wizardry 8. All that I could recall about the game, after 
 initially stumbling upon its review page, was a vague recollection of the game box in my local 
 game shop - and what a fortunate turn of events that was! Because, after reading as many reviews 
 as I could manage, I was positively salivating at the prospect of getting my hands on it. And luckily, 
 my memory served me right, because the store had one singular copy left for dead in the lesser 
 known titles. I bought it with batted breath.
  
  The game has an old school charm that is rarely encountered in todays PC market. Though, at the 
 same time, it is still easily accessible to the new generation. The most prominent feature of the 
 game is the Battle System, and its radically different anything I'd encounter. Its a first person, 
 partially turn-based, strategyesque team battle system - no, I'm not kidding. It can be quite confronting 
 at first, but after a while the system begins to feel quite natural and very fun. And you better 
 learn to love it because it takes up roughly half the game experience, maybe even more.
  
  The battles themselves are phased (although there is a partial automatic system) with the turn 
 of events determined by your characters attributes (like speed and the like) . Beforehand, you organise 
 you formation based on your character classes and abilities (fighters at the front, archers at 
 the back) . The game world is seen through the eyes of the characters, which you can have as many 
 as 8 in your party, so once an enemy wanders too close, your basically locked into a battle. From 
 there, its a matter of tailoring your moves to what your being faced with. There are a wealth of 
 battle variables such as formation, specific commands for your characters, the types of abilities 
 and moves they use, and their battle stance. The battles can become quite complex with all manner 
 of strategies invoked to get you a winning result. 
  
  The character creation is great. Theres the usual procedure of choosing your class and races, 
 attributes etc., but theres a bonus feature that I found really added to the game. You get to 
 choose your characters personality. I know this may not sound very exciting, but when your playing 
 it adds a surprising amount of charm and individuality to the game. All the personalities have 
 a large selection of responses and phrases they use throughout the game that helps flesh out your 
 characters and makes them more then just invisible denizens. There are many different character 
 classes, with all your regulars like fighters, mages and archers. There are also unique classes 
 like Gadgeteers and Ninjas that add some spice to the mix. As you might have guessed this adds 
 a lot of replay value. 
  
  The game world is quite basic but still fun to explore. The locations vary in their looks and properties 
 and sometimes even employ interaction. Story wise, there isnt much to talk about, but this doesnt 
 detract at all from the experience. There is a distinct lack of NPC's, but its understandable given 
 the great detail each individual is given. You see, every NPC has a massive amount of unique dialogue. 
 Communication is conducted via you characters asking questions. You actually type what you want 
 to say and the NPC usually replies with a valid answer. I was literally blown away by the amount 
 of content here for a relatively old game.
  
  Now, lets get to the fundamentals: the graphics are dated, but still quite good for their age. 
 The sound, as mentioned, is top class - even the theme seemed to burrow into my head. The gameplay 
 is unique and very engaging, but seems to be a hit or miss affair with most gamers. So maybe if 
 your cautious, try the demo first to see if you like it. The value of the game is first class, 
 and qualifies it as a true undiscovered gem.
  
  I'll finish up by saying that there is a lot of depth, and most importantly, fun, evident in this 
 game. If you fancy taking an adventure through this realm, I can guarantee you'll have one unique 
 time and you maybe even find a game you'll adore.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: staraflur
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 1, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so that may sound like I'm whinging... that's because I am! I really enjoyed this game; I 
 enjoyed it so much I died and tried again nearly thirty times. Was it just me? Maybe. Either way... 
 I could not survive through the first dungeon. Just too many monsters and no way to move to safety 
 if you get surrounded. If this game is re-released or has another sequel in the future I will certainly 
 buy it for the character creation, and I will hope everything else has been improved.
  
  Love the game, but I can only take so much of the Game Over screen.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  I must say I'm not a big fan of games like this. I like either D&D games, like Torment, or fast-paced 
 RPGs like Gothic. But this game got me gripped for a long time, and if it wouldn't be this hard, 
 I could recommend it to everyone. BUT!
  
  Once you get out of the newbie dungeon, the fun starts. Most enemy groups can slaughter your party 
 without getting sweaty, and I'm an old fan of role-playing games and have played through BG2 on 
 the hardest difficulty. Imagine my surprise when some plants killed my whole party just like that.
 
  
  It doesn't get much easier. The quests are long and hard, the journal is probably the worst journal 
 I have seen, and you really have to concentrate on talking if you want to get any side quests.
 
  
  One thing I have to critisize is the music. I didn't like it even a bit. Ambient isn't bad, but 
 the combat music sucks. When I changed it to fast combat music from Heroes III, it got much better.
 
  
  Well, you can read the other reviews for a full list of features, I'm a bit lazy to write them 
 all. If anyone is interested in my opinion, this is one hell of an rpg if you're good at playing 
 this sort of games. If not... Don't even think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molivers7
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  In the fantasy RPG genre, there have been some very good games. I would put Wizardry 8 a little 
 bit par over must of its competitors. The graphics are good for their time. I particularly like 
 the player charactrs in your group. Is there a reason that every female character had such large 
 bussoms? I know, cause we like it. Anyway, the sound aspect is good. The characters have interesting 
 blends of accents and style. The battle sounds are pretty good. Love when a good fireball goes 
 off :) The overall game play is excellent. You definitely will need to go over the controls at 
 the beginning of the game. I tried to play without the online manual and had wicked problems doing 
 anything. The plot is somewhat interesting. While it stays linear and confining, they mix up things 
 by moving party members in and out. I actuall can't believe I am suggestingt this game since I 
 got stuck very late a in the game and could find no patches or advice to get me past one spot. 
 I will chalk it up to my own stupidity LOL. Check out this game if you want a good RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobra_Star
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Positives:
  Wizardry 8 is a first-person RPG with a rich environment and many hours of play. However, the good 
 elements and many quests are overshadowed by the combat system, which will be discussed below.
 
  
  Negatives:
  I really wanted to like Wizardry 8, but several factors kept me from liking it. The main factor 
 out of those is the combat system, which is utterly pathetic. I will sum it up for your with the 
 following: Imagine you are facing 10 Rapax berserkers in the game, each at 400 hp and hitting 3-4 
 times / turn, while you have 6 party members, each at 150 hp, and hitting 1-2 times / turn. These 
 Rapax are supported by 5 spellcasters in the back that you cant reach because you're surrounded!!! 
 And in the time that your party struggles to kill even one monster, they have already gotten 50 
 hits on you! 
  No thanks, I'd rather fight one or two hard monsters at a time than 15 moderate monsters. At least 
 with the one or two I'd get to do something. Compounding the problem is that you are supposed to 
 control 6-8 characters from a first person view only, never seeing them... so during combat things 
 can get confusing and you may lose rounds just trying to figure out how to attack without losing 
 too much blood.
  
  The other negative about Wizardry 8 that stands out is the poot graphics. Even for 2001, these 
 Quake 2 engine graphics are ugly and boxy. There is hardly any rich environment to gaze upon such 
 as in Morrowind. 
  
  And then these developers did not polish the game completely, considering the inventory system 
 is cumbersome and unintuitive, with too many obscure buttons.
  
  Overall:
  Overall, this is not really a good game. A game similar to this, Morrowind, is much better and 
 I would easily recommend that game many times over. This one, stay the hell away from it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liverpoolmania7
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:08 am PT
Review:  the basics: u start of with a party of 6 characters which have a nice range (fairies and dracons 
 and such) and there are many skills which makes wach char different. u also raise skill levels 
 by practicing the skill. quite good so far
  
  now in most RPGs there is an immediate problem which must be solved to get on with the game. no 
 change with this one. now when you solve this starting problem you get into the world. then u go 
 to the first town
  
  now it gets bad
  
  the town isnt a town at all. it is just a bunch of buildings. u can only enter 2 (?!?!?!) and those 
 are the tavern and blacksmith. and it is like that for the rest of the game. there are no "real" 
 towns. this is further back-uped by the fact that there are no civilians what so ever
  
  but wait, there's more!
  
  now is a really great RPG you need a few things like good char development 
 (like exp and attributes like strength, dex) , good story, realism (civilians and towns) decent 
 graphics, range of items and side quests. a game like Might and magic 7 and 8 and Baldurs gate 
 2 has these qualities and have them implemeted very well which is why they are so great
  
  but wizardry 8 lacks 2 of these things. they lack realism (no civilians isnt real) and they lack 
 side quests!!!
  
  thats right no side quests. there is one and only one way to go in this game. and that way is to 
 go and do the main story. no little side quests like taking care of an old womans rat problem or 
 defeating a dragon. none of that just the main story
  
  that is what makes the game a load of c-r-a-p
  
  and another thing that makes the game bad 
 is that the main quest (the only thing u can do) is very very hard. u need a walkthrough to get 
 through the game) and if u dont get a walkthrough then that will add some 20 hours to the game 
 time. all of which is you wandering around stumbing on what to do next
  
  well i think i have made my point. if none of what i have said bothers you then get the game. but 
 the fact that the realism factor and no side quests is absent from the game really made the game 
 unpleasant for me
  
  overrated and very very hard
  
  a must NOT have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mihai101103
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:47 pm PT
Review:  
  The first time i've heard about it , it was from a game magazine , about 
  4 years after the game was launched . So i've said "what the ... , let's try it "
  My first impression 
 was TOTAL DIZASTER : bad graphic ( 2005   2001) ,
  strange gameplay , weird classes ....
  It just took me an hour to realize that this is game is worth it !!!!!!!!
  After that i just 
 couldn't stop play it.
  Even my girlfriend who never play this kind of games , played about 8 
  hours nonstop , and let 
 me computer free. 
  For the beginnig i've choose a Fighter - can't play without him,
  ranger - ranged comb is important , samurai - lighting strike , 
  wizard - magic stuff , priest 
 - healing & protection , gadgeteer - the best there
  is !!!!
  Words means nothing , just paly it , even if it's almost 2006 , game like 
  this you rarely encounter.
 
  Newage 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liticom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Best in the series without a doubt. Entire game is great, pretty much everything about it is great. 
 There are some problems sure, but it is still one of the greatest game experiences ever. They even 
 brought back Bela.
  
  I of course imported my great characters from Bane of the Cosmic Forge. So I kicked ass from the 
 get go. This game is great, the story finally got the ending it deserved. It would of been a near-perfect 
 game, if only Sir-tech and Sir-tech Canada didn't go down the tubes. 
  
  From starting out after the crash, to being underwater fighting Nessie (or running like hell from 
 that giant bugger) , to the final confrontation with  
 mean the Dark Savant. You learn everything that needed to be known from the final trilogy of 6-8. 
 
  
  I waited for this game for years, from the day it came out, and it didn't disappoint. It's one 
 of the greatest in existance, if you don't own this game, you should be shot for your queerness. 
 I Zod pass this judgement through my harsh grading of a 9.3.
  
  Now all I have to do is pray for Wizardry 9, which should be the stand alone, great and triumphant 
 close to the series, but that won't happen, although if any game series deserve a wonderful finale. 
 It is this beautiful one here. I love this series, one of the greatest of all time, don't mess 
 with this game, it is great, if you mess with it, me and my Umpani will kill your ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsplace68
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game on and off for months. It is a great game if you level right. If 
 not, be ready to die. I quit twice before I reread the walkthroughs to help regain control of the 
 game. Once I did, I started to enjoy it. After completing Pariah, read reviews before you play, 
 I started W8 again. I first noticed the graphics, how good they looked after Pariah, and was pleasantly 
 shocked. The game is overly long and some tasks not so exciting. Never the less, some of the game 
 was fun, especially when unexpected things happened to some of the group members. I won't say for 
 those who have yet to play the game. I also liked the interaction between members in the group, 
 though a few I was glad to let go. I had a better time with Ice Wind Dale and Neverwinter, but 
 this game is worthwhile. The bottom line is NOT FOR NEW RTS Fans as it is a difficult game. There 
 is no real EASY. Prep yourself before you play and it will be an enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliasvapid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:43 am PT
Review:  Good. If you're looking for a great old-school RPG that will keep you entertained for many hours, 
 this is it. And this is a friggin' test, too. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forgetthename
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 14, 2004 4:10 pm PT
Review:  If you like RPG's you shouldn't miss Wizardry 8. Wizardry 8 has many different classes, and you 
 can make many different parties, with faeries, lizardmen, dwarfs, dracons (a combination of dragons 
 and humans) and of course humans and alot of other races. The battlesystem is turn-based, and it 
 works really great, you can fight dozens of different monsters, it's always exciting when you meet 
 a new kind of monster, and you can never know what's behind the connor. It's also very exciting 
 to explore the many different landscapes, which is filled with magic, monsters, and the landscapes 
 can even be beautiful to look on. Also it's very exciting to explore the different cities, there 
 is just something over it, it's very hard to explain. The world is filled with magic, healing as 
 well as wounding, you can do up to more than 100 different spells that all have different powers 
 and effects. You can also change your faction with the different people in the world (higardi, 
 umpani, t'rang etc.) and it can even change the game a little, but you will still be able to complete 
 the game. The graphics are good but not the best, but the sound is fantastisc, with alot of different 
 voices, and everything they say is with sounds on. This is indeed the best pc-game i've ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of my favorite PC games of all time, right up there with system shock 2. I 
 never replay games, but I have played this one through 3 times. Why? The RPG elements for building 
 your team of characters are really varied and it is fun to build characters in different ways. 
 The combat is the biggest draw though -- you have many choices about how to fight and all of these 
 choices really _matter_ to the outcome of the fight. The folks who made Jagged Alliance 2 made 
 this game and their ability to make good, difficult tactical games shows.
  
  Some gamers dont like the really long turn-based battles, but frankly they really shouln't be playing 
 this game in the first place. Looking at some of the other reader reviews, if you think the combat 
 is poor or you think the game is too hard, you aren't creating characters who can put up a proper 
 fight. You have to think in this game or your team will die. This is not final fantasy.
  
  The game has multple environments to explore and many different types enemies that really are different 
 in how they fight. There is little I can complain about. Some of the environments are more fun 
 to explore than others and the graphics are fine but nothing amazing. The game engine is what it 
 is -- it gets the job done.
  
  I should mention that the game also changes depending on which factions you join, which is a very 
 cool way of making the game re-playable a 2nd time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 26, 2004 12:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply a top-notch RPG, incredibly fun and addictive, and providing a worthy challenge 
 for all who play. To think that the Wizardry franchise started out with pictures of monsters made 
 from straight lines on the Apple II computers, its just amazing at what it has become.
  After creating your party, you'll set off on your adventure. You'll quickly become caught up in 
 the plot of the game, and eventually will have choices to ally yourself with differing factions. 
 There's really no right choice, but you choice will somewhat affect the flow of the game.
  The battle system is excellent, deep, yet pretty simple to use. Spell-casting provides the real 
 mental workout. You'll have to learn just where to place area-of-effect spells, as you'll decide 
 where they go before enemies have finished moving, at first causing you to place a fireball and 
 sadly watch as it hits nobody. Don't worry, you'll figure it out without too much difficulty. While 
 early battles will be simple, you will later encounter hordes of enemies which can take some time 
 to learn to manage. Even weaker creatures can kill you off when faced with 2 dozen of them.
  Graphics are good, but not spectacular. The soundtrack and sound effects in general are great, 
 and the voicework professional, though some characters have slightly irritating voices.
  Along the way, your party will be joined by NPCs, of which there are many to choose from. My only 
 gripe with the game is how each of them is "scared" of certain areas you will have to go to. This 
 leaves you the option of venturing to a dangerous area shorthanded, or schlepping all the way back 
 to another NPC, dismissing the scared NPC, and adding the new one. You'll need to do this many 
 times sadly, and I'd advise this route, as the battles are tough enough with a complete party.
 
  Overall this is just a fantastic game and should not be missed RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2004 11:13 am PT
Review:  Do you play RPG's? You don't really unless you have have Wizardry 8. It is now well into 2004, 
 and trust me this game will never become dated. It is simply one of the finest, most diverse RPG's 
 ever and doesn't really deserve to be put into comparison with others. 
  Every aspect of the game, from the story, the characters, the professions, monsters, items, locations, 
 factions, NPC's, all have a lovely touch of polish which result in a truely unique, stylized experience. 
 The graphics are terrific, the musical score and sound effects superb, but what truely elevates 
 this game is your characters, their growth, and the story they become involved in. It has an eccentric 
 fantasy vibe to it, slightly comical, which results in FUN. Who wants to play a grim, ultra-realistic, 
 stuffy RPG storyline? My enjoyment comes from the fantasy and the fiction, something far away from 
 an every-day-life experience. It is goofy, light-hearted at times, and very DEEP, and the combat 
 then adds some tension, drama, and ultimately elation when you survive a tough battle.
  Bottom line is, don't call your RPG stash a collection until you've added the definitive Wizardry 
 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duke13630
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 10, 2003 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I've played it and passed it so here is my review. The game mind you has a better storyline 
 and hook then most games these days. The gameplay is the same but the hints found in the game will 
 be very little and so you will get stuck on some places. The good thing is that this game is fun 
 just to level your characters and to see them progress. You can actualy feel them get better. The 
 only thing that will turn off gamers will be its old style aproach. Like others here said, the 
 graphics and sound is outdated. Just be happy that they are there at all. Get the demo and see 
 if you like it, if you don't like the demo then i'm sure you're not going to like the game itself. 
 Make sure to get the speed program to speed up the battle. It will still be slow to fight but it 
 will help a lot and add more to the fun. So in summary for you that never played this game, get 
 demo. If you buy the game after the demo then get the speed-up program to enhance the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
