-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World War II Online: Blitzkrieg
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/worldwar2onlineblitzkrieg/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 20, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 5.8, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 139 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Cornered Rat
Genre: Historic First-Person...
Date:     Jun 4, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World War II Online is a dangerous mess of a game that can't be recommended to any but the most 
 hard-core game players in its current state. 

 It must be stated from the outset that World War II Online is buggy. If you expect a polished product 
 out of the box -- and you probably should -- then it's definitely not for you. On the other hand, if 
 you're completely dissatisfied with the collaborative experience of playing other massively multiplayer 
 games, and you think nothing of downloading large patches, poring over help files and online resources, 
 and you don't have a habit of throwing your hands up in disgust the first five times your machine 
 crashes, then WWII Online has a lot to offer -- seriously.           Infantrymen must stick together 
 to survive.    

 The premise of the game is straightforward but very ambitious: It lets you fight in a persistent, 
 fully 3D online WWII universe as a tank commander, fighter-bomber pilot, antitank gunner, or simply 
 as an infantry trooper, and you participate in an ongoing campaign where your battlefield achievements 
 directly influence a wider war. It's a stunningly simple concept and quite a compelling one. Unfortunately, 
 the simplest concepts can still be very difficult to implement -- WWII Online exists as evidence 
 of that.   

  WWII Online was launched long before it was ready, and purchasers were faced with downloading a 
 70MB patch before they could even play the game -- if they could get the game to run at all, or if 
 they were lucky enough to be able to connect to a working server. While performance has improved 
 greatly since the days following the game's release (when it was essentially unplayable) , there 
 are still more technical problems, performance issues, and missing features than can be enumerated 
 in the limited space of this review. You still need to download all the patches, so if you're on 
 a slow connection, be prepared to wait some time before you can actually get into the game. Once 
 you start playing, many of the problems will become apparent in short order. The 3D graphics are 
 merely passable, the interface is atrocious, the sound is merely a probably realistic-but-dull 
 whine of engines, communication is extremely difficult, and low frame rates are a serious problem. 
 Loading or respawn times can take up to 10 minutes. It's a testament to the impressive concept 
 of the game that even with all of its innumerable problems, WWII Online can still be worthwhile. 
   

  WWII Online is not a first-person shooter set in World War II. Cornered Rat made some rather interesting 
 design decisions, all of which focused on highlighting the realistic limitations on men and equipment -- a 
 concept that is often fudged in other games for gameplay reasons. Infantry weapons are extremely 
 cumbersome to use (there is a three-stroke sequence to raise, aim, and fire your rifle) and when 
 in a vehicle, you can only perform the task of the vehicle crewman you are portraying. For example, 
 if you want to drive a tank, you have to be sitting in the driver's seat and thus are restricted 
 to looking out the driver's view slit. If you want to look out the top hatch, you'll need to switch 
 to the tank commander's position, but then you won't be able to steer. In some tanks the driver 
 is also the gunner, but if he isn't you'll have to switch between those positions as well. If this 
 sounds cumbersome, it most certainly is. The design intention is to have you man tanks cooperatively. 
 Each tank has different gear-sets (the Panzer IIIF has 10 gears plus neutral and reverse) . You 
 have no real heads-up display (except for a persistent compass) , and you have to choose between 
 looking at your instruments and looking at the action. All for the sake of realism.           Even 
 aiming and firing is not a simple process in WWII Online.    

 So is WWII Online realistic? Who knows -- it's simply crazy. Sometimes you'll spawn, and it will be 
 like the Sitzkrieg, where there's no one around and you'll find yourself just driving down a road 
 hoping to find an enemy to shoot at. Other times, you'll be part of a massive offensive so crowded 
 that you'll be unable to exit the spawn point until the guy in front of you figures out how to 
 move. Once you're moving, there's the issue of finding the battlefield, then getting there, all 
 the while hoping you don't get killed or the game doesn't crash. Several times I spent 15 minutes 
 just getting to the front, only to have the game disconnect me before I could even fire a shot 
 in anger. But the times when I actually got to fight, the experience was exhilarating -- perhaps 
 to some extent because the game usually didn't let me get that far.   

  One technical issue that has ended up radically affecting the game design is scalability. The original 
 intention was to have a single persistent gameworld. Unfortunately, this proved impossible upon 
 release -- the game currently has up to seven gameworlds available at one time to reduce the load 
 on the individual worlds. What will happen when the single persistent world is launched? How will 
 the change in player density affect gameplay? Add it to the list of questions the $40 you could 
 spend on the game would try to answer.    

 As stated earlier, many promised game features (like the persistent-rank scores and kill credits) 
 are simply missing. In some cases, these missing features highlight the eternal problems of realism 
 and its effect on gameplay enjoyment. For example, the game in its current state only lets infantry 
 carry basic weapons like pistols and rifles. No machine guns, no grenades, no mortars, no antitank 
 rifles. This may be unrealistic, but in some ways it's more realistic than the alternative, which 
 would be to let everyone carry a heavy weapons arsenal. The fact is that in a real WWII infantry 
 squad, there was usually only one soldier with a heavy weapon like a light machine gun. Antitank 
 weapons (and satchel charges) were even more rare, especially during the 1940 blitzkrieg era currently 
 being depicted in the game.           The view through the tank driver's vision slit is very restricted. 
    

 Over time, Cornered Rat plans on introducing new features into the game, like the availability of 
 additional weapons. What will happen to the battlefield situation when these changes occur? This 
 isn't just idle speculation: Since the intention is to open up new theaters of war with myriad 
 new units and weapons, the potential for imbalance is enormous. As the game stands now, it seems 
 like half of the participants are driving tanks. This is rather unrealistic, and the developers 
 have suggested that in the future there will be some limitations on tank types so that only players 
 of a certain rank can access the better vehicles. How this will go over with casual players who 
 don't want to have to spend massive amounts of time playing just to earn the right to drive a Panther 
 remains to be seen.   

  Perhaps the most engaging aspect of WWII Online is how it absolutely forces cooperation. Other 
 massively multiplayer games allow for cooperation, which enhances gameplay but isn't necessarily 
 essential. WWII Online completely demands it. If you spawn as an infantryman, you'll have to find 
 a ride to the battlefield, or you'll find yourself walking. And that's not a trivial matter. If 
 you spawn as an antitank gun, you'll need a tow, or you'll simply be stuck. In light of all this, 
 the potential for team building is enormous -- and not just for that one particular engagement, either. 
 In WWII Online, a victory is a tangible contribution to a strategic situation that will persist 
 for many months. Once you achieve a significant rank in one army, you'll probably stick to it, 
 and the participants will become familiar to you. This unifying factor of the strategic element 
 makes all the difference. Unfortunately, so do the technical problems and missing features.    
        Only a small part of the French theater in 1940 is available at this time.    

 On those rare occasions when the game is cooperating, and you're not in a position to notice some 
 of the bad design and interface choices or the missing features, WWII Online does attain a sort 
 of emotional peak. As an infantryman, watching an enemy aircraft swoop down on a tank while a friendly 
 aircraft gives chase is something that hasn't quite been achieved in a computer game prior to this. 
 You're physically disconnected from the scene, hiding on a hill a good distance away, yet you desperately 
 want "your guys" to stick it to "their guys." Numerous accounts of World War II combat describe 
 infantry watching a dogfight and cheering their pilot's victory or having their morale lifted by 
 a flight of friendly aircraft passing overhead. It's this collective sentiment that WWII Online 
 captures so well. Every enemy unit is a real enemy. Every friendly unit is a friend. There are 
 no computer-controlled characters; it's just us against them. And it keeps going even after you 
 disconnect. It's an atmosphere that hasn't been achieved in any massively multiplayer game to date. 
 If only there weren't so many other problems.   

  WWII Online is a dangerous mess of a game that can't be recommended to any but the most hard-core 
 game players in its current state. The real concern is that even if the technical issues are resolved, 
 the design issues will remain. Would it be better to limit the number of vehicle types or simply 
 let players spawn in whatever tank they wish? Can a single gameworld support all of the people 
 who want to play and sustain a reasonable strategic situation and flow of play? These and countless 
 other issues pertaining to the game warrant plenty of speculation -- but in the end it all remains 
 speculation, because right now there's no way to tell. And unless you're willing to bet $40 (plus 
 an additional $10 per month after a month of free play) that Cornered Rat eventually gets it right 
 some time in the far future, you'd be well advised to think hard before enlisting. The bottom line 
 is, right now, it's not worth it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: shenanigans19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The release of this game was more than shaky, in fact it was horrible. But after they got all the 
 kinks worked out this game turned out great. 
  Basically the game is Europe scaled down by 1/2, and it is just huge. Players can play as either 
 Allied or Axis forces, and can control infantry, tanks, trucks, planes, artillery, ships... so 
 many things to do. 
  
  The objective is to capture towns, and to do so you need to capture certain buildings and hold 
 them until you control the entire time, all the while being counter attacked by units from the 
 opposing army base, who spawn in the town you are trying to take. Well planned attacks are crucial. 
 Teamwork in this game is an absolute must. You need to coordinate with dozens of other players, 
 as infantry, tanks, and air support work together to capture a town. 
  Some of the most fun I've ever had in gaming I can trace back to some really amazing battles, defending 
 and attacking different towns. I can remember fighting wave after wave for hours in some places, 
 just barely holding a town and how gratifying it felt after all that. And then there were times 
 when no matter how hard you tried you could not repel the attack but you always had the opportunity 
 to try and take what you lost back. 
  Overall, the game was just amazing in its day, it has been a while since I've played it so I can't 
 speak for the current state. I'm assuming the player base is less than it was which would take 
 away from the fun. The gamespot score is based off the release, which completely warranted that 
 low of a score. The game did improve significantly from that point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  World War 2 online is a game with great concept, a massively multiplayer game set in during WW2. 
 The battlefield is a 1/3 scale of Europe, so the map is big, how big? If you are a in a tank, it 
 generally takes 20 minuets to get from one town to another if you are on the roads. If you cut 
 across fields it takes slightly longer. The High command for either side issues mission that you 
 can embark on, generally these will spawn you at the closest town to your objective. If you chose 
 to be an infantry man you can hop a ride in another player's truck, or on top of a Tank. Also if 
 you chose to man field artillery you can hitch onto the back of trucks to have a player give you 
 a lift. The down side is if you are in a tank, you cannot get out of the vehicle, with out de_spawning 
 and re_spawning as a different unit. Also your obligated to de_spawn near a friendly town other 
 wise you team loses the vehicle or weapons you had on you as MIA. And the team will have to wait 
 for industry to re supply them. Driving tanks, or truck requires, you to have some knowledge of 
 how a manual transmission works, as you are required to shift gears to get vehicles rolling. It 
 can be awkward some times switching from driver to gunner to commander in a tank, but you have 
 the option to have other players join you and crew your vehicle. Similarly multiple players can 
 man Destroyers, pt boats, &amp; bombers, any weapon system that has more than one controllable 
 position. 
  
  The games graphics are dated, and during the initial release in 2001, looked like crap, but recently 
 the developers have been giving the game a graphical facelift, Tanks, boats, planes, and infantry 
 have all been upgraded, or are in the process of being upgraded. Your player model while your infantry 
 looks pretty crappie, but tanks trucks planes and boats all look good. The foliage in the game 
 also looks nice, and adds lots of places to sit and lay an ambush. In the initial release back 
 in 2001 the game did not have nearly as much foliage, or detail on vehicles, the game that was 
 once almost unbearable to look at, now has a decent, engine that is currently being improved. One 
 neat thing about the game is the game clock; it cycles through daylight hours and transitions to 
 night, than back to day. Daylight lasts around 7 hours, where as night lasts just over an hour. 
 But it's still a neat feature. 
  
  Sound effects is this game, are defiantly a strong point. There are realistic sounds, echo and 
 dampening of sound being made by weapons and other players. An example if you fire an High explosive 
 shell a distance of 1000 meter, you will see the explosion, than a second or two later hear it. 
 The game can be quite load at times, when two division meet in a town there can be 15+ tanks and 
 20-30 infantry on both sides exchanging fire with each other. And Aircraft can be bussing the opposition's 
 troops at the same time. It can be an audio sensory overload, and I love it! 
  
  The Game has extremely high replay value, and it captures the aspects of war, long tedious and 
 boring, with burst of extremely intense action. With a price tag of $19.00 and than around $14.00 
 a month after the initial month the game is a pricey one to play. And it is still missing some 
 aspects that would make the game something great. The game initially received a 50% rating in 2001 
 from most media outlets, with the work done to the game since its release it should earn about 
 a 70% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vidharr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  WW2 Online is the only online battlefield. You HAVE to learn to use your equipment properly, and 
 you have to learn and understand tactics and teamwork. If you can't/won't/don't want to learn these 
 things, then this game is not for you. If on the other hand you DO want to learn the best way to 
 assault a city, capture it's command posts and revel in the idea that you just played a valuable 
 part in a real battle, then play this game. 
  
  Learning the sap points on every Axis or Allied tank or the vulnerabilities and strengths of these 
 tanks, the max turning rate or climb rates of the various aircraft, and most importantly, learning 
 to employ what you know as a member of a team and back up your buddies, is a must. The only thing 
 better than launching a big assault on a town and capturing it, is having the enemy launch the 
 same big assault on one of YOUR towns and you and your friends resist the onslaught and push them 
 back and their high command has to pull the attack objective. Seeing several enemy infantry converging 
 on your AB's bunker to capture it but all dying under your strafing or coax guns has to be experienced 
 to be understood.
  
  The game had a ton of problems when it launched, but it is absolutely a different world now, and 
 nothing else compares to it online. Everything else is silly child's play in comparison (WoW?? 
 lol phhhht... kid stuff) . You can find what it is you like to do, ie: infantry (sapping, smgs, lmgs, 
 rifleman, grenadier, even paratrooping) , tanker (from very light tanks and IFVs like the A13 or 
 Vickers) all the way up to the behemoths like Churchill VIIs and Panzer VI E Tigers, to Spitfires, 
 Fochwulfe 190s, ME 109s, Hurricanes, even naval Destroyers to sail. There are no NPCs moving around 
 in this game, if you see it moving, it's another player, and he's there to kill you or help you. 
 
  
  This game is vastly enjoyable to anyone who enjoys realistic tactical shooters, tank/flight/naval 
 sims. The WW2O community is top notch, and it has probably 10 years average higher age than other 
 mmo games... ie you won't see the slimy little d00ds running around in the game. (Most wannabe badass 
 shooter players come in to WW2O and get creamed a while before they start to realize they're not 
 in Quake anymore) . 
  
  The only real weakness in the game is the graphics. The environmental graphics could be wished 
 to be 100x better than they are, but they can't be (although the Rats (devs) are upgrading a lot 
 of the terrain now) because in most average shooters or mmo games the maximum range is anywhere 
 from 64 meters (Star Wars Galaxies maximum weapon range) to a few hundred meters in anything else... while 
 in WW2O the max range can be a couple of thousand meters (a damn hard shot to make with a tank 
 gun/ATG but it can be done) That is why the graphics are not as lush as in other tactical games 
 or mmos. Don't get me wrong, the vehicle and aircraft are modeled amazingly well, and even the 
 cities are done very well, but the environment needs (and is getting) improvement.
  
  Overall, if you like tactical shooters and simulations, and are a WW2 buff, you'll love this game, 
 whether you fly, drive, sail or walk to get to the fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antihack
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  World War II Online is a MMO simulation more than anything else. You can fly, drive tanks and trucks, 
 operate turrets and anti aircraft, navigate in battleships, and just go out on foot. It's not your 
 typical point and click mmo, you actually need to use skills. 
  
  Just being on foot is complicated, you need to judge distance and adjust for drop and still aim 
 on a moving target. Driving requires constant attention, you actually have to shift on your own, 
 and tires can get blown out by enemy fire. As a turret operator you can move your turret around 
 on foot, but it takes time, so cooperation with trucks and their towing ability is key. In tanks 
 you can operate solo or with a team, there are 3 seats in them, a drive gunner, and spotter. And 
 then there is flying, flying is insane. You have to pay attention to so much, it makes your kills 
 even sweeter knowing you got it off the ground and to the battle. I've never personally been behind 
 the wheel of a Naval unit, so I dont know much about them.
  
  The game is just so expansive, the map is huge. The biggest letdown is trying to get to combat. 
 Sometimes you have to travel miles by foot just to get picked off by a sharpshooter or miss the 
 battle.
  
  The only con I can see that drives players away is the learning curve, it can take some people 
 awhile to get the hang of how the game works. I personally had some problems getting used to everything, 
 but I found some veterans who helped me out and I was set. 
  
  The community is very welcoming and willing to help any new members, which makes you want to come 
 back again and again.
  
  I truly didn't appreciate this game until I ended up marching into a town with the Allies in a 
 huge armor column, it was just incredible to see all these people actually working together to 
 achieve the objectives, with people stopping to make sure hte infantry had rides.
  
  All in all, this game is incredible. It just has an epic feel to it and lets you explore whatever 
 branches you want. The community makes the game worth it alone, organizing huge campaigns and giving 
 real time orders to you. The graphics are dated, but for the time and the type of game they're 
 great. Give it a chance, and you'll be hooked 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lan784
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  (this review was written on February 19, 2006)
  
  After a rocky start, WWII Online has transformed from a disaster to one of the best, and most succesful 
 online games in the world. With around 50 new players each day this game just keeps growing and 
 growing. Yet improvements are still being made to the game as we speak which is only going to make 
 the game even better.
  
  Back in 2001 WWII Online was re-leased into stores all across the UK and the US. With over 100,000 
 copies sold the first week this game was expected to be the biggest online game ever. However, 
 the game was re-leased 6 months before CRS (Cornered Rat Software) wanted and therefore the servers 
 and even the game were not ready to cope with all the players. The servers net codes were written 
 wrong which made almost half the players unable to play due to unstable connections, also the game 
 wasn't finished and over 150 bugs still present. In other words this heart breaking event still 
 haunts WWIIOL to this day. WWIIOL still has a bad rep. and this discourages players from coming 
 back.
  
  Well I got news for you WWIIOL is now one of the most succesful massive-multi player games in the 
 world. This game was rewritten from almost scratch after its re-lease and now its almost bug free. 
 However just like other games it will never be bug free. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Ever imagine fighting on the front lines back in WWII? Ever want to get into a battle 
 of 150+ players and fight over a capture point? Well WWIIOL will deliver that and oh so much more, 
 much more. With over 450 towns, cities, and ports to capture along the map of europe in half scale 
 and yet CRS is adding more towns and cities every update, this game will keep you busy for hours 
 and hours. Fight along side with thousands of players as the fight for europe rages along the 1300 
 mile frontline. With over 80 different units, vehicles, planes, and ships to choose from there will 
 hardley ever be a dull moment in WWIIOL. This is a pure muli-player online game, which means anything 
 that moves is controled by a player, excpet for a few AI MG nests that protect undefended towns, 
 its all players. The WWIIOL servers have been tested up to hold 10,000 players!
  
  The objective of the game is to win the war for your country, currently the 3 countries are, Germany (Axis) , British (Allied) , 
 and French (Allied) . For the allies French take the South while the British take the north. We are 
 expecting an American Amry within the next year. To win the war you must capture the enemies towns, cities 
 and ports, until they give up. With around 475 towns, cities, and ports, a war can last from 3 weeks 
 to about 4 months totaly depending on how well each side can get organize a attack or defense and 
 succefully execute it. A town or city is made up of around 3-6 depots (a place where infantry can 
 spawn) and no more than 2 army bases (infantry and tanks can spawn from here) and the way to capture 
 these points is that there is a table in the the capture point buildings, you will know the building 
 when you see it, it will have a flag on the top of it of which country owns that CP, and when you 
 find the table stand next to it for 2 minutes until the timer is complete to capture that CP. Once 
 all the CPs and the Army Base is captured you own the town. Oh and by the way the Army Bases have 
 a bunker, and in the bunker is the table to capture the AB. The game is formed on a chain of command 
 so of course when you first start you are ranked as a recruit and can only get limited supplies 
 like rifles, light tanks and light anti-aircraft and tank guns. When you work your way up the chain 
 you can get more and more units and other goodies.
  
  There is a RDP (Research and Development) cycle in play in this game. Which means when you start 
 a new war each country is given early war tanks and guns and what a RDP cycle does it adds new 
 units to the game, like stronger tanks and guns. These RDP cycles are based on how well there countries 
 factories are doing. So bombing the enemies factories will slow down there RDP cycle and which 
 means that you will get the better equipment first and will have the advantage over them until 
 their RDP cycle completes.
  
  The ground war is the star of the show, the tank battles are the battles you will never find any 
 where else. The infantry still needs a little work but still is very very fun to play with. With 
 tanks you can either command a entire tank by-yourself or you can invite someone to command the 
 turret and mgs while you drive. The modeling is very percise, meaning you will have almost a garantee 
 kill if you shoot a tank in the back where there is less armor than the front or side where there 
 is more armor. Also the tanks are a sort of sim of real tanks, you can track enemy tanks (destroy 
 there tracks) , blow up their engines, kill their crew members one by one, jam there turret gun, 
 or blow them up with sappers. Also you can see your friends with there icons on, however enemy 
 units dont so be careful where you go and keep a sharp eye out for the enemy. Plus the terrain 
 is detailed to what it acctualy is in real life so there is alot of hills and cliffs to hide behind 
 or put up a anit-tank gun and shoot the approaching enemy tanks.
  
  The infantry units are very detailed to damage modeling and detail, there are several infantry 
 units to choose from: Rifleman, SMG (Sub-Machine Gunner) Machine  
 Rifle) , Grenadier, and Paratroopers. With paratroopers you can acctualy get into a transport plane 
 and jump out over enemy towns and capture the CPs and AB.
  
  The air war is a sort of side show, its good but doesn't really give the same excitment as the 
 ground war. You can bomb factories and cities to weaken the enemy and there supplies. Dogfighting 
 is pretty good fun when you dont die :)
  
  The navy is another side show this is so far the least popular career in WWIIOL. The battles when 
 you get to them are ok and are long.
  
  Heres somthing you might not see anywhere else, Night Time. Thats right WWIIOL runs on a 15 hour 
 clock, 12 hours of day and 3 hours of night. Night is where you can see all the action, every little 
 muzzel flash to the explosions of tanks and aircraft miles away as the sky lights up with light.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in the game are very good compared to other massive online games. However 
 this means the game is a load on you system. 1 gig of ram is recommended but you can play with 
 512MB but just not as good frame rates. I play with 512MB of ram and im getting around 25-30 frames 
 so its not bad at all. There is alot of attention paid to detail in this game, the trees look real 
 close up, and even the units, and tanks look real. You have a visual range of around 3.6KM in the 
 game which is very far.
  
  SOUND: The sound is by far the best ive ever heard you can hear explosions from miles away and all 
 the action going on around you. It is undescribable to explain the sounds in WWIIOL. You can hear 
 approaching tanks from every direction and even the enemy infantry.
  
  OVERVIEW: I tried to tell all the cool things about WWIIOL in this review but what you have read 
 so far is not even close to half of what is in WWIIOL. If I told you everything there is then we 
 will be on page # 17. So for more information visit the WWIIOL website at www. wwiioline. com 
  Enjoy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokeoddsponge
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2004 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Version reviewed: 1.16.2
  
  This game has come a long way since its horrible June 2001 release. Its an entirely different game, 
 lacks almost nothing in terms of stuff to do It isnt a game for everyone, the FPS aspect isnt a 
 shootemup, its a simulation. The flight aspect also isnt arcadish, nor is the tank, naval, ect.
 
  
  Its the best World War II sim out there, and if you say "im not paying $12 a month when i can play 
 BF1942 for free, which is the same." you are mistaken because BF1942 is not a sim, its an arcadish 
 game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: IMO nothing can beat walking into town for 20 minutes, getting to a good hiding spot 
 and sniping poor ei (term used for enemy infantry) leaving the town. Ive broken up many attacks 
 doing that. Of couse its easier to drive in, drop at a safe distance and take a 3 mniute walk in. 
 You have to have paitence for this game. LOTS of them. Ive driven 2 hour missions just to go and 
 try to sabatoge an enemy airfield, which was about 40 miles away, in a group on a truck. Anothe 
 time I drove a french lend-lease stuart m3 tank up to british territory just for the heck of it. 
 It took me about 3 hours of driving. sadly I was killed shortly after arriving at the target.
 
  
  Of course that doesnt cover the flight aspect of the game: Its what you would expect from a flight 
 sim, there is some FPS issues in the air if your GFX are turned up high, but in the air they dont 
 need to be. The maximum visual limit in the air is also too close making it look a bit foggy out, 
 at 8km, but I heard there is plans to increase it up to 40km.
  
  Theres also tanking, pretty staigtfoward. In a tank, you are relativly protected from infantry, 
 unless they have explosives on them, or have a grenade launching device on their rifle, and grenades 
 can sometimes knock the tracks off or destroy the wheel entirely.
  
  You can also drive trucks and gun with AT/AAA/Artillery guns, the game has a towing feature that 
 lets you tow ATGs or AAA from a truck, however teh towing system still has a few bugs to them, 
 but they can be corrected by driving at slower speeds.
  
  The learning curve is very high so dont expect to come in and breeze right throgh learning, espeacially 
 if your coming from BF1942 and expecting the same.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are considered by most "old school." Even the newer, better looking game 
 objects, becasue teh game runs on 8 bit textures whereas newer games run on 24, and brand new games 
 are starting with 32 bit textures. There are some games in development slated to run on 64 bit 
 textures. However sometime in the near future there is plans for bumping up to 32 bit textures, 
 renders have been shown and it makes the game look beutiful. Previously the amount of players visible 
 at a time was 64, which led to ALOT of players blinking in and out in heavy battles with alot of 
 players. The maximuim limit is now 100, at first I thoguht the extra 35 people wouldnt make a difference, 
 however it does! For the first time I actually saw all of the attackers at a town today with them 
 blinknig out! and the gunfire was LOUD! Also today I was walking away from town and I saw planes 
 flying overhead! This was not possible before becasue it would render the planes when it drew the 
 infantry.
  
  SOUND: The sounds have recived an overhaul since my last review. More specifically, all of the 
 gun siound effects. They arent much better quality, however they sound MUCH more like the real 
 guns they represent. Also the new sounds actually make me jump when I hear them, a distant burst 
 of an SMG makes a small "pat pat pat" sound like in real life, and the new explosion effects are 
 terrifyling! I now jump when a grenade explodes near me or an artillery shell explodes nearby. 
 The game sounds 20 times better and the new sounds arent even finished yet! The old generic rifle 
 sounds, which I SWEAR were recorded with a metal spoon as one of the objects, they now have distinct 
 sounds. The french rifle makes a small POP! noise when fired, the kar98 makes a long drawn out 
 BOOM! The french machine gun makes a semi-quiet thudding sound while the mg34 makes a high pitched 
 fast rattling sound. Next on the list to get an overhaul are the tanks sounds, and then the blane 
 sounds.
  
  UI: The user interface is really bad, a new one will replace the current one when its done. There 
 has been little tweaks in recent months such as a new map, and some more helpful features, such 
 as the game remebering which type of facitlityes shown on the map on restart, but more helpful 
 features will be coming soon.
  
  
  All in all this game is underapprecated (hence the underapreeciated category :D ) and should be 
 recognised more often as "the" WWII game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sender1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2004 9:02 pm PT
Review:  WW2OL is, as of time of writing, in August 2004, a whole new game from when it first launched, 
 it has been patched and developed ever since.
  
  It is still the only game in it's leage for what it offers. There is simply no competition that 
 actually offers this close of a simulation of..... WW2.
  
  No contest, in other words. Simply the best. In large part because it's the only one out there.
 
  
  Having said that, it is a very entertaining game in it's own right. If you are a history buff, 
 or a so-called groignard, you really need to look into this game further.
  
  There is NOTHING like it. Litteraly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adlerson
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2003 10:10 am PT
Review:  It's important to remember that the WWII Online of today isn't anything remotely the same as the 
 WWII Online that came out two years ago. I bought it when it came out, was hugely disapointed to 
 find out I was paying for nothing more than a Beta, at best. So I played it for a month or two 
 then, then quit. 
  
  Last December I picked it back up, and man what a difference!
  The largest persistent game world in any online game, a bunch of well modeled WWII vehicles, planes 
 and weapons (More are added on a regular basis) , /intense/ action, a great player base.. 
  There's nothing like it out there, and especially for every single WWII interested person out there 
 this has to be his or her wet dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clalvarez1
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2003 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game since the 1st day it came out. It has improved continually and is 
 a very entertaining game to play. CRS (developers) continue to improve each aspect of game play 
 almost on a weekly basis. This game begain as a real disaster, but quickly developed into a rough 
 but playable game within a few months. About 6 months into the game, it became 100% better than 
 at the beginning. I encourage anyone that removed the game from their hard drive early in development, 
 to try it again. This game has air, tank, navy, infantry, anti-air artillary etc. It is many different 
 sims combined into one game with the largest active map on the internet. There is good orginization 
 playing and can develpe many good friends in the process. There is a larger learning curve than 
 most game, but thats what makes the game interesting to many players. Again I recommend giving it 
 a try. I have played almost every nite sine it came out.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
