-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World in Conflict
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/worldinconflict/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Thrilling new approach to real-time strategy.
 Addictive, intense multiplayer gameplay.
 Strong story with terrific voice acting.
 Visually stunning with plenty of spectacular moments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 8.9, 49 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 8,765 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Massive Ent
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Sep 18, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
World in Conflict is a thrilling, spectacular strategy game, and an even better multiplayer experience. 
 

  It goes without saying that it's a good thing World War III didn't erupt between the United States 
 and the now-defunct Soviet Union. For many of us who were children during the Cold War, the fear 
 of being annihilated in a nuclear conflict was very real. So it's a bit strange now that we can 
 look back at that era and have the luxury of imagining what could have been. Or we can play World 
 in Conflict, Sierra and Massive Entertainment's incredible new real-time strategy game. This isn't 
 your standard RTS game, as World in Conflict doesn't follow the familiar model of resource gathering, 
 base building, and swarming armies. Instead, it feels almost like an action game masquerading as 
 a strategy game, and it offers up a relentlessly fun and amazing new approach to the genre, one 
 that works in single-player and even more so in multiplayer.  

           World in Conflict brings World War III to life on your desktop.      

  World in Conflict 
 is set in an alternate-history version of 1989. Instead of the Berlin Wall falling and communism 
 collapsing, the Soviet Union launches an assault on Western Europe, and the United States rushes 
 its forces in to aid its Western allies. Four months into the conflict, after the US Navy has been 
 attrited down, the USSR launches a surprise invasion in Seattle and pushes inland. In the 14-mission 
 single-player campaign, you play as a company commander who is part of the meager US defense; there 
 is no campaign from the Soviet perspective, though you can play as the Red Army in multiplayer. 
 However, the campaign twists and weaves, letting you experience a sample of the European conflict, 
 battle in remote areas of the Soviet Union, and bring the fight to New York City.  

  Yes, the story is a bit far-fetched, but World in Conflict does a great job of making the implausible 
 seem believable. That's partly due to the excellent storytelling, which is spearheaded by pitch-perfect 
 narrator Alec Baldwin. He's backed up by a great voice acting cast that brings the principle and 
 secondary characters to life, along with a story that offers up emotional and sometimes humorous 
 vignettes from a world at war. For instance, you'll hear a soldier's futile battle against Army 
 bureaucracy, the phone conversation of a husband and wife, and the deliberations of the president 
 and his top military advisors. While there's a small misstep or two, such as a gospel song in the 
 weirdest of places, the game effectively tugs at your heartstrings, which is rare for a strategy 
 game, especially when it concerns the fate of one character whom you presume to be entirely one-dimensional 
 but isn't. Some of these vignettes are conveyed through in-game cutscenes, while others are delivered 
 through graphic-novel-style drawings. World in Conflict also features some incredible prerendered 
 cutscenes that are so good you actually wish there were more of them.  

  This isn't a hardcore wargame or simulation. There are far too many gameplay abstractions for that, 
 from being able to air-drop reinforcements on the battlefield within seconds to repairing equipment 
 almost instantly. Instead, World in Conflict is thrilling game about destruction. You get to unleash 
 all the firepower of modern military units on an open battlefield, but you also get to experience 
 the challenges of combined arms warfare. That's because the game has a great rock-paper-scissors 
 combat system that captures the vicious circle of war. Tanks can kill tanks and other vehicles 
 well, but aren't so good against infantry. Artillery can kill infantry easily, but aren't so good 
 against tanks. Helicopters can knock out vehicles well, but are vulnerable to infantry and antiaircraft 
 units. It's a constant chess match about what you need to bring to battle and how you use it. The 
 game is also smart enough to limit the number of units you can control. Instead of commanding the 
 entire battlefield, you'll have only a relative handful of units. This makes managing your units 
 a lot easier, like when employing their secondary abilities such as popping smoke grenades to create 
 cover when under attack.  

           Destruction has rarely looked so good.      

  Then there's the game's excellent resource system. You're given a pool of reinforcement points 
 that you can use to purchase units. Naturally, the powerful units cost a lot more than weaker ones, 
 so you've got to choose quantity over quality. But it goes a bit deeper than that, as different 
 classes of units have different abilities. For instance, light helicopters are some of the best 
 scouts in the game, able to locate enemies from a distance, but they're extremely vulnerable. Medium 
 helicopters are able to shoot down other helicopters with their air-to-air missiles, but they don't 
 do a lot of damage to armor. Heavy helicopters can eat tanks for breakfast, but aren't effective 
 against other helicopters. So while your initial inclination might be to load up on heavy choppers 
 and go after enemy armor, a wise player recognizes that there are many roles to play on the battlefield. 
 If your units are destroyed, their cost is slowly refunded back into your reinforcement pool, so 
 you can order up replacements, although veteran units are more effective, giving you an incentive 
 to keep your experienced units alive as long as possible.  

  The nice thing about this system is that it effectively gives you an unlimited number or resources 
 and units to work with, so it's fairly forgiving to nontraditional strategy gamers. If that seems 
 a bit easy, don't worry, because World in Conflict can also ratchet up the pressure by tossing 
 in time limits. For instance, you might have to seize a town in less than 45 minutes, or achieve 
 another objective in far less time. The margins for error are much smaller when you're working 
 under a deadline.     

  Aside from reinforcement points, the only other resource in the game is tactical aid points, which 
 are accumulated whenever you perform a vital role on the battlefield. You earn points by killing 
 the enemy, but you also earn points by seizing and fortifying objectives, repairing friendly vehicles, 
 transporting infantry around the battlefield, and so on. Tactical aid is like the icing on the 
 cake, because you can use these points to purchase all sorts of powerful and utterly cool things. 
 You can call in air strikes, napalm strikes, cluster bombers, mortar barrages, artillery barrages, 
 chemical warfare, airborne reinforcements, precision artillery, fighter cover, and much more. The 
 ultimate tactical aid is also the most awesome one: tactical nuclear weapons. World in Conflict 
 features the best-looking mushroom clouds in gaming, and when they go off the screen flashes white 
 and you hear the high-pitched sound of electronics frying. It's essentially the chilling sound 
 of death.  

           Dropping a tactical nuclear weapon is worth it just for the blinding flash of light and 
 the mushroom cloud.      

  All of this takes place on large, dynamic battlefields that come alive with the symphony of destruction. 
 Thankfully, there's barely any worry about collateral damage in the game, so if you have to destroy 
 a city to save it, then don't worry about the insurance bill. The destruction isn't just cosmetic, 
 either. There can be all sorts of tactical implications. Take out a bridge and you force the enemy 
 to go the long way around, or, in a multiplayer game, to call in a tactical aid to erect a new 
 one. If the enemy is hiding infantry in woods and buildings, making them hard to root out, call 
 in napalm and just burn down the trees or use artillery or smart bombs to blow up the structures. 
 Everything blows up so beautifully that there's no such thing as overkill anymore. The game looks 
 spectacular in DirectX 9, and it's noticeably better in DirectX 10 thanks to more atmospheric lighting. 
 If you only have a DX9 card, though, don't worry -- you aren't missing out on any gameplay enhancements 
 aside from the ability to use dual-monitor support in multiplayer games.  

  Pretty much everything in the game looks good, even up close. Move the camera low to the ground 
 and you can make out all the gear on your individual soldiers. Pull the camera back and you can 
 soak in vast landscapes. One thing the game does especially well is smoke. Drop a smart bomb on 
 a building and it will not only explode in thousands of pieces, but it will send convincing pillars 
 of black smoke skyward. After a heavy battle, the sky will turn black because there's so much smoke 
 in the air. That's the incredible level of detail in this game.  

  As good as the single-player campaign is, though, it pales in comparison to the multiplayer game, 
 which is fast-paced and wonderfully balanced. Imagine the first-person multiplayer action game 
 Battlefield 2 reborn as a real-time strategy game, and you have an inkling of how World in Conflict 
 unfolds online. This is an insanely fun multiplayer game that lets you be part of a team of eight 
 as you attempt to destroy the enemy using teamwork and every tactical weapon in the book.  

  Everything about multiplayer is designed to get you in a game quickly and keep you there for 
 hours on end. First, when you join a server there's no wait for the current game to wrap up before 
 you can get into the fight. If there's a spot open on the server, you're deposited into the middle 
 of the current battle when you join. Second, there's no downtime at all. In most RTS games, you 
 spend the first several minutes hurriedly trying to gather resources and build a base and units. 
 In World in Conflict, you order up your first set of troops and watch them parachute or airdrop 
 in seconds later. Fighting unfolds within the first minute of each game, and it doesn't stop until 
 the very end. Third, thanks to the resource system, if your units are wiped out you can order up 
 some more and be back fighting within seconds.  

           This is the best PC game of the year, so far.      

  Team coordination can be handled 
 through a built-in menu system or, even better, the built-in voice-over-IP chat system that lets 
 you communicate vocally with your teammates. All you need is a microphone. Playing in a relatively 
 uncoordinated manner is still a blast, but if you play on a good team against another coordinated 
 team, the gameplay elevates to a whole new level. Victory can be snatched from the jaws of defeat 
 (or vice versa) in intense matches where both teams are hurling all on the battlefield, from air 
 strikes, artillery, multiple tactical nukes, and more. There's nothing quite more urgent than a 
 team desperately trying to cobble together enough tactical aid points for a last-ditch nuke.  

 
  Developer Massive Entertainment has been making real-time strategy games for almost a decade now, 
 but World in Conflict is undoubtedly the studio's masterwork. Everything about this game is top-notch, 
 from the addicting gameplay to the amazing visuals. More importantly, World in Conflict offers 
 up a refreshingly new approach to strategy gaming. So if you're a strategy fan, you should definitely 
 try World in Conflict. And even if you're turned off by standard real-time strategy games, you 
 owe it to yourself to try out what Massive has come up with in this exquisite package.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (460 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kevinjia32
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  So, when a friend recommended I pick this up, I exclaimed, "Why? Another RTS?". He forced me to 
 get this, and I did. And I have realized that I was completely wrong about World In Conflict.
 
  
  First off, World in Conflict is the BEST looking RTS on the market right now. No game can come 
 close to it. The explosions look stunning, and this game sounds great. WiC is classified into Campaign, 
 Create a Campaign, and Online. 
  
  What different about this? Well, instead of controlling the entire battle, you control a squadron. 
 With your squadron, you get reinforcement points and you can get new units AIRLIFTED to you. Also, 
 you can call in a variety of artillery barrages. From AirStrikes, to Tactical Nukes. All the explosions 
 look stunning and are perfect. Also, you do not build up a base and have a whole economy, instead, 
 you start right away. 
  
  Campaign: The Campaign is decent length in WiC. It is well scripted and has great voice acting 
 by Alexander Baldwin (Alec Baldwin) This campaign is so well scripted and written, it will make 
 you believe this will actually make you believe World War Three actually existed. With 14 missions, 
 this campaign will take you about 10 hours or so to complete. However, the campaign, once finished, 
 really isn't playable anymore. There are also severe drops in frame rates. 
  
  Create a Campaign: Create your own scenario. A pretty useless feature, because creating your own 
 campaigns are a pain in the ***.
  Online: The online modes offer immediate gameplay, so you're not waiting around for a game to start. 
 Also, there is a built in chat system, that allows team mates to communicate with eachother which 
 is crucial. It really is a perfect online play.
  
  Overall: World in Conflict is not perfect, however, this game offers so many new ideas and in my 
 opinion, revolutionized how modern RTS are made. It does not make sense that you have to build 
 your own base, when there is a country that is supposed to fund your expenses. World in Conflict 
 is a game anyone has to pick up.
  
  My score: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzik_mafia
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god, this is art on a disc. From the intro movie to the credits, I was swept by this outstanding 
 piece of entertainment. Just about everything was masterful: The presentation, story, graphics, 
 sound, soundtrack, game play... it's all there, in a deep, gritty package. What a beautiful package. 
 One 15- minute section was the only lowlight, where you could only control 4 men, but at the same 
 time it was a nice change of pace.
  
  This and Metal Gear Solid 4 actually made me cry. A little. The way the characters were presented, 
 and even relatable was outstanding. *Spoilers*Bannon's death scene was one of my favourite levels 
 in a video game.*Spolier end* The last level was art. Everything else was just a step behind. 
 
  
  This is the only strategy game I've ever truly enjoyed, and for me that's saying alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertSquared
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 3:45 pm PT
Review:  You wouldn't think that this game would be very good considering that there are only two factions 
 with almost identical units, yet it is. You wouldn't think that this game would be very good considering 
 that your only objective is to capture little white circles on the map, yet it is. And you certainly 
 wouldn't think that this game would be very good considering that you have to rely on your teammates. 
 Yet it is.
  
  This game boasts an innovative combination of RTS and FPS. It takes away the economic aspect of 
 the RTS genre and adds the respawning and score aspect of the FPS, as well as a few new twists 
 of its own. The campaign is compelling and powerful, and the multiplayer is perfect. I have spent 
 over 250 hours playing it. There is always room to improve your game yet it is not difficult to 
 learn to play well. And there are few things as satisfying as dropping a tactical nuke on the opposing 
 team's entire army.
  
  Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaaCs
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  World in conflict, an AWESOME Game, as u go through the campaign u fond that the story is mixed 
 ... the begging is in the middle after Eagle six strikes the nuclear bomb... and the middle is 
 at the beginning .. because if you noticed that at the bringing of the game eagle six says to Bannon 
 that he didn't forgive him for what he have done.... then after the you go back in time you find 
 out what Bannon did... killing Russian civilians... anyways, the game has a lot of cool stuff 
 
  
  1) the maps : the maps are so amazing they give you a cool simulation... 
  2) the graphix: graphix are amazing although i play on low, i find the game as if it was in a high 
 graphix... "actually once my friend was looking at my tablet PC as i was playing the game the whole 
 class, he told me that the game is stare able he was right about that" 
  3) the multiplayer: also amazing..... 
  4) story: amazing
  5) the tanks and weapons, oh god 
 its amazing........
  6) well everything.... amazing"
  
  
  oh yea just for your health take a break each 5 min and relax your eyes "here come your mommy to 
 advice ya" but seriously because you well get addicted to it soo badly that you wont go anywhere
 
  
  amazing game must buy .... seriously
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThomasMaster
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict is the best strategic game ever made so far. It just mixes everything i ever 
 wanted to have in a strategic game. I has good graphic : we can zoom in so much and with so much 
 graphic detail it seems its a third person shooter. Amazing scenarios and great world detail. We 
 can only deploy a limited number of forces but they give us what's necessary to get the job done 
 the rest is up to us to decide where to send what unit. Like, when to split to your units and what 
 air strike to send in case of a Secondary objective running at the same time as the primary. You 
 have to know what force to sen where with your limited number, that's the best in the game because 
 other strategic games just let us call more force until we have a big army and send all units hoping 
 some of them live to kill your target and complete objectives. The game isn't hard, the difficulty 
 it's "Just Right" as it says above and by Just Right i mean that if you play in Hard Mode, just 
 call in your tank to attack the target does not get your job done. You have to THINK. With 4 or 
 5 tanks vs 10 units with anti tank supporters you can't just rush in, send in some air strike and 
 then when do the rush. Best strategic game I have ever played. Thank you for making this game :P 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azkotek
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  GAMESPOT STOP GIVING UNBELIEVABLE SCORES TO ORDINARY GAMES!!! there... I said it. Not that the 
 game is a total loss but certainely not 9.5 come on!
  
  It's an RTS, meaning you don't play turns and if you take too long to take your decisions or survey 
 the battlefield, you get blown to bits by the commies. Instead of the base building we're used 
 to in, say, C&C franchises (which IMO is way better than this attempt) , your given a set amount 
 of units at the start of a mission and with a point system, can call in reinforcements at your 
 selected drop zone. What is horrifying in that concept is the amount of time it takes to be able 
 to call in more reinforcement to replace lost ones... and believe me, when the battle gets hot 
 (because like all RTS games, WIC's level of difficulty is only just the freakin' AI who outnumbers 
 you by way far) especially during those famous ''defend the outpost'' missions, your pretty much 
 screwed if you don't act fast... and chances are the time it takes to be able to get those stupid 
 reinforcements will contribute to that. What's interesting though is the ability to use tactical 
 aids... although you have to be quick to direct them on the battlefield at the same time as trying 
 to repel the Reds with your puny task force. Anyway, this game won't make me steer off Red Alert 
 3... which I'm going to play right now.
  
  oh... and did I say to stop giving unrepresentative scores to games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:23 am PT
Review:  Possibly the most overated game I've ever known. I am amazed that there are so many good reviews 
 for it on here.
  
  I don't understand?
  
  The plot is linear, extremely cliched and boring, USA/USSR - please... it is not even remotely absorbing 
 and really a ridiculous concept in terms of reality. Those cut scenes with the voiceovers just 
 seem clumsy and generic. I have no idea how anyone could describe this story as anything but generic 
 and tedious.
  
  The game itself is extremely limited and does not capture the imagination, click here, click there, 
 click on them etc etc... the sad thing is that modern C&C games are gettting like this, too many 
 objectives, blow up this building then that building etc. Whatever happened to free form one army 
 v another, approach it how you like. 
  
  The game looks good sure but looking good is completely meaningless unless the game itself is entertaining.
 
  
  I wanted to like this game, reading the reviews I thought awesome an RTS game that is fresh and 
 entertaining. I started playing and was excited by the tutorial. Then I start the game and I am 
 immediately dissapointed with how it plays but I think perhaps it is just the begining and it will 
 get better. But it doesn't. A few sections in and I find myself having no urge to play the game 
 anymore, I can't pretend that I do. Eventually I have to just admit it is not a very good game, 
 begrudgingly and uninstall it.
  
  Not a very good or involving game, extremely limited and by the numbers gameplay, not even remotely 
 absorbing story and nice graphics.
  
  I would love for someone to tell me how on earth you can enjoy this game because I just don't get 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p8riot08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game can be summed up in one word, amazing! This is a must have game for every RTS fan. World 
 in Conflict has some of the best multiplayer even seen in an RTS and alone is a reason to buy the 
 game, but on top of the multiplayer you get a unique and very enjoyable singleplayer mode that 
 lets you fight in a hypothetical war between the Americans and Russians (note that you can only 
 play as the Americans and NATO) . The multiplayer component of World in Conflict is truly great 
 and offers many hours of gameplay that should keep any PC gamer satisfied. There are a wide assortment 
 of maps and each offer unique experiences. From the French Riviera to the city of Seattle you will 
 certainly find a map you like. In multiplayer battles, you are a small part of a large battle and 
 therefore you must work together as a team in order to achieve victory. It could not be easier 
 to get online. All you need to do is create an account with Massgate and you're ready to play. 
 The online community is great and there are tons of clans to join. This is one game that becomes 
 even better if you have a headset because you can enable VOIP. On top of all this gameplay, Massive 
 Entertainment and Ubisoft are creating an expansion pack called Soviet Assault. I hope that I have 
 given you a good overview of what I believe is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best rts I have played in a couple year's!
  The game is truly amazing in every sort of way: The graphics is out standing, The gameplay is fantastic, And 
 it won't bore you one bit, It is set in the cold war and the storyline is so good that you will 
 actually get attached to the characters in the game! The maps you'll play one is real life towns, suburbs 
 and cities in America, Europe and USSR and you will command several units in battle like: Infantry, Armor, Air 
 and Support and each unit has it's weak point and strong point and you'll also get reinforcment's 
 that parachute or hover in to battle, In the game you will also get tactical aid which is Artillery, Anti 
 air, Napalm strikes and devastating tactical nuke's. The Game's multiplayer is also impressive and 
 any strategy lover wil love this game! But there is one thing that was dissapointing is that this 
 game is so good that you would think they would have putted tons of action in it but there is average 
 action in this game which is sad because we stragety lover's love it if a game has such good graphics 
 and real good action but unfortuanely this is not one of those game's but yet again, still a brilliant 
 game!
  
  
  Have fun gaming
  Venom192 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frozen4322
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:09 pm PT
Review:  It's here, the highly addictive RTS World in Conflict, set in the late 1980s World in Conflict 
 provides a stunning array of weapons, ranging from Artillery, tanks, even tactical nukes at your 
 disposal, unleash your inner war commander, with stunning graphics so intense you can see what 
 infantry are carrying, tanks being blown to bits, and building collapsing to the ground , a strong 
 storyline so believable it's like you're actually there, and no annoying bases to build, it's literally, 
 pick and play.
  
  With four roles to take on, and a massive multiplayer server (Massgate) Challenge friends, family 
 even, or some random guy on the other side of the world, and with a LAN connection you can use 
 Hamachi to play with other people. Make a clan on the official Massgate forum, organize massive 
 all out warfare.
  
  Now one question, are you ready Commander?
  -Frozen4322
  
  Gameplay:10
  Graphics:10
  Storyline:9.5
  Tilt:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiritbreaker22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite dificult but very fun to play. I would recommend starting on the Easy setting 
 until you get the hang of everything. The way you navigate around the screen is unique and very 
 useful once you get used to it. Unlike some of the other popular RTS games, the game is much easier 
 if you take the time at the start of the mission to plan an attach and then try to execute it. 
 It makes things much easier then continually changing your mind. You need to take advantage of 
 the layout and use what has been given to you then just try to pound your way through every level.
 
  
  I think that is what makes this game more special, unlike C&C (which I also love playing) you cannot 
 usually make tons of units and just wipe out the enemy because each "level" has several different 
 objectives.
  
  I would highly recommend this game to any RTS fan or War strategy fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgr8one
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 6:26 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict is THE best game I have ever played.
  Everything's just perfect about it; great story, great voice-acting, great gameplay, great graphics, 
 great music/sounds, great cinematics, great multiplayer and great re-playability (I've been playing 
 it since it first ever came out) ... It has absolutely no flaws and is a definite must have for 
 every PC gamer!
  
  The story and voice acting is the best part of it. You get this creepy chill up your spine from 
 the very first cinematic and instantly fall in love with it from the first look of the gameplay. 
 I cannot describe how great it is: you'll have to play it to see what I'm talking about.
  
  Gameplay is fantastic! It is much more realistic than traditional RTS games (It doesn't have resource 
 building, which is kinda lame in games) and its much more fun and action packed. The moment you're 
 on the battlefield, the action starts and you're in the middle of a firefight. Almost everything 
 in World in Conflict is new and innovative; the tactical aid points used for cluster-bomb airstrikes, 
 tank busters, napalm, artillery barrages etc., lightning fast gameplay with no resource building 
 or any other waiting thing, precise unit animations, completely fresh multiplayer and gorgeous 
 gameplay interface to name a few.
  
  Multiplayer is very addictive and very fast unlike other games of its genre which makes it really 
 fun. The modes of multiplayer play is brand new and like everything else in the game, it is awesome! 
 The only problem with multiplayer is that there are very few people playing it at a time but that's 
 quite alright.
  
  If you've never played it, GET IT NOW! Its one of the things you should do before you die: experience 
 the world's best RTS ever made; World in Conflict.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hxc2step
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  One of the best RTS games of all time has to be World in Conflict. Not very many games have been 
 done involving the possibility that the Cold War turned into a flesh and blood conflict. On top 
 of an amazingly well told story it is graphically impressive. Using bloom effects, z feather smoke, 
 and the power of DX10 this game pumps out some extremely impressive visuals. Its not very often 
 that you get to see a city leveled by US and Soviet forces battling for every inch and be in awe 
 at chairs and papers flying through the air from a large artillery strike on a building. What many 
 people don't understand is even with the impressive visuals it does not take a top of the line 
 computer to run it. I have a 650 dollar laptop that runs it just fine on medium settings. With 
 the help of impressive visuals the game play is very fast paced and addictive. It plays out like 
 a large rock paper scissors game. Learning to have proper support and not sending in units to fight 
 battles they will never win is key to victory. Taking away the base building mechanic leaves players 
 free to focus on battles and formulate strategies. All units are dropped in like in previous titles 
 like Ground Control so battles start as soon as the game has loaded. Every player is given a set 
 number of money that they can use to bring in units which is replenished once units are lost. They 
 are also given tactical points to call in support such as napalm to the impressive mini nuke. They 
 earn the points buy building up defenses at control points and taking out enemy units. The game 
 is extremely well balanced for an RTS as well. Every unit has its strengths and weaknesses and 
 there is never a type that will win the day when put on the field. This is the only area i have 
 a problem with. I would have liked to of seen more unit types. Every faction has light medium and 
 heavy units as well as transports and specialty units like repair tanks. I would just like to see 
 each class expanded on. Such as having 2 or 3 different like tanks with their own abilities. Yes 
 this may over complicate the game play but I think it wouldn't over complicate the game. It has 
 a very easy learning curb and almost anyone can sit down and play effectively in minutes. Even 
 people that are not RTS fans wouldn't find this game over complicated. This game has definitely 
 set the bar for future RTS games and will keep its position as one the best RTS of all time for 
 many many years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnumneon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This game really catches the eye of someone who is definitely looking for a great rts sequel like 
 Sins of A Solar Empire...
  
  this one is great game with fantastic results of removing the building burden of any rts ( you 
 know the building stuff) . When the timers go down then whistle blows! Bullets fill the air and 
 this game really shows what a real war is, after the countdown it's already war there is no break 
 or time to take any resources gathering. The mechanics is so plain and simple, just drop your units 
 and go to war. The story is so compelling you want to even crave for more. 
  
  This is very exciting and I hope this kind of new genre will never goes away. I demand for World 
 in Conflict 2!
  
  Try this game no bads but goods only...
  
  This game left the world of gathering resources, building infantries fit for the kill, Spawning 
 super weapons. This game is only straight forward to war. This game is absolutely a masterpiece 
 of the year 2007. 
  
  Every should try this... a fast pace-immediately gone to war action make this game much better 
 single player or multi-player!
  
  Like our greatest musicians ever like Chopin, Beethoven, Hydyn... they always prefer simplicity 
 to the notes and the simplicity of musical flow. Implement that kind of very simple aspect to a 
 game and a result would be very fantastic without making it complicated...
  
  this game has all the features you are craving for a war.
  
  (Im not speaking bad of course 
 all of us hates war we just only want it to happen on screens) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Sharkman
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I know what your thinking. Oh great another RTS that gameospot overrated. Nuhuh. Nada. This is 
 not an RTS. This is, this, a whole new genre. It is Mucho Stategio!!!!! Sorry about my outburst 
 :) . Anyway this game has amazing graphics, and the story is awesome. But most of all, the game 
 involves actual STRATEGY. I mean, you actually have to think!!!!! It is bad @$#%*^%&!!! The game 
 is amazing anyway guys. Check it out, for me and my high self. Come on guys. Nuclear explosions, 
 artillery, airstrikes, tanks, aa rockets, Helicopters providing aupport!!!!! it's like a freakin' 
 movie. This aint a gaem where you memorize click patterns and unit amounts and win without even 
 realizing it (cough, cough C&C, Starcraft, Warcraft, cough cough) . This is the real deal. You are 
 the supreme general. You will take the world for the USSR/USA/Nato!!!!! Thanks for reading everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furnish
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  9.5/10, you cannot have doubt that this is a great game with unique game play. This game is different 
 than anyother Real-Time Strategy games. And that makes it so great.
  
  World in Conflict does not offer base-building or resource gathering. Instead, players are given 
 a pre-determined amount of in-game reinforcement points to buy units. When a unit is destroyed, 
 the points used to purchase it are slowly filtered back to the player: thus reinforcements can 
 be summoned to the fray. Tactical gameplay lacking base- and unit building is similar to real-time 
 tactics (RTT) games, some of which feature intermittent reinforcements. Another example of the 
 genre is Ground Control by Massive Entertainment [6] , sometimes considered World in Conflict's spiritual 
 predecessor. In fact, the game's designers considered the game to be an RTT [3] .
  
  World in Conflict contains three main factions: USA, Soviet Union & NATO, all playable in multiplayer 
 games. However the Soviet Union is not playable in the single-player campaign, which is experienced 
 from the USA and NATO perspective. The USA and NATO are pitted against the Soviet Union throughout 
 the story as well as in online play.
  
  The player may choose one of four roles in battle: infantry, air, support or armor. Each role has 
 its own exclusive units, that aren't available for purchase from other roles. The basic units of 
 each role can be purchased by everyone but are more expensive for players with a different role. 
 The infantry role gives access to various infantry squads such as anti-tank teams, snipers, and 
 light transport vehicles whereas armor allows players to use various classes of tanks, the dominant 
 direct fire land combat unit of the game. Players choosing the air role have access to anti-armor, 
 air superiority, scout and transport helicopters. Finally, the support role contains anti-air, 
 artillery, and repair units.
  
  Most units have special offensive and defensive abilities that recharge after use. For example, 
 standard infantry has the offensive grenade launcher attack and are capable of a defensive sprinting 
 maneuver. World in Conflict uses a tactical aid system similar to that of Command & Conquer: Generals. 
 Tactical Aids allow the player to perform special actions such as calling in airstrikes, deploying 
 paratroopers and carpet bombing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  whenever i play a real time strategy, im looking for the unit variety, and this didn't have it. 
 the graphics are the 2nd greatest ive ever seen though! but real time strategies arent about quality, 
 its about variety and gameplay. and this didnt present those two elements nearly great enough. 
 
  
  i bought this when i read all those other player reviews, and was unimpressed by the game when 
 i played it, the graphics were decent, but again, unless its 1990's graphics, that doesnt matter. 
 
  
  this succeeded in that of a modern strategy formula though, aircrafts, infantry, tanks, and organized 
 them decently. that was where the good parts are from, now lets get into the game details
  
  
  the factions: usa and soviet russia, 
  all have same units, no differences whatsoever
 
  
  the story: soviet russia has invaded the USA, and your job, is to command a modern army, and drive 
 them out, with your army...
  
  the system: this aint your average RTS folks, no structures to build, you airdrop all your units 
 at a reinforcement point you decide on the map, this function was executed so-so nicely... 
  
  the game interface: it was very nice, but the controls take a while to get used to, but you 
 can move your screen in a variety of directions, and can be fun.
  
  
  i wouldnt reccomend paying good money for this game, its not worth it, but if you dont care about 
 the gameplay & faction variety, this is worth a buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bikerider72
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, World In Conflict is a great and enjoyable strategy game, but I'd love to see 
 it with more units to command! You can command few powerful units or many lower-class units, or 
 a mixture of both, but not enough for my liking. I think that World In Conflict with more units 
 like Command And Conquer would make an awesome kick-@$$ game! Still, World In Conflict features 
 a long, diverse storyline (with amazing graphics and no noticeable glitches) , and challenging, addictive 
 online game play. Definitely worth playing IF you're a fan of strategy games, But if you're looking 
 for something with a little less strategy and a little more of lighting up the battlefield with 
 massive assaults, I'd recommend you consider your options. Also, unlike many strategy games, World 
 In Conflict has no "bases" to defend of destroy. Units are airdropped into available parts of the 
 battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youyou132
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Amazing graphics for RTS
  -SO MANY UNITS
  -new system of gathering money
  -broad map
  -REALISTIC EFFECTS, DAMAGES
  -GREAT MULITPLAY!!! 
  
  
  Cons:
  -The game 
 is just ... too big.. so this mean SLOW PACED GAME
  -so detailed textures, can hurt your eyes
  -so many things you can do, strategies = complex... 
 -lags sometimes due to amazing graphics = lags... YOU DONT LIKE LAGGING DUE TO GRAPHICS DO YOU?
 
  
  Though, the game is great but I don't prefer slow paced game personally. But WORTHPLAYING!! But 
 WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But 
 WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But 
 WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! 
 But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! 
 But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! 
 But WORTHPLAYING!! But WORTHPLAYING!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wa-Ryan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Ever wondered how things would have unfolded if the Soviet Union and the U. S. went to open warfare 
 against each other? If your computer can run it, you're in for a great RTS game. My favourite thing 
 about this game is the story and realism of it. The story in this game is very immersive and one 
 of the best I've ever seen in a video game. The campaign you will take on missions across the U. S. 
 and across Europe. 
  
  The thing I really like about the gameplay in this RTS is that you really have to use strategy 
 and tactics to win, not just mass units and attack. That's because you're only given a certain 
 amount of points to spend on units, so spend wisely. I also really like the bonus objectives, they 
 can be very challenging to complete while still completing the main goal, but if you do complete 
 a bonus objective the reward makes it worth your while. E. g. you'll be given some more tanks or 
 able to take control of some artillery. I haven't played the online though so I can't comment on 
 that. But from what I've read it works very while and has battle. net type set up to it.
  
  If you love challenging RTS games where you really have to use strategy and tactics (and if you 
 have a good computer) you definitly should pick up World in Conflict. It also has my favourite 
 cut scene is any video game. Here it is (I don't think it's much of a spoiler but if you're worried 
 don't watch it) : http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=Th0ZKEluMOc&feature=related 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kompassssss
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  no base building no skirmish just campaign were you drop tanks and bombs just one thing good graphic 
 but in strategy game not graphic is most important its strategy like in command i conquer 3 and 
 in this game everything made just to look like in stategy but creators i think worked most on graphic 
 not on gameplay and because of gameplay is borring so is the campaign for this game oposite is 
 sins of solar empire there is no campaign but gameplay is realy awesome that game is for real strategian 
 yeah it has good graphic i think its the first strategy game whit dx10 but as i said it hass boring 
 gameplay and i thing that is most important thing speeking abbout all other things like sound good 
 sounds can clearly be heard music it is nothing special beacouse of all sound effects i dont realy 
 heard it and i like alitle harder music but strategy and hard music dont go whit each other graphic 
 models are good like all graphic and cloud flow slowly i think they are 3d cluds not images thats 
 good so thats everything i wanted to say abbout this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  The thing with this game that is is what personally I like about it is the way you obtain your 
 units, its a more realistic way of obtaining them, 'cause what I in some way complained about C&C 
 generals and some other games is that it is impossible to make a so many tanks in a so small fabric.
 
  The graphics of this game are great, i mean from far soldiers are like ants, but when you zoom 
 in you realize the details one soldier has and that is great.
  The story of this game is really good, and very well done I mean you start at one point, then you 
 return some time to the past and then you return again to the present, it is really good.
  An excellent sound.
  It is extremely real 'cause tanks can rotate in the same place and a humvee 
 must reverse and then go forward it is really a good detail.
  The details from the city are great and from the maps like the deserts and buildings as with all 
 games i say you give it a try, I'm sure you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNIPERKMC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  AMAZING GAME. THANKZ FOR VIVENDI. ARTISTIC WEAPONS. SUPERB THINKINGFROM DEVELOPERS . EVEN THE VIDEOS 
 ARE ALSO GOOD.
  LOOKS REAL PLAY. GOOD STRATEGY. ONLY THING THAT BOTHERS ME IS THAT SHORT GAME. IF EXPANSIONS COME 
 I WILL BE THE FIRST TO BUY THEM. THE COMMANDS ARE REALLY GOOD. ITS A TOTALLY DIFFERENT EXPERIENCE. IT 
 COULD BE GOOD IF THE ARE MISSIONS TO FIGHT IN THE SEA ALSO. REALLY AMAZING
  SUPERB GRAFIX AWSOME GAMEPLAY. IWILL BE HAPPY IF IT HAS 3 OR 4 EXPANSIONS. landscape: again beautfiul. 
 the landscape is interactable with your units. a napalm strike will clear forests and make paths 
 which your tanks will use. trees look beautiful, as well as buildings (standing or destroyed :) 
 ) and the lighting is amazing. you will see light in the water as well as light rays coming through 
 the clouds.
  this games gameplay is really based off and older game ground control II which basically started 
 off the whole reinforcment thing. but ill try not to compare too much.
  
  right, so you have no buildings, and no cash to collect. you just have a set amount of points to 
 spend on troops, get them, paradrop them in and get fighting. so great we get some fast action. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theavenger95
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I love this game
  From the second you start playing you feel like you have dropped yourself down into a battlezone.
 
  The weapons are real, the explosions are real, the nukes are real, the tanks are real, the places 
 are real.
  Story is realistic, scary, emotional, and interesting
  A scenario suggesting the Cold War between the US and the Soviet Union never ended. Which is scary 
 and would lead to a nuclear war. But its fun if you put it into a game. Fight as Americans and 
 push back the evil Soviet Invasion. I'm hoping for a sequel some time soon.
  The best part of the game is tactical aid points.
  You earn them by destroying enemies or completing 
 objectives, and as they accumulate you can use them to call on tactical aid such as artillery barrages, 
 laser guided missiles, light tanks, carpet bombings, daisy cutters (my personal favorite) , and 
 even nukes.
  The nukes aren't as big and spectacular as you would hope them to be, and you won't get the chance 
 to use them in single player, but they are still fun.
  in multiplayer games are easy to find but you need a good connection. wireless won't cut it. It 
 is tough lots of great players out there who make newbies feel insignificant but be patient, you'll 
 get better.
  Its very tough though and you'll find yourself losing all your troops if you aren't careful.
 
  Some people can easily accumulate enough points for nukes which can ruin the gameplay, and some 
 players can't get enough to call in a feather drop.
  Otherwise excellent game. but it also lacks a single player skirmish mode which is very annoying 
 since multiplayer can be tough for newbies to get used to and the short 14 level campaign isn't 
 such good practice.
  I still highly recommend this game to anybody who enjoys fast placed, modern, RTS games with big 
 explosions and big guns.
  will require a fairly powerful system but nothing like Crysis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisissuit3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  ok, hopefully i can fix up my messed up rating system :D.
  
  Graphics 4/5
  
  Ok, graphically this game is beautiful, if you have the system. this game can be played on relatively 
 slow PC's but if you do that, you will claw your eyes out.
  
  models: just awesome, they are made in great detail especially the soldiers who have very unique 
 facial features. and the tanks are gorgeous since they shine in the sunlight and sparks fly off 
 and its just amazing.
  
  but why a 4/5? because a slower computer will see blurred textures and just ugly vehicles.
  
 
  landscape: again beautfiul. the landscape is interactable with your units. a napalm strike will 
 clear forests and make paths which your tanks will use. trees look beautiful, as well as buildings 
 (standing or destroyed :) ) and the lighting is amazing. you will see light in the water as well 
 as light rays coming through the clouds.
  
  what makes it a 4/5? 
  again a slower computer will get horrible results with trees flickering in the background and dull 
 lighting.
  
  conclusion: good graphics if you have a strong card and dx 10. anything else will be mildly impressed 
 or just let down. 
  
  i myself get to experience fine results and looks but constant crashs from setting the settings 
 to high were rather annoying but i wont deduct points for that.
  
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  ok let me just say, the story in this game is just epic. 
  
  the story is told by still pictures 
 and briefings in loading screens. which is basically:
  
  Cold war never happened, Soviets go in and attack america. thats only the bare surface of the story. 
 because, as you go deeper into the story, you have personal stories with your fellow commanders. 
 as well as a story of friendship between 2 soldiers in the firefights.
  
  these are very emotional and almost got me crying with all the sacrifices made in the game and 
 all the men who wont get to see their loved ones.
  
  right with all that teary junk out of the way. their is something big that is gripping me. midway 
 through the game you pull a COD4 and go back into time for a little history lesson and these missions 
 take up a good 1/2 of the game. which is probably just a pathetic attempt to lengthen the story 
 line but whatever still had more drama.
  
  conclusion: a very deep story with some twists here and there that makes it very intresting. though 
 the whole time travel thing is pretty dumb...
  
  Gameplay: 12/15
  
  ok, let me just say after going through the game a bit that i found out that it isnt as good as 
 i thought it was.
  
  ok this games gameplay is really based off and older game ground control II which basically started 
 off the whole reinforcment thing. but ill try not to compare too much.
  
  right, so you have no buildings, and no cash to collect. you just have a set amount of points to 
 spend on troops, get them, paradrop them in and get fighting. so great we get some fast action.
 
  
  but this also is the games weakness. speed. this game moves at a fast scale. (well the units move 
 slow but the fighting is relatively fast) . you can call down tanks, infantry, choppers, and support 
 units like artillary, anti air, and repair tanks. but trust me, you will want to stick with the 
 infantry.
  
  ok so the 4 classes i just described are what you get. in the campaign your infantry is invaluable. 
 the reason? even though in the open anything will kill them. but in the woods they are invisible 
 and are free to fire upon the enemy and building give them a powerful defense bonus.
  
  tanks are your powerhouse of the game since basically make a wall of them and your good. they can 
 take on any ground units but are useless against the air.
  
  air units are just choppers. you have scouts which are self explanatory, medium choppers a good 
 all rounder that can take on other choppers. and heavy choppers which is a tank in the air.
  
  then support vehicles which consist of artillary tanks, repair tanks, and anti air tanks.
 
  
  in the campaign, a wall of tanks with repair tanks behind them and infantry in the woods will win 
 you any battle. 
  
  so yeah, gameplay for the single player is basically a phalanx formation.
  
  you also get tactical 
 aid points that can be used to call in airstrikes, artiallry strikes, and on MP even nukes.
  
  though on multiplayer you are limmited to one role. and again throw all strategy out the window. 
 since its basically which side has more tanks and better air support.
  
  also, tactical aids dont make things any better since a nuke can make 1/3 of the map unplayable 
 for a certain amount of time.
  
  but i have played a few gamewhere people were a little tactical. so if you can find a good server 
 with i guess a clan. it can be a good amount of fun.
  
  final verdict: 8.5
  
  its a graphical powerhouse with a deep storyline. but the fact that its just a 300 game doesnt 
 do much to justify anything above an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryDaBeardON
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is set in the late eighties, in a world where the Soviet Union, instead of going 
 bankrupt and crumbling into a mess of shocked, open-mouthed countries, decided to get some dividends 
 on its investments in the arms race by liberating some capitalist countries. To Massive's credit, 
 it's a surprisingly coherent and plausible story, and it doesn't run out of gas having set up the 
 backdrop for all the spectacular action, but continues to develop throughout the campaign, thanks 
 to the cast of well-rounded characters and voice actors (most notably Alec Baldwin) .
  
  Still, the storytelling aspect is not without flaws. The most annoying of these is the gimmicky 
 camera always showing the character you play, Lt. Parker, from behind or some other unfortunate 
 angle during the cut scenes, which is apparently supposed to help us imagine our own face under 
 his helmet or something. Must work for some; has (kind of) worked for me in shooters or RPGs, but 
 too transparent for my taste in an RTS. Still, I got over it, because on the whole the campaign 
 is thoroughly entertaining, and nicely put together, although kind of on the short side. It's also 
 on one side only, as there's regrettably no Russian portion of the narrative.
  
  The gameplay goes the way of the new wave of RTSs, with base building and resource gathering culled 
 in favor of airdropped reinforcements and special powers ordered via radio, such as napalm strikes 
 and - everyone's favorite - tactical nukes. This system works well on the whole, if you are familiar 
 with its basics and are not an RTS fundamentalist. The points you spend on these goodies are earned 
 through combat, although it seems only the tactical aid (special powers) points are earned directly 
 by killing enemy units. The reinforcement point system is not entirely clear to me. It seems dependent 
 on control points you control, but I couldn't figure out the exact pattern. To be fair, you probably 
 won't bother with those during the single player missions, because you'll have a lot on your hands 
 and will be content to simply call in those reinforcements whenever they become available.
  
  Yes, you'll be busy. The single player missions are satisfyingly difficult, but not overwhelmingly 
 so. For me, the campaign is enjoyable if I have to restart a few missions after getting my behind 
 handed to me, and World in Conflict certainly delivers on that front. The feelings of urgency and 
 chaos of war are wonderfully realized. When your objectives change, it's often because the enemy 
 is either counterattacking or has done something "unexpected." The units are what you would expect 
 from a realistic USA vs. USSR warfare. There's little difference between the sides of the conflict 
 beyond the names of the units, but there are enough units available to make up for that realistic 
 gameplay flaw. You'll have infantry, armor, support and air units available, several of each type, 
 all of which are fun. Some of missions are timed, although the timer is usually rather generous, 
 at least on normal difficulty. The fact that most of the maps you will be fighting on are realistic 
 and familiar adds to the overall mood and stokes the patriotic fires.
  
  Of course, these maps are so familiar and realistic because of the graphic engine at work. World 
 of Conflict is a beautiful game with an incredible amount of detail. The colors are vibrant, the 
 explosions and destruction effects are gorgeous, the units look legit. You can zoom all the way 
 in to sniff your tank's fumes and read names of diners, or zoom out and watch a nuke's blinding 
 flash that slowly fades to reveal a living, breathing, cascading mushroom cloud, which will leave 
 a crater as it dissipates.
  
  The sounds are also up to par. Aside from the standard war sound menu and a great, brooding orchestral 
 score, when you zoom in close to the ground, you can hear soldiers chatter and exchange news, and 
 you can tell the news are rarely good. 
  
  Despite this, at some point you will probably win. When you do, it will be time for some multiplayer 
 action. I'm happy to report that multiplayer for World in Conflict is also excellent. You will 
 play as one of the abovementioned divisions - infantry, air, support or armor - free to switch 
 between them at any point. Each offers a different experience and is equally important to your 
 team's success. It really is an amazing system and a brilliant idea to borrow classes from FPS 
 multiplayer. Arguably, in terms of balance, it works out better in World in Conflict than in most 
 shooters. You are also free to join an ongoing match at any point, and the load times are not bad 
 at all. Multiplayer supports up to 16 players per match. Because of the point system, you will 
 have a small number of units with which to help your team win. Save enough points - and you can 
 drop a nuke like you always wanted!
  
  Sadly, when I go to Massgate to play, there are no more than a dozen populated servers to be seen. 
 It probably won't get any worse for a while, but with rumors about Massive getting closed you probably 
 shouldn't expect things to get any better either, what with Russian campaign expansion being put 
 on infinite hold.
  
  Still, at 30 bucks, there's never been a better time to buy this amazing game. It really is a one 
 of a kind gem. Play it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kipparoglou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  It goes without saying that it's a good thing World War III didn't erupt between the United States 
 and the now-defunct Soviet Union. For many of us who were children during the Cold War, the fear 
 of being annihilated in a nuclear conflict was very real. So it's a bit strange now that we can 
 look back at that era and have the luxury of imagining what could have been. Or we can play World 
 in Conflict, Sierra and Massive Entertainment's incredible new real-time strategy game. This isn't 
 your standard RTS game, as World in Conflict doesn't follow the familiar model of resource gathering, 
 base building, and swarming armies. Instead, it feels almost like an action game masquerading as 
 a strategy game, and it offers up a relentlessly fun and amazing new approach to the genre, one 
 that works in single-player and even more so in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shemrom
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  I know, another very late review by Shemrom. But who can blame me, I have been busy as of late 
 with many things in life.
  
  
  Anyways, World in conflict is by haps to be one of the best quick and easy RTS out there. And since 
 I stop playing MMOs, I spent most of my time on this game by far.
  
  This game is base on a what if scenario of, if the cold war went hot and if the Soviet Union invade 
 the European country's then the United States.
  
  Of course if you played the game it starts off when the Soviets invade Seattle. (As of late, the 
 city has been victim of movies from earth quakes, when we left Earth, and others things not at 
 top of my head.) You play as Lieutenant Parker, who commands his own small fleet of infantry, tanks, 
 choppers, and support. 
  
  From all the events in the game that leads to the terrible moments of Cascades falls. You then 
 jump to the European campaign on where it all starts and once done, you jump back to current day.
 
  
  This game is not too difficult, but can make you think hard at the later levels on what to do.
 
  
  In most RTS, you have to build resources to be able to buy units to the fight. Not with World in 
 Conflict.
  
  In every campaign, you are given a fix amount of reinforcement points. You can spend though points 
 to summon then to the LZ. Then they are air drop to the fight, you won't regain those points back 
 as long as the units is on the field. What cool about this, for most levels anyway, is that you 
 will never be totality out of the fight. After a unit been destroy or disbanded. ( Infantry comes 
 in a squad from one to six, every unit that dies in that squad is given back a small potion of 
 points of that unit as hold, which in case to can resupply the squad back to full numbers if you 
 have the points to do so.) Those points are regenerated back into you Reinforcement pool. However 
 as they slowly regenerated back in. The lower the amount left, the slower it is to regenerated. 
 Some players like to spend every last point, but has to wait quite a while till every point is 
 available
  
  As a bonus to the game, every action you do gives you tactical support. They give you support base 
 on what you selected and where too. You can drop in units, radar, send bloody Warthogs tank killers 
 in to do a run, Air strike, artillery, many thing up to a freaking Tactical nuke, which is fun 
 to used in multiplayer, although very expensen.
  
  Come to mind, Multiplayer is very fun. You have to work as a team to complete objectives. It can 
 get very hard, but fun as you blow up other players squads up, then watch as they hit you back 
 with airstrikes
  
  In the end, this game is very balance and addicting. The only problem I have is with infantry, 
 as once a while one of the units takes a different route to an destination, which can get annoying 
 when the heat is on. But I give it a ten, because even the latest GTA got an Ten, and it still 
 had flaws. But World In Conflict has fewer. So if you Like RTS, then way haven't you played this 
 game yet??????????????
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmeCata
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  In WIC, you play as a commander in the US Army. The game takes you back to 1989. Instead of the 
 Soviet Union collapsing quietly, the commies decide to launch WW3.
  
  First of all, the camera. Instead of a traditional RTS camera (locked) in which you can only zoom 
 in and out and side to side, the WIC camera controls like a FPS camera. So, you use ASDF to move 
 it around, and can pan in all directions. This really helps to show off the game's impressive graphics.
 
  
  The campaign will take you around the world, from France, the US, and even the northern lands of 
 the USSR. The story is excellent, an examination of the true duty of a soldier, the responsibilities 
 of leadership, and the human side of war. How much must we sacrifice to make the world safe? If 
 this sounds like it's been done before, trust me, it hasn't. One of the key elements that makes 
 this work is the incredible voice acting. 
  
  The gameplay is also a breath of fresh air, with no dirt farming or base building-just pick your 
 units and dive into the action.
  
  Overall, World in Conflict is an excellent RTS (in my opinion the best available) . If you're looking 
 for an excellent story and revolutionary gameplay look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uyjr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  When Whitesnake starts playing during World in Conflict's single player campaign, you'll realize 
 that it is love that you're feeling. The love of a perfectly placed artillery barrage; of a city 
 once whole turned to rubble; of maneuvering tanks through debris to attack an important strategic 
 location; of our most favorite nemesis, the USSR. The warmth in our hearts today isn't from family 
 or friends, it's from the tactical nuke that wiped out a group of enemy veteran heavy tanks, mobile 
 anti-air, and infantry that allowed our team to sweep in and claim victory in a multiplayer match 
 of World in Conflict, one of this year's finest real-time war-games. Massive has created an excellently 
 destructive entertainment experience that we think nearly any action junky will enjoy mightily.
 
  An the besd is that you can do your on map col!!!!!.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atrobasinnu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  I bought this game expecting it to be a strategy game with the like of Command & Conquer or Age 
 of Empire, whereas you have to build up cities blah blah blah until you have enough manpower to 
 defeat the enemy. At first, I was a little disappointed by this new type of game play.
  
  After the first 3 or 4 levels though I found that it was a very satisfying way to play through 
 a game like this and ultimately made it more realistic given the game various scenarios.
  
  The thing that I most like about this game is the realistic nature of the storyline. What a story! 
 It grabs you within the first couple of levels and I seriously played through 85% of the game before 
 I realized it was 4am. It plays out like a Cold War style Band of Brothers, following a select 
 few companies through their trials and triumphs throughout Europe and America.
  
  Amazing graphics. Great voice work. Fantastic Game play. I loved it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jad225
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game might not what most ppl would expect from old style of rts games ... when u get to controll 
 large army's but this game just revolutionizes that style into a modern, fun and full of action 
 rts game. This rts is just a must-buy for fans of the rts genre, but remember this game might need 
 some getting used to... so be sure to learn the base and technique of the game very well...
  
  The multiplayer in this game is also just out of this world, with up to 16 player online battles 
 of 20 mins,
  the campaign in this game was also very fun ith the 14 different missions and exciting cinematics. 
 I still had a blast playing this game, so go pick this one up and have a blast :D  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  i personally hate RTS's. games like starcraft, warcraft, or any other game where you have to uphold 
 an economy, then battle. i play a game because its fun to play, not to manage things like supplies 
 and stuff, but that is where world in conflict comes in.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay in WiC is the reason why i started playing it. Apparently, the game developer, Massive 
 Entertainment did the same structure of no base building, just a reinforcement pool in the ground 
 control series, which i may try out, maybe not (Tom Clancys endwar looks to be like WiC) . The Gameplay 
 is also very engaging and fun, though there are some times when the diffuculty is very, very frustrating, 
 and one time when a sub was supposed to explode, it never did and i had to put in the cheat to 
 skip to the next level, which sucked.
  
  story
  The story in WiC is very interesting: it is based on the idea of "what if" the Russians (and eventually 
 the Chinese) invaded the US? Alec Baldwin narrates the loading screens and he does a great job, 
 capturing the authentic feel of actually being there, and being a commander. I found myself especially 
 caring for some of the characters, espcially Captain Bannon, who at first acts like an immature 
 child but then grows to be an honorable man. I really cared what happened to him and everyone else 
 in the game, which you only really hear with RPG's mostly. {Also HL2, which is awesome:) }
  
  Graphics
  The graphics from birds eye view are amazing and capture the look and feel of an invasion 
 on our homeland. buildings are blown to pieces, craters from air strikes lie hollowed in the ground, 
 and tank/infantry units mark in the ground as they trodge through the cities, winters, and decimated 
 cities.
  
  The only bad things i have to really say about the game are the increased difficulty which mainly 
 pertains to how much time they give you to complete your mission. I am mainly talking about the 
 mission where you have to save the statue of liberty, which near the end is REAL hard even on normal, 
 but its excusable with a nice "next level cheat" which i only really used once. This game brought 
 me back to strategy games because of the great gameplay, graphics and story, which is all you really 
 want in a game, isn't it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayasdutta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are state of the art for the moment this review is written, but unfortunately if you're 
 looking for a WWII RTS like the Codename Panzer series then this is not the game for you. Actually 
 there is no strategy at all... my feeling during the play is that you're like a trained dog in 
 those dog contests. You don't have freedom of movement, you just keep running to the spots in the 
 map to reach goals using the same damn strategy, gathering as many tanks as possible and making 
 them shoot rockets to blow enemy armor. All units are visible so there isn't way to have fun ambushing 
 enemies, using infantry to make terrain recognizance or try different attack angles to get different 
 combat results. Everyone knows where everybody is, so all combat engaging turns out the same.
 
  The story kind of sucks too, besides of a entire army reaching Amerika on cargo ships I think 
 many people are tired of Hollywood style games. GI joes saving the World and always being the good 
 guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belgariontietje
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Rather than calling it a Real Time Strategy game, I pin this one as a Real Time Battle game, or 
 RTB for short. It doesn't have any of the time consuming micro-managment that so many promising 
 RTS games have suffered from in the past, and it delivers constant action in just the right amounts 
 for a perfect flow of constant controlled chaos. It really gives that feeling of desperate battles 
 hard won, and unlike many games in the genre of RTS, you really do feel like you accomplished something 
 at the end of each mission. 
  
  While it doesn't have the crutch of having to build factories and armories and resrouce gathering, 
 it does have resources for you to use, that allow you to decide what kind and how many re-inforcments 
 you will bring in, as well as what kind of troops you want to use. It does allow for heavy strategy 
 fulfillment, and the AI seems to be just smart enough to give you a challenge without making it 
 impossible to win without cheat codes. 
  
  The graphics are so beautiful it's like a masterpiece come to life on your screen. The good news 
 here is that they are also scalable so any computer can play it, from high end to piece of junk 
 that barely runs windows XP. And in all the graphics mode, it just looks fantastic. 
  
  When I read Ender's Game, by Orson Scott Card, so many years ago, and it talked about Ender playing 
 battle simulation games, this is the game I dreamt they were talking about. (For those of you who 
 are also readers) 
  
  The control scheme for the game is pretty standard for most RTS type games, but uses the WASD keys 
 in a way I havent seen before in this genre. It makes a nice bridge for those FPS players who might 
 want to try something new, so your hands are still in those familiar positions and even moving 
 around is fluid and easy. I would have liked to be able to zoom out a bit more to get a higher 
 bird's eye view of the action, but that's a very minor complaint. Considering how gorgeous the 
 game is when you zoom in up close to sit your camera next to one of your tanks on the ground and 
 watch it KA BOOM! fire on the enemy, I think we can grant the developers some leeway on the Bird's 
 Eye view issue. 
  
  The game is immersive and even has a cohesive story line that keeps you feeling like there's a 
 point to what you're doing beyond just wasting a few hours blowing up computer generated enemy 
 units. It's no Ender's Game, for sure, but it has enough characterization and well done voice acting 
 to keep you interested so you don't simply bypass every cut scene. 
  
  The cut scenes themselves are ingame, using the game's graphic engine to keep a constantly cohesive 
 feel to the game so you don't feel jolted out of one world to briefly glimpse another. 
  
  Overall, I would say this game is going to be the benchmark for other RTS games to match up to 
 in the near future. It's got everything you want in an RTS with none of the annoyances.
  
  Considering it's retail price this game is well worth it and I would reccomend it to any gamer, 
 no matter what kinds of games you have played in the future. It offers something for everyone, 
 from casual dabbler to hardcore chiphead. 
  
  It features both single and multiplayer and both of them are exactly what you'd want in each. The 
 singleplayer lets you feel like the computer is your window into this world of battle and the multiplayer 
 has a very robust support system from the game's developers so there's everything you want in either 
 a SP or MP experience. 
  
  So, my final word on this one is: Buy it, play it, and eagerly watch for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doombringer175
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  It was very addicting from the start. I could not put it down. It had great graphics, great control 
 and perfect story. Multiplayer was slightly upsecting at first. You are a major handycap for your 
 team. As you go you get better and are more valuable. Love the voice ablility. If you have a microphone 
 you can talk to your team. Weird things happened on my game though. the voices and movies are often 
 slightly off and my cursor sometimes is not on the mark. It makes you really have to think in order 
 to win a mission. Limited supplies and the delay make it even harder. also you can not just have 
 a ton of tough guys and beat them, you have limited amount of men. Tactical support was briliantly 
 created. NUKES were to lightly used in story and too easy to get in multiplayer. Unrealistic nukular 
 bomb to. It only destroys the enemy. Smart, brilant, and over all a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  now dont get me wrong a 6.5 is not bad at all, i hardly ever give a review over 7.5 because the 
 games have to be freaking great to get over 7.5.. ok that being said the game was fun.. very fun, 
 love the graphics/physics but there were a few things i didnt like about it, like the complete 
 absence of base building.. but i still enjoyed the unit focus, the games engine is pretty good, 
 but has the occasional hiccup. the lack of a soviet campaign is one of the things that i did not 
 like about it. i was really hoping to play as them, and invade America. if they optimized the engine 
 a little more and added a soviet campaign then this game would of got a 7.5 from me. but i did 
 especially love the all the different kinds of support you could call in from napalm, bunker busters, 
 a-10 strafing runs, nukes, FAE/MOAB (fuel air explosive, also known as the mother of all bombs) 
 ( (conventional speaking of course) ) but i felt that the hind helicopters were really underpowered, 
 which isnt right but hey oh well.. good game though and would recommend for 20 dollars or less 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adrek911
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Good RTS game, very demanding, in-game secondary missions are extremely difficult most of the time, great 
 story, nice visuals, but you get out what you put in for the depth of play. One of the issues I 
 could state is computer requirements, if you have an average laptop or desktop you can forget about 
 having the big graphics that on the other hand, as much as you downgrade the quality of the game, 
 you may obtain regular good playing time. I've been immersed in the game ever since, on single player 
 campaign and in online playing I just can say its amazing. The single player campaign is incredibly 
 well done too, placing you in the point of command of the faceless Captain Parker, a distant relative 
 of Gordon Freeman, judging from his mutism that is somehow ignored, and general camera avoidant 
 nature. The plot involves the Soviets invading the Pacific Northwest, taking Seattle, Tacoma, the 
 Puget Sound and a good chunk of Washington in the process. You end up having to fight them back, 
 with a few flashbacks to the war in Europe involved. The character development is top notch, with 
 meaningful and sympathetic characters, although there is a bit of blatant 'USA is the good guys, 
 Soviets are faceless, evil, bad, horrible communist reds who pirate music and eat their babies.' 
 mentality. Even so, the focus is on the soldiers, and despite it being a bit overpatriotic, the 
 story and characters are all well written.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Killer_66
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is easily one of the best games to ever come out on the PC. The story and voices 
 are extremely well done (even if vague) and the historical atmosphere is set very well. The campaign 
 makes it one heck of a game, but the multiplayer system is very unique and made it the most fun 
 gaming experience since Halo's online formula. It is simple, as you control 3-6 units on a huge 
 battlefield, and must work and communicate as a team to win in any of the many great game modes. 
 The graphics were really ahead of their time at release, but the game will also run smoothly on 
 much lesser GPUs - 128 mb integrated generation 5 and 6 geforce can easily pull 20 fps - and more 
 advanced rigs can really make the game beautiful. The actual game formula is genius, as each situation 
 you find yourself in will be unique. It is not a RTS like starcraft, where you can memorize builds 
 and just click really fast and win, this game actual requires critical analytical skills, and is 
 like a real war in every aspect. The classes are all very balanced, even though you may find your 
 affinity to only 1 or two classes. It is a shame that this game was not really marketed, but if 
 you download the demo and like the gamestyle and plan on playing the multiplayer, this game is 
 definitely worth it, and i usually dont recommend this, but the special edition is a great buy 
 as well. It is too bad that the expansion and the console version of the game are probably cancelled 
 (10 player online wouldnt have even been good on the consoles anyways) and activision dropping 
 a masterpiece and its studio like this just shows their stupidity and activisions desperate bid 
 to jump on and farm the blizzard WoW cow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_M_Tz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  World In Conflict is an all-out R-T-S (Real-Time-Strategy) that takes place in 1989 with a different 
 history. The mighty red Army of the Soviet Union remains strong; after WWII, the Berlin wall was 
 never taken down. 
  
  The story of the game then follows on (*SPOILER ALERT*) : USSR invades Europe (Read: Implausibly) , 
 NATO tries to defend Europe but are obviously on the losing side. It changes when USA forces jump 
 in and aids Europe, pushing the Soviet Union back slowly and forcing them to fight harder. Soon 
 after, the the almighty power of US and NATO forces put together, crush the Soviet Union defences 
 and break through to their borders; this is when your battalion (or you) is re-dispatched to the 
 East of America in New York, after you encounter enemy intelligence in one of your previous missions 
 and find out that they plan to invade that city of course. Your stay in New York is short-lived 
 due to the fact that 3/4 of the US Forces are lining up defensive positions all along the east 
 coast of America, and again the USSR is defeated with ease. This is when you are given a one-week 
 leave to your hometown in Seattle due to your successful commanding efforts in Europe and East 
 America. Coincidentally, however, the Soviet Union mounts a surprise attack on the East Coast and 
 you are forced to fall back along with the civilians, and meet up with your battalion halfway into 
 central America. After a few battles you eventually (i'm not going into detail here) push them 
 back and win. In other words, you win 3 battles and save the world from WWIII. 
  
  Now let's get to the real part of reviewing and see to the "bits and bobs" in the game. We've just 
 reviewed the story, now let's review the campaign. In World In Conflict singleplayer, there is 
 only one campaign; and you play as the Americans in it. One campaign you say?? "WHAT'S GOING ON?? 
 Isn't it supposed to have one good faction, and one bad faction like the Command & Conquer series 
 have??". Well, yes, but the missions are entirely fulfilling with textures that are so incredibly 
 realistic, and the units so carefully detailed, that they are so flashy in this age of RTS graphics, 
 that you can't help but just zoom in during every one of your battles. The unit's movement and 
 firing accuracy are incredibly real; unlike in other RTS games, tanks, infantry, helicopters and 
 all sorts can miss their targets depending on their rank and distance. Another element that makes 
 W. I. C distinctive from the rest of the R-T-S genre is that its camera control is controlled from 
 the mouse and WASD keys, which actually feels very comfortable using; they introduce a support 
 tab, similar to that of Command & Conquer 3: Tiberium Wars, but this time you earn points from 
 achieving certain goals during a match instead of paying for it using credits - Which brings to 
 another point. W. I. C doesn't use money to purchase units, it uses "reinforcement points" where 
 there is a limit on spending them, units that are destroyed will return their "points" and it will 
 be stored to call upon other units or the same at your will.
  
  Multiplayer/online is where W. I. C's strong point is; although the single player campaign may be 
 slightly short for some, the multiplayer will keep you on your toes for hours on. Not just because 
 it is fun, but the experience you encounter during gameplay is absolutely overwhelming as you hear 
 players talk through their headset, commanding their teamates where to go. You can also talk back 
 to them and co-ordinate attacks like never before in an R-T-S game which adds more to the experience. 
 The servers have a really excellent signal, they have servers based in nearly every major city 
 of the world so expect many servers to have pings of 30-50 (that's a good range) . Whats more is 
 that there is a ranking and Global Leaderboard Position system; which is mostly what keeps you 
 playing. Your rank increases by the total score you have accumulated since you started the game. 
 But your Global Leadership Position (and you can also gain ranks faster if you have a higher Global 
 Leadership Position number) only counts the amount of score you have obtained within the past 21 
 days. It may seem easy, but it is in fact harder than it looks, harder in a way that it takes an 
 awfully long to get there. As the game is for 12+ there are many grown-ups who enjoy playing this 
 game; the point is, school children who are completing courses and schoolwork may have trouble 
 trying to do both at once, this is because to get the top rank (on average) you have to play 800 
 matches, also counting that you have at least spent more than 15minutes on it and have collected 
 more than 800 points on there, which is a lot of work to do.
  
  W. I. C. also contains a variety of different FMVs sequences, one being in-game and the other created 
 by the latest computer technology, which obviously, creates movies that looks very realistic; like 
 the FMVs in the Final Fantasy series. The story is told through a narrative perspective during 
 the beginning, and during some of the missions. However, you can skip them depending on the power 
 of your computer; the music behind the game are mostly made up of string and percussion instruments 
 which adds a sense of warfare in the atmosphere almost as if you're getting ready for war, it tends 
 to be embedded in the game quite nicely. 
  
  As mentioned before, W. I. C's graphics is radical and it's engine is superb for many reasons such 
 as that it can run easy on your computer. If you meet the minimum specification needed (stated 
 at the end of this review) , you can run the game smoothly in-game (the FMV may lagg slightly) without 
 experiencing any slow frame rate. The downside is that you will notice the bad visuals such as 
 the 2D trees and the surprising lack of detail on a vehicle, unit or structure. But at least you 
 can still play it. Furthermore, there are 5 levels of graphic selection, they are: Very Low, Low, 
 Medium, High and Very High. Minimum specs (specification) PC can only run the "Very Low" setting, 
 whilst PCs that meet the recommended spec can run up to "Medium" before experiencing lagg on "High" 
 setting. 
  
  In addition, the graphic options in W. I. C. allows you to enable "Dual-Monitor" selection, which 
 uses one for the normal battlefield, and the other for a birds-eye top-down view of the battlefield. 
 A "Dual Graphics Card" is also available for the PC's that has the muscle to pack the stress on 
 it's system and keep it cool. Last but not least of the extra graphic settings is the "Colour Blind" 
 option (not really worth mentioning but it also has a "Windowed mode" option) that changes some 
 colours, for example green MARKERS (this does not apply to green grass) changes to a yellow-green 
 kind of colour. The voicing is average, not too good, not too bad, with the use of a vareity of 
 European speaking actors to voice the NATO units, and a few homeland languages such as German and 
 French added in, the same also goes for the USSR. 
  
  The game also has a minor improvement when used with DX10, (free with Windows Vista, although some 
 mods have the knowledge to use it for XP) which adds minor graphical improvements such as moving 
 clouds, improved water textures, and added pixel shading. The AI in the game is fairly smart, however, 
 they seem to be far too easy for the experienced even on the hardest difficulty setting which can 
 be seen as a dissappointment. They do, however, have the knowledge to often move to minimise their 
 casualties from any air support that you have called in (a regular tactic, you will realise when 
 you purchase the game) , they also know how to flank and use necessary techniques to counter your 
 movement, but are limited by the amount of units they have depending on the difficulty.
  
  To simply put: World In Conflict is the gateway to newcomers and experienced R-T-S players alike 
 who wants to enjoy the experience the depth of R-T-S in a way like never before. An improvement 
 Sierra should have made is that there is only one campaign, there is room of two, which is also 
 being worked on as an expansion due to be released late in 2008. World In Conflict is also another 
 game that falls under the "The way it's meant to be played NVIDIA" brand, so this is why there 
 is an option called "Special Effects" on the graphics setting that can only be activated by using 
 an Nvidia GeForce card.. preferbably the 8800 or later. Overall W. I. C is a brilliant game with 
 fantastic visuals and its multiplayer will set to run for years to come.
  
  World In Conflict also comes with a 10-day-free multiplayer DVD that you can hand out to one of 
 your special comrades.
  
  
  Michael Tran,
  
  
  The Minimum System Requirements are:
  CPU: Intel/AMD 2.0Ghz (2.2Ghz for Vista)
  Memory: 512MB 
 RAM (1GB for Vista)
  Video: 128MB
  They must all meet to run the game smoothly on the lowest detail.
  
  The Recommended System 
 Requirements are: 
  CPU: 2.5GHz +
  Memory: 1GB (1.5GB for Vista) +
  Video: 256MB +
  
  **ATTENTION**
  World In Conflict does NOT support Radon 8500, and 9200 series graphic cards.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackerspy
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  By the time I had played this games for 30 min (the tutorial, the first mission and half the second 
 mission) , I realized that I wasted 30 min for such a boring and overrated game. As i'm telling 
 the truth, I can hardly find anything in this game that worth saying, straight-forward story-strategy. 
 You are a captain that does not have a ability to do whatever you want, just follow what the higher-ranked 
 captain to tell you what to do. I wonder that am I playing the same game as you all play.
  9.5 !!!! Am I missing something ?? In comparison to Call of Duty 4 - The best of best of best game 
 I have ever played, just 9.0 : (
  In the mean time, should you ever buy this game, consider seriously about the game style, don't 
 follow my path. This game makes me great frustration and disappointment. Come back to COD4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoulezz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  So I was hungry for a good regular RTS and checked Gamespot. 9.5 for a game sounded pretty good 
 to me so I decided to check this one out.
  
  Single player was awesome for an RTS and the story was interesting for even longer sessions. I 
 can believe some of the scenes are even better for those who live in the USA like the Seattle scene. 
 Nice experience.
  
  Multiplayer is innovative and engaging. Far from the normal 1v1 2v2 3v3 stuff, even tho it has 
 that too. Really like backing my friends tanks up when he's controlling them.
  
  To sum it up.
  
  Single player & Gameplay:
  + Great voice acting
  + Nice story (even though 
 it's so anti Russian)
  + Nice graphics
  
  - Not many "strategic" options
  - The units should have an "use automaticly" button on the specials, like in WC3
  - requires 
 a pretty great computer for full experience
  
  Multiplayer:
  + Awesome new approach to the RTS multiplayer
  + Nice clan options
  + Alot of potential
  
 
  - Not many servers around
  - Too simple gameplay for hardcore gamers.
  - Some issues connecting and creating accounts
  
  
  Overall a game worthy of purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l0l3rc0aster
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  great game with good competitive multiplayer, but the lack of diversity between factions takes 
 away a bit of replay value. and i know this was just to balance but all three of the factions play 
 identically, which in my opinion takes away a little bit of depth. the campaign was great, voice 
 acting was great and the unit chatter was all well done. the graphics are incredible especially 
 with direct x 10. i really like the camera in this. the multiplayer supports up to 16 players, 
 and you jump straight into the action, there is no resource gathering. instead you are allotted 
 a certain amount of reinforcement points that are automatically refunded when the unit dies. this 
 keeps the pace of the game fast, and you wont have to wait very long to get back in the action. 
 all in all this is a great game for any one who likes rts's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergioDokic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are state of the art for the moment this review is written, but unfortunately if you're 
 looking for a WWII RTS like the Codename Panzer series then this is not the game for you. Actually 
 there is no strategy at all... my feeling during the play is that you're like a trained dog in 
 those dog contests. You don't have freedom of movement, you just keep running to the spots in the 
 map to reach goals using the same damn strategy, gathering as many tanks as possible and making 
 them shoot rockets to blow enemy armor. All units are visible so there isn't way to have fun ambushing 
 enemies, using infantry to make terrain recognizance or try different attack angles to get different 
 combat results. Everyone knows where everybody is, so all combat engaging turns out the same.
 
  The story kind of sucks too, besides of a entire army reaching Amerika on cargo ships I think 
 many people are tired of Hollywood style games. GI joes saving the World and always being the good 
 guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorwang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  This is amazing. Really amzing. I almost spent two days on this game. The story line is more than 
 wonderful, while the control mode isn't very awesome. Whoo-hoo! The story is based on the cold 
 war. But it is faked. It started in 1987. About another soviet invasion, just like Red Alert 2. 
 But this one can be better than Command and Conquer : Red Alert 3. Because of nothing but its performance. 
 It's good. ( Bad as s !) People will always like this game. Just as they like Command and Conquer.
 
  While everything is just fine, there's a ltle problem: The controls! It's poor! Why do you have 
 to use w a s d in a Real time strtegy game? Why do we use that? It must be those bad designers' 
 fault. They don't know how to make RTS games. ( or they have never played that)
  anyway, this is a very good game, which must be the best in cold war games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hermez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  As a Microsoft Age of empires loyal costumer I always followed their development, but at some point 
 you can just get tired of the same historic adventures and missions.
  
  As a personal note I'm not saying MS has something wrong but I always wanted to have what a FPS 
 shooter gamer had when playing MSG4 but in an army-wise level, this I got when I bought WiC.
  
  I've been immersed in the game ever since, on single player campaign and in online playing 
 I just can say its amazing.
  
  One of the issues I could state is computer requirements, if you have an average laptop or desktop 
 you can forget about having the big graphics that on the other hand, as much as you downgrade the 
 quality of the game, you may obtain regular good playing time.
  
  I definitely can recommend this game, rate it on a solid 9.5 and deliver this review for all of 
 you to consider tactics are the best to have. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arctrooper27
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  The Pros, are that the story is very cool and interesting. It is beautifully animated. I like how 
 the troops chat with each other.
  The Cons, there is absolutely no point in being the infantry as they don't give them any power. 
 In Company of Heroes, it revolves around infantry, i feel that WiC hasn't beet that because the 
 infantry is complete balls. The can't take cover, they just stand up, unless you send them in a 
 building, tanks just role right over them and they're dead. 
  Like if there is a wall, the troops run through it, when they could take cover behind it. They 
 should be able to make sandbags, plant mines, and make tank traps.
  Obviously the two biggest strategy games are CoH, and WiC. And i don't see how WiC got a 9.5 and 
 company got a 9.0.
  
  If you want a good infantry balanced combat game, and your not satisified with WiC, then buy Company.
 
  
  They really should look into adapting some Company traits, and maybe then it will deserve a 9.5 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4koN3m3sis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 10/10: World in Conflict has incredibly good Graphics in particular! The Graphics on 
 this game is some the best I've seen and I'm sure will amaze you aswell! Every last detail on the 
 TA such as Nukes and Daisy Cutter Bombs will easily leave you begging to earn for points to use 
 them over and over again!
  
  Lag - ?/10: The lag really depends on how good your Internet connection and computer is. You probably 
 will start to lag a bit if a Nuke hits you and you hafven't got the best of computers but it would 
 all be over soon!
  
  Audio  9/10: Wooh! The Audio is amazing on this game! the sounds of bombs falling onto your enemies 
 and the sound of missiles being launched from Air units are simply top-notch!
  
  Gameplay  9.5/10: The gameplay to this spectacular game is brilliant! You must think hard but 
 yet quickly to really help you team out by countering your enemies plans and the TA points give 
 you some amazing weapons such as Nukes, Daisy Cutter Bombs and Tank Busters! The battling side 
 of this game is very easy once you get around 10 minutes of practice!
  
  Community  ?/10: The Community is pretty good and depends of your teammates and if they have VIOP 
 or not so this is pretty much unknown...
  
  Pricing - 10/10: The price I got this game for was 5 at PC World and there was only one left so 
 I grabbed it off the shelf IMMEDIATELY! When I got home, I played this game for 5 hours straight! 
 It was amazing! I'm not sure if they'll make World in Conflict 2 but I seriously doubt it!
  
  OVERALL  9.5/10: World in Conflict is definately worth playing even if you have had trouble 
 with other RTS games in the market before and I believe 95% that you will enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodcow666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Soviet tanks rush through the empty plains before being blow apart by incoming missile. Heavy attack 
 helicopter shred a group of infantry before being blown out of the sky by anti-air guns. And a 
 company of Soviet Spetsnaz are blown sky high by a tactical nuke. Such is the intensity of World 
 in Conflict.
  
  Taking place in 1989, WIC follows an alternate timeline where the cold war didn't end; and instead 
 Russia launches an all out assault of America. The story takes place from both the UN and US points 
 of view and takes place in locations in America, Europe and Russia. The story is quite interesting 
 and one which you will want to follow until the end. This is aided by surprisingly developed characters 
 and some great voice acting.
  
  The story is told through both painted still much like Company of Heroes and in-game cut scenes, 
 and god do they look fantastic. As long you have a good rig you'll be able to appreciate the highly 
 detailed graphics, excellent particle effects and some the most impressive special effects in recent 
 memory. Units are also highly detailed and realistically get blown to bits. The lip-syncing and 
 animation is top notch. And all of these things seem to come together to create one of the best 
 looking games available of the PC.
  
  Aiding in the immersion is excellent audio. Tactical briefing between missions is voiced by none 
 other than Alec Baldwin, who provides a terrific commentary. The other voice acting is well done, 
 though is outclassed by Baldwin's performance. Sound effects are also great, as rockets with the 
 satisfying sound of an explosion and building collapse in an intense sound of splintering support 
 beams and shattering glass.
  
  As we know, these wouldn't matter without satisfying game play and that's were WIC excels. The 
 biggest difference between it and other RTS's is its recourse system. Recourse gather has been 
 eliminated entirely, as you are given a set number of "command points" which you spend on units. 
 Each unit has a set cost and once it destroyed your points will be slowly returned to you. This 
 eliminates some of the frustration in other RTS like Warcraft where the loss of units can have 
 a drastic effect on your economy. Instead it allows you to experiment with different unit combinations 
 as the most losses will set you back is having to wait 30 seconds before your points are returned 
 to you. This also makes for more aggressive game play as taking casualties doesn't set you back 
 so much.
  
  The other drastic game play change is its approach to combat. The game play relies heavily on teamwork, 
 as you can only use certain types of units during each mission. It's amazing how well the single 
 player campaign teaches you the notion of teamwork. You work as along a small amount of units on 
 the battlefield, as you're accompanied by group of AI teammates. It's not uncommon for your commander 
 to tell you to take an objective, and after you take it to have an AI teammate defend it while 
 you push deeper into the enemy lines. Though while you only control a small group of units and 
 are usually only focused on a small section of the battle, the game is presented in such a way 
 that it makes you feel like you're part of something larger.
  
  This change also makes for one of the best multiplayer experiences since Warcraft 3. As you're 
 only allowed to specialize in one type of command (infantry, armour, air & support) you really 
 have to work with your team, as if you have a bunch of tanks but no anti-air you're pretty much 
 screwed. It's surprising how well the single-player teaches you the teamwork required for multiplayer. 
 
  
  The other aspect that changes the game is tactical aid. Tactical aid allows you to call in all 
 sorts of support from napalm to artillery strike to a tactical nuke. This allows you to destroy 
 units and buildings, burn forest that infantry can use for cover and can take out that pesky artillery 
 that's shelling your front line.
  
  It's not often for a RTS to completely change the way you think about a genre, but WIC has so many 
 new ideas and innovations that it's hard not to love it. Gamers will love the well crafted story 
 and single player campaign. Though it all is second to the amazing multiplayer, which strategy 
 junkies will no doubt love do to the unique way it present teamwork. To say the least WIC is one 
 of the best strategy games ever made, if not THE best ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  I first played World in Conflict in its pre-release form at PAX with my friends. I have to admit, 
 it was one of the most dynamic and really fun gaming experiences I've had with an RTS game, ever. 
 The gameplay mechanic focuses on teamwork, strategy, and is amazingly well balanced, both sides 
 being identical in units and the like. Each player can choose a certain aspect to focus on- Support, 
 which involved artillery and the like, Air, which is your helicopters, Armor, which is your tanks 
 and whatnot, and Infantry, which is what I played. While doing so, I ended up really depending 
 on my friends to keep me safe, while I supported them when they need it. The teamwork here was 
 unlike anything in a RTS game, and I found myself actually participating, whereas the multiplayer 
 on many other RTS games had me playing on my own or cleaning up after a more skilled player. Here 
 that is not the case, as doing so would get you killed by someone with better organization. 
  
  The single player campaign is incredibly well done too, placing you in the point of command 
 of the faceless Captain Parker, a distant relative of Gordon Freeman, judging from his mutism that 
 is somehow ignored, and general camera avoidant nature. The plot involves the Soviets invading 
 the Pacific Northwest, taking Seattle, Tacoma, the Puget Sound and a good chunk of Washington in 
 the process. You end up having to fight them back, with a few flashbacks to the war in Europe involved. 
 The character development is top notch, with meaningful and sympathetic characters, although there 
 is a bit of blatant 'USA is the good guys, Soviets are faceless, evil, bad, horrible communist 
 reds who pirate music and eat their babies.' mentality. Even so, the focus is on the soldiers, 
 and despite it being a bit overpatriotic, the story and characters are all well written. 
  
  Gameplaywise, it blew my mind. I have never been in war. I have no plans to go, nor do I think 
 a game can give me an idea of what it's like. But this game makes me really appreciate the value 
 of units, and trying to utilize and save every unit you can. Unlike Starcraft where you can make 
 a bajillion Zerg or Red Alert, where you can send over an entire damn fleet of Kirovs, this makes 
 you learn how to conserve units as well as you can. The gameplay on the singleplayer mode is varied, 
 having various levels with different focuses, ranging from aerial only missions to missions that 
 allow you only paratroopers and tanks, and a slew of other odd things. Frankly, I feel that while 
 that makes it interesting, I also feel that in some ways it detracts from the players ability to 
 create a truly creative and versatile force. (I would so make an entire platoon of repair tanks, 
 and a sniper.) Even so, the limits fit into the plot more or less, and the game isn't too controlling. 
 
  
  Visually, it's incredible. The graphics are some of the best I've seen out of a RTS game, ever. 
 The views of decimated battlefields, peppered with craters from artillery hits and tank corpses 
 is haunting and beautiful at the same time, and the level of detail is supurb, to the point where 
 you can scale down to the level of the troops and notice the scuff on their shoes or the nice detail 
 on the rifles, although the action is so quick that you rarely get the chances to appreciate the 
 levels of detail. The physics seem pretty solid, save for the incident where a encampment somehow 
 got stuck in a wall and was invulnerable to tank attacks, and occasionally seeing streetlamps or 
 tank heads bouncing around long after they've been destroyed. 
  
  One of the remarkable aspects of the game was the camera. It allowed you to go anywhere within 
 the map limits, down to the level of the troops, or hovering above the action. A minor complaint 
 is that it wouldn't go higher, but even so, I rarely had any issue ever seeing the level of action 
 I wanted to see. What is even cooler is the dialog soldiers have while idle, which is peppered 
 with hilarious little snippets, although on single player, such idle moments were few and far between. 
 
  
  The voice acting is very well done, and the music is supurb, although very little of it is memorable. 
 
  
  Overall, this game is a beautiful war game. It is incredibly well done, with gameplay that is fast, 
 entertaining, and immersive, with a level of detail that is truly astonishing. I generally don't 
 like RTS games, being a fan of survival horror and shooters myself, but I have to admit that this 
 is one of the best RTS games I have ever played, and I have a feeling I'll be revisiting it soon. 
 If you haven't played it, it's really worth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict is wrongly classified as an RTS when it is an RTT (real time tactics) just like 
 it's grand-father the Ground Control series. After that bit of informing done let's get on to the 
 review.
  
  +es: Great storyline that really gives motivation to your actions, fantastic and diverse multiplayer 
 classes, intense action, single-player campaign has a real personal feeling of sorts, medals and ranks 
 that give a reason to play this game a lot, fantastic graphics, if you go on ground level near your 
 troops you can hear them talk and that is a very cool detail, no base-building, dropping a nuke feels 
 100% awesome and it looks fantastic.
  
  -es:10 hour campaign, the cut scenes in missions have somewhat bad textures
  
  Graphics. What 
 more is there to say about them? The game has great vehicle textures and the buildings and infantry 
 look great as well. Dropping a few nukes then seeing the sky get darker really looks good. The nuke 
 effect is fantastic. All of the TA effects look really epic.
  
  Gameplay. The game has a simple resource mechanic. You have a limited number of reinforcement points. When 
 you call in troops you spend the amount of resource points the troop requires and if the unit is 
 killed the resource cost will slowly come back to you.
  
  The game also has some special powers called Tactical Aid or TA which allow you call in air strikes, artillery 
 barrages including a tactical nuke. To call those powers in you need TA points which you get for 
 mostly every action you do (hitting an enemy, capturing a perimeter, fortifying, repairing etc etc) . These 
 powers can definitely turn the tide of a battle if used right.
  
  The game has 3 factions USSR NATO and US. They are virtually the same only with different skins 
 on them. There are a couple of exceptions but that mostly the difference (the skins) .
  
  World in Conflict has 3 game modes. One is called Domination and it's the most played mode right 
 now. It consists of several points (perimeter points) spread across the map that you need to capture 
 to dominate your opponent. If you can hold all of the perimeter points that you initiate Total Domination 
 in which you dominate your opponent much faster.
  
  The second mode is called Assault. It consists of one team defending and one team attacking perimeter 
 points. The defending team must hold the attackers back and not let them capture the current perimeter 
 point. The attackers must capture the perimeter point and if they succeed then they move on to the 
 next point they must capture and the defenders to defend.
  
  The third (and final) mode is Tug of War in which at the start there is a frontline for which the 
 teams battle to take control. The team that manages to get that frontline moves on to the next one 
 to capture that as well whilst the other team tries to take back the frontlines again.
  
  These are the game modes of world in conflict and they are great fun.
  
  In the campaign you 
 play as Lieutenant Parker and you must hold back the soviet invasion. There are about 14 missions 
 with varied objectives and each commander you play with (AI) have a different story which you will 
 hear between missions. It's really great and the campaign has a personal feeling of revenge.
  
  Sounds. The sounds are really good. I mean the shell of a heavy tank as it hits a light tank 
 destroying it in the process really sounds powerful and the fact that if you zoom in next to your 
 units you can hear their comments or battle tactics is a really great detail I have never seen. The 
 music is up to the task of total war as well but sometimes the music cuts out so that's sad but 
 not much of a biggie as it starts right up again.
  
  Replay value. The SP campaign has mostly no replay value but you can play it at difficulty ratings 
 to see how tough it gets. The multiplayer has long lasting value because of the medals and badges 
 you ca get and also the ranks. It really feels good to progress through the ranks from a private 
 to a general.
  
  Closing comments. World In Conflict is a fantastic RTT which really shines in Single-play and ,most 
 importantly, in multiplayer. It could also be just a multiplayer game if Massive wanted it and it 
 would do just as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sangani
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I played this later then i sud have, havent enjoyed a RTS since maybe company of heros. Not ur 
 typical C&C build and crush instead u play and reinfoce depending on points u gain as u move forward 
 and complete objectives. The graphics are top notch and can zoom in all the way. The voice acting 
 is done brilliantly and u even come to care abot the not so imp characters wit nice litle tocuhes 
 (although some just plain weird the choir scene, ull get it when u play it) . Finally u have an 
 entire arssenal at ur disposal and each have their use even infantry. If u wanted to lead an armay 
 this is ur chance from troops to tanks to artillery to helicopters, all with there uses u wont 
 play a game having em and not using em. And its a perfect rock paper scizor balabce, and fianlly 
 if u think its grt now belive it or not the multi player is even better its hard to word the enoyment 
 if u havent played it then i wholey suggest this as the next game u play, u wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Wic or World in Conflict is a great break from the traditional RTS build base, gather resources, 
 massive attack, start over. While im personally a big fan of that game style WIC does offer a refreshing 
 quick and chaotic battle. The basic story is that near the end of the cold war Russia launches 
 one last attack against Europe in hopes of securing much needed resources, this however is only 
 a front as the real target is the United States. The story is actually pretty good, with good voice 
 acting and believable *if a little stereotypical* characters. The Audio effects are about what 
 you would expect from an RTS. The graphics have the potential to be really good. If you have a 
 upper midrange gaming machine this game should run smooth even at higher settings. with the DX10 
 settings some of the levels will be breath taking as well as some highly detailed units running 
 all over the map. Gameplay is really simple. Order the units you see fit to accomplish your objective 
 and if you lose them order more. Its plain and simple and works surprisingly well for this game, 
 however if you are a big fan of the traditional base building RTS this style gameplay will get 
 old sooner than you would probably like. Also the rock paper scissors system works a little two 
 good some times, tanks are good against tanks, and emplacements as well as able to take a beating. 
 The Choppers are very mobile, thus good for scouting and the gunship is very powerful against most 
 armor. however AA will tear it to bits. Infantry unfortunately are some what underwhelming as they 
 are the easiest to kill and really lack any hitting power. As a result you wont really get the 
 war machine destroying waves of enemy positions like other games. In the end this game is really 
 fun, but it is not prefect and the magic wore off fast for me... if your up for some quick chaotic 
 action this would be fun for you. If your more of the traditional RTS player you should still consider 
 this as its a different but fun alternative 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelanismoria
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  After reading many reviews of WiC, I think its worthwhile to look at the biggest detractors comments.
 
  
  "Too Simplistic" or a "Noob" RTS... well that all depends on how you play it, and who you play 
 it with.... sure its possible to simply drop endless units in with no regard to type and smash 
 on through, but its also possible to have a finely balanced group of units, complementing each 
 other, using special abilities.... and this comes into effect even more in the multiplayer, where 
 WiC really shines, and when playing with experience players can hardly be called a "Noob" (god 
 I hate that term) RTS. It requires quick thinking and excellent coordination.
  
  "Takes too long to do anything/too long to get units/etc." My response to that is, WHAT THE HELL? 
 You rarely have to wait, at most maybe a minute, before you are off in the action. If you cant 
 wait that long, what are you doing playing any RTS's?
  
  "Lacks Basic RTS Elements" or "Not an RTS"
  So what? I for one like the idea of not having to 
 build a base and being able to focus purely on the maneuver and combat of my units. Not to say 
 I don't enjoy more classically designed RTS's ala WC3, CoH, and C&C. Though that is something to 
 keep in mind, if you are looking for the standard Build-Base and Conquer format, this is not for 
 you. That said, to say its not an RTS is kinda silly, it is a real time game, though it could be 
 argued that its more tactics than strategy, but thats the case of most RTS's.
  
  "Theres no strategy"
  Like I said before, its all in how you play the game, the same issue can 
 be said of any RTS where its possible to pile up units and mash through.
  
  Okay, so what do I like?
  Good single player campaign, not stunning, but the story keeps in interesting 
 and it teaches you the basics of play quite well.
  
  Excellent multiplayer, if you get with a good group of people, its a blast, and you have to coordinate 
 well with your team mates, spend tactical aid points wisely for air strikes and artillery, maneuver 
 carefully, and generally be thoughtful and quick.
  
  Whats not so hot.
  
  Being restricted to one class can be a pain in the ass in multiplayer, especially if you are playing 
 with rude or noncooperative players.
  
  Limited unit types, I want more! I love the cold war era conflict setting.
  
  The online community 
 can be elitist or rude, like any game.
  
  that said, i still find it to be an excellent game, fun, engrossing, visually appealing, with as 
 much (or as little) depth as you want it to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanis
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 26, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This "Yet Another Mindless Boring Gorgeous" game comes to add nothing to the scene, and again the 
 gamespot crew seems to be extremely impressed by it.
  
  Once again i am scared, who can we trust? What goes on the minds of people these days? What a girl 
 wants?
  
  Is there anyone that can answer those questions? I surely can't.
  
  What in the world gamespot reviewer saw in this utterly straight forward, mindless, stupid and 
 boring game! How in hell they come up with that score?
  
  What sane person that have played any RTS like the grandpa starcraft, C&C, warcraft, DoW, even 
 AoEcan possibly think that this game is good!?
  
  What the heck is going on here!? What can possibly motivated gamespot to such good score on such 
 trivial simple game?
  
  And of course lets not forget about the endless chorus that follow saying "Amen!" to this nonsense, 
 suddenly i feel like in bizarro world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seraphym_k
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 26, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  That's actually sums it up for single player mode. Good graphics, but plot will bore you to tears, 
 missions are as linear and straightforward as possible, you won't have to think, oh, and throw 
 in disgusting camera...
  
  Another thing that often pisses me off in games, like this one or Jericho for example, is when 
 you've got a party/companions/team and they don't do anything at all. Instead of making the battle 
 look epic it just makes it look incredibly stiff and stale. No seriously, this Webb or whatever 
 got 3 times more tanks and all, and he'll sit behind, while you with 5 or so units got to go and 
 take out all "Ivan" forces... makes perfect sense.
  
  If this is "This is the best PC game of the year, so far." (c) Gamespot, I'd get REALLY worried 
 about gaming industry. Hopefully Blizzard will come and save us all from playing this miserable 
 excuse of an RTS. Hopefully... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinpointmc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Personally I was skeptical of this no-name strategy game when it was announced back in April 2006 
 however after watching the trailers I knew simply I had to get this game. This game got the Cold 
 War 80's feel down on paper right. The Single Player campaign feels like reading a Tom Clancy or 
 Larry Bond (who wrote the script for this game) techno thriller. I did find the game play a tad 
 bit linear but for those of you who claim infantry is underpowered you clearly haven't played long 
 enough to realize that this role is designed for certain situations and map area's (like trees 
 for example.) Used correctly, it is an unstoppable and self sufficient fighting role but again 
 it's not the most friendly to beginners. 
  
  I don't have to address graphics, voicing, and music because everybody agrees that WIC is visually 
 pleasing. Yes it is not a true RTS but if you people actually bothered to read reviews outside 
 Gamespot they clearly touch on the fact that WIC is technically a RTT (Real Time Tactical.) so 
 get it right if before you go ranting about how little strategy because there is strategy in the 
 multi-player aspect unlike the Single Player part.
  
  I would gladly recommend it to my buddies. 
  
  I also have to add that this game is very scalable 
 and can play on most comp's made after 2004. For the sake of enjoying the game to its fullest though 
 obviously you need a gaming rig. If not wait for it on the 360, it'll be coming out later this 
 year under the name World in Conflict: Soviet Assault. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnubisPrime
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  This is a good RTS game for somebody who is use to the genre, but novices or just casual RTS players 
 will have an extremely hard time keeping up with the action. The premise for the game is good, 
 Cold War combat, but the number of Soviet vehicles and troops available in each mission are way 
 beyond the numbers ever fielded by the entire Warsaw Pact! I like a challenge, but the endless 
 enemy vehicles generated by the AI got extremely monotonous at certain points in the game. The 
 only other thing that bother me more was the insistent voices of my co-unit leaders endlessly demanding 
 that I complete a secondary mission to save their bacon when I was up to my knees in enemies and 
 hand-grenade pins! This needs to be corrected in the next version of this game. All in all it gave 
 me a lot of pleasant hours trying to blast my way back to Seattle and drive out the Russians. I 
 would recommend this game for middle level to expert RTS players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  It's not difficult to realize that the Cold War never brewed into World War III. No actual conflict 
 erupted between the United States of America and Soviet Union. However, it's an interesting look 
 at how the war may have become had a bullet been fired. World in Conflict offers this view in this 
 explosive, immersive, and unique strategy game from Sierra Entertainment.
  
  World is set in an alternative history version of 1989. Instead of the fall of the Berlin wall 
 and the independence of Soviet nations, the U. S. S. R. launches a heavy assault on the western borders 
 of the United States. The campaign features a 14 mission play through that gives you control of 
 the US and European troops. The largest disappointment of this campaign is the lack of a Soviet 
 campaign, and therefore a different more interesting conclusion. The decent US campaign does its 
 part to keep you entertained however, assisted by far-fetched but motivating missions as well as 
 the Alec Baldwin narration.
  
  World in Conflict is not your every-day RTS game. There is no base building or resource gathering, 
 only massive, filthy, explosive and filthy combat. Using a reinforcement system not too distant 
 from the version featured in Star Wars: Empire at War. The pacing is just right, and it never becomes 
 dull. Where World in Conflict lacks in single-player, it makes up for in multi-player combat. WIC's 
 rock-paper-scissors unit system makes for a great balance. Together with the games ability to host 
 up to sixteen players in a single match, World in Conflict scale becomes nothing short of epic.
 
  
  One of the first things noticeable about this game is how gorgeous this game is. Environments are 
 lush, dense and spectacular. Unit and building designs are superb as well. This elements combine 
 to form an incredible atmosphere that is truly breathtaking at times. The interface is clean and 
 straight forward, and the camera is simply perfect. Tilting and twisting the camera to get the 
 greatest angles of an assault really add to the games action. The zoom ability is also vast. From 
 the highest point in the sky, all the way to the ground allows you to see and hear the game from 
 every angle.
  
  World in Conflict is perhaps one of the greatest revolutionary steps in what is perceived to be 
 a real-time-strategy game. The combat from the get-go as well as the nerve wracking and thrilling 
 multiplayer, the greatest parts of the game clearly outweigh the issues that stand; World in Conflict 
 is a must-try for any fan of RTS'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 78stonewobble
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  World in conflict along with the Homeworld games are really the only RTS games that have captured 
 me since the original Command & conquer. 
  
  It's a very pretty game graphically and it sets the mood just right in cutscenes, storyboards and 
 with the voiceovers. 
  
  The pace is fast and at times frantic but difficulty isn't over the top. 
  
  Someone else mentioned 
 a few issues he had with the realism of eg. China joining on the Soviet side and the whole "close 
 quarters" concept. 
  
  Well you can't really have that in a pop RTS. 
  
  If you wan't to go up from a squad level and command something else than troops you have to forego 
 realism. 
  
  Eg. 
  
  An MLRS (rocket artillery) have probably a 40 km. range in real life. 
  
  Within those 40 miles 
 you could have hundreds if not thousands of troops and hundreds of tanks, choppers, jeeps and so 
 on. 
  
  It's just not feasible to up the scope of the game so much. 
  
  Even if the graphics could handle it the AI of the game would be simulating hundreds of decision 
 makers down the line of command. 
  
  And regarding the Chinese joining the Soviets. In game it comes as a surprice to the Americans 
 too. Nevertheless it's just a comment to put the pressure just right for the next missions. 
  
  Perhaps these things distracted the other guy so much from the game that it lowered his experience 
 with it. That was not the case at all for me. 
  
  PS. I tried the harpoon series and it really isn't that fun to have to rearm planes and refuel 
 them all the time while looking at a 2D symbolic image of the battlefield. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I felt gulity not to give this game at least a score over 9.. it's intense, beautiful, stunning 
 and immersive.. if you call that is not enough, then **** your own insane demand, this is the best 
 RTS yet at the moment!
  
  The campaign is great and challenging, the control are easy to get used to, about 5-10 minute you 
 will be used to it, the gameplay is instense and the type recalling me the ground control 2, the 
 previous project of massive ent, actually you will find them very close to each other, for the 
 gameplay, they both need to drop-in troops, control important points, call in airstrikes.
  
  There is only some questions in mind after you finish the campaign, like, if they could use 
 nuclear weapons, then why don't just nuke them out when all russians are still in seattle? Why 
 they need to wait when both side are mounting up casualties and usde it in just a battle? Or why 
 don't simply, nuke moscow? Or why russia don't just nuke washington? Do they still think this is 
 cold war? It isn't! It is world war 3 man!
  
  And, about china joining the USSR side in 1989 is totally nonsense, anyone who dig history and 
 policy would know that china and USSA spit away after 1964, when their conflicts arises (Diabong 
 island inicent) , china EVEN come close to america and the west in early 1980, they helped, just 
 like america, to rebel the soviet invasion in afganistan war in 1979-1989! And now is 1989 when 
 china is close to the US and while the US EVEN aid chinese PLA army with supplies, and this setting 
 is telling that china would fight against US? I don't think so..
  
  BTW, in 1989, china still havn't had any serious landing troops to cross entire pacifc oceans to 
 america.
  
  But besides all these ridiculous setting, this is definitly the best strategy ever!!
  
  About 
 it multiplayer, it's instense, just like singleplayer..
  
  Another cons is that it doesn't have any skirmish in singleplayer.. suck..
  
  Pros: Instense 
 gameplay, stunning graphic, best RTS of the year, immersive, great multiplayer, great sound.
  Cons: Campaign end in a flash in 10-20 hours, NO skirmish, ridiculous story setting.
  
  Graphic:9.5/10
 
  Gameplay:9.5/10
  Presentation:9/10
  Sound:10/10
  Value:9/10
  
  Overrall:9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Kids that where in the cold war were very scared that they would die by bombs. So if you are one 
 of those kids you could feel that the game is very realistic with awsome graphics that makes the 
 game more and more realistic. Its more like a futuristic game because world war 3 was never done 
 in the world. world in conflict isnt a hardcore wargame but its real time strategy game so dont 
 expect you controlling a solider walking and killing. you can launch missels and destroy your opponet 
 in multiplayer mode that is much cooler thsn the campaign which has an amazing storyline. THE best 
 thing is fdestroying houses and see them explode piece by piece. and it rarely looked great in 
 other real-time strategy war games. for the good and bads.
  
  Good; VERY VERY realistic. Multiplayer is fantatsic. very deep story. many spetaular moments.
 
  
  Bad: No faults in this game just needs some litle improving and it will perfect.
  
  Gaming Target 8.8 / 10 
  Fragland 92.4 / 100 
  Netjak 8.4 / 10 
  GameCell UK 9 / 10 
  Gamers 
 Europe 9 / 10 
  Gaming Nexus 9 / 10 
  Worth Playing 9.8 / 10 
  Games Master UK 86 / 100 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebrwnrobot
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  The good points of this game listed on Gamespot include voice acting, visuals, and storyline. I 
 honestly think the voice acting isn't that good and in the military, soldiers aren't nearly as 
 defiant as they are in World in Conflict. Many times you'll find yourself listening to lowly soldiers 
 bickering and squabbling with their commanding officers for no reason whatsoever. With the technology 
 of war hand-to-hand combat is nearly abolished in today's conflicts. In this game, tanks are your 
 primary source of offense and don't contain real strategy. This game doesn't contain strategy, 
 they tell you what you have to do and you do it, simple as that. So it's basically Call of Duty 
 just controlling units of soldiers instead of taking the place of one. In no way is this RTS. Warfare 
 is no longer roll in tanks and blow enemies up. They use airstrikes, choppers, and use their technology 
 to destroy targets pinpointed from satellites in the sky. Also, World in Conflict is extremely pretentious, 
 after their flashy introduction and constant war radio feeds you scroll around and roll tanks across 
 the map. The voiceovers on the loading screens are also extremely pretentious. World in Conflict 
 is good if that's what your looking for. I don't believe that most people are looking for a mediocre 
 supposedly RTS game with very little strategy involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix19194
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict is what you would call a next-gen game not only because of the graphics but also 
 because of the gameplay enhancements . This games falls in to the style of games like Assassin's 
 Creed, instead of playing safe and developing a game like FPS's or normal RTS's. They decided to 
 make a game tha would be completely new.
  
  Graphics - 10 - This game has a new graphical potential that hasnt been seen before. When you have 
 DirectX 10 you will be in for a wild ride. And everything looks so real and smooth that it looks 
 like it was real life.
  
  Gameplay - 9.7 - The gameplay in WiC are what make it so new. You have full camera control, easy 
 unit control and almost no micromanagement. The resource factor is also very new. Youre thrown 
 directly into battle and your resources are depending on how many territories you control. There's 
 no farm building or mines just command poitns and your units are parachuted to you.
  
  Sountrack - 10 - Here Im not reviewing the music but the enviromental sound, explosions and other 
 factors that make the game feel real.
  
  Price - 10 - This game is well worth the 40 bucks you'll pay for it, even more I'd say this game 
 is worth 50 bucks r more because there is so much to do that you'll never get tired.
  
  Overall - 9.9 (Approximation 10) - I recommend this game, it you have the gear to play it, you really 
 must buy it because it's a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JwresB
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  This isn't a game of resource gathering and long-term fortification, but a game of control points, 
 reinforcements and working with what you're given. You don't need to worry about facilities, tech-trees 
 and harvesting, but you do need to worry about getting troops quickly from one place to another 
 and using them as efficiently as possible. Most importantly, this is a game about following orders 
 and winning objectives. You don't care about wiping out the enemy base or maintaining tactical 
 dominance of the wider map. You have jobs to do, and you'd damn well better do them.
  
  In effect, it plays a bit like a military FPS - and not just because you're reliant on the W, A, 
 S and D keys to move around the map. You arrive on the scene with the battle already raging and 
 no particular idea of what you'll be asked to do, and you're given orders by your CO that play 
 a crucial part in his wider aims. You may have to take an enemy position, hold a friendly position 
 against hostile forces or target a specific enemy threat, but the one thing you can guarantee is 
 that your objectives will change radically as the mission progresses. You're not being asked to 
 deal with the wider strategy - instead, you're being asked to adapt quickly to new circumstances 
 as they might crop up. Other allied commanders are out there doing their own jobs, and while you 
 might be asked on occasion to support them, you're not expected to take over. In fact, the game 
 doesn't give you any time to do more than focus on your own limited role.
  
  Well, almost. As the commands flow through thick and fast, you may also be asked to take on secondary 
 side-objectives, such as taking out enemy mortars on a hillside or rooting out snipers in a nearby 
 building. These are optional, and every time you take one on you run the risk of spreading your 
 forces thin. However, doing so is a short-term risk that pays off long-term, either removing enemy 
 forces that would only make your job more difficult later, or giving you access to reinforcements 
 or support options that you would otherwise have to do without.
  
  Support, meanwhile, is arguably the game's biggest attraction over rival RTS games. As with reinforcements, 
 you can earn points that can be spent on calling in artillery or air support, enabling you to do 
 precision airstrikes on fortified enemy positions, batter large numbers of enemy tanks as they 
 approach, or even set off a localised nuclear attack. Like artillery bombardments? Like Napalm? 
 Like awesome destructive spectacle on a frankly ludicrous scale? Well, it's pretty safe to say 
 that you'll like this.
  
  What all this means is that World in Conflict is a game of high-speed attacks and lightning-fast 
 responses, with you switching rapidly between the support and reinforcement menus while trying 
 to keep all your different forces moving towards their carefully appointed targets at the same 
 time. Playing it is an exercise in what my old driving instructor would have called "the definition 
 of coordination." What makes it challenging isn't the complexity of your tasks - it's hard to think 
 of a recent RTS with a more stripped-back style and interface - but the breakneck pace at which 
 you're expected to achieve them. While your own troops are smart, the enemy AI is even smarter. 
 They probe defences, outflank, sneak around and generally make your life a misery. They even have 
 the sense not to stick around when you call in an artillery barrage then an air-strike. If you 
 can't stay on the ball you might scrape through your missions, but you're going to find it hard 
 going in places.
  
  Of course, the graphics certainly help. With its DirectX 10 patch, it seemed that nothing could 
 dethrone Company of Heroes as the visual benchmark for the RTS genre, but World in Conflict just 
 about outdoes it, partly because the heavyweight artillery and airstrike attacks make for such 
 spectacular fireworks. Close-in troop and environmental detail is a little lower than CoH, but 
 it's still roughly in the same ballpark, and the lighting, particle and smoke effects are probably 
 the best I've seen outside of a cutting-edge FPS. Running on a Core 2 Quad with an Asus GeForce 
 8800 Ultra card, the experience is breathtaking, but owners of lower-end PCs shouldn't be disappointed 
 either. In the game's DirectX 9 mode you'll have to put up with slightly less impressive lighting 
 and smoke effects - not to mention some less luxuriant grass and foliage - but the explosions still 
 have a positively gobsmacking impact, and you'll still be bowled over by the graphics.
  
  Are there any complaints? Well, I'm not sure the setting is explored as thoroughly as it could 
 be. Massive has tried hard by adding inter-mission cut scenes that are obviously meant to give 
 the story a human context, and there's the occasional nice use of eighties music or a juicy snipped 
 of classic cold-war paranoia in the dialogue, but for much of the game you feel you could be playing 
 any modern military RTS (though at least such things are relatively thin on the ground) . I think 
 there's also an argument that, at times, the player's actions are rather too restricted - as in 
 the military FPS games that World in Conflict takes its inspiration from, you can feel like you're 
 being dragged from one objective to another without any real time to make choices of your own
 
  
  But through all of that World in Conflict is action packed, adrenalised and undeniably spectacular, 
 World in Conflict is the first RTS to give Company of Heroes a run for its money, and the current 
 front-runner for RTS game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperGamer911
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  The Cold War ended in 1989. In World in Conflict, it didn't. In this game you get to live some 
 major battles from World War 3, something in real life that almost happened a few times but didn't 
 happen. OK I'm going to try and make this review snappy. World in Conflict is like a first-person 
 shooter and a RTS game combined. You get to control a small COMPANY while still being able to see 
 bullets fly from each unit. As for the rest of the game, it's nothing less than AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!! The 
 graphics are extremely realistic (because this game is DirectX 9 and 10 compatible) , the voice 
 acting and sounds awesome, and the gameplay is impressive. My favorite thing in the game is the 
 Nuke. When you drop one in the game, there's a huge mushroom cloud and any unit that touches the 
 affected area is destroyed because of radiation. Anyone who plays fps games should give this game 
 a try. It's $50 but it's worth every penny. But if you want to be sure that you won't be wasting 
 your money, you can try the demo for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that took RTS games, and mixed in battlefield for good measure, this game is absolutely 
 fast, and actually puts more "strategy" into the game than most other Real time Tactical/strategy 
 games out there.
  
  The games strategy really depends on the role, and your teammates, if you have bad teammates that 
 don't coordinate very well, or don't know how to play necessarily, then you are going to loose 
 indefinitely, this is a game where you need to depend on your teammates.
  
  The gameplay is like a regular RTS but with a completely different Camera, it moves like an FPS 
 camera, this gives you better vision of the battlefield, and its also what makes this game unique, 
 it might be a little troublesome for the hardcore RTS players, but once you get used to it, it 
 can be a blast to play this game. The main thing you might notice about this game is that there 
 is no base building or resource gathering, this is a real time tactics game kids, the game gives 
 you units and you go out with some teammates and kick some ass, the only resource you have is a 
 pool of points which you use to buy new units, for those RTS players out there, you cannot destroy 
 this feature, its a fast paced RTT game, the whole point is to go out and capture points, not to 
 take out the opposing players base like other standard RTS games out there.
  
  The main objective in the game is capturing points, to most, this resembles Battlefield's Conquest 
 mode, and for the most part that is true, the only slight change is that you need to use alot of 
 strategy and team coordination to win this game, I cannot emphasize that point enough, I have seen 
 alot of people cussing and scolding the game for the camera angle and the no resource gathering 
 or base building, this is an RTT People, not RTS!
  
  If you played Ground Control II, this game should become instantly familiar, Tactical Aid, a resource 
 that isn't essential but very helpful is the tactical aid, this can help when you are trying to 
 eradicate infantry out of buildings, or clearing a fortification on a strategic location, its a 
 good mechanic, and its also a graphical showcase for the graphics in the game, mainly the tactical 
 nuke in the game, or the napalm bombs.
  
  The units in the game aren't varied in the game, they basically light, medium and heavy (infantry 
 aren't that however, there really demos, anti-tank, or basic infantry) nor due the factions vary 
 either, (soviets have single shot heavy artillery, whilst the west has rocket artillery) but this 
 is good because its how you use them thats important, Both factions aren't very unique to each 
 other, cause its how you use the units given to you thats important, going all helicopters is not 
 good cause then you can't capture points to win, going all tanks is good, but you are defenseless 
 against air and you can't tackle infantry all that well, can't go all support cause they aren't 
 good close range, can't go all infantry cause they are too vulnerable out in the open, see what 
 I mean? But with that in mind, its important cause every unit is designed to compliment the other 
 roles you can partake, infantry can be useful in woods, tanks can devestate apc's and support vehicles, 
 helicopters can provide good ambush vehicles, and support can bombard and devestate pretty much 
 everything.
  
  Graphics... well they are absolutely fantastic, considering the genre its in, the units are detailed, 
 to the point where you can see everything on the soldier, including water bottles and ammo packs, 
 to the backpacks on the tanks, to the cockpits in the helicopters, to the insides of a Humvee. 
 The environments deserve mention cause they are very detailed, especially in directx10, grass can 
 be seen up close, swaying in the wind, they even gone to the lengths of putting up flocks of birds 
 in the environment, influencing the beauty of the environment. The explosions though are GREAT!! 
 They are satisfying to see, they even make craters in the environment if you have the settings 
 on high, the smoke particles look nex-gen (unlike MOH: Airborne) and the nuke... well... that can't 
 be explained in words, look it up and you'll see how great it looks.
  
  The Sound is as good as ever, every vehicle, if you get close enough, you can here conversations 
 between the crewman, the guns sound big and powerful and the nuke sounds unforgivable, the voice 
 acting is believable, and is even better with alec baldwin.
  
  Multiplayer is definately where its at, its both fun to watch and to play, its battlefield, with 
 RTS thrown in, again, its not like a traditional rts, you drop in to the fight, pick a role, choose 
 your units, then fight, no waiting around for the round to end, just drop in and fight, just like 
 an FPS.
  
  RTS fans might like the game for its refreshing and unique gameplay, but scold it for no base building 
 or resource gathering, but love it for its very deep strategic depth, if you like RTS but hate 
 building bases and what not, this is your game, if you like fast paced RTS with no waiting around, 
 this is also your game, don't play this if you are a Hardcore RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertranete
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  It goes without saying that it's a good thing World War III didn't erupt between the United States 
 and the now-defunct Soviet Union. For many of us who were children during the Cold War, the fear 
 of being annihilated in a nuclear conflict was very real. So it's a bit strange now that we can 
 look back at that era and have the luxury of imagining what could have been. Or we can play World 
 in Conflict, Sierra and Massive Entertainment's incredible new real-time strategy game. This isn't 
 your standard RTS game, as World in Conflict doesn't follow the familiar model of resource gathering, 
 base building, and swarming armies. Instead, it feels almost like an action game masquerading as 
 a strategy game, and it offers up a relentlessly fun and amazing new approach to the genre, one 
 that works in single-player and even more so in multiplayer. 
  
  
  
  
  World in Conflict brings World War III to life on your desktop.
  World in Conflict is set in 
 an alternate-history version of 1989. Instead of the Berlin Wall falling and communism collapsing, 
 the Soviet Union launches an assault on Western Europe, and the United States rushes its forces 
 in to aid its Western allies. Four months into the conflict, after the US Navy has been attrited 
 down, the USSR launches a surprise invasion in Seattle and pushes inland. In the 14-mission single-player 
 campaign, you play as a company commander who is part of the meager US defense; there is no campaign 
 from the Soviet perspective, though you can play as the Red Army in multiplayer. However, the campaign 
 twists and weaves, letting you experience a sample of the European conflict, battle in remote areas 
 of the Soviet Union, and bring the fight to New York City. 
  
  Yes, the story is a bit far-fetched, but World in Conflict does a great job of making the implausible 
 seem believable. That's partly due to the excellent storytelling, which is spearheaded by pitch-perfect 
 narrator Alec Baldwin. He's backed up by a great voice acting cast that brings the principle and 
 secondary characters to life, along with a story that offers up emotional and sometimes humorous 
 vignettes from a world at war. For instance, you'll hear a soldier's futile battle against Army 
 bureaucracy, the phone conversation of a husband and wife, and the deliberations of the president 
 and his top military advisors. While there's a small misstep or two, such as a gospel song in the 
 weirdest of places, the game effectively tugs at your heartstrings, which is rare for a strategy 
 game, especially when it concerns the fate of one character whom you presume to be entirely one-dimensional 
 but isn't. Some of these vignettes are conveyed through in-game cutscenes, while others are delivered 
 through graphic-novel-style drawings. World in Conflict also features some incredible prerendered 
 cutscenes that are so good you actually wish there were more of them. 
  
  This isn't a hardcore wargame or simulation. There are far too many gameplay abstractions for that, 
 from being able to air-drop reinforcements on the battlefield within seconds to repairing equipment 
 almost instantly. Instead, World in Conflict is thrilling game about destruction. You get to unleash 
 all the firepower of modern military units on an open battlefield, but you also get to experience 
 the challenges of combined arms warfare. That's because the game has a great rock-paper-scissors 
 combat system that captures the vicious circle of war. Tanks can kill tanks and other vehicles 
 well, but aren't so good against infantry. Artillery can kill infantry easily, but aren't so good 
 against tanks. Helicopters can knock out vehicles well, but are vulnerable to infantry and antiaircraft 
 units. It's a constant chess match about what you need to bring to battle and how you use it. The 
 game is also smart enough to limit the number of units you can control. Instead of commanding the 
 entire battlefield, you'll have only a relative handful of units. This makes managing your units 
 a lot easier, like when employing their secondary abilities such as popping smoke grenades to create 
 cover when under attack. 
  
  
  
  
  Destruction has rarely looked so good.
  Then there's the game's excellent resource system. You're given a pool of reinforcement points 
 that you can use to purchase units. Naturally, the powerful units cost a lot more than weaker ones, 
 so you've got to choose quantity over quality. But it goes a bit deeper than that, as different 
 classes of units have different abilities. For instance, light helicopters are some of the best 
 scouts in the game, able to locate enemies from a distance, but they're extremely vulnerable. Medium 
 helicopters are able to shoot down other helicopters with their air-to-air missiles, but they don't 
 do a lot of damage to armor. Heavy helicopters can eat tanks for breakfast, but aren't effective 
 against other helicopters. So while your initial inclination might be to load up on heavy choppers 
 and go after enemy armor, a wise player recognizes that there are many roles to play on the battlefield. 
 If your units are destroyed, their cost is slowly refunded back into your reinforcement pool, so 
 you can order up replacements, although veteran units are more effective, giving you an incentive 
 to keep your experienced units alive as long as possible. 
  
  The nice thing about this system is that it effectively gives you an unlimited number or resources 
 and units to work with, so it's fairly forgiving to nontraditional strategy gamers. If that seems 
 a bit easy, don't worry, because World in Conflict can also ratchet up the pressure by tossing 
 in time limits. For instance, you might have to seize a town in less than 45 minutes, or achieve 
 another objective in far less time. The margins for error are much smaller when you're working 
 under a deadline. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaybay723
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict takes place in 1989 in the cold war. The game features three factions, USA, NATO, 
 and USSR. The game begins when the USSR invading USA in Seattle and it is your objective to protect 
 your country from the russians. The cutscenes are very well done. One of them is showing the USSR 
 invading Seattle and another one is showing the americans going to land in New York City.
  This game has no base building or resource gathering. It gets replaced by a reinforcements points 
 system. If your troops get killed your reinforcements points will regain slowly. This RTS has the 
 best graphics for this genre. The explosions look great.
  The multiplayer is the best about this game. It goes up to 16 players which features voice chat 
 which gets really intense. There is also four roles to choose from, air, infantry, armor, and support. 
 You should always work together with a teammate who has a different role so they wont having any 
 problems with any role the enemy is using on them.
  This is a must have for a RTS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernalPhoenix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict is an amazing game crated by Sierra which to be honest, IS ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC! 
 The explosions from Artillery and Tactical Aid has so much detail and planning where to place the 
 Tactical Aid to get the win you so desperately want is what makes World in Conflict so fun! This 
 is a game which exceeded what I was thinking about this RTS game. The only bad thing about this 
 is that there are MANY maps you can unlock in the Multiplayer side of the game. The graphics are 
 top draw and is very popular with most PC gamers. Also, Single Player has great voiceovers with 
 plenty of TA's avaliable through the stages of it for extra fun explosions. The sheer magnitude 
 of this ambitious game with all it's features creates a game which all RTS fans should have in 
 their game collection but if you were dissapointed with other RTS games ans sworn you wouldn't 
 play a RTs ever again, you should give World in Conflict a chance to show you what a top draw RTS 
 is like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeoKere_999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best RTS in these years. It gives a player everything from a great storyline 
 to a great gameplay experiance. Now the starts of with the red army attacking seatle and then the 
 rest of america and its up to your character (which is voiced by Alek Baldwin) to protecet America 
 from the oncoming danger. The missions take place in diffrent locations from Seatle to European 
 Cities in the flash back missions. The game also shows a diffrent type of camera view similar to 
 the total war series but in most ways better. The story has the ability to really suck you in (speaking 
 from personal experiance when i started playing i couldn't stop untill i beat the game) and its 
 also really cool to control modern vehicles and other artilery also the other thing which is really 
 cool and which adds realism to the game is the way you deploy units. So all and all this game rocks.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocketdanman
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Now I have played my fair share of RTS games such as Command and Conquer and COH. But, I have to 
 say that this game blew my socks off (not literally) . I was amazed at the beautiful graphics and 
 the quick and action packed gameplay. The greatest thing about this game is the ability to blow 
 **** up! Now the single thing that makes this game one of the best is not the graphics or the blow 
 **** up factor. It is that it actually has a very deep story it plays of the worst fears of the 
 Cold War. That was some scary **** (for all of those who lived in the 70-80's) . Another thing 
 that I have to talk to you about is the multiplayer. It runs very well and supports 16 players 
 so you and your friends can nuke each other all Friday Night. So all in all you should buy this 
 game or you are a retard So I can't wait for you to buy the game so I blow the **** out of you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mega-Tom
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2008 3:18 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict is one of those RTS games that deny you the ability to build up a base and units 
 are crush all those who stand before you.
  
  However, playing this game for a couple of hours you soon forgive them for taking out the base 
 building side of the RTS as this game is simply brillient and full of excitment and action.
  
  The story is very well layed out with the Russians invading America in suprise attacks, It's 
 your role to fight back and push the Russians out of America for good. Some missions will require 
 you to take citys and towns back from the Russans and some require you to complete other kinds 
 of objectives, for instance there is a mission where you need to hold a bridge from the enermy 
 wile convoys of cavillians escape. 
  
  Visuals are amazing in this game, some of the best in a RTS as I have seen them. Story as I have 
 said is very good and well though up. Sound and other aspects of the game are very well done and 
 very affective in game.
  
  I at first was very unhappy about the whole reinforcements idea in this game however after playing 
 for a little wile you begin to get used to it and start to love it. The off-map artillary and other 
 powers that are avalable to you are intence and simple fantastic to use wven on the smallest enermy 
 force. 
  
  I give this game a 9.5/10 due to there being no Base Building options but this game more than makes 
 up for this with stunning visuals, gameplay and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorPH-
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Allow me to start by saying that if you're like me, and the label 'real time strategy' causes you 
 to assume that gameplay will involve building structures and/or defences, then you will be slightly 
 disappointed. This game takes a different angle to RTS titles such as Age of Empires and Dawn of 
 War in that gameplay is centered entirely on calling in units and reinforcements rather that create 
 them. Right, now that's out of the way, on to gameplay.
  World in Conflict is different to most RTS titles in the sense that it introduces more than a fair 
 amount of gameplay elements to ensure: A) It is more realistic than your standard Age of Empires 
  tactic, and B) 
 Make the game feel more like you're in command of an army rather than just a tourist watching from 
 a hot air balloon. Roofs of buildings collapse into the buildings themselves when hit by stray 
 artillery (Just to clear any confusion, these buildings are part of the environment on certain 
 maps) , napalm burns away forests and grass. The story itself is also a very interesting and well 
 thought-out one, rather than many of these narrow minded plots where America conquers some unnamed 
 country.
  By the way, one thing that seemed to be the game's major selling point was the ability to apparently 
 call in tactical nukes to devastate your opponents. However, playing through the game I've only 
 found to be able to do this once, and the guidelines for doing so were so restricted I felt less 
 like a commander and more like a 7 year old helping his mum with the baking. You CAN call in nukes 
 in the online play but to be honest I found working up enough points to call one in before the 
 game ending bloody impossible. Speaking of which, the online multiplayer is a severe let down. 
 The game modes all feel so much less like strategy when you're calling in a fresh army of tanks 
 as soon as yours dies and just sending them all in.
  In summary, World in Conflict: Singleplayer is a gripping experience, mulitplayer is a somewhat 
 rather painful experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is just awesome. I love modern infantry style rts games where you can blow up buildings 
 and hide in them aswell. This really resembles Ground Control 2 if anyone played that, a lot of 
 the same mechanics going on. Also the dynamic gameplay really keeps you on the edge since you're 
 not wasting time building lame factories or stuff like that, just parachuting your infantry or 
 tanks right where you need them, and the computer is at it the same way so you really dont know 
 what to expect around the corner. The game engine is really nice too, i had the graphics maxed 
 out and still had a great framerate even when so much was going on, and my comp is not that great 
 either, really shows that developers wanted to make sure this ran on a lot of lower end machines 
 too since there are a ton of options to mess around with. That really scores points in my book.
 
  The artillery and airstrikes are awesome and incredibly useful in this too, the designers obviously 
 enphasized on this a lot since the destruction involved with some of them is really amazing and 
 quite the essence of the game.
  The only problem is that the game is a little on the short side, not sure if they did this for 
 a sequel or what not but really cuts the story to a cliffhanger, not as much as other games but 
 still left you with wanting a lot more.
  A must have for any rts fan! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukemaneiro
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  At first , I didn't know how World In Conflict would be like . Some people hated it, while some 
 loved it . Now I am with the people that love it . The game has amazing graphics, innovating gameplay, 
 the sound is great, the voice acting is spectacular, along with the magnificent story that comes 
 with it .
  
  The camera controls are innovating, you can easily move the camera around and watch the battle 
 at all kinds of angles , and just stare at those beautiful explosions going all around you.
  
  The gameplay is different from the original RTS. There's no base building, resource gathering 
 or anything. It's more like instant action and a lot of people seem to like it.
  
  My only complaint is a missing skirmish, though you can make a LAN battle by yourself and add 15 
 bots into it .
  
  This game is just great. The only people that might not enjoy WiC are narrow-minded traditional 
 RTS lovers. You gotta be ready for the new. And the new right now would be WiC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syst3mW4rr10r
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  First off, this review is mostly based on single-player because my internet connection goes through 
 a proxy server that blocks just about everything, but there will be a section on multiplayer.
 
  
  The gameplay in WiC is quite unique. It falls somewhere in between a strategy and action game. 
 On the action side, the controls feel similar to standard FPS controls (WASD and mouse) , there 
 is no base-building or resource gathering, just combat and it is possible to keep on throwing out 
 units even when close to defeat. Conversely you are looking down on men, tanks and choppers and 
 ordering them about with standard point and click controls. You order in units from a reinforcement 
 menu, which are air-dropped in a few seconds later at your drop zone. If your units are destroyed, 
 never fear, for their points are simply slowly recycled back into your resource pool to be reused. 
 As you kill stuff and capture objectives you also get access to tactical aid, which is stuff like 
 artillery and airstrikes, even going up to carpet bombing and the ever popular tactical nuke. This 
 is a unique system, and is easy enough to pick up and fun to play with.
  
  The single player campaign has one of the best stories I have ever seen in any game, particularly 
 an RTS game. The basics is that in 1989 the Soviet Union invaded Europe, starting WWIII, and when 
 the USA rushed forces to help the West Germans and French, the Soviets sent a massive force to 
 invade Seattle. Your battalion fights a retreat and through flashback you fight battles in places 
 like France, New York, Seattle and even inside the Soviet Union itself. The characters really feel 
 alive in this game, making real choices and not all acting like arch-villains or superheroes. I 
 particularly enjoyed the little cutscenes in between missions that show how the war affects the 
 men, with phone calls home that show their stress and anger to a phone call of a national guardsman 
 trying to get his paycheck. Despite this, the single-player campaign is a little too easy, since 
 you always have the strength to win your battles provided you use your tactical aid cleverly. However, 
 the story alone is worth playing it for.
  
  Onto the multiplayer. One extra dynamic that the multiplayer adds is that each player must choose 
 one of the four army types (infantry, armour, air or support) , each with it's own strengths and 
 weakness. I think the multiplayer has the potential to be excellent, but only really if both teams 
 actually cooperate. In most of the matches I played, everyone just buggered about doing their own 
 thing and the resulting chaos was just frustrating. Also the prevalence of aircraft was annoying 
 because there are only a few units that can target them, but they can't actually take objectives, 
 so idiotic players just bugger about shooting stuff and not really helping an overall victory. 
 With proper coordination WiC's multiplayer could be awesome, but, like so many multiplayer games, 
 is hamstrung by idiocy and lack of cooperation online.
  
  This is a top-notch game, only held back because it is too easy on single-player and the fact that 
 I don't have enough friends who play video games to enjoy the multiplayer. However, people who 
 dislike RTS games because they are too slow will love this, and RTS players should certainly enjoy 
 the multiplayer too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firestorm250
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Being both a great fan of strategy games as well as a global military analyst, I was amazed when 
 news first came of "World in Conflict". To me, not only were the graphics beautifully stunning, 
 but more importantly the gameplay was something that I had never come across in any other game 
 before. At first I wondered what could be so special about the game accept for the absolutely mind-blowing 
 graphics. But after I tried the beta version, I knew that this was it, the one game that comes 
 along ever so rarely that just sweeps away almost everything before it creating an almost entirely 
 new genre or sub-genre that will set the standards for games to follow.
  
  So what's so special about "World in Conflict"? Well, Massive Entertainment ventured deep into 
 unfamiliar territory, where so many other conservative game developers didn't dare to go, and got 
 rid of the old RTS "economy" system of base-building and resource gathering and focused solely 
 on the actual climax of the RTS genre, the fighting. For many conservative gamers this might have 
 felt rather strange at first, but eventually I can safely say that most players found this to be 
 a refreshing new concept that gave strategy a whole new level and depth. 
  
  With the "economy" system gone, players can now focus on developing strategies and tactics that 
 have never been seen before in any RTS games. And this has not only resulted in more intense combat 
 action, but a whole new level of strategic and tactical combat that has never been seen before 
 except in real wars. Therefore as a military analyst, this isn't just a brand new game genre, but 
 is also a possible training tool that can be used by militaries to train officers in frontline 
 tactics and higher-ranking officers at grand strategy.
  
  Of course there are improvements to be made as always, however "World in Conflict" is the kind 
 of stuff that we need to get the entire gaming industry on their feet and thinking of ways to make 
 this new genre even better. 
  
  Another great thing about the game is the intense multiplayer content. It features massive teamwork, 
 tactics and cooperation that no other strategy game has yet to achieve. As usual the uniqueness 
 of the multiplayer is due to its close similarity to how real-life field commanders would work 
 together, employing strategies and tactics in order to win a battle. 
  
  This game is so jam-packed full of great combat action that after a while, the great graphical 
 effects, scenery and texture of models and buildings make almost every other strategy game boring 
 in comparison. The only real problem with the game is after intense playing, you might actually 
 start to miss the old "economy" system.
  
  All in all, I think Massive Entertainment has done it once again, and this time not just for excellent 
 graphics for its time, but with a unique and unforgettable gameplay that will go down in the annals 
 of the World's greatest games. Just can't wait for the expansion pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob1354
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  now hers a game that when i came home from 14 weeks in fort Leonardwood Missouri i went out and 
 bought. a game that i have beat the campaign on twice. and enjoyed it both times. and then started 
 in little skirmishes with the AI on other maps and enjoyed that for the most part. then i finally 
 got internet and hooked it up and jumped right in. and talk about simply freakin amazing. the controls 
 are perfect. they are not too hard but they are smooth and easy to figure out. the graphics are 
 simply amazing. even if your running only a moderately decent graphics card it can look good. the 
 environment blows up! and no resources to worry about just grab your units and dish out some pain! 
 honestly the only downside to this game is that you can only have a few units but i can understand 
 that in multiplayer because it requires even more teamwork from the actual players instead of everyone 
 just running helter skelter. and the commo system if you dont have a mike. is simply great just 
 click a button say what your doing or what you need and go. honestly if you wanna play i highly 
 recommend it. this game can bring literally hours of enjoyment and fun. and just wait for the nukes! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrHalo
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  Thought I'd touch on a few things real quick because some reviewers are saying that there is not 
 any strategy to the game, which clearly they don't understand how the game operates.
  
  No, you don't collect resources or build a base, but if you think it lacks strategy because those 
 two elements are missing then you're sadly mistaking. In this game you play the role of a field 
 commander of one of four military divisions. So, let me ask you something, when was the last time 
 a commander ever sent out ore trucks to collect resources in order to produce more units in real 
 life? Catch my drift?
  
  This game takes the direction of a battle simulation type of RTS. The strategy comes with the teamwork 
 and how you manage your units, with the emphasis mainly on teamwork. High ground is important, 
 flanking is important, setting up proper ambush points, scouting the enemy, countering with the 
 proper units, etc are all elements of strategy present within the game.
  
  Coordinating attacks with other divisions of the military provides an extra sense of realism and 
 strategy that no other game has ever delivered. Besides, isn't this the way it's done in real life, 
 typically at least?
  
  There's also a lot of micro to the game, such as properly using smoke screens and other special 
 abilities, attacking the rear of enemy armor, many things of that nature.
  
  If you're grabbing a bunch of units and just throwing them into the mix, you're going about the 
 game the wrong way. You have to use teamwork and plan out your attack much like a commander would 
 in real life. I'm not saying that this game is pure simulation, but relatively when compared to 
 other RTS games it is. 
  
  The game is different, learn it before making false assumptions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sawfell
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict brings the third WW to life on your desktop. The Cold War between the NATO and 
 the USSR on different locations, from America to Europe to USSR itself. Three factions to choose, 
 USA, NATO & USSR. The story begins by invading Seattle. commanding some American soldiers against 
 the invasion of USSR.
  
  In the single player campaign you play as USA's Lieutenant, Parker. Commanding American and NATO 
 units all over Europe and USA.
  
  The game separates in 4 main roles (other than spectator in Multi-Player) , Infantry, Air, Armor 
 & Support. Each role has got its main units with some of out-of-role units.
  
  In multi-player you either can be an artillery noob or an infantry killer. To win a game you should 
 capture more command points than what the enemy has. As infantry you'll be macroing alot of things 
 which doesn't make you get bored as fast as some other games. Macroing as infantry means to place 
 your units in strategical positions. Such as a sniper to get the best line of fire range.
  You have different units to choose as infantry, such as: anti-tank infantry, regular infantry, 
 snipers, demoes & trucks to transporting your infantry to front lines fast since they are slow 
 and weak. Transporting gives you a better mobility in the battlefield.
  
  As Air, you can be a tank killer or an air chaser. You can get heavy choppers, medium choppers, 
 scout choppers & transport choppers to help your inf to be transported around the battlefield.
 
  As a tank killer, you get heavy choppers to get their tanks pwned. Surely you should be carfull 
 of Anti Air flaks by dropping flares and trying to kill it. He still can smoke-screen himself. 
 You may use a scout chopper along with your heavy choppers to help you out.
  
  As Armor, which is my best role, there's many units to be chosen such as: heavy, medium, light 
 tanks, AMP transports & armored transports.
  Armor's main role is to kill Anti Airs to help air players to help you out clearing out tanks and 
 buildings. Being a team-player is the main objective for armor players.
  
  As Support, which is the most needed role, there's two options for you as support; being an artillery 
 noob or being an Anti Air + Repairs pr0. You have many units in your list: Heavy artillery, medium 
 artillery, heavy anti air, medium anti air, repair tank, demoes & Humvees.
  
  In a game if you were facing any troubles.. you can use the tactical aid button. There's so many 
 choices in TA menu to choose. Choose what fits for your situation with the lowest price. As much 
 as you play, capture command points, repairs, kill & transport as much as you get more TA score.
 
  
  The game is about team-playing, coordinating & cooperating with your team. You ask for what you 
 need and give them what they need.
  
  This game is the best RTS game ever.
  
  
  -Sawfell, thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humbikmeamyou
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  The game could have been so much more, It lacks fun for everyone, meaning if your good then you 
 call in all the cool things, but if your getting killed, then you might never get a chance to launch 
 a nuke. The game really did a great job with the fps like game play of jumping in on a game, however, 
 this is a game that is so heavly based on team work, that if your stuck with a bad team, then you 
 will lose all the time. 
  
  Another problem with the game is that all the sides feel exactly the same. It's as if the same 
 units with changed skins. Same thing with the especial air and arty you call in. This game could 
 have done so much more then just really nice graphics, wich you dont even notice because your zoomed 
 out all the time! But instead it feels like a game where after a few times, you really feel like 
 there is no substance. 
  
  Being a RTS gamer for 10 years now, I have been playing this game for 2 months and I am already 
 sick of it. Mainly because of the team indifferences. But games like COH, C&C and Warhammer series, 
 where factions differ from each other, your units dont die like fles, and you actually can turn 
 the tied of war even if your team isnt so good, have much more to offer. 
  
  I think WIC could have done so much more, but hey just fell short when it comes to variety. Thats 
 why I only give it an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yourdead211
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  World In Conflict is by far one of the best strategy games i have ever played. In the story you 
 are Parker (the rank of you varies so i wont give him one) and you are under command by a tight 
 ass commander, he does learn to favor you over your fellow officers and everything works out in 
 the end. The single player story is pretty good but it has Alec Baldwin as the narrator so he makes 
 up for it. The prise is also just right, I am new to PC games because i play fps on xbox360 so 
 i don't know the price on PC games but $40 new is a steal for this great of a game. The greatest 
 thing of all is the multiplayer; with free online and over 300 different servers (holding up to 
 16 players a game) is unbeatable. Some servers are better than others but it will tell you the 
 ping and how many people are currently in the servers. GREAT GAME 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawk218
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is purely an amazing game. World in Conflict has a good story great gameplay, 
 and even better multiplayer. World in Conflict is set back during the cold war and the USSR, instead 
 of collapsing, goes on the offensive. You play the role of a LT Parker who will command US and 
 NATO forces in the US and Europe. World in Conflict is not like your ordinary strategy game. Instead 
 of building up defences, you call in your units and begin blasting the other team to pieces within 
 the first two minutes of the game. 
  World in Conflict has a point system that determines how many and what kind of units you can have. 
 You use the points to call in units and when those units are destroyed, the points are slowly given 
 back to you. World in Conflict is based on the rock paper scissors style gameplay where that that 
 beats that, but is defeated by this which is also defeated by this. For example Heavy Helicopters 
 chew up tanks for breakfast but medium helicopters turn heavy helicopters into scrap metal and 
 anti air rips through both types of helicopters but are vulnerable to tanks. 
  There is another point sysyem called "tactical aid points" which you get from fortifying and capturing 
 positions to hurting the enemy. You Use these points to call in aid such as airsrtrikes, artillery, 
 bridge repair, (my personel favorite) nukes, and etc.
  Its multiplayer is excellent. it is more of a team strategy game than anything else, since you 
 cant chooose to control everything. You have to pick a single role such as armor, infantry, etc, 
 which are effective against some roles and weak against others so you have to rely on your allies. 
 Only one complaint for the game, you need a fast computer to handle its almost photo realistic 
 graphics. All in all it is an excellent game and if you have a fast computer, definitely get it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megadupek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict is one of the best real time strategy games that I ever played! The atmosphere 
 is really dense! Hell of dense! I felt like in the middle of world war three... but I guess that 
 was intended :) The graphics of this game is really excellent and it runs quite smooth on my Athlon 
 2600+/ATI X850/2GB. The artificial intelligence of the enemy is quite good and the own units do 
 what I want them to do. The story is nice as well. I really enjoyed it... the characters got quite 
 strong and meaningful throughout the game like Bannon, the guy who messes everything up or Col. 
 Sawyer the hard-liner. They somehow became good friends and allies during the game. The levels 
 are very nice indeed. Large cities like Seattle with a lot of detailed houses, wide areas like 
 the one mission in France... simply beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarwan_dude
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  It's a good solid game with a fairly simple control system. The tactical options in the battles 
 make it one for those people who like to play extended campaigns against the enemy as well as outthink 
 and outgun their opponent. One not to miss.
  
  It's hard to actually review a Real Time Strategy game that presents itself lacking a few of the 
 features that makes an RTS. Like base building and resource management to name but a couple. That's 
 exactly what I've done with World in Conflict. I've been playing this for a few days now and since 
 I was a big fan of Ground Control and Ground Control 2 from the same developers I had to get my 
 hands on this one.
  
  So, what is World in Conflict?
  
  The story is quite a dark one. Russia invades the US and breaks through Americas defences, throwing 
 you in as a commander in the middle of a pitched battle right from the get-go. It's told through 
 the medium of gorgeous gritty looking in game cut-scenes and has a kind of 'Hollywood' action-movie 
 direction to the proceedings. The excellent camera-work follows the characters down to the smallest 
 detail.
  
  Ok, that little bit out of the way I'm not going to spoil the story, I can only say that it takes 
 some twists and turns and definitely means the game has lasting singleplayer appeal as well as 
 frag-your-mates appeal in multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col_Dread
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  I think that is a great game with a good single-player story line. The multi-play can be a challenge 
 for new players. The way the game uses reinforcement points makes the game move faster because 
 you do not need to build a base and gather resources. If you have a duel screen setup you can have 
 the "mega map" on the second display. I have found this feature very useful. Overall I think it 
 is a great game.
  
  The system requirements are such that most people may be able to play the game with little or no 
 upgrades to their system. I was able to play the game with a nvidia GeForce 5200 FX, but after 
 ten to twenty minutes the game would crash If you use at least the minimum Req. the game should 
 not crash. The game runs smooth on my system even in some of the bigger battles. With everything 
 turned up it looks great the detail is super. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomseal45
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is definitely a good game. Difficulty is very easy. I have spent at least 20-40 
 hours playing. 
  WiC has very good multi player. Most pubs, that I seem to get, are good matches. A lot of people 
 have bad experiences with public matches. However, watch for the arty whores, these people will 
 spam nothing but heavy arty and keep the AA back to protect them instead of helping the team. Try 
 to talk to them and convince them to do something else. If you want good strats and a chance for 
 real teamwork, then join a clan.
  Another positive is the fact that there is no base management. If you play games like Age of Empires 
 or Company of Heroes, you may get overwhelmed with the fact that you have to look out for resources 
 and your base. WiC is focused more on the micro management aspect of the game.
  The game can get repetitive. You constantly do the same thing most of the time. It's not that big 
 of a deal, but some people may be thrown off by it. It also has mirror balance, which means that 
 the balance it the same for a unit on both sides. That means that a Russian heavy tank and an American 
 Heavy tank will do the same damage if they hit the front armor. If you can flank behind the enemy, 
 you will do more damage to them and may end up winning in an even match. Some people might not 
 like the mirror balance, again up to them. 
  The campaign is awesome. A very good story. The intro to the New York mission is AWESOME.
  Overall, 
 this game is fairly good. Easy learning curve, good multi player and no base management are some 
 good features. Repetitiveness may throw off some people as well as the mirror balance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardan-Ti
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I want to be a bridge here, there are those who adore this game and those who are disappointed 
 and blame Gamespot partially.
  
  This is a game for people who like to play strategy AND who like a game of Gears of War with their 
 mates. People like me. Strategists be warned this is not an economy game! If economic empires are 
 your thing then this is not the game for you.
  
  However, as much as I adore Red Alert 2 I am somewhat tired of building a base, holding the fort 
 and just waiting until I win. This game breaks that mould as you are forced to go out there with 
 skirmish sized forces.
  
  My friend bought the game and gave me the 10 day trial disk which is mulitplayer only, having played 
 Halo 3 online I can tell you it is a similar experience. Short games of action, some you are "ownage", 
 some you are owned.
  
  I am disappointed to learn there is not a skirmish mode (im told, buying the full game soon) and 
 repetive losses online can lead to a dull evening.
  But if you want to play an RTS verison of COD 4 and learn how to use tactical forces with mastery, 
 then I'd reccomend the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathcruiser
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  If you're tired of the traditional "build a base, get resources, attack the ennemy" then this is 
 for you. With no base building or resource collecting whatsoever, the game allows players to focus 
 their attention on the battle at hand. This game excels at multiplayer, and while the single-player 
 campagn is fun, it doesn't even compare to the excitement of playing a 6 on 6 match with real players 
 to coordinate your attacks with. 
  
  And that's THE key component to this game, coordination. As you start out, you pick a specialty 
 - ground, air, support or infantry - each allowing you to recruit the full tree of units in that 
 specialty. You can still recruit tanks as an infantry player, but you won't have access to the 
 highest ranking tanks and they'll cost almost double! This is where allied coordination comes in, 
 if one player chooses tank, a great combo is usually support *AA & artillery*. Although many will 
 compare this with a complicated version of "rock, paper, scissors", trust me, it's alot more fun 
 than that. You'll lose you're whole squadron of heavy heli's when the ai spawns a bunch of heavy 
 AA out of nowhere but asside from that, there aren't any real annoyances. Supplies are automaticly 
 generated over time, most common game type to play is Domination where you have to capture as many 
 "bases" as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QM3K
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Most of the other reviews have said it all. The game looks fantastic, and it really is a lot of 
 fun to play. Haven't hit multiplayer yet... plan to do so tonight. It is definitely different than 
 your typical RTS... no bases, no resource gathering, etc. You handle a relatively small amount of 
 units. Initially, I was a little disappointed about this, but as I played, I found that it was 
 nice to be able to manage my units so easily. 
  
  As the Gamespot review says, it's more like an action game masquerading as a strategy game. That 
 being said, there is still strategy here, and a good deal of it. You do have to know what unit 
 works best against others. Nothing is good against everything, and I haven't seen a unit that downright 
 sucks against everything. The story is decent... it will remind you of every Tom Clancy story ever 
 written, but it doesn't pretend to be more than that. Overall, a very entertaining and worthwhile 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  So if World War 2 isn't your thing then what war fits you? Well there is Nam', that is if you want 
 to play a game with no real conclusion. Perhaps you'd like a throwback to those good ol' Civil 
 War or Revolutionary War days? Nothing says a good game like Nostalgia and guns that can't hit 
 the broad side of a barn. So what? What war is left? How about a pseudo Cold-War? Instead of it 
 being cold and boring, ala a competition in who can spend the most money, the Soviet Union decides 
 to invade America. Sound interesting? How about if you add an American Propagandist spin along 
 with a lack of FPS game play mechanic? In fact, it's an RTS.
  
  While this review is a tad late, and I know World in Conflict came out some time ago. That won't 
 stop me from writing a review about it. In case you, the reader, doesn't know, I am not the biggest 
 RTS fan, although I love and enjoyed Dawn of War along with Company of Heroes. Company of Heroes 
 always touted as having very intense game play. While it was focused on smaller amounts of units 
 it delivered epic explosions and turning of the tides. World in Conflict out does CoH. Plain and 
 simple the battles are intense, full of explosions and one can't help but want to put a carpet 
 bomb on every suburb of America just to see it explode. The point though is to save America, not 
 to get distracted and kill your grandma. 
  
  This game is beautiful, staying away from the stark color palette of most War game is delivers 
 the lush landscape of Pacific Coast, albeit the country is being attacked, but pause the game and 
 stare at the trees and skyscrapers for a while, you won't be disappointed. With plenty of attention 
 to detail you won't be crying for any lack of ambiguous features. If you've got the hardware you 
 will get to see Ground Deformation (which does effect game play) , God Rays!, and Volumetric clouds 
 along with Volumetric lighting (which makes the god rays.) So overall, if you've got the hardware 
 for it, and I hope you do, the amount of fidelity in this game will keep your eyes tearing as you 
 strain to see all the beauty within. Real quick note before I get to game play, single player and 
 multiplayer aspects of the game: Graphics=Amazing for an RTS, Sound=Awesome, Voice Acting=Decent 
 (expanded on later) . Then some quick notes as to bad sides of the game: Slows down when the fray 
 gets too intense (Nukes anyone?) , may have one or two crashes. 
  
  Aside from Company of Heroes, has one of the best Single-Player experiences I have ever had the 
 joy, scratch that. It is one of the few that has caused me to think, "If I were odd I would so 
 have an orgasm over this." If I did that would disappoint my girlfriend so, I didn't. The fact 
 is that the story is engaging and actually brings it close to home. Basically, America is attacked 
 by the Soviet Union and you have to repel them out of our country before that take our Jerbs! (Sorry 
 for the South Park reference.) So while Regan may not get to live his one and true glory, "Gorbachev, 
 tear down this wall," you will get to force them out of your country. Although it has a more sinister 
 side, you plant an atomic bomb on your own country! Sorry, that was a spoiler, I'll stop. Throughout 
 the game you listen to military drama, which at times to me seems juvenile. Perhaps people from 
 the 80s shouldn't be allowed to be in the military. Anyways, the story itself is engaging and will 
 keep you hooked until the games climax, which is, for lack of a better word, EPIC! The learning 
 curve is a bit high if you've never played an RTS but for the most part the controls are the same. 
 Although, what they changed (camera control) is more intuitive than how other RTS makers have done 
 it. 
  
  Replayability? Yes? No? Maybe? Well yes, the multiplayer is ("is" was the 666th word typed for 
 this review.) fantastic. That is only true if you actually have skill. If you're void of talent 
 or a strategic mind then it may be best to only play with friends (3 is a good comfort zone) or 
 have them join you on a server that way you're not a noob; Yes this game has strategy, unlike Supreme 
 Commander, Command and Conquer, and even Company of Heroes where you can overpower the enemy by 
 having more or far superior troops, to win in World in Conflict you have to use your TA and troops 
 conservatively and strategically. So either playing with friends or with friends on a server with 
 people much better than you is the only way to go. That is, unless you're that person that decimated 
 my squadron of Tanks. I mentioned TA. Tactical Aid is a feature in this game that I can say is 
 the definitive staple mark. As you kill the enemy and capture areas you gain TA. You can either 
 build your own TA up or combine your teams and use it to call in tanks, paratroopers, napalm, chemical 
 explosions, carpet bombs, artillery strikes, and NUKES! The Nukes are spectacular. 
  
  Now I feel my reviews aren't comprehensive, but I've tried to give you an idea of the game through 
 emotion. The game play is good, both single player and multiplayer, although the multiplayer definitely 
 has a huge learning curve when compared to the single player portion of the game. So if you're 
 bored of your current games and want to check out a new and fun RTS with some hilarious, yet decent 
 voice acting, an intriguing story, good graphics and overall good game play then go check out World 
 in Conflict. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS:
  Graphically, this game is simply stunning, one of the best looking games seen to date. The detail 
 on the units and terrain is incredible; the smoke and explosion effects are some of the best I 
 have ever seen. All ground and terrain is fully deformable, buildings as well, adding an element 
 to gameplay that is too often missing. Little details are everywhere, zooming into look at an individual 
 infantry squad sees them decked out with the weapons they are supposed to be armed with or hear 
 them chatting with each other about trying to bum smokes. While tanks and armored vehicles leave 
 deep treads on the ground that can be used to locate them, and infantry deploying from a transport 
 helicopter can be seen kicking out zip lines and repelling down into the battle. All of it can 
 be astounding to see. Sounds also are incredibly well done, and the soundtrack deserves special 
 attention, there are a few tracks that those of us that recall the 80's will be delighted to hear, 
 including 'Everybody wants to rule the World' by Tears for Fears, and a few other surprises.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Gameplay is where this game truly escapes the banality of most of the RTS games 
 out now. There is no base building, no one needs to chop down trees, and there is no resource management. 
 The game's focus is squarely on combat and it shines. During the campaign, you truly feel like 
 you are a part of a massive battle, controlling your small number of units in concert with the 
 AI, much like the Call of Duty games single player.
  
  In addition to the various tanks, helicopters, personnel carriers, infantry, artillery and anti-air 
 the player can call upon; support is also available in the form of tactical aids. Destroying enemy 
 units and capturing objectives rewards the player with tactical aid points that can be utilized 
 for off-map support. These range from simple radar scans to reveal enemy units, to napalm strikes 
 that can burn down a forest hiding infantry, to a fighter sweep to shoot down exposed helicopters, 
 right up to carpet bombing by heavy bombers, and the feared tactical nuke, the best looking nuke 
 in a game yet.
  
  CONTROLS:
  The campaign is brilliant, if a little brief, but multiplayer is where this game shines. In normal 
 multiplayer matches, players assume a specialty role, be it armor, infantry, air, or support. Careful 
 cooperation with your teammates is the key to victory, and native VOIP and a brilliant communication 
 system make that teamwork possible. You can even pass tactical aid points to other players on your 
 team, saving up for that nuke or bombing run which might be the key to victory. The game has a 
 very low learning curve, but is difficult to master, a great combination. In many ways, the multiplayer 
 is reminiscent of an RTS version of Battlefield II, choosing a role, capturing points, and trying 
 to work with your team to defeat the enemy. You can even join games in progress, a first for RTS 
 to my knowledge. Lastly, native clan support, an incredible stats/awards system and a great multiplayer 
 interface with Massgate round out the great set of multiplayer features.
  
  FEATURES:
  For all the great features of this game, there are a few nitpicks to bring up. Most important, 
 is the lack of a campaign where you play as the Soviets. This is a major letdown that will hopefully 
 be addressed in a likely expansion. Second, a little more unit variety between the three sides 
 really would have been nice. While balance is always paramount, especially in a game built from 
 the ground-up for competitive multiplayer, the sides are a little too similar in capability, and 
 differ generally only in appearance. Lastly, while during development Massive tried to suggest 
 several times they weren't "picking sides" in this tale of World War III, there can be no doubt 
 that the US ended up the 'good guys', which is a little disappointing as it is such a clich.
 
  
  OVERALL:
  All in all though, this is one of the best games to come out in recent memory. It is a frantic 
 and amazing looking 'RTS' in a great setting. With a deceptively deep gameplay that shines especially 
 in multiplayer, action fans and RTS vets alike should find plenty to like here. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsb247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I was overjoyed when World in Conflict was finally released back in September. I was low on cash 
 at the time, but I decided to drop the extra cash on the collectors' edition anyhow. I do not regret 
 that purchase!
  
  World in Conflict is a game that sets itself apart from other games of the same genre. It takes 
 the traditional RTS and it puts a nice spin on it to produce something that is both entertaining, 
 and visually stunning.
  
  World in Conflict plays like many other action-based RTS games out there. There is no dirt farming, 
 and there is not base builing. All the player needs to do is order up their units, and they are 
 airdropped in at a specified location. This is a nice dynamic because it keeps the player active. 
 There is no monotonous base building or resource management to take the focus away from combat. 
 Instead, your are often tossed into the fray very shortly after deploying your units on the battlefield. 
 In fact, there will be precious few times where you can zoom the camera out and NOT see something 
 exploding SOMEWHERE on the map. there's always action somewhere, and it's easy to get caught up 
 in it. It's thrilling.
  
  Another thing that makes World in Conflict great is the attnetion to detail that the developers 
 went into while they were making the game. Units are very detailed (with the graphics turned up) , 
 and the environments are absolutely beautiful. The fact that pretty much everything is destructable 
 is also a nice touch. It gives the player the chance to turn that beautiful beach that they may 
 have happened to land on into a war-torn wasteland. It's always fun to zoom in on your units if 
 you can find a lull in the fighting and just admire how well modelled they are. I also found it 
 amusing that your units will speak to each other if you zoom in all the way and listen. The soldiers 
 like to talk to each other.
  
  I have yet to finish the campaign because I am kinda a spastic gamer. I tend to move from game 
 to game without neccessarily finishing any, but as far as I can see, the campaign is very well 
 put together. The cutscenes at the beginnings and ends of some of the missions are fun to watch, 
 and they allow the player to empathasize with some of the characters; always a good thing. As far 
 as the missions go, they are generally action-packed. Most of them are fairly easy, but there are 
 a few that will have you reloading to try and plan you assault/defense a little better.
  
  The units/tactics that the player is forced to employ in game are about as close to real-life as 
 I have seen in an RTS in a very long time. Tank shells will blow up lighter vehicles in one or 
 two hits, and tanks get shredded by AT missles fired by infantry and helicopters. The fact that 
 the units have fairly realistic, "Lives," means that one must know the best way to use each unit 
 type in order to use it effectively in game. You wouldn't send in an army of tanks to kill a swarm 
 of helicopters would you? I thought not... The player is forced to use units tactically in order 
 to accomplish anything, and it's nice to see that kind of depth. You won't see any successful (mindless) 
 rushing here. If you did, I would be shocked.
  
  Honestly, I could go on for hours about what makes this gmae great, but I suppose I will stop after 
 praising one more aspect of the game; the multiplayer. The Multiplayer element of this game is 
 BRILLIANT. Not only is it fun, but it forces players to use teamwork, and think a little before 
 just rushing out to get killed. Players must support each other and come to each others' rescue 
 if things get dicy. It's always fun to be the one to bail out a teammate with a well-placed cluster 
 bomb or napalm strike.
  
  Yes, I know I have nothing but praise for this game so far, but that does not mean I think it's 
 perfect. Not everyone goes for the quasi-realistic action RTS thing like I do, and there are those 
 out there who will argue that the game is too, "Simple," to be any good. To people like that, I 
 will say this, "This game is easy to pick up, but it is difficult to master."
  
  World in Conflict is definately worth checking out if you are into RTS games. It's one of the best 
 I've played, and I think I have done a pretty good job of explaining why. Go and see for yourself! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew254
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Boring. Tired. Simple. Entry-Level. No tech-tree. No base building. Not really a RTS.
  
  These are the words that have not been used to describe World In Conflict. I am so surprised that 
 Gamespot thinks highly of this game. Normally, i agree with their reviews, but truthfully - I'm 
 just shocked.
  
  Almost like its one big April fools joke....
  
  So here are the good things:
  
  Great story - superb voice acting - brilliant visuals - Unique 
 camera
  
  that's about it. there's really no strategy here. I guess I was looking for a Company of Heroes 
 killer - all it made me do is buy the expansion pack for COH instead. I can't stress enough how 
 hyped up this game is. Do yourself a favor and download the free demo FIRST then purchase it if 
 you can stomach the game for more than three missions.
  
  DO NOT BE TEMPTED BY THE HIGH SCORE. IT's A JOKE OF A GAME  TOO SIMPLE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict's demo gave me an impression that the game had potential but just didnt full 
 utilize that potential. Lets see if the game changed since the demo.
  
  *Campaign* - 10+/10
  
  The campaign is REALLY good. I mean wow. The story bounces around certain 
 time lines taking place before and after the first "chapter" of the campaign.
  
  Cutscenes are done extremely well. Most surprisingly is the amount of humor and "badassness" showcased 
 in the cutscenes. Like the ending song in the game is famous hit performed by an old rock group 
 "Whitesnake."
  
  Voice acting is VERY good. In the same realm as tremendous RPG/story driven games' dialogues and 
 voice acting.
  
  *Graphics* - 10+/10
  
  World in Conflict looks amazing. Its not "the best" graphics I've ever seen in an RTS game but 
 they certainly compare very well to "the best." When this game is maxed out with all AA, AF, resolutions 
 then WOW it looks gorgeous.
  
  Explosions hands down look the best in World in Conflict. And there are a lot of explosions in 
 WiC.
  
  Controls/Camera - A FRUSTRATING 4/10
  
  Terrible. You use a FPS oriented control scheme. You move left, right, up, down using the ASDW 
 letters and looking left, right, etc. using the mouse. Because your left hand worries about moving 
 around the battlefield using hotkeys with your left hand is a pain in the ass. And not being able 
 to have your hands constantly on the 1-8 number keys makes micromanaging an assault with multiple 
 unit squadrons a total PAIN IN THE ASS.
  
  Most of the time the camera will just change positions or zoom on you without warning which means 
 you have to waste time fixing it while doing battle and taking casualties, or just choose to fight 
 blindly. All in all the controls and camera in this game are TERRIBLE. You can "adjust" to them 
 but theyre a total pain in the ass and take too much..."strategy" trying to fix the camera.
  
  *Gameplay* - 6/10 WiC does not contain that RTS style of play we are all accustomed to. You 
 don't build a base, you dont tech up, and you dont gather resources. HUH?!... I know... What happens 
 is your units are paradropped in using a menu system that slowly replenishes points needed to call 
 in units. So bigger, better units are require more points, and vice-versa.
  
  The flaw is: WiC has huge maps. It was set up to where it looked like the game was intended for 
 large scale battles (even with the compliment of all tactical aid... read further) . However with 
 this point system. It replenishes way too SLOW and the population cap is way too low. It eliminates 
 the need of establishing a base and gathering resources but I'm a long time RTS player (started 
 when I was...7 now I'm 18) and I know how to micromanage my economy and my base and produce an 
 army that should be feared. But with this resource system I had to WAIT, WAIT, and WAIT, and WAIT 
 some more. And because you're reimbursed fully (over a period of time) for lost units you don't 
 really have to worry about keeping them alive. Which eliminates a whole need of keeping your units 
 at veteran level, and not wasting more money on new units.
  
  You have another menu that is your "tactical aid" menu. That has all the goodies that go BOOM! 
 That menu is replenished when you do combat like causing damage to enemy units. Of course bigger, 
 and "BOOMier" weapons such as tactical nukes, and carpet bombing cost the most amount of points, 
 and smaller artillery barrages cost the least amount. The Tactical Aid menu sounds nice. But most 
 missions require you to just sit back and bomb the enemy to dust. Sure they explosions show off 
 the GORGEOUS visuals, but there is no strategy involved. And the enemy AI in the missions just 
 keep running to the same area to get blown up.
  
  You lose any strategic elements all together.
  
  And in competitive play. The Tactical aid 
 takes way too long to get there. Yeah I highly doubt any smart RTS player will leave their units 
 in the same area for 20 freaking seconds while their enemies sit back. So most of the time you'll 
 find your enemies simply evading the blast radius.
  
  *Final Thoughts* - Mixed Reactions
  
  World in Conflict is a good game. But when you play RTS games and expect them to be FAST, full 
 of strategy, and micromanaging, WiC just doesn't satisfy that need.
  
  The game was intended for newcomers to the RTS genre. You can see that because of no worries about 
 building a base, teching up, gathering resources, or losses to units. And you wont see anyone getting 
 tanked rushed 3 minutes into a match.
  
  WiC presents a more casual RTS experience and is intended for more newcomers to the RTS genre.
 
  
  If youre really into RTS games like I am you'll probably feel cheated, and that the game is very 
 easy and slow.
  
  The game's visuals, campaign, story, and voice acting are TERRIFIC.
  
  *Newcomers to RTS* - You'll probably love this game
  
  *Longtime players of RTS* - You'll 
 most likely think this game is way too easy and simplistic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdou023
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  I don't know how people give it a rate of 9 and 10 it's just a bad and boring copy of Company Of 
 Heroes it's all about fighting and shooting u just make you tank or troop aim and shoot there is 
 no building, managing or thinking at all .
  
  Actually you can consider it a real-time strategy game only because the way you control and play, 
 but to tell you the truth there is no any real strategy in it.
  
  I was hoping for a game that can beat Company Of Heroes but it was a big disappoint for me. What 
 makes me even sad and angry that this is my first time i relay on GAMESPOT for a game rat and the 
 site disappoint me . i saw the rat and some pictures and i went for buying it blindly .so bad GAMESPOT.
 
  
  Anyway i tell everyone who haven't buy it yetDON'T BUY THIS GAME !"
  
  
  And i gave it Score 5 considering the good graphics in the game and very nice effects like explosions 
 . But a message for the game creators "Guys it's not about graphics it's about game-play
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0Goldeneye0
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty safe to say this is so far the BEST RTS ever. I thought Company of Heroes was the best, 
 but it cant out match this game.
  
  Story: Its the Cold war, USA travels to Europe to help but leaves there rears wide open and the 
 Commie Russians invade the USA. With a good story and voice acting its one of the best stories 
 ever. 
  
  Audio: This game sounds awesome not just the Voice acting but the atmosphere. Hearing a Nuke go 
 off and when you zoom in you hear the radioactive sensors. 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are the best on a RTS so far. Its amazing to see bombs go off, blow up everything 
 in your own city, The maps are almost pinpoint to the real thing. By far awesome. 
  
  Gameplay: You have to play it to understand it. its not like any other RTS. The controls are different 
 but are easy to get use to. And the best part. NO resource management! The Multiplayer is just 
 amazing when you get a big match going. 
  
  All in all. Just buy the freaking game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidosim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The Concept of the Cold War erupting into World War 3 is nothing new in media. We've already seen 
 it in movies, books, and games. But I cannot deny that World in Conflict truly brings this doomsday 
 scenario to life like never before. Fiery explosions, plooms of smoke, and destructible environments 
 all turn America's cities and countryside in to hellish warzones. 
  
  Indeed there is a lot of excitement and cool moments in World in Conflict, but it just doesn't 
 bring very much innovation or depth to the table. When you get past all of the flash, the game 
 ultimately appears to be little more than a really pretty tank rush-fest, especially on multiplayer. 
 Don't get me wrong, it's a fun game, but I think Gamespot overrated this one. They made the arguement 
 that the gameplay was completely new and innovative, citing aspects like calling in airstrikes 
 and artillery, but these concepts are hardly new in gaming, although they can make battles more 
 dynamic and they really are fun to use. 
  
  All told, World in Conflict is kind of comparable to Doom 3. It has outstanding graphics for its 
 time, but once you get over the prettyness, it's pretty much the same old process of getting a 
 bunch of tanks and sending them at the enemy, with little deep strategy involved. In the end, I 
 don't feel that I truly got my money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecatsat123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  World in conflict is proberbly one of the best RTS i have ever played it has got awesome graphics 
 the gameplay is great, and the campaign and multiplayer are very addictive. 
  
  Teams: the teams are pretty easy to explain, USA, USSR and NATO. They are all have there own units 
 etc, unfortunaly you can only play as the USA in the campaign it would of been nicer if the game 
 could of been made that much longer with another campaign. The unit speeches are not to annoying 
 as well so you wont have to mute voices on the sound options for once.
  
  Artillery/callins: These a a good feature the WIC it allows you to call support for your troops 
 this could be repair or bombs to destroy tanks or artillery that are blowing everything up! there 
 was one thing about the artillery it is very powerful and you get alot of it in multiplayer and 
 in single player one example of that would be the NUKE which is absolutly amazing to see go off 
 :D. Overall it adds something else to this great RTS along with the other things of course :)
 
  
  Gameplay: On most RTS the gameplay is pretty simple get a large enough force and go from one side 
 of the map and kill the enemy, well in WIC it is the same sort of thing (all RTS have that as the 
 general idea) but it makes it soooo much better, for example instead of just ploughing your huge 
 army to the other side killing everything in sight you have to use your small force of tanks, infanty 
 and air to first weaken the enemy may that be with artillery or snipers or napalm and then watch 
 where you move being careful not to walk into falling bombs from the enemy etc. It adds a whole 
 new level of excitement and you need to be alot more tacticle if you wont to win. The large varity 
 of units to choose from also makes the game more intresting. To be honest when i looked at the 
 game i thorght that it would be like all the other drop in your units and go style stratergy games, 
 boring.... but this game is different, meaning its a masterpiece of a RTS and you would be stupid 
 not to go and buy it right now!!!! 
  
  Campaign: I wont go into this one very much as i may end up ruining it :D but basically in my view 
 most stratergy games have a pretty boring campaign, build up and kill the enemy that is usually 
 the main idea and then it is like that for the whole game, well in WIC it is alot better and far 
 more exciting and i am sure that anyone who has played the game will say the same that it is better 
 to play it on the hard or normal setting it makes the campaign so much more tactical. The storyline 
 of the game is also very good and the cinimatics in between the levels are very good aswell. The 
 campagn is also pretty long which is always a good point for stratergy games or games in general.
 
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is also a very good part of WIC it allows you to play huge battles 
 with your friends or other random people online, it has a good varity of levels to play and differnent 
 game modes such as Domination, Tug of war and Assult all very good to play. On the multiplayer 
 you also have to work as a team if you wish to win, meaning that you can not play as all of the 
 army options you will have to choose from either: Air, Armor, Infantry and Support, they all have 
 specific roles and have weaknesses and strengths, used together correctly and you will be unstopable.
 
  
  Bad Points: Thanksfully there are next to non bad points about this game other than the single 
 player could of been made longer with another campaign and that the really good graphics might 
 not be able to be enjoyed by all as it can be quite high demanding on your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiitana
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I've found World in Conflict to be an excellent game. Coming from the Seattle area, I 
 can tell that the developers took a great amount of time properly detailing the area. I would rate 
 the game as follows:
  
  Graphics: 10
  An outstanding use of the currently available horsepower that really gives you a feeling like you're 
 there. The units and surrounding areas contain a lot of detail and the explosions from the air 
 strikes are phenomenal. My only complaint is that things get a little pixelated when zooming in 
 to the closest level.
  
  Game play: 9
  Very intuitive. Anyone who's played an RTS in the past shouldn't even bother with the users manual. 
 It is that familiar. While it is a plus, it would've been nice to have something new.
  
  Sound: 10
  Very realistic and engrossing. The music is subtle enough to not be intrusive, but 
 still adds that much needed layer to make the game enjoyable. There's also few things as enjoyable 
 as watching bombing runs made on the Soviet units and listening to the bombs explode.
  
  Intangibles: 9
  Overall, any veteran RTS player will be satisfied. For those who're into alternate 
 history, there's a lot to be garnished as well. All in all, I am still enjoying this game and recommend 
 it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cornholio89
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This game hands down is the best strategy game I have ever played personally, clean graphics, a 
 story you can sink your teeth into, and if your an American who was born during the cold war like 
 me, you can relate to the story too. What is revolutionary about this game is the combat system 
 and how it functions just like real battlefields, plus the fact you have a full arsenal of real 
 units to choose; from the M1 A1 Abrams tank, to the fearsome Ilyushin IL-86 gunship, not to mention 
 the crisp clean graphics that make you feel like you are in the game, only problem is the servers 
 suck. The servers for the game need to be improved and cleaned out, another slight problem is the 
 lack of a 1 player skirmish mode, I suppose Sierra did this to encourage more online play. And 
 since this is a "Game for Windows" there should be achievements that are unlockable during gameplay 
 or something. However this game still exemplifies what strategy games should be and I am looking 
 forward to the expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameschurch3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Most Strategy games don't give you the same experience actually to tell you the truth I know of 
 no others that give you the same story or pull. I mean as far as strategy games go this is a very 
 accurate representation of what would have happened in the cold war if it erupted into a world 
 war. The Strategy is by far the most realistic system I have seen, unlike in most other games you 
 don't have unlimited numbers you always have a fixed number you have to call on, and when your 
 units die you normally get the chance to replace them. I find this irritating because if the US 
 has enough troops to cover my losses on the battlefield, why can't they give them to me at the 
 beginning so I have more guns to work with?
  
  Other than that unlike most games where soldiers dieing isn't that big of a deal, it actually has 
 serious consequences here. Many times it is better to pull out and return to fighting strength 
 than to keep pressing your units forward into fire. The reason for this is because though you will 
 be able to get those units back you lose the experience they bring to the battlefield and it takes 
 time to get those units back (maybe 2 minutes at best) . The experience may only be a 10% increase 
 over the others, but that really comes in handy when facing hordes of opponents that keep bombarding 
 and attacking you, these units become very obvious with their advantages towards the end of the 
 game.
  
  The reason I didn't give this a perfect score is because of the resupply system, which works nicely 
 and balanced but I feel takes realism out of the game, In my opinion you should have your company 
 of soldiers that you had before, rested and ready for the next fight and vehicles repaired, and 
 depending on how many soldiers you lost you would be resupplied accordingly. Meaning if you do 
 poorly you may only be able to recover half your loses, however if you do well you get a couple 
 extra points to strengthen your units, periodically through out the game, in combat, you would 
 be awarded reinforcements for securing an adjective, nothing crazy, just some points for like anti-tank 
 soldiers. Thats my 2 cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Nezwych
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  If you have a pathetic internet, don't have internet, cannot stand other human beings or are unable 
 to click a button which reads, "multiplayer", then DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. Instead run away, run 
 far away, where it cant find you. The singleplayer is literally; build some units, send them in 
 that general directionof the objective, and replace them if they happen to die. However the multiplayer 
 is a completely different experence. You play as one of fours categories, which are either armour, 
 air, infantry and support with each playing a vital role in each battle you fight in. Teamwork 
 is essential, but i often find little to know communication on random battles i join, so join a 
 clan if you can. You are backed up in battles buy tactical aid, which you utilise via killing enemies, 
 capturing command points and fortifying them, earning you tactical aid points. You can then spend 
 the points on things from air-strikes to artillery to daisy-cutter bombs and, yes, even tactical 
 nukes. The Resource system is unique-you start with a set number of "points" which you the "spend" 
 on different units from your particular class. Whenever you units are destroyed these point are 
 slowly refunded back into your account, and you can repurchase them, allowing you to get straight 
 back to the action. This totally removes base building, which may upset some (including me) , who's 
 pride on most battlefields in impenetrable defences.
  
  Overall WIC is worth a look, but if you have the cash and are torn between say WIC and COH, go 
 for COH. You will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodElf42
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I don't really like one of the characters ( Bannon) but in the end he turned 
 out okay. The Campaign was so much fun I can't wait for the expansion this year. People say all 
 you do is click a mouse and your units do what you want with no strategy. I guess they never called 
 in an Air strike or Artillery or played as artillery for that matter. and playing air let me tell 
 you is harder than just clicking a mouse and getting the eye candy ( which is amazing) you time 
 it just right and set up traps and all kinds of cool stuff blowing bridges, tactical nukes, Napalm 
 ( lots and lots of Napalm)
  , The Daisy Cutter and even the Guns of The Missouri!!! There is no end to the fun to be had in 
 this game. Even in Campaign you will sometimes want to play it again just to lose to see what happens 
 ( like losing the N. Y mission just to see the horror of calling in an Airstrike) . I say again there 
 is no end to the fun of this game it is a classic. Best Multiplayer Experience I've had since it 
 forces you to team so you do have to plan with other people and be cooperative. This is the Best 
 Strategy Game ever in my book. Granted Tiberium Wars is fun and I love playing it but this game 
 just seems to deliver a little more outside of campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salfar2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  It is the best RTS computer game i have ever played, must try it and you will surely love it. Generals 
 is easily one of the best Command & Conquer games yet, but it change the history, now this is the 
 best of the best, RTS got a new class World in Conflict set a new standard in RTS Class. First 
 you must play Tutorial to understand the game, at that you may be disapointed that you cannot build 
 buildings but when you start playing the game you will find it better than building buildings. 
 The graphics are awesome. Well done Sierra. If you love to play C & C then you must try it, beacuse 
 it is better and modern way combat game. RTS do not have any better game than this till now. I 
 appreciate the team of World in Confilct. Great Job. I hope World in Conflict 2 will definitly 
 come by the end of this year, I am waiting for the announcement by Sierra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreyfield2306
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The reality base of the cold war conflict is on the dot, and to the point. The game makes you think 
 what would have happened if big Russia would have invaded the great USA. This game is a must if 
 you are into the strategy type games, and military warfare. It will make think twice before you 
 move, and quickly. I was impressed with the amount of vehicles you can use, and the diffrent things 
 you can do with the vehicles. Its a mind captive game that will make you lose time, and forget 
 about everything around you. I recommend making sure you have plenty of time to play becasue you 
 will need it. The graphics are great with a wondeful story board. Its worth the money to buy and 
 play!!!!! The only downfall to the game is you need to make sure your computer can handle the game, 
 and that you have plenty of memory. Oh and make sure if you IM, you turn off the IM's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I might be one of the minority of people that would read this review with bona fide memories of 
 the perceived threat in the United States by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. A World War 
 III scenario with a Warsaw Pact attack into Western Europe, either accompanied by, or escalating 
 to a strategic thermonuclear exchange was a very real fear here. Luckily, neither of those scenarios 
 ever became reality, but the slug match between the two mighty superpowers makes for a great premise, 
 and after approximately three hundred and fifty thousand World War II themed games, Massive Entertainment 
 brilliantly elected to visit this overlooked period of history.
  
  Set in 1989, the Soviet Union is facing economic stagnation and an uncertain political future, 
 much like the real 1989, and must change the course of their nation. Unlike the USSR of our world 
 however, the Politburo decides to attack NATO, reasoning that the seizure of Western Europe will 
 stabilize their tenuous hold on power, and elevate them to the premier superpower. Since the United 
 States is the greatest threat to their plan, and seeking to disrupt the US response in Europe, 
 the Soviets open a second front through a sneak-attack into the continental United States via Seattle. 
 The player takes on the role of a young officer in the conflict, fighting a two-front war; the 
 US must push back the Soviet invasion at home and bring the fight to the enemy.
  
  Graphically, this game is simply stunning, one of the best looking games seen to date. The detail 
 on the units and terrain is incredible; the smoke and explosion effects are some of the best I 
 have ever seen. All ground and terrain is fully deformable, buildings as well, adding an element 
 to gameplay that is too often missing. Little details are everywhere, zooming into look at an individual 
 infantry squad sees them decked out with the weapons they are supposed to be armed with or hear 
 them chatting with each other about trying to bum smokes. While tanks and armored vehicles leave 
 deep treads on the ground that can be used to locate them, and infantry deploying from a transport 
 helicopter can be seen kicking out zip lines and repelling down into the battle. All of it can 
 be astounding to see. Sounds also are incredibly well done, and the soundtrack deserves special 
 attention, there are a few tracks that those of us that recall the 80's will be delighted to hear, 
 including 'Everybody wants to rule the World' by Tears for Fears, and a few other surprises.
  
  Gameplay is where this game truly escapes the banality of most of the RTS games out now. There 
 is no base building, no one needs to chop down trees, and there is no resource management. The 
 game's focus is squarely on combat and it shines. During the campaign, you truly feel like you 
 are a part of a massive battle, controlling your small number of units in concert with the AI, 
 much like the Call of Duty games single player.
  
  In addition to the various tanks, helicopters, personnel carriers, infantry, artillery and anti-air 
 the player can call upon; support is also available in the form of tactical aids. Destroying enemy 
 units and capturing objectives rewards the player with tactical aid points that can be utilized 
 for off-map support. These range from simple radar scans to reveal enemy units, to napalm strikes 
 that can burn down a forest hiding infantry, to a fighter sweep to shoot down exposed helicopters, 
 right up to carpet bombing by heavy bombers, and the feared tactical nuke, the best looking nuke 
 in a game yet.
  
  The campaign is brilliant, if a little brief, but multiplayer is where this game shines. In normal 
 multiplayer matches, players assume a specialty role, be it armor, infantry, air, or support. Careful 
 cooperation with your teammates is the key to victory, and native VOIP and a brilliant communication 
 system make that teamwork possible. You can even pass tactical aid points to other players on your 
 team, saving up for that nuke or bombing run which might be the key to victory. The game has a 
 very low learning curve, but is difficult to master, a great combination. In many ways, the multiplayer 
 is reminiscent of an RTS version of Battlefield II, choosing a role, capturing points, and trying 
 to work with your team to defeat the enemy. You can even join games in progress, a first for RTS 
 to my knowledge. Lastly, native clan support, an incredible stats/awards system and a great multiplayer 
 interface with Massgate round out the great set of multiplayer features.
  
  For all the great features of this game, there are a few nitpicks to bring up. Most important, 
 is the lack of a campaign where you play as the Soviets. This is a major letdown that will hopefully 
 be addressed in a likely expansion. Second, a little more unit variety between the three sides 
 really would have been nice. While balance is always paramount, especially in a game built from 
 the ground-up for competitive multiplayer, the sides are a little too similar in capability, and 
 differ generally only in appearance. Lastly, while during development Massive tried to suggest 
 several times they weren't "picking sides" in this tale of World War III, there can be no doubt 
 that the US ended up the 'good guys', which is a little disappointing as it is such a clich.
 
  
  All in all though, this is one of the best games to come out in recent memory. It is a frantic 
 and amazing looking 'RTS' in a great setting. With a deceptively deep gameplay that shines especially 
 in multiplayer, action fans and RTS vets alike should find plenty to like here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packers219
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I play tons of RTS games, such as DoW, AoE, Total War, etc and there is not a single RTS that can 
 match this game. It does take a little time getting used to not building bases and gathering resources, 
 but it's definitely worth it. This game has amazing graphics, innovative gameplay, and it actually 
 involves thinking of more than just where to put your plasma generator or your farm. Instead of 
 controlling all of the units on the battlefield, you must choose your role: infantry, armor, support, 
 or air. It is essential that you work with your teammates or else the enemy will make short work 
 of you. Also, if you are not a team oriented person, there is FPM (few player mode) in which you 
 can do 1v1 or 2v2 and you control all four roles instead of the usual 8v8. I reccommend at least 
 downloading the demo and trying it out because this game is definitely worth it. I will say that 
 if the reason you like RTS is because you enjoy building bases, gathering resources, and waiting 
 ten minutes to build your army, this game is not for you. This game is highly addictive, fast paced, 
 and very team oriented. It is a must buy for anyone who enjoys a good RTS that is more than just 
 the standard mold that all the other RTS follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxico81
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  Didn't write a review in a long time, but this time I felt compelled to do so.
  
  I found this game in the barginbin a month ago, so I decided to give it a shot.
  
  No need 
 to mention the graphics, as most of you know, they are stunning.
  Lets move on to the most important part of the (or any) game, the gameplay. When I think of strategy, 
 I think of positioning units where I WANT TO POSTION THEM. However, this game hardly gives you 
 any possibility on where to position your units. Instead, the game let's you move your units to 
 a preset spot on the map. In other words, it's not me who decides where to go, but the game who 
 decides it for me.
  
  Getting deeper into the gameplay regarding controlling units. All of your units have special moves. 
 This seems very cool, but it's not. First of all the moves aren't so special. You fire rockets, 
 put up a smokescreen etc etc. Furthermore, and that's the biggest problem IMO, because units have 
 special moves and the game heavily depends on them, you'll be micromanaging most of the time. When 
 I think of a military wargame, I think of controlling huge armies. Surely there are lot's of soldiers 
 etc on the screen while playing, but you're not controlling them. Most of the time you control 
 about 6 units simultaniously. Getting further in the game, you'll be able to control more groups, 
 but not more units at the same time. That's not what I had in mind considering this game is about 
 WW3.
  IMO it would have been better if there were missions where you'de control small groups, and there 
 would be mission controlling vast armies. This would also give a nice change in gameplay during 
 the game. After going from point A to B for so many times, you wanna do something else instead.
 
  
  This game tried to revolutionize the RTS-genre. It did, and that's not meant in a positive way. 
 Simply cause the gameplay is totally different from your standard-RTS, doesn't mean that it's a 
 good game. Being innovative is one thing, being innovative AND good is something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genedunn
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  So, I just finished playing WiC. New rule... no reviewing a game until you finish it. That's just 
 for me, so feel free to ignore it. The single-player campaign is short and mostly sweet. Only 14 
 missions. The lack of "custom mission" (for now) is pretty frustrating, but I suppose the flip 
 side of that is the robust on-line play, which I haven't gotten into.
  
  If you enjoy playing on-line, against other players, this is probably a pretty cool RTS. If, however, 
 you like a little realism to go with your RTS you will probably be disappointed. My feeling is 
 that, if you are going to base your game on US and Soviet forces in the 80's, it should be moderately 
 realistic (not hyper-realistic... but somewhat) . If you just put US and Soviet skins on a bunch 
 of units with the same capabilities, you might as well set your game in outer space or the future 
 or something. So, that was a little frustrating for me.
  
  The other thing I did not really care for was the seeming lack of benefit from units levelling 
 up. Their rank icon would change, but they would not get any new abilities, or really become better 
 at the abilities they have. Additionally, the abilities are all triggered, there are no passive 
 or automatic abilities. Comparing this set-up with "Sins of a Solar Empire" (review to come soon) , 
 where your units can "auto-cast" their abilities, makes you wonder why anyone would ever have it 
 any other way. Let's face it, even platoon and company commanders don't have to tell their vehicles 
 when to fire an AT missile, or when to use AP ammo. Kind of silly if you ask me.
  
  On the upside... if you suspend your disbelief and ignore the minor annoyances, it is pretty fun 
 and very pretty. A hectic game of "blow up the commie".
  
  My recommendation: unless you LOVE on-line RTS games, pick it up used (see: Goozex) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict a. k. a WIC is a new approach to RTS. Unlike conventional RTS like C&C, WIC is 
 not based on resource gathering or structure building. WIC put you in details of battles. You have 
 limited resources with which you can by units. If your buying limitation exceeds then you can't 
 by any more units until you lose your existing units. By losing existing units, points will refund 
 and you can by another unit (s) to replace the lost one.
  
  Your command area is limited to a small place Unlike Supreme Commander. This small area has more 
 details which entertains and thrills you through the game. This limitation adds more entertainments 
 in the game for RTS lovers. The command area consists of buildings, forests and many more structures 
 which destroying them causes a lot of smoke and bricks to fly in the air and enhance the gameplay. 
 
  
  WIC is not just about destroying enemy units, but it is about capturing specific strategic points. 
 Capturing these points will cause a reward or expansion of the area where you can drop units. If 
 you capture several linked strategic points, fortifications start to be built just by keeping a 
 unit in the strategic point. More units in the point causes the speedup in building the fortification. 
 This feature causes build of a reliable place so you can leave the place to capture other points.
 
  
  Aside from the units you can buy by your points, you can use tactical aids to drop units in any 
 place on the battlefield. This expands your army further from what limitations bound you. Units 
 such as helicopters, armors, artilleries, infantries, transports and repairs assist you to reach 
 your goal by doing their parts. Many interesting features such as hiding infantries between trees 
 without being seen adds value to your strategic maneuvers. 
  
  Besides physical units, you can call different tactical aids such as artillery barrage, carpet 
 bombs, tank busters, etc by spending your tactical points at any time in the game. These tactical 
 points is gathered by killing enemies, capturing strategic points, repairing friendly units. 
 
  
  In my opinion, WIC is one of the best RTS I have ever played. I haven't found any bugs or anything 
 that could annoy me in the game. So I can call this game a rank 10/10 for its best performance 
 and best time I had during the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invinciblesuman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  I know a lot of people who sway away from RTS because of its GDA ( Gather Defend Attack ) stereotyped 
 strategies. They instead choose action games of FPS. Well, World in Conflict is an RTS which is 
 more action than you will ever experience in the genre. It shuves the GDA strategy right out of 
 the window. No resources and bases... just shear war action. 
  
  Firstly I have to mention the gameplay. It is fast, exciting and to the point. There are 14 campaigns 
 in total. Each campaign comes up with a set of objectives that appear progressively in the game. 
 The map is expansive, beautiful and terrain graphics are splendid. Since most of the story takes 
 place in the American soil and some in european countryside, the buildings represent the colonies 
 accurately. Seattle and NY are so well depicted that the wars seem more natural. 
  
  The camera is a genuine breakthrough in this title. You can rotate it in any direction which means 
 it is not the stereotype top to bottom zoom effect that you find in most RTS games. The view of 
 the map is awesome and the camera is smooth allowing you to place it strategically to gain a vision 
 advantage in the battlefield. 
  
  Some say the story is a bit farfetched, but I feel it is excellent. We play games to escape from 
 reality, not to feel reality. The story presents a perfect balance between fantasy and real life, 
 in the sense it is not too distance and a possibility of it becoming a reality exsisted during 
 the cold war days. The voice make overs are brilliant. Every campaign begins with a strategic cutscene 
 and a emotional cutscene depicting the soldiers lives. Both comprise of still sketches but are 
 so brilliantly depicted with great voice and awesome music that it gives a real boost to start 
 a mission. The sound effects are fantastic and that includes the voice. Color effects are good 
 and makes the war seem more immersive.
  
  Difficulty wise the game is just right. Dont play in the easy mode its too darn easy. The game 
 units are cool, especially the heavy attack helicopter and the bazooka artillery. Tactical Aid 
 is another interesting feature in this game. You can call upon firesupport from air or artillery 
 barrage on enemy locations. This is a real plus when playing tough missions and is a real joy to 
 watch the enemy command post turn to dust. Especially check out the air support team called "Iceman" 
 which has a cool voice and does terrific damage to enemy ground units as its swooshes over them 
 bombing their positions. You can also call in reinforcement that are dropped anywhere on a possible 
 dropping zone on the map. 
  
  Tip: If u wanna see the whole map on enemy locations and on going battles, pause the screen [Esc] 
 and move the camera [arrows] . 
  
  In summary, I would recommend this game to every RTS fan just because it is different in every 
 sense from the usual games of this genre and hence, an enriching experience. The missions look 
 more realistic than ever and the gameplay is really commendable. In short, this game deserves to 
 be the strategy game of the year 2007. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best looking RTS games I have seen. It is great looking but with no real 
 value. You cannot view the eye candy because you always zoomed out to take in the entire combat 
 arena. So what good is good graphics if you cannot see them? The controls are atrocious. I had 
 more trouble control that God forsaken camera than I care to admit. The game mechanics are okay 
 but again, you really cannot see what is going on because the camera is a pain to manage, and your 
 always zoomed out in order to keep an eye on everything. I regret buying this game and would recommend 
 that players download the demo and play it first to see if it is something that they would want 
 to buy. The game looks great but again, you cannot take advantage of that because your always zoomed 
 out. Things happen that tend to ruin the overall game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I will skip the singleplayer champain, which was good, and go straight to multiplayer. This is 
 the best mulitplayer game I had so far. It is the first strategy game of its genre I have seen 
 that allows you to join a game that is already in progress. No longer are your games ruined by 
 players who quit or if one player lags. You may have 18 players in battle at the same time. Remember 
 that each person controls a small portion of an entire army like armor, infantry, support, and 
 air. There is a fine selection of maps to employ different techniques in. The graphics are fantastic 
 but you will need to run with more current graphics cards and systems if you want to run it smoothly 
 with normal graphics. The team that actually uses teamwork has the best chance at winning. Overall: 
 Massgate has introduced an excellent and highly addictive game that will keep you playing happily 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raza1987
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  As my review deck shows that i actually hate rts i have never played an rts for too long but after 
 playing this game my mind has completly changed and accepted that rts games can also be so amazing 
 and interesting. I think that i could not better describe this game. I've played this game on my
 
  
  OS=XP SP2
  CPU=P4 HT 3.0 ghz
  GRAPHICS CARD=ASUS 8600gt 
  
  I played on 1024 into 768 res with all options very high except antialiasing which i set to off 
 and i got 20 to 35 fps depending on situation. One very good thing is its graphics and this game 
 is not so heavy like many games of 2007. Normal system requirements makes this game even more worthy. 
 
  
  Thanks
  Name=Alay Raza
  Occopation=Biomedical Engineering Student
  Country=Pakistan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  2007 so far has been pretty good to Real-Time Strategy (RTS) fans. Earlier in the year people got 
 their hands on Supreme Commander, after that the legendary character Kane came back with Command 
 & Conquer 3 soon following. So now those big hitters have come and gone, what's going to be next? 
 World in Conflict might not have as much hype as the previous games mentioned, but it should be 
 noted that it's a fantastic RTS game that is going to get its name on the map, with a big attractive 
 nuclear explosion to boot.
  
  Set in 1989, World in Conflict is taking us through an alternative version of the Cold War, a "what 
 if" scenario of the Soviet Union attacking the United States of America. The Soviet Union has already 
 started a war in Europe. With the battle not looking so well for NATO, the United States has decided 
 to send help across the ocean to them. After NATO gained back some ground in Europe, the war was 
 slowly turning into a stalemate. The Soviet Union needs to do something to push the war in their 
 favour. A surprise attack on the land of the free is what was decided. America, still having a 
 lot of their forces in Europe, was unprepared and surprised at the commies arriving on their backyard. 
 It's up to you and your tactical prowess to help prevent this from happening.
  
  Some people have debated to whether really class World in Conflict as a RTS, mainly because there's 
 no base building or resource gathering. Players are thrown into the thick of battle with a given 
 amount of units. Reinforcements are available through set amount of reinforcement points or if 
 a unit is destroyed. Destroyed units are converted back in to reinforcement points then added to 
 your total slowly over time. The general gameplay is familiar to Real-Time Tactical games, such 
 as Ground Control (Another Massive Entertainment series) and to some extent the Total War series. 
 Removing base building/resource gathering gets rid of all the things that usually slow down the 
 pace of RTS games. What's left is a game that's full of high speed adrenaline action; there really 
 isn't much time for tea breaks and scones in this game.
  
  All this action means for lots of bullets, explosions and debris flying all over the place. Just 
 to make things sweeter, the game is full of destructible buildings and vegetation, everything can 
 be turned into lumps of rubble and doing so is just so satisfying. The game really pulls it off 
 because of how it looks. People say that graphics aren't important if the game is fun, but when 
 it comes to things blowing up, everyone always dreams of a nice big bang, like a huge firework 
 display. This is where World in Conflict comes in; it feeds your inner demolition man with extravagant 
 explosions. The game is one of the prettiest looking RTS around, be it the units, surroundings 
 or the special effects, it all comes together nicely. It's fully appreciated when you set off your 
 first nuclear bomb, watching everything waste away and getting covered in the smog of the aftermath; 
 it never gets boring seeing it time and time again. The game uses Direct X 10 effects, so to get 
 the game looking its best you'll need a pretty beefy gaming PC. If you don't then it's not the 
 end of the world as the game is pretty scalable, so even if you don't have the best PC, the game 
 will still look decent enough, even at the medium settings it looks nice, so roll on the nuclear 
 explosions.
  
  In the single player campaign you take control of a silent protagonist, Lieutenant Parker, a member 
 of the United States Army. Parker is one of those characters that appear in games that want you 
 to imagine what he's like for yourself, you never see his face. When he is involved in cutscenes 
 it's either from his view or behind him, so you never know what he looks like, guess you should 
 just imagine him with your face stuck on. At the start of the game, no face Parker witnesses the 
 invasion fleet of the Soviet Union landing in Seattle. From there players will be fighting over 
 USA, Europe and the Soviet Union. The single player campaign only has one story, which is from 
 the United States Army prospective. The Soviets are only playable through the multiplayer side 
 of the game. The story itself is full of Hollywood war movie clichs, yet it's still interesting 
 to watch what unfolds through artwork and in-game engine cutscenes. Alec Baldwin lends his voice 
 as Parker, who narrates the story when the game loads a mission for the campaign. 
  
  The campaign story mode spans across 14 different missions. In typical RTS fashion, as you progress 
 throughout the operations, better weaponry becomes available to you. As stated the game doesn't 
 have any management, so you start with a selected few units for that mission. Sometimes the commander 
 in charge will supply you with some additional reinforcements so you can add to the starting line 
 up. It's this way of playing that gets your tactical brain thinking. The game never offers you 
 with plenty of units. The section of armies you command is generally small, so you can cancel out 
 any thought of calling in hundreds of heavy tanks to plough through The Red Army's battalion. It's 
 all about tactics and survival as the campaign is more to do with withholding the enemy, rather 
 than going all out on their arse and destroying everything. The game makes sure you don't have 
 to worry about covering the whole campaign map. This is down to Massive Entertainment sticking 
 in a genius idea of the A. I. replacing areas of the level where you've successfully beaten an objective. 
 The A. I companions come rolling along to take over the battle, fighting off the computer. They 
 are not controllable, but their purpose is to make it look like there's a big war going on, and 
 you are just a small player taking part in it. It's a great idea that is pulled off really well 
 and is overwhelming to watch on the later missions.
  
  Units themselves come with special abilities. They all have a purpose and come in handy when the 
 time is needed, after using them they slowly charge back up. Everything counteracts something else 
 and makes the game a lot deeper than you first thought when you started playing. Units can be put 
 into box or line formation, not many options there, but the A. I. does a good job of making sure 
 it doesn't just sit there and get a beaten like a hung up piata.
  
  Controllable units aren't the only things that are there to help support you. At the top left of 
 the screen is icon with the ability to call in support strikes. Named Tactical Aids, the Tactical 
 Aids ability allows you to select what type of support strike you'd like. It ranges from things 
 like artillery strikes, air strikes, napalm bombs, and of course the trusty nuclear missile. Technically 
 you have infinite of these, as after usage the clock counter slowly counts back up, so you can 
 then reuse your tactical commands once you've gained back enough points to call in what you want. 
 It doesn't feel overpowering or cheap, Massive Entertainment have manage to balance it out well 
 to make it feel just right. It becomes just as vital to use support as much as calling in reinforcements.
 
  
  After you are done and dusted with the single player side of things, there's some great multiplayer 
 gaming to be had with World in Conflict. What's better is that the multiplayer is superior to the 
 single player, and that's no mean feat. Multiplayer allows up to 16 players duelling it out, mainly 
 with teams of eight vs. eight. Even better is that you don't even have to wait for everyone to 
 start the game, someone can join mid game and start fighting straight away. The game was certainly 
 made with the idea of always being in the action. Since the game doesn't need any building to start 
 off with, you can get your first lot of reinforcements sent in and you are ready to go. It's that 
 fast and easy to get into combat. If you aren't that good at it, it doesn't matter, you can still 
 have fun because if your units are destroyed, you can just get some more after your reinforcement 
 points build up, obviously if the rest of your team mates are dying, then it's going to be game 
 over, but hopefully someone is tucked away surviving for you. Communication with team mates can 
 be with microphone or in-game build menu.
  
  Another thing you don't normally see in RTS games is the ability to form clans. Clans are usually 
 associated with first person shooters, but not this time. The game features a decent clan management 
 system, plus tournament modes for such the occasion. The game is even featuring at the 2007 Cyberathlete 
 Professional League. Overall the multi is fantastic and even if you can't win, it's a blast just 
 to have been in the match, it's a game where winning doesn't theoretically mean you had the most 
 fun, there's joy to be had for everyone.
  
  World in Conflict is a fantastic RTS. It's a great game in general that even people who don't normally 
 enjoy RTS games will like. Removing all the slow and often boring parts of RTS games helps bring 
 in new people to the genre. It doesn't do anything revolutionary, but takes all the good things 
 about the genre, gets a bottle of Mr. Shine and polishes it up very well. The end results come 
 together to make a game that not only plays great, but looks lovely too. Every type of gamer should 
 try Massive Entertainment's biggest achievement in their RTS catalogue of game history. It's a 
 nuclear blast of a game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadwolf13
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  "C&C: Tiberium Sun" in my mind set the bar for what I would expect from a GOOD RTS back in the 
 Mid-1990's, It had it all, a story that was interesting to a 15 year old kid, creating and commanding 
 an army of basic units to rid the world of something bad And now, the bar has been raised. 
  There is a Story!
  World in Conflict hooks you from the get go on single player. The story I 
 felt was actually rather interesting, it kept me anticipating the next chapter. The depth of the 
 story is some what deep, depending on how you look at the struggles at hand. The draw back is that 
 there is a war going on in Europe that you really don't learn much about, just that the US is involved 
 and as commander you do what your told. There is a bit more depth to of course but I don't want 
 to spoil it. Alec Baldwin Rocks!
  The Game Play.
  The tactics are simple. You deploy selected troops from an inventory of reinforcement point, a 
 battle system I have not actually used since Star Wars: Force Commander. Single player limits the 
 unit selection like in all RTS games, as you move to the next level you gain more unit options. 
 May takes some time to get used to as you don't harvest any sort of resource, your resource is 
 actually time, and patients. You will find your self waiting before you can call in more units, 
 until you have enough resources to get that heavy tank. 
  There are Tactical Strike points you gain, in a neat system that increases each time you achieve 
 a goal or destroy apposing forces. Which never stop coming it seems like. Over all the game play 
 is smooth, with transitions from point to point. Also Saving become a must, some times you have 
 to move quickly on the next objective or you loose, which if you hadn't have saved after that last 
 point, you now have to do the hole thing over again, which could take a lot more time. Remember 
 to Save!
  Multiplayer
  This in my opinion is were this game really shines, I have yet to play a RTS online against so 
 many others in 20 minutes or less and actually win or lose. Since there is no resource harvesting, 
 everyone has the same amount of resource points making it fair from the very start. You have 4 
 roles to chose from, infantry, armor, air or support. Each hast there ups and downs. For instance 
 Infantry are great killing armor quickly, but are very weak against support artillery attacks. 
 Armor is good against support, but chicken feed for Air units. There is a big balancing act, and 
 you will need to work at a team to accomplish goals. And watch out for the Nuke!
  
  The Good:
  Story line has depth
  Graphics are great
  New RTS combat system
  Multiplayer 
 gives great playable value
  
  The not so good
  Graphics can slow you down
  No Auto Save
  Hard to find Teamwork players
  Resources take a long time to replenish
  
 
  Overall, to put it simple "The Game Rocks!" This is a must have for any RTS players, and for those 
 that are thinking of dabbing in the RTS realm this is a good start, no micro managing, no base 
 builds.. just pure action!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: virivirivapp
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict is a intense game, and at sometiems slightly stressing. I was a little sad that 
 the game's campaign was so short, but it was still good.
  The story line inthe game is strong and interesting.
  World in Conflict shows short picture based 
 conversation between every misson where one of the soldiers call their homes and loved ones, and 
 this reveales the true nature of war.
  
  A good game, and worth playing. At sometimes I would advise to save on multiple saves, incase you 
 screw up one of the 10 objectives on one map. Some of the objectives are very easy, so I advise 
 beginners to start on Normal to get some action (i did that) . 
  
  I have to find myself agreeing with Gamespot on this game. It is a very good game, but it is a 
 little dissapointing that there is no Single-player skrimish, but then again, how would they perhaps 
 do that?
  
  "I liked that there were norwegians in it, with the Peter Solberg acsent" :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filiwian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  If you're into setting off nukes and calling in airstrikes and pretty much everything at your disposal 
 then this is the game for you. The game has much to offer with campaign as you take on the role 
 of different people that live out the dreaded war if the Cold War never ended. Although the ending 
 may leave you with many pondering questions, overall it's still a great game. You get to take part 
 on four different roles which include infantry, armor, support, and air. Each category has its own 
 unique advantages and disadvantages which plainly works out like rock-paper-scissors. As you earn 
 more points you get to call in aerial airstrikes and work your way up to stronger attacks that 
 includes a heavy artillery barrage and eventually a carpet bomb.
  
  This game has much to offer online with it's ranking system and many more. As you progress more 
 into online gaming you gain badges and points that are added to your rank. You get to play 3 nations 
 that include U. S. S. R, U. S, and NATO. Some more capabilities that the game has to offer is that you 
 get to have your avatar on your own untis which can be pretty interesting if you're the type of 
 person that wants to be noticed. The game is very addicting and fun to play but can be a turn off 
 with its repeated voice overs and commands which tend to be an annoyance. It includes many maps 
 that can be used to your own advantage to take on the enemy if you want to deal with them directly.
 
  
  World in Conflict has spectacular graphics and physics depending on what graphics card you have. 
 What works best is DX9 but it isn't needed just to play the game unless you're really into feeling 
 the full experience. I highly recommend that you get this game as it is really addicting and fun 
 to play. If you're into real time strategy pc games then it's a must buy who are thinking about 
 getting it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  Let me start by telling you that i am not a fan of RTS games, my friends aren't happy but what 
 can i say to each his own, so i approached WORLD IN CONFLICT expecting another boring RTS game 
 yet i was greeted with one of the best gaming experience in years and here's why...
  
  i'm not american nor russian i'm italian so my opinion isn't based on "emotional factors" it is 
 based on my own feeling for the game..
  
  Graphics) This is the first thing most people pay attention to because is it's what you see, my 
 jaw dropped the moment i saw the graphics, tanks aircraft soldiers desert city and all the rest 
 are really amazing for an RTS game that isn't Crysis, then lo and behold the explosions and smoke 
 i was in owe, i kept repeating to myself this is just a game but hell it didn't work!
  
  the explosions are some of the best i've seen, holes in the ground, soldiers flying, tanks blowing 
 up into pieces, debris, smoke and particles are all here, the waters also look impressive, the 
 animations are also well done.
  
  all of that comes at a cost of PC Hardware, the game runs fairly well at Very High for me (E6600 
 / 8800GTS / 2GB Ram) i rarely notice slowdowns and benchmarks average are in the 40fps which is 
 more than enough for an RTS game that's 1440x900 Very High and AA4x/AF4x.
  some of you with better hardware may complain about poor performance, this normally is do to either 
 the drivers you're using or some Tweaking app that messes with the game, i am using the 169.21 
 WHQL official nvidia drivers so you should start with that, The game is MEMORY hungry so 2GB of 
 ram is the least you should have and also requires loads of VIDEO MEMORY too, my 640MB GTS performs 
 at least 3-4fps faster than an 8800GT 512mb (tried it myself) and the GTX 768mb is 5fps faster 
 than mine, this game is a memory hog for sure ;)
  
  Sound) the sound is an integral part to the game, Alec Baldwin intros are superb with his gravelly 
 voice and emotional delivery, even though it wasn't something related to me personally the delivery 
 made me watch and listen and FEEL something, war is wrong but this game's voiceovers are RIGHT! 
 :D the amount of explosions will give your 5.1 speakers a workout especially the Subwoofer, the 
 music is one of the best ever!
  
  Gameplay) this plays like some sort of Command&Conquer and Sudden Strike except there's no boring 
 and annoying micromanagement, it plays like a weak RTS and tough Action game but you really need 
 to understand what's what to really win, airstrikes aren't all the same, tanks have abilities and 
 weakness, Infantry are varied.... the game is EASY TO PLAY but HARD TO MASTER. ;)
  
  one thing that i really loved is the TUTORIAL, it isn't another boring annoying crappy tutorial, 
 it is fun to play and very well done, you will love it unlike other games.
  the cutscenes are In-Engine (love them!) and the game is fast and explosive where every move you 
 make will have consequences, war here is all about Action, even a n00b will play this fine, winning 
 is another matter.
  
  *Conclusion*
  
  wether you're an RTS diehard or just a n00b this game is going to "BLOW" your brains out and once 
 you're done with then EXCELLENT compaign you've got the Multiplayer which is even better so you 
 get your money worth and your entertainment high.
  
  i'm still not an RTS fan, but i am a WIC fan, please do not miss this game.
  
  THIS IS ONE 
 OF THE BEST GAMES OF 2007!
  
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelalex24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how anybody can call this game a RTS. IT should really be called RT because there 
 ain't no S as in strategy. THe game felt like a linear FPS, but instead using tanks. The soldiers 
 seemed pretty useless to me most of the time.
  
  On the other hand, the graphics are great, and the explosions are the best I have seen in any games 
 like this. The first few missions I'm basically being told where to go and what to do. I was hoping 
 that was just for training purposes, but it soon became evident that the game was like that... 
 and I found myself beginning to get bored with it.
  
  After five missions, I'm not sure if I will play it again.
  
  So if you are looking for a game 
 that give YOU control of the units and the strategy to win the battle... well, this is not the game.
 
  
  However, if you like being told what to do, well, I guess you may end up liking it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trollbane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Anyone out there, whos looking for a good RTS, this is your game
  
  THE GOOD-
  1) Gameplay. Solid, and alot of fun 9/10
  2) Sound. Simply amazing 9/10
  3) Length. Good 10-15 
 hours 8/10
  4) Story. A gripping, and fantastic concept 9/10
  5) Value. Very high, due to it's ground-breaking new concepts
  
  IN BETWEEN-
  1) Graphics. 
 I played this on very low, for saftey (have a 2006 laptop) but good, nonetheless. 6/10
  2) Animation. Since i played on very low, i guess it affected the cutscenes. The people would take 
 for 45 seconds, but the characters kept on animating for another 5 minutes. 5/10
  
  SUMMARY-
  Well, Massive and Sierra entertainment have worked hard and long on this game, which 
 payed off, because this is one of the most addictive and fun games i have ever played! I recommend 
 this to anyone who is looking for a solid RTS
  
  FINAL SCORE- 9.5
  
  P. S. I didnt get chance with the multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerMoonSix
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  The cut scenes are ridicules and the in-game action is pretty linear. I spend the whole game shooting 
 at other tanks and calling in air strikes There was not really any strategy involved. What is the 
 real point? The game target feels like the 14-18 demos. Nothing in the game generates excitement 
 and the game turns tedious after awhile. Perhaps what this game lacks is the building aspect found 
 in other RTS. Like supply depots and tank factories etc... During the missions you really don't 
 work towards anything except your reinforcements and thinks like air support. No unit upgrades. 
 The plot is creative but a little transparent. Besides the game play, the visuals are ok. I was 
 watching one of my RPG'ers float across the land... motionless... Feet not moving. A possible glitch 
 or something to do with my system perhaps. Music was a little and the speech seemed to scripted... I 
 took a little pleasure in a Baldwin being the narrator. If you are a true RTS player I'd probably 
 avoid this game unless you need a hard change or some time to kill, but I could think of plenty 
 of other games to accomplish that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alarausibun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  I've just finished the game ! it`s awesome ! its campaign it`s thrilling and it keeps you "plugged 
 in" ! i also like the movies between and before the missions, those are very well done and suggestive! i 
 like because it`s very realistic ,those us units are rock.... i saw what 12 US heavy tanks with 
 the "star grade" can do.... i noticed that the US units are stronger than NATO`s ... it is some sort 
 of propaganda or something? anyway, the explosions are very hot, very well done! the heat effects ,even 
 the tank`s tracks are really awesome... i have played on a surround audio system and guess what 
 my place became a war zone, that`s because the sound is fantastic... I suggest you buy this game, it`s 
 worth it! have a nice playing ! those sierra guys have done a great job.... like usually ! now i 
 am going to try the multiplayer and see if i have some rivals on the LAN game... if not, i`ll try 
 on the internet... he he !good job everyone ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vindictae
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  A lot of controversy seems to twirl around the game. Some people love it to death, and insist it 
 revolutionized the strategy-genre. Others hate it and claim it's dull and repetitive and way overrated.
 
  
  The first thing you'll notice when you start the game, is the ridiculously good graphics. We're 
 talking mind-blowing here; nothing short of fantastic. It is a visual joy just sweeping the camera 
 over the battlefield and watching all the explosions and battles. Once you get into the game, you 
 may find that there's a quite well-written storyline that comes with the game, and the voice-acting 
 is high quality. Both sound effects and music don't disappoint either. So far, so good.
  
  But something can be said for the gameplay being a downside. While it starts as fun, just driving 
 your tanks through downtown Seattle, it becomes a bit boring. You'll need to capture horribly animated 
 checkpoints to continue the storyline, and while they could've been creative in designing those, 
 they went with an uninspired green circle. The more checkpoints you have, the more units you can 
 afford. Now, where in conventional strategy games, you'd hot-key to your base and start pumping 
 out tanks and soldiers, here you have to select them and they'll be brought to your dropzone, drifting 
 down with a parachute. That's pretty cool. The missile/rocket mechanic also works very nice; There's 
 a countdown till arrival, so when you drop a nuke somewhere, it doesn't just appear out of thin 
 air. You'll have to time it right, and hope that you can lure your opponent into the area of detonation, 
 once it does arrive. Now, some missiles have colored smoke deployed to show the dropzone. That 
 does give a hint to opponents, so you'll have to catch them by surprise.
  
  So the single-player has an interesting story, but the gameplay is sort of a letdown. On to multiplayer 
 then; What does that have to offer? Well, pretty much more of the same. You start out by picking 
 a category of units. There's four options: Air, Armor, Infantry, and Support. Infantry is weak, 
 and hardly any use, really. Support has long-range artillery, repair vehicles and anti-air, which 
 has it's uses, but most people want to play either armor, or air. Air is highly effective and dangerous, 
 but they can't capture checkpoints, making them an good attack force, but they'll have to wait 
 for another player to catch up with tanks or soldiers to actually capture the checkpoint. Armor 
 is very strong, but lacks good anti-air, making it mostly a fast capturing force, and retreating 
 behind Support or Air once enemy choppers come for defense. All in all, it's slightly more fun 
 than the singleplayer and the focus is purely on the action, but it's hard to call it a strategy 
 game. You drop units, send them to a checkpoint, and kill anything in your way. 
  
  So is World of Conflict a bad game? No, it definitely isn't. It feels very polished, and there's 
 a feel of high-quality on most aspects of the game. But it does get boring. The story-line does 
 help to keep it interesting for long, but you can't help but wish for some regular base-building 
 ocassionally, instead of just rolling your tanks onto the next, ugly green circle.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I went to future shop to buy gears of war, but they had this on sale for 20$, so i bought it instead, 
 no really knowing what i was doing. i'm glad i made that choice, because this is easily the funnest 
 rts i've ever played. the story is decent, as are the graphics, and the game play is revolutionary 
 for a rts. let me expand on that. first off, the controls are amazing. you use the stanard FPS 
 controls, wsad, to move the camara about the map, and the mouse to look around, up and down. they 
 are easy to learn, and spoil you quickly. recently i tried playing a company of heroes skirmish, 
 and the controls were so crude and alien in comparison that i had to quite almost immidiatly. also, 
 base building is a thing of the past in this game. I usually don't play RTS's because you have 
 to worry about like 5 things at once. in this game, you get a certain number of rienforcement points 
 and you simply fly in you units. if they die, you gradually get them back and you then fly in more. 
 but units are only part of this game. half of the battles are fought with artillery and fire support. 
 the fire support is great, made better by the spectacular explosion. in some missions you will 
 have unlimited fire support, and you will have literally 5 or 6 different types of artillery and 
 whatnot on the go at the same time. watch your frame rate fall into the singe digits as the sh*t 
 hits the fan. the multiplayer and skirmishes are fun aswell, and don't take up as much time as 
 most rts games. overall, i reccomend this game to anyone, rts fan or not, i garentee you that you 
 will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRockAweaRXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is an RTS that is based off of a concept of "what if" the Cold War didn't end 
 soo well? The result is a massive scale war across continents and you play as America in the campaign 
 mode (online you can choose to be the Americans, N. A. T. O. or the Soviets) . Anyways the brilliance 
 of how this game was put together and the amount of fun playing it will impress you.
  
  Gameplay - You start off with commands points and can order units across "drop zone areas" of the 
 battlefield. These command points automatically recharge throughout your gameplay. It's the same 
 concept as any other RTS, units have weaknesses, certain units kill others better and are more 
 vulnerable to other units. You can also order in airstrikes, artillery, chemical gases and ect. 
 This makes the game much more fun and it's fun to watch things blow up (it feels great when you 
 hit another unit using the artillery or airstrikes) .
  
  Graphics - Let me start off by saying, these graphics are incredibly realistic. From the cutscenes 
 to the gameplay everything looks great. My computer isn't a very good one, I have an older graphics 
 card (6200 Geforce) and my game still looks great. 
  
  Sound - I honestly have never heard a game sound this realistic. From the radio chatter of your 
 units to the sounds of explosions it sounds real. Everything works great. In campaign the voice 
 acting is excellent and it creates a tone of seriousness and a level of maturity.
  
  Online - Playing online is one of the best features of this game. You can choose from 4 types of 
 classes to play as (similar to call of duty/battlefield of choosing what type of unit you'll be) . 
 You can be Air, Support, Infantry or Armor. This results in teamwork and a unique sense of unity 
 and reliance on others.
  
  All together this game is worth buying. The special edition comes with a fake piece of the Berlin 
 Wall which has a detailed card in German behind the rock and also a DVD about the Berlin Wall. 
 I honestly thought that was pretty nice to have that in there. It suits the mood of the game but 
 sends out a message which will leave you questioning war. If you do buy this game listen to the 
 song played at the credits after you beat campaign.
  
  *Replay Value - Very High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 
  - Graphically this game put on maximum settings exceeded some of my expectations. The cloud cover 
 affecting the lighting over the battlefield to the progressive amount of damage to the scene really 
 offers a viceral feel to the zone.
  
  - The level of detail is definitely a plus, and if you have a card that can play this title at 
 max, definitely kudos to you. 
  
  - From the low end aspect, some of my buddies have played this on anything from a ATi X800 to an 
 Nvidia 6200 quite well without all the bells and whistles.
  
  
  
  Sound: 
  - Audio in both muliplayer and in the story offers a stunning level of realism especially when 
 you zoom in on specific items,. The M1 tank sounds like it real life counterpart, and the plink 
 of the rounds and crunch of debris really accentuate this title.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  *Single Player -
  - The single player campaign is unfortunately short, sweet and to the point 
 its actually a good storyline. You are put in a Psuedo-Red Dawn situation, and you have to command 
 your units through it. Each of the characters in the campaign have thier place like the whiny - 
 tanker Bannon, and his antagonist. Your position and Webb, and the Theater Commander.
  
  - The battles and missions you are placed against will test your ability to think move, and choose 
 the best tools to use in a particular circumstance. Each mission does have its own sub-mission 
 that you may selectively choose to complete or ignore, sometimes ignoring does come at a cost. 
 Either a counterattack or artillery hammering your position.
  
  
  *Multiplayer -
  - Multiplayer is a beat of its own, I had no problems with the netcode, and so far many of the 
 battles I had taken apart in were extremely stable. When you play in a multiplayer setting, if 
 you have teammates it would be to your benefit to communicate, and work with them, otherwise you 
 will fail, and fail miserably. The game emphasizes the teamplay aspect, so use it.
  
  - Also when playing the game you get a selection of four different types of strengths, being that 
 of Infantry, Armor, Air, and Support With a good team, a balance can be found using all these aspects. 
 
  
  - Infantry, is remarkably good a urban battles, and traversing over terrain that would be remarably 
 daunting for vehciles. Of course their survivbility is limited, but to not underestimate thier 
 ability to capture locations quickly and effectively with them.
  
  - Armor, Tanks and IFVs each has specific strengths and weaknesses. Some are great on taking down 
 lightly armored while, others can have a chance against helos. Speed will also have an impact , 
 and don't forget the expense of these vehicles.
  
  - Air, probably the most expensive these units are nice to have, but cannot effectively hold the 
 battlefield without a ground component. These units cannnot capture ground locations, but they 
 are extremely effective at crushing tanks, and alot of infantry units, but another downside is 
 surviability is extremely limited versus anti- air, and other air units. So The cost / benefit 
 ratio is highly dependant on how and when they are used. 
  
  - Support, this portion contain the anti-air, extra -artillery, and repair units. Having a large 
 multiplayer game with a support team usually means the difference betwwen a victory and defeat. 
 A proper defender can not only move a repair anit air componet with the main combat arm, but at 
 the same tim can soften an area of enemy influence with its own use of long range of artillery, 
 without having to spend extra combat point. So basically , and good artillery master can supress 
 the movement or holdings of an enemy ground component.
  
  
  Technical:
  - To play or experience this title involves some key components, The ability to think, The ability 
 to overcome, the ability to communicate, and the ability to work with others. You can play without 
 some of these components in singleplayer, but in multiplayer you will find yourself losing more 
 than winning even a player who consider themselves "pro" or "L33T" will not be shown quarter for 
 being a rambo.
  
  - You aren't going to play this like you would like a resource building Command and Conquer. You 
 have replenishing command , and combat points. You lose a unit within 30 seconds to a minute you 
 should be able to replace that unit you lost. 
  
  - Fully built up in multipleyer you will have something around a companies worth of troops and 
 vehicles, So Those who Turtle or tank rush, are going to be soley disappointed due to the lack 
 of volume.
  
  - The extra points you recieve from capping points, and destroying opposition will offer you the 
 ability to drop distinctive types of artillery without the need of an artillery piece, the usage 
 to bring in fighters to bring the pain to Helocopters, Napalm for the infantry, A-10 or tank busters 
 against armors, and of course the perverse nuclear option, which pretty much means no one is going 
 to survive in a particular location, and that area will not be taken by no one for a little while, 
 isn't fallout great!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I might be one of the minority of people that would read this review with bona fide memories of 
 the perceived threat in the United States by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. A World War 
 III scenario with a Warsaw Pact attack into Western Europe, either accompanied by, or escalating 
 to a strategic thermonuclear exchange was a very real fear here. Luckily, neither of those scenarios 
 ever became reality, but the slug match between the two mighty superpowers makes for a great premise, 
 and after approximately three hundred and fifty thousand World War II themed games, Massive Entertainment 
 brilliantly elected to visit this overlooked period of history.
  
  Set in 1989, the Soviet Union is facing economic stagnation and an uncertain political future, 
 much like the real 1989, and must change the course of their nation. Unlike the USSR of our world 
 however, the Politburo decides to attack NATO, reasoning that the seizure of Western Europe will 
 stabilize their tenuous hold on power, and elevate them to the premier superpower. Since the United 
 States is the greatest threat to their plan, and seeking to disrupt the US response in Europe, 
 the Soviets open a second front through a sneak-attack into the continental United States via Seattle. 
 The player takes on the role of a young officer in the conflict, fighting a two-front war; the 
 US must push back the Soviet invasion at home and bring the fight to the enemy.
  
  Graphically, this game is simply stunning, one of the best looking games seen to date. The detail 
 on the units and terrain is incredible; the smoke and explosion effects are some of the best I 
 have ever seen. All ground and terrain is fully deformable, buildings as well, adding an element 
 to gameplay that is too often missing. Little details are everywhere, zooming into look at an individual 
 infantry squad sees them decked out with the weapons they are supposed to be armed with or hear 
 them chatting with each other about trying to bum smokes. While tanks and armored vehicles leave 
 deep treads on the ground that can be used to locate them, and infantry deploying from a transport 
 helicopter can be seen kicking out zip lines and repelling down into the battle. All of it can 
 be astounding to see. Sounds also are incredibly well done, and the soundtrack deserves special 
 attention, there are a few tracks that those of us that recall the 80's will be delighted to hear, 
 including 'Everybody wants to rule the World' by Tears for Fears, and a few other surprises.
  
  Gameplay is where this game truly escapes the banality of most of the RTS games out now. There 
 is no base building, no one needs to chop down trees, and there is no resource management. The 
 game's focus is squarely on combat and it shines. During the campaign, you truly feel like you 
 are a part of a massive battle, controlling your small number of units in concert with the AI, 
 much like the Call of Duty games single player.
  
  In addition to the various tanks, helicopters, personnel carriers, infantry, artillery and anti-air 
 the player can call upon; support is also available in the form of tactical aids. Destroying enemy 
 units and capturing objectives rewards the player with tactical aid points that can be utilized 
 for off-map support. These range from simple radar scans to reveal enemy units, to napalm strikes 
 that can burn down a forest hiding infantry, to a fighter sweep to shoot down exposed helicopters, 
 right up to carpet bombing by heavy bombers, and the feared tactical nuke, the best looking nuke 
 in a game yet.
  
  The campaign is brilliant, if a little brief, but multiplayer is where this game shines. In normal 
 multiplayer matches, players assume a specialty role, be it armor, infantry, air, or support. Careful 
 cooperation with your teammates is the key to victory, and native VOIP and a brilliant communication 
 system make that teamwork possible. You can even pass tactical aid points to other players on your 
 team, saving up for that nuke or bombing run which might be the key to victory. The game has a 
 very low learning curve, but is difficult to master, a great combination. In many ways, the multiplayer 
 is reminiscent of an RTS version of Battlefield II, choosing a role, capturing points, and trying 
 to work with your team to defeat the enemy. You can even join games in progress, a first for RTS 
 to my knowledge. Lastly, native clan support, an incredible stats/awards system and a great multiplayer 
 interface with Massgate round out the great set of multiplayer features.
  
  For all the great features of this game, there are a few nitpicks to bring up. Most important, 
 is the lack of a campaign where you play as the Soviets. This is a major letdown that will hopefully 
 be addressed in a likely expansion. Second, a little more unit variety between the three sides 
 really would have been nice. While balance is always paramount, especially in a game built from 
 the ground-up for competitive multiplayer, the sides are a little too similar in capability, and 
 differ generally only in appearance. Lastly, while during development Massive tried to suggest 
 several times they weren't "picking sides" in this tale of World War III, there can be no doubt 
 that the US ended up the 'good guys', which is a little disappointing as it is such a clich.
 
  
  All in all though, this is one of the best games to come out in recent memory. It is a frantic 
 and amazing looking 'RTS' in a great setting. With a deceptively deep gameplay that shines especially 
 in multiplayer, action fans and RTS vets alike should find plenty to like here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan6236
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  IF when you think of strategy you think of medieval total war, or civilization, or Command and 
 conquer, or one of the traditional strategy games... skip this.. I know it sounds ridiculous.. 
 it being strategy game of the year and all, but I'm really trying to save you 50 bucks. Remember 
 when everyone told you that National Treasure was a great movie? And you watched Nicholas Cage 
 yutz around for 2 hours and were mad at yourself for spending 15 bucks at the theatre to see it... 
 and then National Treasure 2 came out and you really thought about going to see it because all 
 the critics were raving about it. This is that moment again, except this time I'm going to save 
 you 3 times the money. I never write reviews, but I feel strongly about this one.. in the same 
 way I felt strongly about Spiderman 2... and 3... 
  
  Granted the single player campaign has a great story, and for awhile it's fun because you're getting 
 to pick between a few different unit types and they all have their role.
  
  Here's where my whining and moaning starts, so if you just play single player and have a slosh 
 fund of cash to buy 50 dollar games you'll play for 2 weeks and bin... then you can stop reading. 
 WIC is a 9.5.... so are scooby doo's haunted mansion mystery, and the nancy drew games. 
  If that's not you, here's what's going to make you wait until the game is 20 bucks instead.
  
 
  World in conflict is not about position, or resources, or chokepoints, or even your ability to 
 guesstimate where the other guys are. You know what this game is about, why it's rated so high? 
 Why it should be a 20 dollar bargain pick? Here it is:
  
  ALEC BALDWIN
  
  Not really, the real reason critics love it is because it's retardedly easy to figure out and play. 
 Minesweeper is harder. If you pick to be infantry guess what? light, heavy, something to ride around 
 in. If you're air? light, heavy, medium and something to ride around in. Armor? Light, heavy, medium, 
 and something to fix your stuff that you're riding around in. (Where's the infantry's medium you 
 ask? the light infantry can shoot at birds)
  
  That's it, that's your game. 9.5? ABSOLUTELY NOT... I threw up in my mouth a little bit when I 
 saw that... shame shame shame shame. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightymare
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  I've been meaning to get this game now for a long time, and i wish i got it earlier, it was well 
 worth the buy. 
  
  The single player experience has great characters and great game-play that puts you in the seat 
 of a commander in World War 3. I found the ending of the game rather quick though, and the length 
 of the single player campaign could be improved, but this is only because the content that there 
 is leaves you wanting more!
  
  The Multiplayer is great too, it bring the elements of the single player game and puts them into 
 an 8vs8 player battle, on the maps that you have played in the campaign. You can choose 4 different 
 classes (Air, Armour, Infantry, Support) each of which is very enjoyable.
  
  Overall this game is great, well worth the buy and will be in most game shops for quite a decent 
 price now! Gamespot got it right on the nail with a 9.5 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Foxcono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - The camera! This is the single greatest innovation I've ever seen. It gives you so much control 
 of the battlefield, whether you want to see the lay of the whole land to a gunfight up close between 
 2 soldiers. This makes planning your assault a hell of a lot easier, and so much more fun.
  
  - Graphics - they are animated perfectly down to each shingle on a residential house. Normally 
 in any given RTS, once you zoom in far enough, It looks pretty bad. But World In Conflict only 
 gets better. Seeing an up close look at an artillery strike is such a thrill, or just staring off 
 into the sunset or the water - it all looks almost real.
  
  - The story almost hits a little too close to home... which is great! The alternate reality cold-war 
 invasion plot hasn't been done this well since 03's Freedom Fighters (brilliant squad based tactical 
 shooter - if you haven't check it out) . It's truly scary watching all those parachutes come down 
 over Seattle.
  
  - It plays out like an epic film - it has all the characters - the coward commander who takes all 
 the credit for doing nothing; the strong, confident general; the guys who think it's a joke until 
 something blows up right next to them; the concerned parent, etc... and the cutscenes and dialogue 
 tie it all together. That scene with the little girl is one of the scariest I've ever seen.
  
  - Gameplay - Take the core gameplay of C&C 3, mix in a little Company of Heroes, and then add 
 the system all its own - the reinforcements and the artillery strikes (i forget what they are called) 
 - you are rewarded for your good work with devastating weapons. That is awesome. 
  
  Cons:
  
  - Soundtrack is a little dull - no real complaints.
  
  - I honestly can't think 
 of anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwkid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  World in conflict is a strategy game based on what would happen if the soviets won the cold war. 
 It has some of the best voice acting around and a great campain, but what really pulled me into 
 this game was the amazing team-based multiplayer. 8 on 8 battles can get very intense. Teamwork 
 is the object to winning. With the ablity to give your teamates tactical aid points which can be 
 used to buy speical strikes, you can turn a game around at just about any point in time. The devestating 
 tactical nuke is definately my favorite part of the game. It obliterates eerything it touches and 
 get the ememys off of there control points automatically. If your teammates can give all of their 
 TA points to one person you can usually get a nuke really quickly and make if comeback if you need 
 to. I hope that you found this review halpful and i hope that you decide to buy the game.
  
  Add me in world in conflict: Dookiewarrior 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mushroom_Cloud
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  World In Conflict has the best graphics of any RTS game I have played! It makes you feel like you 
 are a real army high command General! You can command everything from troops to heavy attack helicopters 
 to even heavy tanks!!! If you like being in command and have a love for war then this game is for 
 you. Since I like being in command and have a love for war this game suited me very well.
  
  The game is great and very enjoyable plus there are some really funny moments in the game in 
 single player mode. World In Conflict is that rare game that everybody could enjoy one way or the 
 other. This game is an instant classic but i think it may make some real Russians angry though. 
 World In Conflict is a game worth playing and having in your game collection. It made it in my 
 game collection and it isn't easy for just any game to get there!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hampton2003
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  The Good: solid campaign, excellent multiplayer, not as hardware demanding as you'd think, fun 
 and addictive gameplay.
  
  The Bad: you can't control a large force, multiplayer battles require a lot of teamwork, no Soviet 
 campaign, lack of auto saving in mid mission.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------
  I thought this game wouldn't work 
 on my nearly outdated computer, but I can actually run this game with good frame rates in single 
 and multiplayer with this rig:
  
  P4 3.0 GHz
  Nvidia 6800 256mb (with latest drivers)
  3GB RAM
  Integrated sound card
  ^none of which was OC'd
  The game almost never lagged up 
 on me with medium settings, even in a full multiplayer game with tons of units on screen.
  ------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The campaign is a good start 
 for everyone who picks up this game because it's slowly introduces you to the games difference 
 from normal RTS games. Unlike C&C3 you don't build a base and collect resources, instead you start 
 out with a large sum of resources usually enough to purchase 3-5 units. Once you make your unit 
 selections you simply call them in and they are drop from the air in less than 15-20 seconds. And 
 there you go! Start maneuvering and fighting and get into the action quick. Each side (US, NATO, 
 SOVIET) is fairly equal in terms of unit stats, and they have the same units for every role, so 
 no one get a unit the other side can't have. The only major difference is appearance.
  
  Campaign: 
  
  Its great but early on I was slighly annoyed because 2 of the main characters 
 argue a lot, but it gets better a little bit later. The objectives are very simple, like go here 
 and secure the area.... capture this command point etc. There are also secondary objectives that 
 can actually be quite important though, like sending aid to a far away unit like artillery on the 
 verge of being attacked. And then if you accomplished that objective you are rewarded with those 
 arty units to aid you. This adds a lot of replay ability since these secondary objectives can change 
 you options in a mission. Once you progress a few missions things start rolling along smoothly 
 and it gets very interesting. There are plenty of missions although you can only play from the 
 perspective of the NATO and US (but its all mixed up in one campaign, so its not 2 separate stories) , 
 the soviets are not playable in campaign. You can't choose which combat role per mission, instead 
 they decide what units you can't use in a mission, and often times you'll see combat roles mixed 
 together giving you a lot of flexibility in the mission. Normal difficulty is not very hard, yet 
 hard is probably more suited for most missions. The last mission on hard is well lets just say 
 it's a frustrating experience, since you given only so much to work with yet you have to accomplish 
 huge tasks. You learn to save a lot since the auto save only saves as you advance to the next mission, 
 there isn't an auto save after completing an objective so if you lose near the end of a mission 
 you have to restart the whole thing. 
  
  *by the way the skirmish single player mode is tricky to get to, since it's not clearly show in 
 the single player menu. To get to it you must go to multiplayer, create a local server, add the 
 bots etc. and there you go. 
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  
  Combat Roles:
  
  There are 
 4 roles: Armor, Infantry, Support, and Air. And during a multiplayer match you select which role 
 you want to play as, but keep in mind of what you other teammates are playing as. If everyone is 
 playing only 2 of the 4 roles, then you almost guaranteed to lose. Balance is key here, if no ones 
 playing Armor on your team you won't have any tough tanks on the battlefield making your light 
 vehicles or infantry easy targets. However just because you play as a certain role doesn't mean 
 you can't buy units from other roles, its just they are more expensive if they are not from your 
 specialized role. And some units are only buyable if you selected that combat role. For example 
 you select infantry as your role, so you can buy any unit in that roles list with any price hikes 
 and you get access to the role specific unit others cant buy. The Anti tank infantry. Now let's 
 say you wan to buy some tanks to support your infantry, you can do it, but it will cost a lot more 
 than normal and since you are the infantry role and you can't buy the armors specific unit the 
 "heavy tank". So the best tank is out of reach to you, but at least you can buy the medium tank, 
 albeit at a higher cost than normal. And the better the unit the more money it costs, so it's a 
 choice of quality or quantity. 
  
  *Almost every unit has both a defensive and offensive ability which can be used free of charge, 
 but have a cool down time between uses. For example the "troop transport" in the armor role has 
 a defensive smokescreen and an offensive AT missile.
  
  -------------------------------------------------
  
  Resources:
  
  Reinforcements points: 
 You start out with a certain amount of reinforcement points in what's called (duh) an available 
 reinforcement pool (the pool that show how much you can spend) , and some points in a unavailable 
 reinforcement pool that will slowly drain into your spending pool. The amount of pts you can have 
 depends on how many command points you control. But you can't ever run out of units and run out 
 of money, if your units are killed their value in refunded into your unusable reinforcement pool 
 but that refunded stuff will drain quicker and allow you to build more units right away instead 
 of waiting a while. 
  
  Tactical Aid Points: 
  
  You earn these points in multiplayer matches by killing the enemy, and capturing command points. 
 You don't earn that much at a time but after a little while your total TA pts can add up and grant 
 you special abilities. Each ability has a pt price to it, and a recharge time between uses. And 
 once a TA has been called in there's a countdown timer that show when its going to arrive, so calling 
 in an air strike takes 10-15 seconds for it to happen so keep that in mind. And you can even share 
 TA pts with other players for that expensive TA you want to use like the nuke. Your abilities are 
 divided up into 3 categories:
  
  The 1st is non lethal stuff such as a UAV to reveal enemies in a certain location beyond you site 
 range. Other abilities are dropping airborne infantry or light vehicles, etc.
  
  The 2nd one is lethal stuff like calling in a plane to deliver a napalm bomb or call in a tank 
 buster to deal with armor, but these abilities have to be set into a direction of impact, and cant 
 be corrected once set. So if the enemy moves away you're screwed. Other abilities like calling 
 in anti air strike, etc.
  
  The 3rd option is made up of different kinds of artillery strikes and area effect bombs from carpet 
 bombing to chemical and then the final option in this list is the tactical nuke.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  They 
 say multiplayer is only as good as the people who play on it. And that's true here. You have to 
 work as a team to win and most people I've played with so far don't understand this or are unwilling 
 to stick together on a map. Everyone just does what they want to do, and if you're lucky you win. 
 Clans do work together and so there is the possibility of teamwork, you just won't always find 
 it. 
  
  Voice chat is available and some people use it although not a lot do, thankfully there's a chat 
 menu for simple commands to be given like I need air support here or attention here, etc. and then 
 if you need a complex message to can still type it he old fashion way. 
  
  It's very easy to get into a match; in fact this is the easiest game for the RTS genre to get right 
 into a match and play. Normally in other RTS you have to wait for even teams or for the total players 
 to fill up, but not here. I've seen people come and go in a match and usually matches are balanced 
 on player vs player numbers. And if not then its most likely the game will fill up soon anyway 
 so don't worry.
  
  --------------------------------------------
  
  Conclusion:
  
  This game is very good and breaks away from the normal with no base building, quick action, etc. 
 No bugs encountered at all. I recommend this game because it's a great overall presentation and 
 pushes the RTS genre further into new ground straying away from the normal formula.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaeger1111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I didnt see this one coming as I dismissed as being yet another RTS without researching it. Boy 
 was I wrong! Turns out its actually explosive action game disguised with and RTS interface. 
  
  Singleplayer maps and storyline were addictive. First game ive ever played through on regular 
 and immediately played through again on hard. The story is perfectly matched with the overall feel 
 of the game and good enough to keep you interested and enhances the scenarios. The gameplay is 
 excellent and well balanced and just difficult enough to keep you feeling off balance and keep 
 the tension going so that your frequently relieved that youve made it through the mission. 
  
  After being disappointed it was finished, discovered how amazing the multiplayer is. The online 
 experience is remarkable and very different than any I have played before. Teamwork is key and 
 a well balanced team working together can own a more skilled team working selfishly. 
  
  Fantastic game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a different kind of RTS game. The story is very gripping and moving. The graphics are great, 
 but my video card is not that strong so I could not use the higher settings. I would rate it as 
 having the best story of any strategy game that I have played. The only criticism I have is that 
 the gameplay in the campaign mode gets somewhat repetitive. (I am not into multiplayer, although 
 that is supposed to be the best part of this game.)
  Basically, every level just comes down to capturing reinforcement points
  and calling down as 
 much artillery and air strikes as possible. After a few levels of this, I started to wish for some 
 of the more conventional RTS gameplay such as base building, resource production and advancing 
 in tech levels to unlock new units. 
  Despite this, I would definitely recommend the game for its great graphics and compelling story 
 line.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: telemedp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I have to tell, it received a lot of hype BUT: it's true that the graphics blind you but some people 
 can't get behind that! If you do what people say: get some tanks and throw them at your enemy, 
 then it's a big dissapointment. Then you're a big dissapointment too, because it's not about that. 
 If you get on the newbie servers they just mess around and try to play. I hated those servers. 
 Once I found a man, with whom I could coordinate our team, it was the greatest fun of the world. 
 It's true that its an RTTS (real time tactical strategy) , so you don't build your army, but you 
 have to care about what you have (and you can micro 2x as better as in generals, and I love generals 
 too) in order to be a competitive player. The whole game is about teamwork and coordination. Don't 
 tell me you can't do that, because then I'll get a heart attack. Just kidding. I rated this game 
 pretty good, because it's actually fun, but not always. Rent it first if you're unsure of what 
 to think.
  
  By Medve 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crelus
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 9, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  The new and innovative thing here is that they combines battlefield 1942 with an RTS game. This 
 game looks good, but when it comes down to playing it, there's nothing to it. If I wanted to play 
 battlefield 1942 I would. If I wanted an RTS, there's many to choose from. The combination is just 
 plain boring.
  
  Certainly the graphics are nice, but games such as Act of War, C&C, etc... do a much better job 
 of this t ype of game. 
  
  I tried playing on line and that gets old fast too. Once you figure out a map it's the same thing 
 over and over again. Try playing against a group that has played a map a bunch of times. You'll 
 see everyone going to a certain area and you won't know why until 10 seconds later the game is 
 over. (For example, try the statue of liberty map online) .
  
  All in all I can't see how this won so many "game of the year" awards because it's collecting dust 
 on my shelf and I won't likely every play it again. If game "experts" concider this to be the best 
 thing this year then they are either being paid off or they need to get a new job.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiggles
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  I just beat the campaign mode today, and I was compelled to write a review for this game that pulls 
 the bevy of explosions that is the single player game into a few succinct sentences.
  
  The campaign consists of you moving one or two heavy tanks around long enough to find something 
 to call down an artillery strike on. But that's not important, what is important are the batteries!
 
  
  This game is about one man's quest to find batteries for his CD player, the year.... 1989. You 
 quest across three continents to find four AA batteries, the rarest of all batteries, to power 
 what may be the world's most powerful Walkman. Some sort of ultra powerful, experimental device 
 using a laser to read a small, chromatic disk and convert light into sound. More specifically, 
 this sound is Here I Go Again by Whitesnake.
  
  There's also some stuff about a war in there... and also Alec Baldwin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XlagooferX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  If you love RTS games this is a game for you. im a huge FPS fan and not really a RTS kinda of person. 
 but my friend let me play it and i absolutly loved it. so i bought bought it and been playig for 
 like 2 hours a day! also it feels like your in the battle the story is exellent! multiplayer was 
 ok. But if your an RTS fan this is the best game for you. And to be honest with you i dont like 
 RTS games but i loved world in conflict! if your computer can run it then get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerLordz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Epic destruction is everywhere in Massive's latest. It's a game that's among the prettiest RTSs 
 we've seen offering up detailed units, large well-rendered environments, and some truly spectacular 
 special effects. The visuals in World in Conflict are brilliant on all fronts and provide an easy 
 entry point for all comers to immediately sink in and enjoy some fast-action strategy though the 
 price of entry may be expensive if you're only in it for the big effects. Running everything on 
 very-high at 1900x1200 can cause some serious frame rate dips on even a computer with an 8800GTX, 
 2GB of RAM and a Quad Core processor when the effects really start flying. Thankfully, the game 
 still looks pretty at medium detail, which most medium range PCs should have no problem with.
 
  
  Massive has also made entry easier for the average Joe by keeping the army size down to a minimum, 
 keeping base and economy management out of the picture, keeping game times shorter, and the gameplay 
 more immediately aggressive. It's something Massive originally tried in their Ground Control series 
 that they've updated and improved mightily here. It's a completely tactical approach that allows 
 players to focus on unit positioning and the use of unit special abilities. The result is a game 
 that's accessible to all, including that more casual demographic that's used to snorting the instant 
 thrills provided by shooters.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hinkwokching
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  Good and intuitive user interface, dynamic and well balanced gameplay. Exceptional graphics (although 
 you need quite a machine to run it at the highest spec, in my opinion.) Commendable sound effect 
 and voice cast.
  
  Cons:
  
  The game is too short, took me five days to complete (Okay, it was only on normal difficulty.) 
 The game could become slightly repetitive, once you are familia with the system; but as they say, 
 "To the novice, there are many ways, but to the professionals, there are only a few." Sure, I could 
 be wrong about this, so correct me if I am wrong.
  
  My opinion:
  
  I played a good few RTS games, for example C&C: Generals series, C&C3, Age of Empires Series, Act 
 of War, EE3, and Warcraft 3 none of them actually appeals to me quite like this one. A good combination 
 of graphics, gameplay, sound, and story setting. I mean, I am sure anyone who was consciuous about 
 World events during the Cold War days might have imagined what could happen if the war turns "hot". 
 The developers cleverly staged a large scale war with modern existing military equipments; while 
 avoiding the restrictive and could-be controversial choices, for example, the Iraq conflicts.
 
  
  The story also get the players to think-back to the days when the Cold War is still a reality, 
 like the scene when one of the characters in the game takes out his CD walkman player and the selection 
 of music played in certain parts of the game. This all helps to draw the player into the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is one of the strongest part of this game, a good mix of realism and just-enough impossibilties 
 that merged flawlessly to produce a game that makes you feel like a real commander in battle without 
 worrying about the important subtleties in real-world battlefields. This game was never intented 
 to make you into a West Point graduate; but instead, it makes you think that you are General Patton 
 (with my utmost respect) with modern weapons.
  
  The multiplayer system is also quite good, and the game AI for the mutiplayer showed me how good 
 it actually is.
  
  "Pick them by the nose, and kick them in the ass!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eraa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  There are so many RTS games on the market, but if combat is your main goal then this is your game, no 
 doubt. Interface is easy to learn and understand. Aside inflicting personal damage you can call serious 
 help. The longer you manage to stay alive the more powerful you become. Like a real soldier you can 
 be awarded medals. Action is tense, graphics is not bad, explosions very realistic. Multiplayer is 
 really addictive, even if you are not on the winners side you want to try over and over to stand 
 your point. Makes you give the best as everybody can see your rank and points earned. You just can't 
 cheat or sit in the corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuosha
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  With most games I don't care if the visials aren't top notch I just want the game to be fun. Don't 
 get me wrong I think the games great and I have nothing terrible to say about it. But the game 
 is really short I think it took me like nine hours to beat. That's just red -dickulus that being 
 said the multi will keep you distracted for hours. Although I'm still having nightmares about nasely 
 snot ten year olds calling me a bitch of a jive sucher (what ever that means) . In fact one kid 
 that sounded like he was four called be a crazy honkey. Where are these kids parents? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1shotkill
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  As I sitdown and start playing the game, I send my tanks and soldiers over to the Kingdome on the 
 first mission. On the way, they shoot down a couple people, blow a couple tanks, and do things 
 like that. How is this new? There are many games that let you send your tanks and soldiers out 
 to kill other tanks and soldiers for a lot less than this one. It felt like I had already been 
 playing this game for a long time when I finished the first level.
  
  Really though, this is probably the best RTS game for the computer. It has amazing graphics (even 
 on low resolution) and has the best voice acting in a game to date. Besides the fact that I had 
 already seemed to play this game, it was actually a great game with a fun campaign. It also contained 
 decent online play that could provide fun for hours.
  
  If you are a RTS fan, and you want to buy another, then definetly buy this one. But if you are 
 tired of the RTS games, then do not get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velsone
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  Before you decide if WiC is good or bad, make you sure you experience all of it. I know most people 
 are harping on the easy/annoying/boring/overly patriotic single player campaign (which I personally 
 found to challenging and not overly long so that it bored me) , but you really have to realize that 
 WiC is a primarily multiplayer based game, and an amazing one at that. 
  
  Sure it's annoying in the single player campaign that you can't gather resources, or mass for a 
 t4nk ru$h, or that your entire force never goes past 6 or 7 units, but while it detracts from the 
 single player campaign makes perfect sense when you play multiplayer. The gameplay of WiC forces 
 you to work and communicate with your team (this is where the excellent voice-chat system comes 
 into play) . You have to carry out small goals that contribute to your overall victory in multiplayer, 
 and the mindless forces that appeared to be doing nothing important under Webb and Bannon in single 
 player are replaced with real people going after real objectives that are essential for victory.
 
  
  You get a nice perspective on how much there is to do when each game not only lists the top 3 players 
 and the top players for each role (infantry, support, air, and armor) , but also top players in 
 capturing command points, fortifying command points, repairing vehicles, and effectively using 
 your tactical aid.
  
  Therein lies the brilliance of WiC.
  
  It's worth your time to immerse yourself in the multiplayer. I give it a 9.5: in my opinion, the 
 WiC's unique gameplay does detract slightly from the single player, but the multiplayer is the 
 best thing since sliced bread. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kzoneoo1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Based on the reviews I read I bought this game. This is probably the most overhyped game of 2007. 
 The voice acting is down right cheesy and sometimes nauseating to listen to. Bannon is protrayed 
 as a weeny whiny little geek! Why? For the humor element? What did they think, we would enjoy the 
 plot line no matter about the game? I have put the settings on hard and still found it easy to 
 win. Its almost as if these people think they have a greast story to tell and threw in a little 
 bit of micro clicking to keep us from dying of boredom. What is it with Americans, throw in a marine 
 and the game gets bumped 40% for patriotism?? I will be a little more cautious when reading reviews 
 about gung ho! because it obviously distorts reality. I give it a 7. only because the graphics 
 are great, the storyline and game play are pathetic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Ever wondered what would happen if the Cold War never ended, and became World War 3? World in Conflict 
 allows you to find out... And you'll have a heck of a ride finding out- for World in Conflict is 
 also one of 2007's best games.
  
  As has been already stated- the premise of World in Conflict is a dreadful "what if" scenario. 
 The Cold War never ended, and sprouted into World War 3. The USSR starts it off with an invasion 
 of europe. The US of course, goes in to help their allies hold off the russians, but this leaves 
 the whole West coast undefended... The Russians take note- and invade the US. You take command 
 of an American officers commanding various platoons of both Us and European forces against the 
 dastardly Russian advances.
  
  The single player campaign is at first glance standard RTS length, but the campaign is actually 
 quite lengthy overall, as each scenario can take up to an hour to finish. Now, that still sounds 
 like standard RTS length doesn't it? Well, its still quite a good length given how fast-paced World 
 in Conflict is, as each scenario keeps piling objective after objective on you- but you probably 
 won't tire of completing all these objectives- as the odds almost always seem to be against you 
 in some way. You'll also inevitably get involved with the storyline and potentially a few of the 
 characters as you fight through the campaign.
  
  The gameplay of World in Conflict is heavily derived from the still inventive and fresh formula 
 that Massive entertainment had already coined down with their Ground Control series. There's no 
 base building at all in World in Conflict- you just summon units and get to capturing the strategic 
 points spread out around the battlefield. The only 2 resources in the game- reinforcement points 
 and tactical aid points- are gathered automatically as the game progresses, and allow you to call 
 in reinforcements and tactical aid, such as airstrikes and nukes, respectively. This isn't a formula 
 we haven't seen before, but ultimately, World in Conflict is right now one of the only RTS games 
 that uses this formula, and it uses it to perfection. 
  
  The game's races are also worth noting. While the actual races (The US, NATO, and USSR) are pretty 
 much carbon copies of each other for the most part, the true races are really the 4 specialities 
 you get to choose from at the start of each game. You can play as Infantry, Armor, Air, or Support. 
 While they all share a certain ammount of units, they all have unique units that only that speciality 
 can use. The balance between the units is quite sharp, so in order to do well online, your gonna 
 want a balanced team with all of the specialities covered.
  
  When your done with the single player campaign, you'll definitely want to go online if you want 
 to truely experience World in Conflict at its best. You can set up a local server alone against 
 the AI if you want to practice though. The AI however, while decent, doesn't play anywhere near 
 the advanced level of what human players bring to the table. When you go online- you'd better learn 
 how to use each speciality well- or have a hard time online. The learning curve for learning each 
 specialities strengths is a little daunting at first, but those who stick with it will undoubtedly 
 get the hang of each speciality quickly.
  
  Graphically, World in Conflict has a lot of detail for an RTS. The units are all very well detailed, 
 the environments all look great, and environmental effects are spectacular. It only gets better 
 when the big bombs- including nukes- get dropped. Sound wise, World in Conflict has some great 
 voice acting all around. The sounds of battle also sound very convincing. The music also fits the 
 theme quite well.
  
  All in all, not enough can be said about World in Conflict. Its unquestionably one of the years 
 best- and both strategy and non-strategy gamers would do well to check it out.
  
  Pros: Sharp, intense, and addictive gameplay. Excellent online multiplayer. Well detailed graphics 
 and sound work. Enjoyable campaign.
  
  Cons: None
  
  Nitpicks: The AI ain't quite up to snuff.
  
  Recommendable for: For Strategy gamers, World 
 in Conflict is a no-brainer. Even if you don't like strategy games though, World in Conflict is 
 definitely a game you can get into and should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  Great in-game graphics;
  Great story line, draws you straight into the game;
  Amazing sounds makes you think you're there in the fight;
  Great voice acting.
  
  Cons:
 
  
  The cutscenes still use the game graphics engine, which makes them look very bad;
  Can be very hard to complete a level.
  
  Bought this game today, and i must say it has to be 
 one of the best strategy games of all time. However most people do call it a RTS game, which it 
 isn't. It is more of a very tactic dependant real time game. You can't just collect rescources 
 and go in with a massive army and destroy stuff. In this you have to plan what rescources you have 
 to spend on which units. There is no way of collecting rescources except through capturing perimiter 
 points. So no this is not your typical RTS game.
  
  However the game is solid, there is no problems with it whatsoever. The graphics while playing 
 are amazing for a RTS game, similar to the graphics from C&C3. Considering you have a high end 
 PC and can run everything in full you will really appreciate the effects that go on while you are 
 fighting. The only real downside with the graphics is that they decided to use the same engine 
 for the cutscenes and only "zooming in" on the characters while they talked. Now this makes the 
 characters look very low quality. It is a dissapointment when they spent so much time on the gameplay.
 
  
  The sounds make the game feel a lot more real. The explosions sound like they are happening around 
 you, and they actually sound real. During the intense fights with other teams, you can hear there 
 shots like you hear in the movies, all muffled like. The voice acting is also very impressive, 
 makes you believe the story that much more.
  
  The story is also very intersting, some people say it's bad but dont listen to them. It is a very 
 gripping story which drags you in from the start. You will grow to love or hate some of the characters 
 and be upset or happy when things happen.
  
  All in all, it is a very very good solid game. And really worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Ok, all those guys that have said that World in Conflict is not really an RTS game, you' re right, 
 it isn't. All the others that have said Sierra (and Gamespot) has miss leaded you into an RTS game 
 that isn't, you're right too. Some of you that feel disappointed at a game which your only thing 
 is to follow guys screaming orders through a mike, well, you're right too, but that's not a bad 
 thing, it depends how you look at it
  
  World In Conflict is one of those "RTT" (Real Time Tactical) rarities, which are not that many 
 around and almost all of them are quite frankly disappointing. World in Conflict evolves from those 
 games in two ways: Superb graphics, probably one of the best graphics you will see in a 2007 PC 
 game and second, an story that will keep you interested through the whole single player campaign, 
 and that could have been completely plausible at least until the mid-80s, with a great narrative 
 and well developed. Also, the ability to use modern weapons, I mean, existing modern weapons (not 
 laser or supra-dupra nuclear particle weapons) in what is the closet game to a modern weapons RTS 
 ever done, grants a play. If you add the superior stability (it have never hanged on me) and the 
 healthy FPS you can keep on a basic gaming PC even at the most demanding battles, full of tanks, 
 artillery fire, MOABs, B-52s carpeting the floor with bombs, A-10s attacking tanks, etc, you have 
 a very good game on your hands
  
  The bad things, even if there are a few, can't be ignored. The single player campaign is very short, 
 and being the game designed as an RTT and not as an RTS, there is no time to "think" about strategy, 
 just fight and use battle tactics, no planning, no logistics decisions, really. It is so not an 
 RTS, that the time you pause the game there is not much you can do, and even the units on the big 
 tactical map disappear from the screen, meaning that there is no decision making while the games 
 is paused, which can make for a very hectic game and almost no use of strategy at all. Also, even 
 if the graphics are great, they look a bit artificial when compared, let's say, with CoH graphics, 
 which can look more real. Even then, the explosions look great and the effect of the nuke explosion 
 cannot be ignored
  
  Would I give it an over 9.0 rating and will justify the Editor's Choice Gamespot gave to the game? 
 No way, because the game is misleading us into an RTS when it really isn't, and also the single 
 player campaign is too short for a 9.0 rating or above. But I agree tha game is fun and addictive, 
 and that it's worth playing just to see the gorgeous graphics and the real time battles develop
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2005wrxsti
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  When I was going to school at Johns Hopkins I learned a valuable lesson from my English Lit. professor. 
 She told me "simple is best, and don't ever talk above your audience." So lets keep this simple...
 
  
  The game has great graphics, interesting plot and story, but the gameplay is a lacking. I swear 
 that certain developers have their hands in gamespot's pockets because they rated this as a 9.5 
 Sorry it's not even close!
  
  The gameplay revolves around holding strong points on a map, sure theirs no resource gathering, 
 but I actually think that's a weakness. It limits your ability to gather resources on your own 
 terms and drastically hinders the available tactics at your disposal.
  
  Another flaw, is that in the story line their are numerous times where you really have no clue 
 what's going on. My other dispute with this "9.5" is that you really don't have the ability to 
 stockpile troops or vehicles to attempt different strategies. It's like you're predestined to have 
 certain vehicles and you have to win the war with only that amount or you won't succeed.
  
  I really feel this RTS is a step in the WRONG direction.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 5
  
 Concept: 5
  Story: 8
  Voice Acting: 7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkameltosis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  An amazing game, a very different type of RTS, just a very graphics demanding game. Its funny how 
 such a unique way of playing has such a cliche story, Russia invades the USA, Red Alert 2 covered 
 that nicely.
  
  Nice that for once I don't have to worry about my base, because it doesn't exist, the artillery 
 was fun to play with, but the infantry were basically non existent, unless used in a swarm and 
 against light vehicles. The story line was rather short, I was expecting a real push from the USA 
 to Russia, or China, mostly because the Chinese still had their fleet out there that couldn't land. 
 The thing that I really liked about the game was the realism, or that it took one-two shots from 
 a tank to take out a jeep, or that a single shot from an anti-air would take out a scout helicopter.
 
  
  Game worth playing, but in the beginning you'll kinda be like "what the..." but you'll come around 
 eventually, but by then the game will almost be over... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyaviator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best graphics I have seen and it has the best plot I have ever seen. I love playing 
 this game and I enjoy it so much I have joined the official forums for it. 
  
  The good:
  Amazing graphics, great plot, great voice acting, fun multiplayer.
  
  The bad: some annoying 
 bugs but can be fixed with updates.
  
  But I have noticed that people have complained about this game because they say it is not fun because 
 you don't do resource collecting and all that you would usually find in an RTS, Real Time Strategy, 
 game. Well Massive has pointed out that this is really an RTT, or Real Time Tactical, game. So 
 don't go dissing the game because it is not like an RTS game. If you are going to rate this game 
 or complain about it, do it about the game it self and not on the fact that it is not like an RTS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speedyme
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  
  Fearing that i would have to return the game due to an outdated system, i played the games demo 
 first. After the mission they allow you to play i was taken in by the games action and story. The 
 most amazing thing about what this game does, is that it manages to make you feel like you are 
 in the battlefield. Though i only played on low graphic settings, i saw little to whine about. 
 the story itself takes you in from the very first cutscene. The actual playing done in the game 
 manages to make you feel like a commander. Not a all powerful floating camera. You must work alongside 
 others and due to the no base-building play in the game you feel like you have less control over 
 the battle, as would a real commander. Individual units seem to hold more value in this game even 
 though at times you have no choice but to let them fight as they see fit. Tactical stikes are amazing 
 and very helpful. 
  
  The few cons to this game are that the battle field seems too chaotic for a novice to the new mechanic. 
 Chaos, though, i imagine is a very real aspect of war. The other negative point to this game is 
 the strain put on your system. But due to how impressed i was, i am willing to shell out the 100$ 
 for a decent upgrade in my video card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  The layout of the game is spectacular. Great story line, awesome graphics, sweet explosions. EXCEPT, 
 you need to have one awesome computer in order to really enjoy this game. The strategy is pretty 
 friggin awesome too. But again, it's really hard to enjoy this game when you're getting 1 frame 
 every 10 seconds. My computer isn't bad either. It's a fairly descent computer. So honestly, I 
 think they crammed way to much into it for most people to enjoy. I mean sure, you can turn down 
 the graphics. But I'd much rather play with awesome screen rippling explosions than x's and o's.
 
  
  Pros- Amazing explosions. Great story line. Awesome strategic abilities. GREAT scenery.
  
  Cons- requires high graphics in order to enjoy. Can be a bit glitchy at times and gets kind 
 of annoying. (this next one is my personal opinion) Bad bullet reception. The infantry can take 
 like 2 cannon shots from a tank to the back and still be running around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockard34
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  this game a one of those stragey games and there fun this is is defenitly fun thers no getting 
 supplies by chopping trees or mining gold and getting food it's earn points and go the gameplay 
 of it is pretty good takes alot of time to get use the the system and have everything worksthe 
 vehicle and stuff are ok but not super great the hard to get to places and and the maps are fairly 
 big so enough room for eveyone the one great thing about it is all the bombing that go on there 
 is alot of bombing options and there all cool from liek bombs to huge nukes that ingold the map 
 and a fire and smokey mushroom could and building fall and you can hide people in building and 
 forest so there is alot of way to do things so overall it's very good game could have some changes 
 but it's fine i would say try the demo on gamespot before buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonykarkats
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  We are talking about a masterpiece here....
  Apart from tne great scenario, the awesome graphics etc., etc that we've seen many many times ago 
 this game is special because its emotional...
  You may really cry sometimes. And its the game that most accurately describes the paranoia of war 
 through the eyes of plain soldiers. 
  Of course you must have the according PC system in order to enjoy it.
  I ran it on very high 
 settings 1280X1024 on a Radeon HD3870 , 2 gigs RAM , and an 3,67 OC CPU.... The explosions are 
 crazy!!!!! As for the sound you just have to hear the F-16 rushing over your head or the carpet 
 bomber!!!!!
  Definitely worth its money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  this game is different with other rts games: no base, no building, no resources and No skirmish. gameplay 
 is almost similar with company of heroes. graphics is amazing and sounds is good. storyline is great 
 and speed of game is cool. objectives in missions is clear and victory is easy. I also got the feeling 
 that I can never die! The goals are just too boring and easy, the camera movement is a nice feature 
 but the game in general lacks what RTS games are known of. strategy..
  there just isnt enough depth. You just move units; set formations, use special abilities and atatck 
 at multiple fronts at the same time... I found World in conflict quite limited by the population 
 cap. You will only ever be controlling about 10 tanks at a time.
  Some missions look like they were designed to bore you as much as possible, and they do. overall 
 If you're looking for some entertainment for a weekend and something simple that has lots of bling 
 then WIC may be a good choice for you. On the other hand... If you're wanting a deep strategy game 
 that will hold your interest and keep you challenged for months then WIC is definitely not you're 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgT_P3pr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  A game with great, solid fun gameplay, great music and a good story. That is how I would describe 
 World in conflict. A revolutionary RTS that gives you command of a set amount of units, where you 
 can call in reinforcements, strategical help and so on, not the traditional building a base and 
 a army, advancing throught the ages etc.
  
  The story is fun and intreging. You play the commander of a company in the US army and must fight 
 the russains (on american soil) and push them back. Voice actors have done a great job in protating 
 the charcters.
  
  Music and songs are face-pased and loud, making the atmoshpere of the game amazing.
  
  Gameplay 
 is fun and addicting. You have to think tactical instead of just sending your intire army at a 
 small base. It make your use your units wisely, combining aircraft, vechiles, men, nukes, artillary 
 barrages, carpet bombing and so on to succed.
  
  THE BEST RTS I'VE EVER PLAYED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolkite2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  You play as Lieutenant parker, late captain parker, in the fictional WW3.
  for the 1st 5 levels you play in seattle the for lvls 6-9 you play in eourope and russia then in 
 lvl 10 u play in newyork and finally in lvls 11-14 you play again in seattle like i said great 
 story! In multiplayer you play as either NATO, USSR, or the U. S. There are 4 roles the armour infantry 
 and air roles are pretty much self explanitory while with support theres aa repair and artillery 
 great game. There are many maps with more being added every once in a while and if u download World 
 in conflict map editor you can make you own creattions! Theres also the world in conflict movie 
 maker which if u use it right it will make great movies. There are 3 types of games the first type 
 is domination where u try to take over all the command points on the map the 2nd type is assualt 
 which first one team defends then switch after 10 min and there is tug of war where you push your 
 enemy back im not going into detail here though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migduvednok
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  This game had a way too high review from gamespot - it's NOT breaking new ground in any significant 
 case. 
  
  1) Great story - or rather, wonderful gallery of persons in it. The cut scenes and storytelling 
 is REALLY good! I havend't enjoyed cutscenes this much since Fallout Tactics.
  
  2) Gameplay is bordering on confusing - you're being ordered around the map so often, by so many 
 different people that you don't have time to develop a relationship with. It's also common to being 
 told that YOU are the last defenders against the enemy, but all the time computercontrolled friendly 
 units are being delivered to your position - so you'll end up feeling that what you do is completely 
 useless at all, if only to advance the stupid game.
  
  3) graphics is really good - but that's like a law of nature, so that won't even give the game 
 points from me. 
  
  4) the fundamentals of the game like no base building, has been seen several times before - no 
 big deal. As an RTS goes, it invents nothing new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEeMan69
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This begins with the story. The Russians attacking Seattle and they are taking over, that kicks 
 @ss. Hell ya i mean the gamplay is like a whole 10 years from now its nuts. The game is just increabable 
 i mean i got stuck to this, i love this game, the units and just the story and gameplay i mean 
 the guys who made this should be awarded an award for the best fricken game makers in the world! 
 The game is just is just a total Masterpiece the game should have been be awarded the best game 
 of the year (sadly Bioshock did) . I wouldnt be surprised if Sierra makes another game like this, 
 git rid of Empire Earth and just make every game like this and they will make tons and we will 
 get to have the best games every made. It would be real cool if they made one of some other war 
 or make their own, but whoever needs a total kick @ss game with great graphics and gameplay with 
 a great storyline then GET THIS GAME ITS WORTH IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreicucuiet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  To start with ;World in conflict is a cool rts
  
  it has very imppresive grafics. it runs smooth on any computer (mine is from 2001 and it runs very 
 cool) and the camera has tons of features. it's not just a simple camera. You'l see.... when you buy 
 it. This game is an excelent rts whith tons of hours of gameplay lovely units that like say "please 
 press the red' button please"........ you know what i'm thinking. the game's terrain is very different 
 to giant cities to green plains.
  
  World in conflict has an very great gameplay..... an immpresive look... cool grafics and um.. uh YOU"L 
 SEE WHEN YOU BUY IT.
  
  
  In any way this game rocks an is a must-buy for rts fans
  
  PS
  I do have the game. Really. Really.
  
  You can only, in the singleplayer , play with the 
 americans but in multiplayer you can paly with the russians too.
  
  Diferent artilery strikes make the game even cooler. Nuke's are usable and diferent bombing runs 
 are available like well... naplam lazer guided bomb you know, stuff that goes BOOM in a big way.
 
  
  
  The  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taurian0205
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  does this game seems familiar to u? if not then im going to remind u that this is a finess edition 
 of the gameplay from ground control 2. anyway, this game is at its prime especially with the online 
 multiplayer, but the single player campaign is much more enjoyable, the story is epic and it sucks 
 u in like a blackhole.
  
  the graphic is awesome thanks to DX10, u need a good rig to play it though, here is my specs:
 
  -AMD Athlon 6000+ 64x2 3.0ghz
  -Gainward 8800GTX (factory default)
  -4gb Kingston RAM 800mhz
  -Gigabyte GA-M57SLI-S4 motherboard
  -WIndows Vista
  
  i can play 
 very high setting on 1440x900 (because its my max resolution for my SyncMaster 940MG Samsung.
 
  
  i get average FPS of 29/s on the benchmark, but the gameplay is smooth for 99% of the game.
  
 
  well the story is a lil short, u can only play as USA, but its pretty deep though, felt like im 
 in the actual 89 cold war boiling point.
  
  well, we should wait for the expansions!!! solviet and china, then ofcourse, they're gonna bring 
 the war down to us in Australia and get to blow up harbour bridge and opera house :D kekeke just 
 kidding 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  History: Imagine if the Cold War never ended and if the real war has become real.
  
  The game: When you play it you see that is not a usually RTS game. You dont need to build a base 
 to make units, and you dont control the hole army at the beginning, only a small battalion per 
 time. The game is basicly is capturing strategic points, kill enemy units, repair your units. In 
 the main campaign we have 14 scenarios and each mission have primary and secondary objectives. 
 The interface is very dynamic and simple, allowing great and fast management.
  
  Sound: Very realistic, convicent, authentic and detailed. The music is used on specified moments 
 on the mission making you to get in the battle.
  
  Graphics: Full DirectX10 technology, very detailed, very realistics and real, very beautifull indeed. 
 In this game has the nuclear bomb and you can see the forest burning, houses turning to dust, everything 
 getting destroy!
  
  Conclusion: Worth buy this game! Worth every cent! The only problem is that you need a good PC 
 to run this game. I tested on this PC above and runs great on 1024x768 very high.
  4200 X2 A8N32 SLI ATI 2900XT 1GB DDR4 2GB DDR400 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  What can I say about World in Conflict that hasn't already been said and praised about. Offering 
 one of the best Single Player campaigns yet, WiC is an amazingly made and developed game that will 
 leave you wanting more, more and even a little more. The development of the story is deep and often 
 thrilling with superbly made cutscenes that can take your breath away. The campaign will also leave 
 you caring and interested about the characters in the story and finishes with it's that there will 
 be expansions to come in the future.
  
  There are some amazing moments, that MUST be experienced to truelly be enjoyed. True your computer 
 may get a kicking or two in the process as it won't work on just any PC. I built a custom PC a 
 few months back with a Nvidia GeForce 8800 GTX OC that ran it perfectly and smooth. Graphically 
 it's an amazing game that truelly sometimes feels like a FPS when looking towards the growned.
 
  
  I can't reconmend this enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carrion6
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Like I mentioned before that the game reminds me of Starcraft, and I remember back in the day I 
 used to really enjoy playing that type of stuff as well as things like Comand & Conquer. Game like 
 this stand out for me more then roleplaying and all those other non-sense games. To me first person 
 shooters and games like this keep my attention. I'm also not a huge computer gamer, so I'll def 
 be getting this game when it comes out for the 360. Hope to see a bunch of multiplayer options, 
 thats the best thing to do once you have finished the game on single player. The TTV for those 
 was interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven28256
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  No, World in Conflict doesn't require you to be a tactical genius, no it doesn't feature particularly 
 complex gameplay. What it does deliver is a fun improvement over the Ground Control games with 
 a multiplayer that will keep you coming back. 
  
  World in Conflict takes place in 1989. The USSR is an the verge of collapsing, but instead of going 
 down with a whisper like they did in real like, the Soviets invade Western Europe to take the resources 
 they need to keep going. The story is very much like the one in the classic Clancy novel Red Storm 
 Rising, which is to be expected because the story was written by Larry Bond, who co-authored that 
 novel with Tom Clancy. The major difference is that the Soviets launch a sneak attack in Seattle, 
 Washington in an attempt to force the US to withdraw just enough troops from Europe to give the 
 commies an edge. 
  
  One thing you should know right now: Don't come into World in Conflict expecting some advanced, 
 complicated clone of Company of Heroes. The amount of people bashing this game because it isn't 
 like Company of Heroes makes me think that many people made that mistake. World in Conflict has 
 no bases and no resources, and you control camera movement with the WASD keys like in an FPS while 
 you look around with the mouse. So in a way, World in Conflict is the RTS (Or RTT for the more 
 anal RTS gamers around here) for gamers who normally wouldn't like an RTS. At the same time it 
 still offers an experience that RTS vets can enjoy.
  
  For resources, you start out each mission (Or match in the case of multiplayer) with a set amount 
 of points that you use to purchase units. These are airlifted to your chosen drop zone several 
 seconds later. As your units die, their cost is slowly cycled back to you, allowing for you to 
 call in new units. This means you can focus on getting in the fight and not on building up an economy 
 and base. You also get Tactical Aid points for killing enemies, capturing points, repairing units, 
 etc etc. These can then be used to call in a large variety of tactical aid abilities. They range 
 from dropping in a squad of paratroopers to calling in heavy artillery barrages to napalm strikes 
 and many, many more. 
  
  The campaign is of a moderate length, and this is the problem. While the campaign isn't exactly 
 short, it will leave you wishing there was more. It isn't a problem so much as you will be sad 
 that it is over. The story is mostly told through still, graphic novel-like images of characters 
 phoning home to loved ones in between missions, as well as many quick cut-scenes using in-game 
 graphics during missions. It mostly focuses on the invasion of America and follows a battered mixed 
 battalion of US Army regulars and National Guard troops, but almost halfway through the campaign 
 will shift focus to Europe for a few missions. The characters aren't exactly original, but they 
 are still good and you will end up remembering them long after the ending credits roll. Also, each 
 mission has several badges, ribbons, and medals to win for doing certain secondary objectives. 
 
  
  The voice acting and sound effects are both very good. The dialogue is fairly well written and 
 the voice actors deliver their lines in a believable manner while not overacting. With a good sound 
 system the sound effects will sound so good you would think you were in a real war. The original 
 music score is great, and there are also a number of licensed songs mixed in. 
  
  The graphics are quite possibly the best of any RTS game to date, so long as your PC can handle 
 it. But even still, they look good on lower settings. Tanks explode and send their turrets flying 
 high into the air, helicopters break into two or more pieces when shot down before exploding in 
 midair, and buildings explode into thousands of tiny splinters when hit with big bombardments. 
 Bringing the camera low to the ground and into the middle of an artillery barrage will cause the 
 screen to shake and turn black and white with each shell hitting the ground. The few bits of CG 
 in the game also look amazing.
  
  As good as the campaign is, the multiplayer will keep you coming back, so long as you can find 
 good gamers to play with. The community is a real mixed bag sometimes. You will encounter some 
 good players, but also many terrible players focused more on improving their score over helping 
 the team win. See, the multiplayer is all about teamwork. The team that works best together always 
 wins and you NEED to work together to stand a chance. This is because, unlike most RTS games, your 
 units are limited. You only have a handful, and you are even further limited by the fact that you 
 must play one of four roles: Armor, Air, Support, and Infantry. Because of this, you must focus 
 on the strengths of your role while teammates offset the weaknesses, forming a coherent combined 
 arms force. In theory anyway, like I said you will need to make sure you have a lot of friends 
 who can work together. If not, then you will have a hard time getting a lot of fun out of this 
 game online. 
  
  The only major problem with the game is the fact that all three factions, US, NATO, and USSR, are 
 all the same. The units are basically the same across each faction, with some having a different 
 offensive ability. For example, the Light Tank for the US and USSR has a guided missile for its 
 offensive ability while the NATO Light Tank switches to high power armor-piercing rounds for several 
 bursts. 
  
  If you can approach this game looking for an RTS with a different style then you will love it. 
 If you are a hardcore elitist who must play games that are traditional and by the book, then you 
 may want to skip World in Conflict. At the end of the day, World in Conflict is fun, and isn't 
 that the point of a game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerry_123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  It's a very good game but lacks skirmish gaming and the number of command points that you have 
 in the campaign is so small that I can't use a full variety of units and tactics but the game it 
 self and the movie clips are awesome It's like 
  watching a movie in a theater and the graphics is totally perfect you must play this game if you 
 are a strategic expert gamer It's as good as "Company of heroes" I'm waiting for the expansion 
 of this game and I hope it contains skirmish game play this time and giving more command points 
 this time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cralle435
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game I hoped it would not be another "U. S. A is god" game, I hoped 
 for some realism.. Well it wasn't all bad..
  
  The good:
  Nice graphics.
  Good sound. Well they have to make it look good or the kids wouldn't buy it.
  At least they attempted 
 to make a good story.
  
  The Bad:
  You can't play a Russian Campaign, that really sucks!.
  America is ridiculously overpowered compared 
 to Russia, get real.
  Some missions look like they were designed to bore you as much as possible, and they do.
  The 
 story could be longer and catchy.
  The new way to play takes away part of the fun. I liked to build bases and collect money.. In this 
 game you hardly even need a strategy.
  
  Overall: The game feels like it was supposed to live solely on graphics, they threw in a bit of 
 story to lure older players in too, but it was pretty hollow.
  If you're an American Patriot, sure go ahead buy it, you'll enjoy it.
  If you're looking for 
 a good game, you're looking in the wrong direction, I won't recommend this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImperiusGladio
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  Oh wow, the first time I tried, nothing impressed me. Controls, commands and interface is the very 
 US MILITARY PRIDE sorta thing, WE FIGHT FOR FREEDOM & LIBERTY and the story of a lonesome lieutenant/captain 
 kickin butt and takin names plus getting ordered from almost everyone is just... normal I guess....
 
  
  Nice graphics, I'm really happy that future technology can really make someone enjoy good games 
 and wonderful features at the same time. This got really funny when I noticed the people/crew in 
 the vehicles talking to one another, that was not expected. The story was...... hoo...... touchy 
 I guess... patriotism....
  
  Such honor in the tank commander, he became a fire magnet for the escaping party, I wonder are 
 there really soldiers that would willingly do that. Officers might not hesitate, but what about 
 the other men?
  
  Anywayz, good story, ok game play and funny effects.... Lets see what else you guys can do.... 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  Now I am not saying this game is great, I expected a little more. It is worth playing and worth 
 buying, that in itself is a winning review from me, but I won't stop there.
  
  The bad is that it feels like you are just following a path, not really choosing your own destiny 
 as much I would like. There is minimal actual choices to make and it sometimes feels like more 
 of an action game with slight customizing choices than a RTS game where you choose your entire 
 plan down to the finest minute detail.
  
  This is just me, I am a huge fan of micro-managing in an RTS, and the more things I have to look 
 after the better. If you prefer simple, this is your game.
  
  The game looks good, plays well and has a good enough story to keep you interested. Of course it 
 was a typical "America is the good guys, everyone else is bad" type of game, where Russia once 
 again is stereotyped a bunch of bad guys. It'd be nice to have the choice who you would like to 
 be.
  
  That said, play the game, have fun with it and move to the next game, it will be a worthy slot 
 filler in your gaming adventures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabbster465
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is the game im reviewing today, ill start with the cons of this game. i had to 
 play this game on Lowest Quality cause of my Video card, the graphics on low are pretty crappy, 
 theres a glitch if your updating to full from trial that makes it so you cant play multiplayer, 
 and thats all i can think of right now for cons, ill add more later if i think of any more, now 
 for the pros/good, this game is very addicting and has a destructable environment, you can make 
 it almost any view except first person, if you like strategy games then this is a game i would recommend 
 to you, it has a , in my thoughts a small single player, but you could play it for hours and not 
 even realize it, same with the multiplayer, except its not small, the max people for a Multiplayer 
 server is 16 people, most servers are full so its hard to find a good server to join, the cinimatics 
 in this game are also great, there is a problem for some of the Cinimatics that makes it so the 
 people talk in audio without it lining up with the Visual, overall, i give this fantastic game 
 a 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerry688
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict puts a very interesting spin on the RTS genre. Instead of building a base and 
 collecting resources, WIC removes that aspect of the traditional RTS and pulls you into the action 
 and doesn't let go.
  
  In WIC, the action is non-stop since you airdrop your units into battle zone, rather than producing 
 them from a building. 
  
  Instead of collecting resources such as minerals or gas, you use an unlimited amount of "Reinforcement 
 Points" to purchase new units. Of course, the maximum amount of points you can have at a given 
 time is determined on map control. Players simply choose what units they want and deploy them to 
 the field. If they happen to be destroyed in battle, you slowly regain the points that you used 
 to purchase them.
  
  This assures the player that there is virtually no waiting game, since the action is always happening, 
 and the battles never stop.
  
  There are also "Tactical Aid Points" which can be use to purchase these Aids, which can range from 
 Mortar Barrages, to Tactical Nukes. With the amazing graphics that WIC offers, you can rest assured 
 that all of these abilities look beautiful.
  
  The story is also very interesting, which depicts the Soviet Union rising to power and attacking 
 Europe and the United States. Though somewhat unbelievable, the way that the scenarios are played 
 out make the game very believable. 
  
  To RTS gamers that are accustomed to the traditional way of play, WIC may hit home with it's innovative, 
 non-stop action style, or utterly disgust or deter. Either way, WIC shines with it's new take on 
 the RTS genre, using it's immersive storyline, beautiful graphics and intense action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsnipeorBOB
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is just amazing. It has a nice single player that is both fun and hard but not 
 to hard. But the best part is the multiplayer. You instantly get to join a game without waiting 
 more than 40 seconds. This is without a doubt the game you will want to get if you are into strategy 
 games. Totally addictive and never gets old on multiplayer. And to top it off the games pays great 
 attention to detail, all the way from a view of the whole battlefield all the way down to the individual 
 soldiers. And you cant forget nukes. Just seeing them go off is worth the wait for the points 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahularunmishra
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict is a good game. Hope my review could end there. After seeing how beautiful the 
 game was... i really wanted to spend time on it, but just like Ground Control 2 that came before 
 this... there just isnt enough depth. You just move units; set formations, use special abilities 
 and atatck at multiple fronts at the same time...
  
  Company of Heroes and Dawn of War do the same thing with some base building and you know what? 
 I prefer that model of gameplay.
  
  Man the game looks and plays great in single player... but why would i want to do the same in multiplayer? 
 I havent played much online... but i doubt its going to be much different... hell you cannot have 
 any unique strategies much can you? Just buy units and capture/defend points.
  
  COH atleast lets me build the units i want based on the resources i have captured... here if i 
 have the points i can get whatever i want... plain silly.
  
  Also... the weird Battlefield type game play where i can only select a 'role' in the matches was 
 very very disappointing.
  
  Okay... in closing... Just nuke the battlefield and smile... the game looks phenomenal... but its 
 kinda boring and so the graphical fidelity doesn't quite save it. I would have given it 7; but 
 single player was fun while it lasted... so 8.
  
  Dont expect to hang on to the game play for long -so rent it first!!! Not much depth. On the plus 
 side... it runs well even on older hardware and can provide fast action.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopeymaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Well i first started playing this game thinking that i could have unlimited number of troops, expected 
 huge battles, and others things, but i was wrong. 
  Though the Singular player provides pretty big battles and good amount of units, the multiplayer 
 does not.
  
  Multiplayer has one of the BEST ideas i have ever ever seen. I mean got each person to control 
 different units, its a great idea. But the problem is that you have have a VERY VERY extremely 
 low number of troops you control. I mean as a air force commander you can only control about 3-6 
 choppers, as a armor commander you control about 5-9 tanks, troops about 5-9, and support about 
 3-5 units. This really got on my nerves, you only get to have very few units and takes a while 
 to get your point back and reorder them. 
  
  The best part about this game is NOT HAVING TO GO GET RESOURCES, i absolutely hate having to earn 
 you income by getting your resources and stuff like that like in C&C or age of Empire or Empire 
 earth. But this game you dont even need to build a base which is AWSOME, just get in and play.
 
  The gameplay is pretty fun if you know what your doing, but still lack of units and taking a while 
 to get them back is pretty annoying.
  
  But overall a great game for strategy fans and non strategy fans and even people who hate havng 
 to go gather resourced and money!
  WORTH BUYING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict, is a flashy strategy game, with limited substance. This isn't a wholly bad thing, 
 as the game is gorgeous to look at, and has fast paced action. The omission of an economy/base 
 building system makes the game more of an action game, than a strategy game. This is both a blessing 
 and a curse; it makes the game accessible to new players. But this omission also makes the game 
 to overly simplified.
  
  Single player is fun, but there is no significant challenge to beating it. The story is interesting 
 and well voice acted, but the game play is repetitive. 
  
  Multiplayer is where players will get the most enjoyment, playing in an 8 vs. 8 match can be fun 
 if your teammates know what they are doing, but usually they don't, so you end up trying to convince 
 your support teammates that they need to spawn heavy anti air, because the other teams strategy 
 is to spawn tons of heavy helicopters.
  
  There is a nice rank system, and some awards to earn in multiplayer, and there is good support 
 for clans including leader boards & stat tracking. 
  
  I was initially engrossed with this game, but after around 70 hours, it started to lose its appeal, 
 it's fun to play multiplayer every once in a while, but I have found base building to be more fun 
 than not base building so I still play Company of Heroes more often.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frankensteinman
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is perfect in every regard. The story, the multiplayer, the graphics, and the 
 gameplay, are all perfect. First off the story, which takes place over 14 missions, in many different 
 theaters. The first missions serve as a good introduction to the game and how to control units. 
 The story is touching and heartfelt, and the voice acting and cut scenes are amazing. You will 
 want to play it through to the end, and the ability to replay missions is a nice addition, as is 
 the ability to replay cut scenes. The graphics are great in the cut scenes and in the entire game. 
 The game runs best on very good graphics cards, but it will run on a mediocre card. The online 
 is the best mode. The intense 16 player battles are great and the entire idea works very well. 
 The gameplay is flawless and it is a great improvement over traditional RTS fare. The ability to 
 just call in reinforcements is great, and the entire concept of Tactical Aid points is good too. 
 Overall the frantic multiplayer matches are what make the game the best, but the story should not 
 be overlooked either. The online features three playable factions that are all fairly well balanced, 
 and allows for huge variation of play style each time you play. The online also has a nice stat 
 tracking feature which in itself is inspiration to keep playing the game. There are also world 
 wide individual and clan rankings. All of this contributes to why World in Conflict is a perfect 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tactician
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to say bad things about such a great game. The game is well built. The plot is great. 
 The mechanics are very savvy. The AI is good. Its a great game from start to finish. The biggest 
 problem is not the developers fault at all in fact. Its just such an awesome game you want to play 
 it with all the bells and whistles turned on but the entrance fee for such a feet is a several 
 hundred dollar video card and if your a laptop gamer, forget it. So here is the bottom line. If 
 you want a great looking game and don' have a zillion dollar system, buy XBOX 360 version. If you 
 are willing to play with the low end graphics or resolution you will like the PC version. If your 
 machine does not have at least the recommended levels I would pass and wait for the console version. 
 Happy playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dean_Harper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Awesome game with great graphics, but i dont have good enough graphics card to make the game move 
 smoothly, and ive had to put it down for now... As soon as i get the money to buy them though, 
 ill definitally be playing nonstop. As some of the pics say, its worth it to drop a nuke, just 
 to see the mushroom cloud... even if it takes a long time to see... Thats basically it, though 
 i hope to add more to this review later on.
  
  Trying to make this 100 words or more, so hopefully this will do it...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Well the game's Tutorial is boring as hell but must be done in order to understand how to play 
 the game - its about 15-20 min long.
  Now at the beginning of the Campaign you don't understand a thing but as time goes on, around the 
 3rd mission or so you start to understand the basics and start to master the game. Thats when all 
 the fun starts!
  The game is really fun. You have an army to your disposal, and air support - like artillery and 
 such. Instead of making buildings to make your troops, you start on with points that can be used 
 to buy units that are then parachuted to the ground to the spot you choose. When the mission progresses, 
 you get more and more points, especially by completing secondary objectives.
  All is nice and well - the story, the graphics, the gameplay, but then comes the annoying part, 
 that for some reason it is seen to much in games lately. The game is short! 
  Even though i do recommend the game specially if you get it for free, like i did :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  The 80's wasn't just about bad music, audacious hair and awesome action movies, the 80's also summed 
 up a time in the world of uncertainty and turmoil between two major powers in Russia and the USA. 
 Thankfully for us in the real world, this "Cold War" was put aside and World War III was put on 
 hold, but what if this didn't happen? What if Russia and the USA went into full scale war? Sierra 
 Entertainment's and Massive Entertainment's World in Conflict approaches this once all too real 
 possibility in an RTS form, and the genre has rarely seen so much action.
  
  As with any decent RTS game, World in Conflict focuses around three major modes of play if you 
 don't count the tutorial. You have the single player campaign, single player skirmish, and a multiplayer 
 mode. However, it is with the actual execution of these modes where this game starts to shape its 
 unconventional and untraditional approach to the RTS genre. This comes in the form of being very 
 minimalist regarding micro-management - while there are 'control points' on the map you can control, 
 there are no bases and buildings to construct, no technology trees, no units upgrades, and basically 
 very little else to do other than command units in battle. This is an RTS which focuses almost 
 exclusively on the action.
  
  It sounds like a risky approach to take, but this concept is not exactly brand new to the RTS genre. 
 In many ways, World in Conflict is like a modernized version of Theatre of War which, if you don't 
 already know, is a WWII RTS that allows you to select your units before the battle, place them 
 on the battlefield, and then proceed in real time action without nagging management issues slowing 
 you down. WIC takes a very similar approach to this but does bring some degree of unit management 
 into the real time medium, which comes in the form of aerial drops. To start most battles you are 
 required to spent unit points on a limited selection of units, but you can also order more during 
 battles should any of your original units perish. The end result is an almost perfect balance between 
 enough unit management to give the game depth when it comes to ordering the right units to win 
 a battle, but not enough to distract you from the action for significant amounts of time.
  
  This simplified setup to the gameplay really works well for World in Conflict, but at the same 
 time the game still features plenty of proven RTS gameplay mechanics. While the game does incorporate 
 a somewhat unique 'WASD' camera control system combined with mouse look similar to what you might 
 expect in a online FPS's spectator mode, everything else when it comes to unit selection and issuing 
 orders basically follows RTS standards to a tee - that is, drag selection, right click commands 
 etc. In a way, you can kind of see how WIC may have been designed with its future Xbox 360 release 
 in mind as it has got to be, fundamentally speaking, one of the most basic RTS games ever made, 
 but there are some more advanced features available such as waypoints and formations (well, 'line' 
 and 'box' anyway) , and in all honestly even though in all likelihood the game probably wasn't designed 
 strictly with the PC in mind, Massive Entertainment disguised it very well as you'd never catch 
 on if you weren't aware a 360 version was initially planned with the PC release - the only impression 
 you get from the game itself is this minimalist single dimensional RTS gameplay was solely intended 
 for maximum action and fun, and nothing else.
  
  And this is really the crux of the gameplay in World in Conflict. Even if you're the smallest fan 
 of the RTS genre there are few reasons not to like this game as it is just so damn fun and addictive. 
 The time that wasn't directed at making complex technology trees and unique gameplay mechanics 
 was definitely directed at making this game so great to play. Everything from the AI to the spectacular 
 graphics even when zoomed close into the action expels quality and polish, not to mention the very 
 authentic atmosphere and war time feel this game creates thanks to some ultra impressive fully 
 destructive environments, turning peaceful urban American and rural European scenery into simmering 
 crater filled war zones. While the game's offline modes on easy settings won't likely give you 
 much trouble dominating maps, the difficulty can scale up well into the realms of requiring real 
 time strategy mastery, so don't be fooled, while World in Conflict is probably one of the most 
 accessible and mainstream appealing RTS's gameplay wise for a long time, it still has plenty to 
 offer the RTS enthusiasts out there.
  
  While this great gameplay extends across the entire range of modes, it is probably the multiplayer 
 modes (whether online against humans or offline against bots, i. e. the game's "skirmish" mode) 
 that will offer the most enjoyment for most gamers as the game's first and possibly only significant 
 disappointment can be found in the somewhat rushed singleplayer campaign mode. As already detailed, 
 this game is about a semi-fictional conflict between the USA and the USSR, and it is in the game's 
 singleplayer campaign mode where you will be able to experience this scenario in a story based 
 system, from the events in Europe to the surprise invasion of the USA by Russian forces.
  
  Unfortunately the main problem you're going to find with this mode is it is extremely linear and 
 really nothing more than a series of maps with cut scenes in between. Once again, as with C&C 3, 
 I can't help but feel excellent RTS gameplay is severely let down by an inadequate singleplayer 
 campaign mode that doesn't even try to push the boundaries, not even a little. My personal desire 
 here is to see a mode where human controlled armies can take on enemy CPU armies in a Risk style 
 setup, where territory can be lost and gained and where supplies and units can be directed all 
 over the global battlefield at will, also similar to that seen in the fantastic Total War series. 
 This way losing a battle doesn't halt the storyline, but rather it dynamically changes the storyline. 
 This to me would be the ultimate game mode for an RTS like World in Conflict and it's just such 
 a shame to see what basically is a 'bare minimal' approach instead. This is one area where the 
 game's basic and simplistic style doesn't pay off.
  
  That's not to say the single player campaign mode is bad though - it's still plenty of fun - but 
 Massive Entertainment left a lot of potential on the drawing board by not at least trying something 
 unique and detailed, which does seem to put a fair amount of pressure on the game's multiplayer 
 and skirmish modes. It's not that gamers won't play and probably finish the campaign mode, it's 
 just that once you've done it, there is little point in doing it again since it will be more or 
 less the exact same experience the second time around. It is lucky then that the multiplayer mode 
 in this game is indeed up for the challenge, because while the campaign mode shows no sign of imagination 
 in how it is delivered whatsoever, the multiplayer mode couldn't be more different.
  
  The best way to describe the online and LAN human or offline CPU bot based multiplayer in this 
 game is as an online first person shooter delivered in an RTS package. You have a map, two teams, 
 and a hefty limit of up to 16 players. Now, RTS games have had team based MP in the past, but World 
 in Conflict differs in that thanks to its pick-up and play style gameplay, you feel like you're 
 just playing any other team deathmatch shooter, only with killer strategy replacing killer aiming. 
 This is the type of game that will have ISP's worldwide setting up dedicated servers so gamers 
 that can just come in, play for as long as they wish, and drop out seamlessly without disturbing 
 the balance of the game anymore than any other online game regardless of genre.
  
  This is all thanks to the absence of any significant micro-management, which has typically held 
 back other RTS's from mainstream online gaming popularity since establishing and maintaining bases 
 is usually a central theme to the gameplay which generally doesn't lend itself well to quick-to-get-into 
 'no strings attached' multiplayer gaming. However, while World in Conflict's style does lend itself 
 well to multiplayer, there is one mechanism in place for multiplayer to regulate the impact any 
 one player can have and that's the requirement to select from one of four groups when joining a 
 game - infantry, support, armor and air. The one you select will dictate the type of units you 
 can deploy to the battlefield which, while restricting your capabilities compared to the campaign 
 mode, adds a whole new layer of strategy to the game only seen in the multiplayer mode as either 
 side can only really be as good as its weakest link, which creates some very intense and interesting 
 battles against real human intelligence.
  
  There is really very little reason why any PC gamer shouldn't give World in Conflict a go because 
 it is just so accessible and appealing. You don't have to be an RTS nut to enjoy this game, but 
 on the other hand you don't not have to be one either. The single player campaign mode is a little 
 bit of a disappointment and probably won't offer much more than a 'once and done' experience, but 
 thankfully the game's awesome multiplayer, which has got to be the most well balanced and enjoyable 
 multiplayer I've experienced in an RTS for a long time, comes to the rescue and really sets this 
 game apart. This is a must have title for PC fans who want plenty of action and minimal fuss, and 
 the likelihood many game design decisions were shaped by the fact a 360 release is also pending 
 doesn't detract from the appeal at all. Titles like World in Conflict are really making PC gaming 
 look great right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  Well, this is a great game as many people that played it believe. I ve played it for around hundred 
 hours and it is almost alaways that i have a different ending in each server game. Single player 
 game is cool although sometimes it is kinda routine. So i would give a 8.2 for the single player 
 mode. About the multi and its updates, i would give i big and easy 10/10 because it is hard to 
 achieve what they achieved ( A game that never has the same ending) . Perfect game by Sierra Ent. 
 and Massive Ent. Its price keeps going down and i would recommend it if u r those kinds of player 
 who like to control everything from high above!!! (god-style? oO, nah) . 
  
  Anyway a good idea for this game would be to add in the next patch a true airforce. U will have 
 the ability to choose between different ships carrying airplanes of different kinds of attributes. 
 Example: High Airforce Defense, Medium Airforce Defense, etc. The airplanees will be able to attack 
 after a specific time after every attack (cooldown) and to destroy them u will need either to destroy 
 the planes while defending/attacking (AA, anti-air) or to destroy the ships (using ur airforce 
 or ur tactical aids or even ur heli) Also someone who is using airforce could have an extra tactical 
 aid. (the canons of the ship for attacking the enemy territory) . Although it would be cool only 
 one or two players should be allowed to get it and a specific rank would be required. What u guys 
 think of it????? Please give a rank of my idea out of 10 if u can !!! Thanks a lot ;)
  
  Thund3R 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corey_Larson
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, the story line just pulls you in and you never want to stop. This game had 
 me up tell 3 or 4 in the morning, i couldnt sleep, i just wanted to play this game. This game has 
 great multi player, play up to 16 people. I just finished this game and i wish it wasnt over. The 
 campaign has the best story lines in any game i have ever played. This is why i gave it a 10, and 
 if you havent play this game you should buy it. It will run on a lot of computers, so go out there 
 and GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScholarInDisguise
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Good :
  
  Looks and sounds amazing. Great storyline and makes you feel like you're a part of something big. 
 
  
  Bad : 
  
  Lacks units and depth which will struggle to hold a hardcore RTS player's interest for very long. 
 
  
  Closing Thoughts :
  
  This is one of those games that will entertain you the first time through. It's not very challenging 
 even on the hardest settings. Your goals and the strategy behind those goals are all laid out for 
 you at the beginning of each mission so the "Strategy" part of this game is pretty much next to 
 nothing. Most of the entertainment value comes from the storyline, visuals, and audio. Lots of 
 "Bling" with very little replay value. You won't be putting much thought into building, units, 
 and a strategy in general. 
  
  That said... If you're looking for some entertainment for a weekend and something simple that has 
 lots of bling then WIC may be a good choice for you. On the other hand... If you're wanting a deep 
 strategy game that will hold your interest and keep you challenged for months then WIC is definitely 
 not you're game.
  
  I really can't see why this particular game has the great ratings it does for an RTS genre game. 
 "bling bling" is great but the underlying game play is what really counts and WIC just doesn't 
 have the value or depth to justify a 8-10 rating in this genre. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipershot527
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict I would have to say is the game i enjoyed playing the most so far this year. 
 There is so much good about it that its hard to mention it all. First the story line was fantastic. 
 The idea of the cold war not ending and actually solidifying into a conflict on our home soil was 
 absolutely perfect. The story line actually made me feel kinda mad that the soviets had gotten 
 here so mission accomplished on making the story seem almost real. Second the visuals in this game 
 are second to none in RTS gaming. My computer isn't bad by any means but it still chugged a bit 
 from the intense eye candy going on everywhere. the vehicles and people were extremely detailed 
 and the explosions.... oh the explosions were fantastic. Gameplay was excellent as well. I really 
 liked that i didnt have to build a friggin base to produce troops and vehicles like every other 
 RTS game out there, instead i could just call for reinforcements depending on what i was alloted. 
 That really made me rethink a lot of strategy since there was no real base to fortify. Sound is 
 where i have one little thing i didn't like. in my opinion the voice acting was pretty cheesy. 
 Thats just my opinion, i have heard numerous other people say it was fine so maybe it's just me. 
 The sound effects on the other hand were great. I have an XFi Fatal1ty card and I dont think any 
 other game has rocked it as much as this one. All in all this is a great game that everyone should 
 try and play at some point, even if you have to turn the graphics way down so your PC can even 
 run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  When many people think of RTSs, they think of long, boring stretches of gathering resources and 
 building up bases and then armies. Then they go and rush the enemy, one side usually winning as 
 the result of luck or picking out more appropriate combinations of troops. World in Conflict, Massive 
 Entertainment's newest game, throws resource-gathering out the window and starts you off smack 
 dab in the middle of battle.
  
  The set up for this conflict is the start of a Third World War between Nato/USA and the Soviet 
 Union right at the end of the Cold War. The Soviets decide to go out with a bang in the face of 
 economic collapse, and so starts World in Conflict's campaign.
  
  Now, usually, campaigns in RTSs are looked down upon and skipped because they either don't offer 
 interesting stories and/or are presented very artificially. World in Conflict is a grand exception 
 to this de facto rule. The game's story, written by a crack team of script-writers, offers an overly 
 cinematic view of a war that could have devastated the world only a decade and a half ago. There 
 are three or four main characters which the story mostly follows, and it actually deals with their 
 feelings and emotions regarding the war and develops bonds in between them as the story progresses. 
 Again, we have character development, which is completely unheard of in the RTS genre, and is done 
 better here than most games in ANY other genre. There are tales of bravery, cowardice, and even 
 self-sacrifice cleverly interwoven with the story.
  
  The game's campaign is nicely complemented by its innovative gameplay, which basically gives the 
 player a bunch of "command points" that he can use to buy units of differing categories and strengths. 
 If a unit is lost, those points are quickly added back to the pool, meaning the player can get 
 right back into the fight. The majority of the campaign's missions involve attacking fortified 
 areas, capturing them, and then holding them for a predetermined amount of time until either reinforcements 
 arrive or the enemy retreats. However, there are some clever segue ways, such as using repair vehicles 
 and resupply crews to help reorganize a scattered army in the wake of a large Soviet attack. The 
 campaign is mostly easy, with some challenging points later on in the campaign, but even the least 
 dedicated RTS players will have no trouble getting through it on the Hard difficulty setting. Scattered 
 throughout the missions are secondary objectives, which involve such varied missions as repairing 
 a commander's main command tank to taking out a flanking wave of Soviet helicopters. Achieving 
 these objectives awards the player with medals that offer the campaign some kind of replayability.
 
  
  While the campaign is great and unprecedented in terms of the RTS genre, its Multiplayer where 
 the game really shines. Each match places a player on two opposing teams, where he must choose 
 one of several roles to play in his side's military forces. This offers some interesting gameplay 
 differences, as Air forces are extremely powerful, but are unable to actually hold and capture 
 territory. Armor can slice through infantry squads quite easily, but cannot defend itself against 
 Air strikes. This type of rock-paper-scissors mechanic requires players to work with each other 
 as a team and use the strengths and reduce the weaknesses of their respective branches. Players 
 are also rewarded tactical aid points that allow them to call in different kinds of aids in increasing 
 magnitudes of destruction, eventually all the way up to a tactical nuke. Many of the multiplayer 
 maps involve the two sides fighting over territory in a limited number of time, and their status 
 is represented by a bar at the top of the screen, further expressing the tug of war gameplay of 
 this game. It is easy to learn the game, but it is very challenging to master, requiring a larger 
 time commitment than most games if you want to become good at it.
  
  When you look at presentation, this game is completely mind-blowing. Based on Massive's next-generation 
 RTS engine, WIC is a beautiful game. From the huge maps to the incredible real-time lighting to 
 the 3D volumetric clouds, the game is arguably the most beautiful of the year, on any platform 
 and in any genre. Cutscenes are mostly done in-game, and have character animations and textures 
 which come close to rivaling even the most modern of first person shooters. Sound is just as ambitious 
 and successful, with the constant sounds of battle punctuated by authentic radio transmissions 
 from troops either succeeding in a flanking attack, or being frantically wiped out by an incoming 
 airstrike. The control interface itself is very slick and gets rid of most of the unnecessary clutter 
 found in other games of the genre.
  
  Stepping back, and looking at the game as a whole, WIC is a masterpiece. When you look at what 
 Massive decided to do with the game, you have to look hard to find any flaws, and there really 
 are none. The game is well designed, beautiful, cinematic, action-packed, and truly offers something 
 new for the genre. It's the game that long-time RTS players will instantly pick up and love, and 
 one that people who avoid the genre will get intrigued with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogstar23
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  After reading both the good and bad reviews here, I had to jump in and see for myself. I'm a fan 
 of both the slower more strategic games like Combat Mission, Civilizatoin and also the rock, scissor, 
 paper games like Battfield. I'll just get straight to the point on Conflict in Arms, the campaign 
 mode is annoying, scripted, terrible voice acting and unbelievable story. It's best used as an 
 advanced training ground. The basic training you get at the beggining of the game, however, will 
 be good engough for most because one of the great things about the game is how accesible it is 
 and easy to jump into. I played the first couple missions in the campaign and was annoyed so went 
 right to multiplayer. The multiplayer is a fantastic strategy fest. It is rock sissors paper but 
 with about 50+ different rock scissor papers to choose from. The other people online were friendly 
 and there was always one experienced player gonard on the team that was able to provide strategy 
 direction to the team and newbies like myself. The more team work the better your results will 
 be, but you usually have a good balanced team of experienced and nonexperienced players because 
 the game does a good job of balancing teams. Pulling it all together are the brilliently good grapics 
 and sounds. I was really pulled into this game and have to agree with the people who gave it a 
 really high rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xpurex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  Well, this is a uncommon RTS game, its not like any others. In this one you don't need to send 
 out workers for resources and stuff like that. All you do is just order inn troops all the time, 
 you don't loose on it at all. You can experience as much as you want without having to feel bad 
 for it because you made your team loose, which never happens. Its a great feeling, how you're fighting 
 like a team to crush your enemies.
  
  The year is 1989 , the cold war was supposed to end... IT DIDN'T-
  The USSR (Soviet union) made 
 a stunning move and disguised army ships as cargo ships. While the american main army was in europe 
 fighting the russians attacked Seattle and took it swift.... Here is where you come in!
  
  Singleplayer- The singleplayer campaign is really fun, the missions give you a challenge, even 
 on easy! You're Parker , and you lead you're battalion to war, you are backed up by Bannon and 
 Webbs. The singleplayer all-in all is great and perfectly challenging. The only negative with the 
 game is that there is no Skirmish mode, but that does absoultly not ruin the game as long as you 
 have internett connection!
  
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer is honestly the best part of the game! It extremly fast to make an account and 
 start playing ( You need the CD-Key to play online) . The multiplayer is the reason that you will 
 play the game over and over again. It is fantastic! You don't even need to wait when you have joined 
 a game. Like in some games, where you need to wait for the round to finish, HELL NO! No waiting 
 here, you get directly into the battle! 
  
  Overall: This is a RTS game with a superb twist which will not make you think of it as any other 
 RTS game. This game is brilliant in all ways. Exept the Skirmish which you won't even notice (As 
 long as you have internett connection ) =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogzsnet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  I won't lie to you, the whole reason I bought World in Conflict was because I saw a screen shot 
 of a tactical nuclear weapon going off. I had to do that for myself in a game, and it not look 
 cheesy as hell. World in Conflict is anything but cheesy. The graphics are stunning, the voice 
 acting is incredibly believable (Alec Baldwin narrating) , and the combat is heart pounding. The 
 game allows you to send in to combat the first ever fully functional combat team in an RTS. You 
 can pair up M1A1 Abrams main battle tanks with M2 Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicles, which are 
 loaded with rifle sections of infantry, and to top it all off a few HMMMV's which can transport 
 more troops. To be honest you need to deploy such comprehensive teams in order to win. Send a tank 
 down a city street without infantry support and chances are it'll get wacked by enemy anti-armor 
 teams in the houses. Send the infantry alone down the same street and an enemy T-72 will make short 
 work of them. Couple the above mentioned combat teams with various types of helicopter support; 
 from AH-64 Apaches to AH-1 Super Cobra's and you've got some intense combat on your hands. I think, 
 however, the best place that World in Conflict shines, is with it's use of Close Air Support, and 
 Artillery Calls For Fire. The first time I called in a laser guided bomb on a house, I was floored 
 to see the dust/smoke cloud billow up and pieces of the house fly off in all directions. Watching 
 howitzers turn an enemy infantry company in to Swiss cheese is wicked. Putting a wall of flame 
 between you and the enemy with napalm is fantastic, and dropping daisy cutters on a patch of forest 
 to root out the enemy is bad ass. The best however, is dropping a tactical nuke, and watching the 
 best looking mushroom cloud ever produced in a game. With all the flash aside however, the things 
 that really make WiC a great game are the little things. Such as listening to the idle chatter 
 of two soldiers while they await your order; a crack in regards to the other soldiers wife. Or 
 watching the gunner in a HMMMV lean to the side and rest on his elbow while you survey the battlefield. 
 By far the best detail added to the game, comes in the form of giving all vehicles secondary abilities 
 like the M2 Bradley's ability to fire TOW anti-armor missiles, or the Apaches ability to fire hellfires. 
 These make your vehicles more versatile and able to handle a wider range of threats. Even the dismounted 
 troops get special abilities; like sprinting and firing M203 grenade launchers. All these things 
 combine to make WiC a monumental game. However there are some down sides, albeit few and far between. 
 Chiefly for me was the inability to make widespread use of dismounted infantry. The Russians always 
 managed to deploy COUNTLESS armored vehicles, so much that using dismounted troops was pure suicide. 
 Granted an anti-armor section in a house could be of some use, but little more than blocking off 
 a road to free up your armor to go hunting. Snipers were difficult to use as they were often spotted 
 by infantry some distance away, something any sniper half decent at his job, wouldn't be. I also 
 found that the command screen can become somewhat cluttered when you have large amounts of units 
 deployed as it keeps track of everything you have under your command. One last petty issue would 
 be the relative shortness of the single player campaign. It left me wanting more, but it DOES hint 
 at an expansion pack in the future. I suppose given everything that WiC is, those few MINOR issues 
 can be over looked. It is by far an excellent game, one whose story will keep you enthralled right 
 up until the final battle. World in Conflict is a good buy, well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grim_abyss
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  BOOM!!! Before anything else, this game has the greatest take on a mushroom cloud, both in visual 
 effects and devastation to your enemy. Nothing brings you better firework than these little bang-bangs, 
 and it comes with the little kick - complete obliteration. To me the combination blew my mind and 
 brought me a fountain of joy. This game changed the face of strategy. No gathering, no construction, 
 the game shift its focus to one thing and one thing only - destruction. You can enjoy the full 
 benefit of modern warfare, by choosing from four main classes - armour, air, infantry and support 
 - each with a variety of unique units. The game runs a very accurate assimilation of modern warfare 
 (ar least warfare at 1989 which the game take place but not far off from now) with a little tweak 
 here and there to balance out each of the class and unit. The specialty of the game is its choice 
 of tactical aids, players can lay waste to your enemy with a plethora of air and artillery strikes 
 ranging from mortar blasts to tactical nuclear strike (hallelujah) . For resource system, the game 
 has an automatic money system that allows player to buy only limited amount of units, then gain 
 tactical aid points through destroying enemy units. The only down side of the game is its very 
 limited number of units player could posses at one time. However on multiplayer this will be compensated 
 as massgate support a big game of 16 players. But personally i would pray for more units for the 
 sake of destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TDSmoove
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  By now you all know what the story is about so I'll skip the details and say that the alternate 
 universe idea is a very cool twist and something a little more original that the same ol' story 
 lines we see these days. This game pulls you in and makes you want to continue to play it through 
 the end. It could've been longer in the end but that is the sign of a good game as well... Something 
 that leaves you wanting more. Tactical part of the game isn't much different than and AOE, Starcraft 
 game. Load up and blast away. Only you don't have to worry about your town or base being attacked. 
 The unit cap actually works in this game since there is always several different battles and objectives 
 going on at the same time. Let's you focus on what part you have to play in the big picture around 
 you.
  
  Controls; having total controls to view the battles from every angle and almost every zoom lets 
 you get right into the grid of this without having to remap or get used to a bunch of new shortcuts. 
 It's all about get in and blast away. Very simple. Points that regenerate over time deletes the 
 resource management aspect of the game and lets you focus on destroying things.
  
  Graphics; Simply awesome. Tho usually you won't have time to really enjoy them before everything 
 is destroyed. I would have liked to see more variety in the building styles tho. Even Seattle looked 
 small and no city really have building larger than 3-4 stories. It would've been great to roll 
 down Seattle or NYC with skyscrapers all around you. WTC in the background of the NYC Mission was 
 nice to see.
  
  Sound; I've played this game wit Gulf War Vets and they have said that it's about as accurate as 
 it gets. Including all the radio chatter. A 5.1 sound system or better really puts you into the 
 thick of things. Voice acting is great on all levels. Col Sawyer is about as close as you can get 
 to a R. Lee Ermey (Full Metal Jacket) as you can get. Alec Baldwin brings a call amongst the storm 
 aspect to the game.
  
  This might not be a prefect game (Like there is such a thing) but this game leave you feeling like 
 it was money and time well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesoldier1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The campaign itself is very fun and I realy enjoyed it, along with the multiplayer when I played 
 with my friends, but there is the slight problem where the command points and the abilities you 
 earn through them are slightly overpowered... the ease you earn them and the destructive power 
 they hold make them so overpowered I actually won a game only through them.
  While this might be ok when the game focuses on eliminating the enemy forces, but its mostly about 
 gaining ground.
  Also- I did like the forces you had in the game, though I can hardly say they were balanced.
 
  While the tanks seemed ok and well balanced the helicopters were realy alot better than any other 
 unit in the game and yet again-very fragile vs the command 'Air-to-Air strike' which immediately 
 eliminates all the air units in that zone.
  The infantry were also a bit powerful vs tanks but that wasn't THAT bad.
  All in all- this game 
 seems to be a bit unbalanced with everyone being able to use every command in the game no matter 
 what army he plays or what force he commands.
  While I stated out the bad things- there are alot of good things in the game like the drop zones 
 and the units being air-dropped, also the support itself is nice and the fact you can play any 
 type of forces but also being able to order other units (at a cost) .
  To sum it all-the game is fun and enjoying and I would recommend it to anyone who likes strategy 
 games :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dionisus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  This is a wonderful RTS. No resources, pure action. The graphics are gorgeous, the story is spectacular, 
 and the simple unit org is effective. However, this leads to some disappointment for those of us 
 who prefer single-player action. The campaign is masterful, yet very short. And the lack of any 
 resource system shortens up the skirmish matches (which are to easy as it stands) .
  
  If you are going to buy it now, buy it for the multi-player. The single-player while amazing, is 
 too short to warrant $60. It would have been worth it with a Soviet campaign of equal length.
 
  
  There will almost certainly be a sequel, so be prepared! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  I totally agree with the previous post. I just upgraded to a Dualcore 6600, 8800gts 320mb and 2 
 gbs of Corsair ram on XP. Graphically its very much like Company of heroes but can be viewed further 
 out and you can have plenty more units. There are many options in the graphics to tweak it to run 
 smoothly and a benchmark to test your frames. With my current setup, I can run it on medium only 
 with 2X AA and 2 X Aniso. God only knows what system you need to run it on max and with DX10 enabled 
 too. Gameplay will keep you at the edge of your seat, theres so much going on and you get a lot 
 of radio chatter and orders. Just try listening to an order when you've called in 3 heavy artillery 
 stikes pounding an enemy column. Smoke, shrapnel and debris. Its fantastic. The game requires some 
 serious micro-management as each unit has an offensive and defensive capability I. E smoke and AT-4 
 missiles on the armoured transports. When you get over 4-5 of these bad boys you have to individually 
 select each one to fire it. Fortunatly, if you group them, you can fire them off as each one reloads. 
 Which effectively means you can launch a salvo and the option to fire again is when the 1st one 
 reloads. The camera is free to view anywhere you want with the middle mouse button and the default 
 setting on the keyboard are like usual RTS games. I havent played multiplayer yet, but overall 
 I am impressed with this game. It beats C&amp; C for me hands down. Im giving it 90% just because 
 its a machine killer. I like to play as the developers made it, I feel im losing the experience 
 playing it on medium. Shame you need a &pound;1500 system to run it. Amazing game with great views 
 and effects ive never seen before. a simple tutorial, but you wont have time to take a sip of coffee. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ch
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is great game! Excellent sound, excellent story for solo play and excellent effects 
 if you have the machine for it. Up to this point an overall solid game, even the internet portion 
 seemed promising. Now, the issue crops up. For instance, how does one actually play a multiplayer 
 game with your friends over the internet in your own dedicated server? Not with this game. You 
 can not specify an IP for another game server? Who made that design decision? Every top notch multiplayer 
 non Massive Mulit player game of late has provided the capability for you to assign a IP for a 
 game server, yet these guys miss the boat complete. Now, I could understand if you give reasonable 
 direction to setup firewall configs etc to make this work. No such luck. You have to pour through 
 forums to find any information. Simply 3rd rate support on a simple concepty. A couple of buddies 
 across town want to play on a dedicated server with out the interferance of the public. Can not 
 happen using ther Massive. net server or LAN? Why even include that tab in the options? Such promise 
 of a great game to follow up rise of nations, but left lacking with not recourse to sell it on 
 e-bay. Fatal flaw - tech support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russelltiger
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  WIC is a very fun RTS. You are rewarded for blowing things up with bigger things like nukes. Utterly 
 amazing graphics. Needs fast computer for the good graphics. Kickass multiplayer, average single 
 player. Best RTS multiplayer ever made in the world. You will get addicted. I love this game i 
 love this game i love this game i love this game
  i love this game i love this game i love this game i love this game i love this game **** fu asdifausidfjas 
 dias dfahi dsfalsiidfakjsd hf; asd ashd fsalkdfkahsdfas dfasd fasd fasdf asdf assdfasd fasdsdfasd 
 fasd asd fasd fasd fasd fasdfasdgfasdf; ih u h as dfjklla jkkljvdsjh csihhjo adso uwafe oo hadvs 
 jnjnh. AL HUAS DF ASF HOASFE ADSF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhelljack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is pure anxiety waiting to give anybody a freaking heart attack. The graphics are awesome 
 but it is extremely difficult to figure out what the heck is going on! The characters are constantly 
 yelling and whining at you and each other making it near impossible to sit down and just enjoy 
 the game. I'm too young to have gray hair and this game is only going to add more. It's too bad 
 I can't snipe the whiny, loud, ubnoxious, distracting characters so I can sit and enjoy blowing 
 things up and take in the amazing visuals while doing it. Another problem is the lack of units 
 you get to play with. The enemy is overwhelming and you get next to nothing to fight them with. 
 Very frustrating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaTigre69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I used to love the C&amp; C series, and i still do, but is has now been replaced as my favorite 
 by this spectacular, innovative game. The graphics are very good for an RTS and the camera is bright 
 spot too. It seems complicated at first, but you will get used to it, and eventually grow to love 
 it. I was playing C&amp; C and I suddenly felt my hand drifting to the WSAD keys, only to realize 
 they didn't do anything. Another bright spot is the story and voice work. set in 1989, in the middle 
 of WWIII Russia invades Seattle and you have to defend your homeland. The cut scenes are very nice, 
 and the loading screens are made much better by the smooth voice of Alec Baldwin. You will constantly 
 feel as if you are actually there smashing the commies.
  
  Finally, the game play. There are no resources like other games, just reinforcement and tactical 
 aid points. you get a certain amount of reinforcement points that you use to bring in troops and 
 the tactical aid points allow you to bring in artillery and other cool explosions (NAPALM!) . this 
 ensures that there is always some action going on, and the system is very addictive.
  
  In short the story is great, the game play is great, the visuals are great, and I haven't even 
 played online yet. i can only imagine how much fun that will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deltora572
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict has been beautifully desgined to give the player the best experience possible. 
 From start to finish this game will keep you entertained. The graphics exceed expectations of an 
 RTS game and compared to AOEIII, World in Conflict is the clear winner.
  
  Now... when writing reviews i usually put rants about what bad things in the game there are. But, 
 there simply are no flaws within this game, it is definatly a must buy for fans of the genre.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  On low setting, the graphics are not that bad, but turn it up to high and you really get into the 
 game, with FANTASTIC explosions.
  
  DIFFICULTY:
  Anything from easy to hard deppending on what suits you best.
  
  EASE OF USE:
  Fantastic 
 game controls and one of the best tutorials i have ever seen.
  
  MY VERDICT:
  10/10
  
  DELTORA572 =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DukeMikeI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Very Well done. This is the true definition of a RTS. The Multiplayer is the best I have ever seen. 
 But there is just something missing. I dont know what but I just can give it a 10 : ( But the game 
 is next gen of RTS and full of great new things. Mulitplayer is just perfect full of bam.. bam and 
 Khubummm. I love how EVERY THING is destroyable and the campain and story is so intresting. RTS 
 people...... This is an order after you finish reading this review get up and go buy W in C. See 
 you on the battlefield 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is an amazing RTS for the PC. It has great graphics and lots of intense battles.
 
  
  The story behind World in Conflict is that the cold war does not end. Now USA and NATO forces are 
 fighting the Russians. You start out in the USA because the Russians have invaded. Then you jump 
 back in time to when you are over in Europe and then you jump ahead in time after the last mission 
 that you played in the USA.
  
  The battles in World in Conflict are intense! There are explosions every where. There is not as 
 much strategy in this game as there are in other RTS's. Mainly you just have to blow things up.
 
  
  The graphics in World in Conflict look amazing. Environments look real and soldiers and vehicles 
 look awesome. When things blow up they shatter into a ton of pieces. The physics in World in Conflict 
 are also awesome.
  
  The sound is really good to. You hear explosions all around you and soldiers yelling things. The 
 vehicles sound really good to when they move.
  
  If you are an RTS fan or you have never played an RTS and want to try one then World in Conflict 
 will be a good choice to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  When I got Company of Heroes last year I said that it won't only be the game of the year, but the 
 best strategy game ever made &amp; still the best in years to come. Guess I was wrong, because World 
 in Conflict is better. The first thing that you are shocked by are the graphics: stunning. I've 
 played Medal of Honor Airborne &amp; Bioshock, but World in Conflict, a STRATEGY GAME, looks better 
 than both. Just incredible. It makes Company of Heroes look bad. The sound is perfect: terrific voice 
 acting, great ambiental effects, music, everything. Sound &amp; graphics, but we have a superb storyline: World 
 War III, russians conquer half of Europe in 1989, than strike USA in Seattle &amp; New York. Allied 
 with the Chinese,&amp; it gets worse. You are lt. Parker, your comrades Bannon, Webb &amp; captain 
 Sawyer guide you &amp; fight alongside you in each of the 14 missions. The cutscenes are greatly 
 realised with the game engine,&amp; some scenes that are telephonical conversations between characters 
 &amp; their relatives really make us feel the atmosphere on our own skin. A RTS indeed, but very 
 original one. You don't build buildings &amp; bases as in most of RTS-s,&amp; that's realistic. When 
 capturing command points with troops, you fortify them with MG-s, AT-s &amp; AA defences, but nothing 
 more. You get troups by parachuting them,&amp; that depends on your command points: you get them 
 from completing primary or secondary objectives. Each unit has a special ability: missiles, smoke 
 screen, artillery-these need recharge. Rely more on tanks &amp; hellicopters,&amp; less on infantry. You 
 also get air support points, to use a variety of airstrikes, bombs, etc from the air. Try the Daisy 
 Cluster Bomb...;) . Play this game. It's a unique experience, war done like never before. The only 
 bad thing is that you don't have a Russian campaign (see Command &amp; Conquer 3-Tiberium Wars campaigns) &amp; 
 you can't play skirmishes, only multiplayer matches, here including Russians. BEST STRATEGY GAME 
 EVER!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-CA
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the trailers, I was thinking Yea, another RTS game but I did download the demo 
 cuz I was bored. And I loved it, and bought the game!
  
  The singleplayer tho isnt all that great if you ask me, but the multiplayer is simply awesome, 
 even with bots. The singleplayer has great story and pretty long as well. The multiplayer maps 
 are based on the singleplayer maps so there isnt any diffrents how the maps look in sp and mp, 
 its even most of them the same.
  
  The game is fun, big, long, good looking (for be RTS) , great mp, good story. Its an overall great 
 game.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 9/10
  
  Overall 8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  let me say one thing this game roxs the gameplay is so amazing you will be running around screaming 
 in circles at how fun this is. Also i think its unique for one thing the campaign, its not ur average 
 oh no billy died..... who cares its like OMG BILLY DIED I LIKED HIM or OMG yes hes dead i hated 
 him. the story is just amazing and gah GAME JUST ROXS!!!! if this were to ever happen WW2 would 
 pale in comparrison to the destruction this war would have made in its wake. WHICH makes me so 
 glad tht IT NEVER HAPPEND i can live with an iraq war and just know that something far worse could 
 happen :) but stop reading this and go GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdrevo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  Having seen the tailers, videos and stuff I was more that anxious to play the game, mostly due 
 to its immense action and real feel of battle.
  
  Having played the game, I feel at best deceived...
  
  Ok good graphics, but not even close 
 to what you expect from the trailers...
  
  Gameplay - goals - story line, simply sucks....
  
  The goals are just too boring and easy, 
 the camera movement is a nice feature but the game in general lacks what RTS games are known of. 
 strategy..
  
  This game is a good platform for other games to come, it looks as if it was rushed to completion. 
 The structure is broken without anything to anticipate in future missions.
  
  The narration was also pointless since there was no prerendered video to accompany it.
  
  
 Stupic concept if you ask me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  To be honest with you I don't really like rts. Never was a big fan. Accidentally I started playing 
 World In Conflict and I just could not take hands off it until i finished the solo campaign. I was 
 sucked in by pretty much every aspect of the game. It's unique thrilling innovative it's everything 
 you'd want it to be and more, much much more than that. There is nothing bad to actually be said 
 about it. From where i stand it's perfect. Surely some **** who just bought a computer and played 
 the game would say that it just ok but i beg to differ. I've never given a ten to game before but 
 this time, the hat is off! With all due respect this is a masterpiece. the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddaughtry333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  One of the first really real time games I have played, much like Supreme Commander, but better 
 looking. Love the view controls. The freedom allowed in getting to hot spots quickly is a great 
 advancement. Love the live damage and lasting impressions of the action. Really wish the FPS was 
 better on my 8800gts 640MB. Not into multi-player, but love to watch this game. The chaos is grand, 
 always keeps you on your toes. The point system is great at evening the playing field, though I 
 wish it allowed for more more more! I would also like to get a little bit more above the battle 
 without having to use the map screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osamaq1988
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict is of those games which has recieved the greatest of Hypes... and I would say 
 it was worth it...
  The graphics were simply out of this world and the best part was that one can play them at very 
 low graphics too if the PC is not hi-fi enough. this definitely increased the market for the game...
 
  The story line and videos are no doubt catchy...
  Either it was that the game was so addictive that I ended it in not more than one week and a few 
 days... or the game was too short... not many stages...
  Enjoy Playing!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teg2006
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  for me it did not pan out. just could not get in to this game. was not that good to me. lot of 
 hype. controls and other things
  where same old thing. other older games seam more fun.
  i have a midrange pc and it did not like the sound the video was choppy
  to me was hard to get 
 the camera in the right place all the time.
  
  if you have nothing beater to do give it a try. but if you only have the money for a game here 
 or there to me this is not the one c@c 3 would be a better beat to me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigOne1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  It's good. You might actually call it great from a certain perspective but it combines 2 elements 
 that should not be combined.
  
  Element one is the cannon fodder combat system (that's what I call it) . That's like in command 
 &amp; conquer where you just massed units and then pushed through your opponent. This system works 
 here, too. Just that you have to hold your position for a couple of seconds every now and then.
 
  
  The second element is the tactical a beats b beats c beats a system which, let's say it, sucks. 
 That system sucks if you have as many units at your disposal as you want to but it sucks even more 
 when your population is capped.
  
  Those 2 sound like they could not be combined, right? Right, but it works for the single-player 
 campaign anyway. I concentrated on 2 kinds of units. Light tanks and heavy tanks (or light tanks 
 and heavy choppers) . Heavy units take care of tanks, light units fight infantry but the joke about 
 it is, I had them in the same group and just let them attack everything together. I had losses 
 but I just produced new units. That worked.
  
  So where'e the fun you'll ask? I'll tell you, it's in the strategic planning. You have to find 
 places where it is harder for your opponent to get behind you and where you can easily get new 
 units, built up a little force there and then go to the next such point. The AI usually takes care 
 of cleaning up after you (You have to take the bridge but Captain Web will protect it afterwards) . 
 And that's the only way this game can really work because you would need many units to protect 
 your back (The second element makes sure that no single unit could do it) and you don't have the 
 population for it. And in the worst case, you just hold a position, gather Aid-points and then 
 bomb everything you encounter.
  
  This game is boring and simple when compared to the Company of heroes where you have to plan ahead, 
 protect your flanks when advancing and lay ambushes for counterattacking troups. You wont lay mines 
 or put up barbed wire fances here. You'll just put your tanks on the bridges and blast the russians 
 when they come. I can't believe this game got 9.5. If one could still give points for individual 
 aspects I would give 10 to graphics, sound and story but something around 7 for gameplay. This 
 is an action game for people who like to see things go Boom. No real time strategy game (Hell, 
 it's probably less of a strategy game then generals or Tiberium wars ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is a alternate reality what if game. It takes place in 1986 during a russian 
 invasion of the Western United States and you task as commander of the Washington National Guard 
 is to fight it off then take the fight to russin soil. Play as 3 diffrent factions. US, Russian 
 and NATO. There is only A US campaigh though but it has enouf gameplay to keep you buysfor 10-15 
 hours. Graphics are beautiful even on low. Directx 10 Rendering is awesome and makes the game 10x 
 better. The game does have some demanding system requirments but the upgrade is tottaly worth it. 
 The sound is awesome to with real world recordins of tanks, planes explosins and gun shots. The 
 voice acting is semi-bad and sounds a little cheesy.
  
  The Good- Amazing Gameplay, Long camping, Great Multiplayer
  The Bad-Nothing
  The Ugly- Lots 
 of crashes and hang ups on vista. no patch to fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubeajubea
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  1. No 'skirmish mode' means no replay value unless you go online. A modern RTS game should not 
 be released w/o this feature. It gives a huge boost to single player replayability and provides 
 a training ground for online play.
  
  2. Paper rock scissors balance is way overdone. Its weighted too heavily towards the single player 
 campaign and its very frustrating in multiplayer unless you get really good at your role.
  
  3. Single player campaign lacks polish. The voice-overs by Baldwin are a pretty stark contrast 
 to the unfinished feel of the cutscenes. I feel like they should have either constructed the cutscenes 
 in a more graphic novel style presentation with more transitions or they should have done away 
 with them entirely.
  
  4. The characters are really annoying. Bannon is a black sheep, I get it already move on!! With 
 this subject matter, american players have a lot of reasons to want to be invested in these characters. 
 Unfortunately, the writing teaches you not to care within the first 3 missions.
  
  Pros:
  
  1. It successfully takes 1 part of traditional RTS gameplay and expands it greatly. The combination 
 of game mechanics that make this happen is really the heart of this game its worth playing just 
 for that. You have to pay attention to the limited units you have and not throw them away as fodder.
 
  Calling in support adds just enough dimension to keep things interesting.
  
  2. The control scheme is stellar. Right from the start you're encouraged to ditch the traditional 
 RTS control scheme and adopt a more FPS style wasd/mouse-look scheme, which really showcases the 
 cinematic aspect of the game. Playing through my first mission felt a little like my first play 
 of Homeworld from a cinematic perspective. I found myself whipping the camera around to view the 
 battle from different angles. The placement and pervasive nature of the hotkeys is very nice as 
 well. Usually hotkeys are an afterthought for this genre, here they are central to the design.
 
  
  3. The graphics, of course, are pretty good. Plenty of destructive eye candy here. However, I felt 
 the cities could have been modeled/textured a little better. You get the vague notiion you're in 
 seattle, but it doesn't really feel like it. This is one (rare) situation where realistic adds 
 would've been cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  I'm not into the Micromanaging part of RTS games these days, I just like being able to tell my 
 army to point and shoot. Building factories and gathering resources is just not my cup of tea. 
 Enter World In Conflict, an RTS game that finally fits my needs perfectly, save for a few annoying 
 habits of the terrain and unit movement. The single player campaign had an engrossing storyline 
 that kept me interested from start to finish, and included great characters that were really interesting. 
 Great motion capture, and I never noticed the loading screen because it was coupled with great 
 voice acting and a slideshow to help fill in the story and location.
  
  Gameplay: Units were responsive, though not always using their special weapons when you want them 
 too. Sometimes tanks would keep using their machine guns when you had an explosive shell that they 
 could use. You felt like you had to hold their hands sometimes, but since you didn't have to worry 
 about resource and building management, it felt fine, and a little welcome. Sometimes the units 
 had trouble negotiating terrain and even getting around themselves. Like there is a tank in obvious 
 view of your tanks, but since it's on mountainous terrain (even though it looks like a small hill) , 
 your tanks can't shoot it.
  
  There are primary objectives and secondary objectives. Most of them were straightforward and easy 
 to accomplish, but sometimes I would find that I failed a secondary and I didn't even realize that 
 I was supposed to do it. And sometimes the other team would say thanks for the support and then 
 the next minute they would say what happened to that support? . This was a small percentage, but 
 it sometimes got annoying.
  
  The only big problem I had with this game, is that I wanted more of the campaign. It was too short, 
 and I was itching to play more, like the European campaign that they hinted to at the end of the 
 game. I guess it will be an expansion.
  
  Sound: Excellent sound, especially of the nuclear warhead. Distant gunfire, explosions, up close 
 tanks, gunshots, all sounds appropriate and excellent. Really top notch sound.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are excellent, even up close. Explosions use a lot of particles and smoke, really 
 adds to the impact. You can call in air support and mortar support, and it feels good when they 
 come sweeping in for the kill. Nuclear explosions are beautiful, they did a good trick on the water 
 to make it look good but it's only a trick.
  
  Bottom Line: If you are in the need to get away from the overzealous barrage of micromanaging RTS 
 games, then World In Conflict will definitely fill your void. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnsm1th123
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  I found World in conflict quite limited by the population cap. You will only ever be controlling 
 about 10 tanks at a time, combined with the lack of resource management it can not be classified 
 as a real time strategy game.
  The advertising would have you believe that you could control a whole army,
  but this is not 
 the case. Company of Heroes is a far better game. Don't waste your money. If only the store I bought 
 it at would give me a refund for a product that is not damaged. WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY 
 WHY WHY WHY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboywayne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I don't like RTS games. I got Company of Heroes and didn't like it own bit. I got World in Conflict 
 because I could resist a game with such great reveiws. And I got to say it was worth it! Because 
 its not like other RTS games. It very easy to play and the story line is quite good. Even if you 
 ever play RTS games try this one! The graphic are great! you need a nice system to play at high 
 setting though. I have a Core 2 duo and a 7950 gt with 2 gigs ram; and was running it at high . 
 This is not a reg RTS. I cant stress this enough! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarpenterSon
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure if anyone recalls Rise of Nations by Big Huge games a few years back? More or less, 
 it's another global strategy game, as well as great historical primer. If I'm not mistaken some 
 members from the team who worked on RoN also took part in the creation of WIC, so I had looked 
 forward with great anticipation for the game's release back in September.
  
  To be concise and present the short end of things, the game is absolute eye candy if you've got 
 the equipment to spare to render the detailed, over-the-top graphics that will make some machines 
 scream for an upgrade. Graphics aside, online play is what this game was really designed for, and 
 it delivers quite well. But even after some of the luster has worn off after about a week where 
 you may have been content to just marvel at such detail, one may start to contemplate the long-term 
 value of the game. It's great to look at, but a bit too much for sensory overload to play against 
 others effectively. Your fingers will never be fast enough, and if they are... you really need 
 to get a job.
  
  Of the few reviews I've written, only one was actually censored (at the height of Bush's popularity 
 , go figure) for my criticism of editors for whom it is blatantly clear there is another motive 
 at work, besides presenting an objective review. Yet while I've scanned the boards with regard 
 to this game, there is a slight undercurrent of animosity that seems quite consistent for veteran 
 hardcore gamers. Statements such as hype, pretentious, and nothing new under the sun made by the 
 gaming community at large all seem to contradict the overall acclaim of highly regarded critics 
 .
  
  I'm not sure exactly how much to read into the glowing reviews of critics anymore, other than to 
 ferret out those who are already in someone else's pocket. In other words, these days your best 
 critics truly are your peers. In assessing the game overall, it'll satisfy most for under a year, 
 then you'll most likely be off to something else that has evolved from the same idea born of Company 
 of Heroes. A fair overall grade on this one is about 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verparanoidpers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  As ive already established, to use any other word to describe this fantastic RTS from sierra and 
 massive entertainment would deal a great injustice to sierra and massive for making this absolutely 
 fantastic game.
  
  First, the graphics were absolutely amazing. when it comes to RTS, this game has the absolute best 
 graphics ive ever seen done in an RTS, its almost as good is first person shooters from 3 years 
 ago, which, as you should know, are the genera that have the best graphics overall.
  
  second, the sound was the absolute best sound effects Ive ever heard in any other video game ever. 
 no, really, I have never owned or played a game which had superior sound effects.
  
  Third, the gameplay was extremely great. As gamespot once said, its like commanding the battle 
 on the battlefields of battlefield 2
  
  Fourth, the game's storyline was extremely fulfilling. I think the writers did an absolutely fantastic 
 job writing the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I wasn't going to buy this game after seeing the picture looks like an old-fashioned Real-Time 
 Strategy game. After several Gamespot previews, I downloaded the demo and I decided to buy it after 
 playing the demo for few hours.
  
  I've made correction decision to buy this game. World in Conflict is a simply stunning game, from 
 every point of view.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay isn't a old Real-Time Strategy game anymore. This game is more fast paced 
 and combine RTS and FPS game together, just like Command &amp; Conquer meets Battlefield. There 
 are no base building just order reinforcement and click it and go. It saves a lot of time. The 
 single player is also the same, order units and go.
  
  Graphics and Sounds: The graphics is very amazing and stunning. The tanks, the choppers, the soldiers 
 and the environments are highly detailed. When you zoom in an object closely, you can see the parts. 
 When you destroy the enemy, you will see debris flying around. The sound are fantastic too, the 
 sound effect is very realistic and the loudness is based on the distance between you and the objects.
 
  
  I think this game is totally worth buying it. It contains a very good single player game and the 
 addictive multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_14
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is next generation of RTS. When i said so i meant it. It raised all to the next level. Graphic 
 are apsolutly the best in any game ever, sound is really awosome expeacially when you hear those 
 many explosions, story is really enganing, multyplayer is highly addictive and single player has 
 great replay value (i beat it twice and won all medals) . The only bad thing is its too short only 
 14 missions, but there is multyplayer.....
  
  This game has all beautiful graphic amazing sounds enganging story, great replay value and no base 
 building and resource gathering, like i said before only bad thing is game shorteness (can be completed 
 in less than 20hrs) .
  
  Everybody should own a copy period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonam3gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  As someone that believed that there hasnt been a perfect game since the N64 era, I am someone 
 that has never given a game a 10. This is, of course, until now. World in Conflict is the best 
 game of the past 2 generations because it simply does everything perfectly and really perfects 
 the RTS genre. I will be examining the graphics, gameplay, story/setting, sound, and the multiplayer.
 
  
  The gameplay in this game is what really separates this genre from most other RTSs. It is designed 
 in a way to only include the best parts of this genre and that is the combat. There is no building 
 your economy in this game just as there is no finishing your enemy. This makes it so that only 
 the best parts of the genre are included in World in Conflict. As far as the mechanics of the game 
 go, it is amazingly balanced. Each unit is incredibly strong against another unit. An example of 
 this is a relatively cheap unit, the anti tank infantry. A couple squads of these will take out 
 even the strongest tanks in an instance but if they come across medium helicopters or normal infantry 
 they are nearly completely defenseless. Nearly every single unit in this game has similar examples 
 to this.
  
  The graphics in this game are without a doubt the best that we have ever seen in an RTS game and 
 arguably the best graphics of any game ever. With how many units that are on the battle field and 
 just the general size, it is amazing that you can zoom up at any point in the map and see that 
 the units are very detailed. Everything in this game looks marvelous, from the infantry to the 
 buildings. There is never a time where I thought of something looking bad or even noticing any 
 kind of technical issues.
  
  The story and setting in this game is even perfect for me. I have always had an infatuation with 
 the Cold War era and when you combine that with nearly half of the game is based in my home state 
 of Washington, you have a setting that is perfect for me. It is very interesting to be able to 
 recognize actual buildings in Seattle that would look just random to any other people. The story 
 is very well laid out and you arent left for a second thinking of inconsistencies in the story. 
 The game starts in Seattle, moves in the past to Europe, Northern Russia, New York, and ends back 
 in Seattle. This is done so seamlessly that it really adds a ton to the story. Additionally, the 
 cut scenes in this game are incredibly epic and really do a good job of developing individual characters 
 in this game. Most war games fail miserably when it comes to developing characters through cutscenes 
 but this is the only occasion where I have actually seen it work and I absolutely detested the 
 attempts to develop characters in COD3. There are two cut scenes in this game that are more epic 
 than anything I have ever seen. This is the beginning cut scene which you can see on gamespot, 
 and a cut scene in New York. Both of these are incredibly epic and still are fresh in my mind weeks 
 after I have seen them.
  
  The sound and voice acting is excellent. I honestly cant think of another game that has better 
 sound acting and the sound track and sounds are also top notch. Now, this game may be an RTS but 
 that doesnt stop it from having one of the best multiplayer modes that I have ever experienced. 
 It is so finally polished that you will waste hours upon hours playing the multiplayer and not 
 even notice how much time has gone by. Because each player only has a single role, it really requires 
 a lot of teamwork and doesnt ever get repetitive. Now, as an owner of the Pc and X360 there are 
 many great games coming my way. From September-December I have games like Halo 3, Orange Box, Quake 
 Wars, Mass Effect, COD4, Ace Combat 6, Assaisins Creed, Crysis, and Guitar Hero 3 coming. However, 
 World in Conflict is the best game that I have seen since the N64 era. This game is so good that 
 Im amazed that Gamespot didnt give this game a 10 because even they couldnt find anything wrong 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psp192
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  bust buy for all rts and fps fans out there as it is a mix of both. need to get some practice in 
 before you begin playing online as it is a teambased game and need expireience players to make 
 sure you win the round. i think that it is an all new era for real time stratergy games hence the 
 8 vs 8 for the old school 4vs4 max. also the broadcast option makes thing more interesting watching 
 much more experienced players battle it out to the end and find out there stratergy of playing 
 the game. TA points are very valueable in this type of games and 1 single nuke can change who is 
 winning and losing in a matter of seconds, this is why you must get to grips with the TA and other 
 crucial points within the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreatPhoenix
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all, high speed gaming, not the hours waiting to get you economy fixed, no tech 
 levels, simpel to pick up, difficult to master, you don't need to be a pro to be good, make your 
 own plans and unit combo's, Rewarding gameplay, taking risks becomes fun, head to head with your 
 whole family for massive battles, hours and hours of gameplay, the vatiation in units makes for 
 so many different aprouches, no game will be the same, great graphics, you'll drool over your keyboard, 
 easy controls and gentle camera control make for a great relaxed game experience the list only 
 gets longer from here, GET THIS GAME, NOW ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  World In Conflict
  
  Finally, the game , which every RTS fan was looking for, has arrived.
  Is it any Good?
  
 
  Yes It is!
  
  I have Installed it about a week ago, and since then, I am just keep on playing with this game.
 
  
  From the start, A cut scene greets you with Airborne Troops, fight in mall, tanks and Police near 
 a Jaity. It all gives you the feeling that you are in a very familiar place, your own country. 
 In fact the game starts from an invasion by soviet troops from Seattle side, and you as Parker, 
 hold off these soviet troops. From their its just a fun ride. Simple orders keep on coming from 
 minute to minute, and your constantly pushed to look after 2 or 3 places, just like Supreme Commander 
 to ensure that everything is A Ok.
  
  A very nice tutorial with a drill master is at hand to give you the basics. I particularly like 
 the FPS Style game navigation. You use WASD to move in desired direction and use your mouse to 
 pan/tilt your camera, a nice combo to look at very good graphics of the game.
  
  As soon as you start playing, you will definitely going to like the idea of keeping the base building 
 away from this game. WIC gives you points to order up reserves for your ongoing missions, as well 
 as give you new units from time to time according to situation.
  
  You have Tactical Aid and Reinforcement menu at your disposal, which gives you options from Off 
 Map Support of Light Artillery Barrage to Napalm Strike and calling up every kind of reinforcement 
 from troops to tanks, my personal favorite is carpet bombing, and it looks quite cool too.
  
  WIC A. I is good enough , but it is not without flaws. Not always, but sometimes path finding 
 fail miserably , if your troops are moving through streets or within your own convoy. American troops 
 seems quite masochistic, cause they take up more pounding then their sovie counterparts. WIC keeps 
 you on your toes with lots and lots of Enemies, but do give you a little time to take a breath 
 and rearrange your troops , so that you can fully enjoy the game and be able to use all of the 
 AID you have to win the round.
  
  Although Missions objectives wary from securing positions, holding them, clearing out the enemy 
 territory, getting docs from downed stealth fighter, blowing up subs or assisting the Rangers to 
 take up liberty Island, with the help of choppers. settings for each objective is good enough, 
 to keep your concentration.
  
  Graphics are quite good if compared to recent RTS like Company of Heroes, keeping in view that 
 both of these RTS present us with war times within 100 years span. There are lots of options to 
 tinker every detail of the graphics. Close up view is very satisfying , as it literally put you 
 on tarmac for a closer look at your troops and vehicles. Snowfalls are great, Your troops bleed 
 if got hurt from gun fire or shelling, other other numerous details are put up quite well like 
 fog coming out of mouth in Norwegians Area, or shimmering water in New York.
  
  A brief information is give in the voice of Alec Baldwin to keep you up with the main story, however, 
 it progress through in game cut scenes where ever possible, and some story telling is also done 
 from the soldiers perspective as well with stills as well. My favorite still is where a Corporal 
 is arguing with some official regarding his Pay to be handed over to his ex-wife. Some of them 
 are very comical and gives you a laugh, but some really give you a heartache and tells you that 
 soldiers are simple human just like us.
  
  Theater of war not only lets you play on the soils of America, it lets us go to places like France 
 and Norway too.
  
  There are lots of characters which helps pacing the game towards end, like Captain Benin , Web 
 or Parker (you) as a brave soldier holding out the soviet invasion in command of his Colonel Swayer 
 and patched up remaining army. Through out the game , you will keep on making love hate relationship 
 with these characters, and in last will have a satisfying ending, with all the loose knots tied.
 
  
  As WIC was primarily made from ground up to be a Multi player game, but the finesse of Single Player 
 campaign really shows that, how much pain the developers have taken to polish the game for solo 
 players.
  
  Comparisons will be made with other RTS as well, but I would like to make 1 particularly with Supreme 
 Commander. WIC is not very grand scale game as SupCom is, and it lacks trica of factions too, but 
 what it lacks in size, factions, resource building, it gives you with a solid story, nice graphics, 
 and a very good game play, and if you add with it the support of your game play broadcast , you 
 definitely have a winner.
  
  If you are an American, the be proud, Its a game for you. For others, its a nice to play on American 
 soil.
  
  In the end , it all boils down to how much playability is put up in the game. I have enjoyed its 
 single player campaign a lot, but on lan this game is rock solid with a little bit annoying glitches, 
 which I am sure are due to my personal lan settings.
  
  Unless some other RTS comes out in few weeks or months, and if it is too good to be true, then 
 you can wait for it, otherwise get it NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntingnova3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  After waiting almost two months for the release date, this game is more than I thought! At first 
 I didn't know how the rts would be if I couldn't build bases and units, but as I played it, it 
 sure beat finding gold, spice, fule, etc. and taking hours to build a base. Instead of wasting 
 all my time building, within 3min, I was in the battle field the action was non-stop! I upgraded 
 from raon x1650 (512) to the gefource xfx 8600 gt 256 card and the graphics are unreal with direct 
 x10! It's amazing how you can use the 360 deg. veiw and then zoom in/out. My next step is two get 
 another monitor for just my mini map! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hasan71
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  though the game has pretty graphics and effects, there are several unrealistic things in the core 
 concept. 1. Where was the US pacific fleet? In two weeks they can travel half way around the world. 
 At that time, US Navy was several times bigger than the Russians and Chinese Navies combined.
 
  
  2. When Hitler invaded Russia in 1941, though there was no immediate threat in the west, he put 
 more than 40 front line divisions there. Were the US government so dumb not to learn from history, 
 though they know that there might be slight possibility that an attack might come from west? For 
 the Chinese and commies, it should be the easiest route to invade US.
  
  3. The Russians should be dumb enough to think of capturing whole USA without a force at least 
 comparable to the allied force at D Day. There was no mentioning of how much divisions commies 
 used, but as a colonel of US force was able to halt them and finally push them back into the sea, 
 I think they were not many.
  
  4. Why the commies only attacked Seattle? when they faced considerable resistance from the national 
 guards and few regular army men, why they did not tried to create a diversion or another front?
 
  
  5. when colonel nuked the commies, why they did not return the favor ?
  
  6. A colonel led the defense and finally assault on the whole Russian army in USA in this game. 
 How much soldiers and armors usually a colonel led? normally a regiment. Under this condition, 
 can it be a whole army? 7. May be USA used most of its Air resources in European war. But What 
 was NORAD doing? They should be easily attacked and destroyed the supply line as the commies were 
 dumb enough to invade the mighty USA without Air support (NO MiGs or Sukhois except some choppers 
 which are considered to have little effect on a front line attack) .
  
  The game is fine if you ignore these things, but I think to most of the gamers the story line is 
 important, and they can not be satisfied with only pretty visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkManiaN_1979
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  [Pros]
  
  Great graphics and easy game play with a nifty 15 minute tutorial. No tedious resource gathering 
 and units are created and shipped to you effortlessly. Solid multiplayer online and LAN features. 
 Camera angles and ease of use are also a great feature.
  [Cons]
  
  Selecting multiple units with varied special abilities can be annoying at times when you want to 
 use a specific one not available in your mini hud. You'll have to deselect the group and target 
 the unit with the ability you need which can be time consuming.
  [Overall]
  
  This is definitely the leader of the RTS pack for me. There were no crashes or glitches that I 
 found in single player campaign, and the online multiplayer is nothing short of awesome fun. Definitely 
 worth a try even if your not a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I played C&amp; C when it first came out, I played Red Alert and a couple of the sequels. When I 
 heard of WIC I though it was going to get me to play RTS games again. Not anymore. Maybe I'm not 
 used to the genre anymore...
  
  I totally appreciate the work Massive Ent. has put into the game. All the bells and whistles work 
 great, but overall, I'm not too keen on the command mechanism and I find floating around the world 
 a little too tasking. I also got the feeling that I can never die! I've stopped playing the game 
 after 20mins because I didn't find it challenging. I know that the MP mode is a lot of fun, but 
 for now my impression of the game is just average. Wait, I'll tell you one thing, the graphics 
 are awesome (DX10) , the setting is sweet and the voice over is ok. One more good thing - the fact 
 that it's WW3!
  
  That said, for those of you that really enjoy RTS games I'm sure you'll love it, everyone in my 
 group of friends that has played the game (both SP and MP) has stated it's an awesome game. I will 
 give it another try this weekend... put in about an hour or so. My conclusion: If you are a FPS 
 fan like myself, then WIC isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer2359
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game is great for visuals and also is great for multiplayer online. The campaing is fairley 
 east but when you online it's pure rts game. If your into rts and war games you should get this 
 and a great feture online is; is that it has a ranking system and you can join or make your own 
 clan. Also the update that just came out made this game run better and it's a god idea for vista 
 users to run it on winxp compatibility just to get the extra 5or10 fps. Since this game is a little 
 harsh on fps. The ai is kinda sucky even on hard difficulty setting but if you have dsl/cable internet 
 connection i would highly suggest you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janbvo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I think this is one of the best RTS games I have ever played. It has just one of the most realistic 
 and intense graphics; you feel as if you are right in the battle when you get down real close.
 
  
  The campaign I think is so exciting and an unending amount of fun for anyone that loves RTS's. 
 Missions are always different, always that extra challenge, and one important thing; killing a 
 bunch of commies. The cutscenes almost seem as if you are playing an RPG, because they are so well 
 played out, but yet its not.
  
  The multiplayer is just everything that the campaign is but better. The good thing about Wic is 
 that when playing on multiplayer you play as only one faction; Armor, Air, Infantry or Support. 
 That reduces the frustration of one group of your guys being controlled by you and doing well, 
 and the other just being outflanked and destroyed because of the uncompetent AI.
  
  The ony thing I wish they would have done on this game was extend the campaign so that you could 
 play as the Russian faction and see the invasion of the U. S. from a different perspective.
  
  If any of you guys thinking about buying this game and you are a fan of RTS's you do not what 
 you are missing. It is just the best one I have played yet. And I hope they come out with an expansion 
 pack.
  
  LONG LIVE WIC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmor
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Being Dx10 the graphics are beautiful and it's what you would expect from the next gen of graphics. 
 The missions are well made, love the fact of getting medals but there's no place to view them. 
 Some of the missions are extremely hard and the time is practically none so you can't slack around, 
 requires a lot of skill to play and succeed in the single player campaign.
  
  I classified it as a masterpiece for being the first great hit of a DX10 game but personally being 
 a what if game after the Cold War, I was expecting a much longer single player game.
  
  Haven't tried multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtakuRay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  All right, the only thing I have to say is that in multiplayermode this game is just fun fun and 
 fun.
  Well I don't play the single player campaign yet because of time (jejeje... it's in my computer's 
 work) So one friend came with it and installed in four PC of my office, we play it in the night 
 when all work is done and .... god, this is just fun and, hell yeah!, great graphics and sound 
 effects. This game have a really good detail visuals that just blow your mind.
  If you don't have it, you are losing the best RTS game out there that you can find (till Starcraft 
 2 of course) . For mother Russia!!!!
  
  All right, the only thing I have to say is that in multiplayermode this game is just fun fun and 
 fun.
  Well I don't play the single player campaign yet because of time (jejeje... it's in my computer's 
 work) So one friend came with it and installed in four PC of my office, we play it in the night 
 when all work is done and .... god, this is just fun and, hell yeah!, great graphics and sound 
 effects. This game have a really good detail visuals that just blow your mind.
  If you don't have it, you are losing the best RTS game out there that you can find (till Starcraft 
 2 of course) . For mother Russia!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer911
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game reminds me of the old Paula Abdul song that goes Two Steps Forward, One Step Back . More 
 to the point, for those who have played JTF, the core of the game should be instantly recognizable. 
 The missions are objective based, and the story is quite linear. The big difference in WiC is of 
 course the theme and the scale involved. Otherwise it pretty much executes just like any other 
 RTS of it's type, only not quite as well in some areas.
  
  Graphics: Let's face it... this game is a looker, and the visuals is where WiC really shines. Furthermore, 
 I am quite impressed at the attention to detail; things like girders in the hangars, Remove Before 
 Flight tags on the planes, detailed interiors of civilian cars, etc. Some of the effects like shock 
 waves from the explosions are especially cool. Put it this way, if the designers had put as much 
 effort into the rest of the game as they did the graphics, I could easily see WiC as being one 
 of the all-time greats.
  
  Sound: In-game sounds are mediocre to poor. Voice acting acceptable. Soundtrack is neither distracting 
 or overwhelming, which is a good thing.
  
  Gameplay: This game would have been so much better if the designers would have at least allowed 
 the ability to pause the game to issue orders, order reinforcements, or deploy tactical aid. As 
 it is, the game is so fast paced that without said feature it really seems to amount to little 
 more than deploy units and hang on. That alone was worth an entire point on my score; I would have 
 been willing to give it an 8 - 8.5 otherwise. Both the missions and the story do indeed seem to 
 lack a certain depth. Finally I wish that there was more of a strategic element to the game. Think 
 of how much more interesting the single player campaign would have been if one could choose their 
 side, and fight over territories and objectives. Maybe a better approach would have been to simulate 
 the war in Germany... I mean, NATO vs. the Warsaw Pact has been the subject of many stories and 
 wargames and what the focus of the Cold War was really about. Tilt: WiC isn't a bad game by any 
 means, but the problem is that both the designers and Gamespot made some rather big claims and 
 hyped it up to the point that I honestly feel that this game simply doesn't live up to its reputation. 
 For that reason I categorized it as pretentious . Still, WiC is what it is and if the reader found 
 other games like JTF and Act of War fun and enjoyable, there's no reason not to give it a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_You_Morbid
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  At first it reminded me of JTF. At second thought I was right.
  Nice graphics, nice music. Nothing too special. Everything was as expected for a 2007 3D RTS.
 
  The basic problem was gameplay. It didn't fit well that the camera movement is a relatevily fast 
 game was by keyboard. It really slowed down the game. I wasn't very sure I'd like it but eventually 
 I got used to it.
  Apart from this the game was brilliant. Nice mission fitting to the storyline. A good combination 
 of various units could prove very useful. Especially the use of tactical aid was definetely a plus!
 
  Some mission were easy playing and losses were at the minimum, while on others losses were massive. 
 The strategy of capturing victory points is one I like, and the dig in process was an interesting 
 feature.
  Cutscenes were cool (It reminded me of Max Payne!) .
  The details and the fulyl destructible environment was essential and proved to be perfectly designed. 
 (all vehicles were from Dukes Of Hazard! Heha!)
  The game was also very ballanced, although I think that the AT Infantry was too powerful.
  Finishing 
 I'd like is a game worth playing as long as someone gats used to the mechanics of the camera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kttdestroyer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Quite intresting in the beggining, however after having watched the all nice (not that nice) flash 
 and effects few times it quickly becomes monotonous. Having to keep track of every unit you have 
 at the same time tend to be heavy on health (if you dont, they will die, they will die anyway, 
 in this game everything dies sooner or later, The only thing you do is send more, and more over 
 and over until either side manages to send them more quicky and wins.) . Also we have the super 
 weapons, that you drop (most often) to get little advantage (not really, as oppent will send it 
 back sooner or later) .
  
  If you enjoy tactics like there is a pinch of in this game, you should try Sudden Strike 2. A lot 
 more units, lot more strategy and a lot more tactics. The concept is simmilar, no resources, only 
 flags (or groups of flags) . Diffrence is that if you take flag in SS2 you will get reinforcments 
 (thats why you really want them) , while in World in Conflict you will only get problems defending 
 it (you get no reinforcments, and units are never somthing you have too much of) , and the little 
 bonus that is turrets &amp; bunkers you can build (automaticly) by standing on the flag area for 
 a while doesint give you much (if any) protection.
  
  The chaos in this game is like an ustoppable force that will eat your brains clean of existance 
 aknowlage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FootFetish24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I am absolutely impressed with this game. The game is balanced, and it looks spectacular! The explosions 
 are obviously the star of the show. The technical prowess of the game is absolutely mind boggling. 
 I use to think my comp could take even Mohammed Ali, but now I stand corrected. The single player 
 campaign is pretty corny at times and Alec Baldwins voice made it even more authentic. But the 
 whole about the game is multiplayer action. Visceral, fast paced and blow up in yo face good. I 
 like this game way to much. But what can I say? I love blowing American soil into glass and smithereens 
 as a canadian should. So what you basically do in this game is that you choose 4 type of roles. 
 The support, armor, infantry or air. And then you blow up the opposing force for command posts 
 and thats how you win the game.
  Why you should get this game.
  -Graphics are top of the line breaking edge good
  -Innovative in every sense of the word
  -EXPLOSIONSSSSSS
 
  -Controls are responsive and feel right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk100190
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok. So the graphics are good, yea, the unlimited play - ok, but bah. I would love the game a WHOLE 
 lot more if i could establish a mini base (not capture defenses around an area under my team's 
 control) and if i could control more units. 4 - 7 just isn't enough, it gets interesting though 
 in a 16 player world but often the teams are unbalanced which leads to an easy win/lose for whichever 
 side. Buy the game?
  Nah, I would considering it but changed my mind, finding that I would love to just build up TA 
 and drop some nukes, then be bored with everything. Yea, there's A LOT of eye candy, yea, that 
 is the best nuke i've seen so far in a game, but there's a lot more Sierra could have done to make 
 this game better. Maybe they will come out with a WiC2 or something, adding in their own little 
 ideas, making this game stand out as WiC, not a copy of COH, or any other RTS. Hoping, if there 
 is a next one, that it will offer more to do and not focus so much on the looks of everything. 
 More fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Quick and simple review. WIC is entertaining if nothing else. The cut scenes and voice acting are 
 good, the visuals are awesome. Not much on the side of realism here, so take it for what it is. 
 Maybe could have been better from a tactical standpoint, but still fun. Very cool calling in for 
 artillery and air support, total carnage in this game. I was a Bradley Fighting Crewman in 1989 
 when this plot goes down, it was the war we were trained for, Cold War era showdown so kinda cool 
 for me anyway and I bought the collector's edition with a piece of the Berlin Wall in it. Awesome. 
 I think Gamespot overrated the game itself but oh well, still worth buying. The game is a Good 
 time, but don't take it as a serious military game or you might not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samuelyung9371
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  This is a game which may disappoint economic-military based games. BUT, without the requirement 
 of gathering resources and stuffs like that, players can focus on kicking other's butts. You have 
 to admit that the graphics and visual details are AMAZING, the new DX10 brought a completely new 
 experience to gamers ;] , every single movement of the units are clearly presented, you can even 
 read the sign shown outside a store in the map!
  
  The strength of units are well balanced. Infantry can bring down helicopters but vehicles can scramble 
 them into pieces; Tanks can blast unarmed vehicle and deliver long-ranged missiles, but are hopeless 
 against air attack and rocket launchers handled by well-trained soldiers. Helicopters are extremely 
 fast in speed and good at both air-to-air and air-to-ground, however, anti-air units like heavy 
 anti-air vehicles use heat-seeking missiles to target and destroy helicopters. Repair vehicles 
 can repair friendly units but unarmed. Artillery can fire very long range explosive rounds which 
 bring serious damage to any ground units, but are helpless with close range battles.
  
  Tactical aid provided and wide range of selection to humiliate your opponent ( if well placed and 
 well planned) , artillery barrage can push the enemy back, tank buster smashes any tank in the area, 
 area scan tracks the enemy's location and player have the chance to do a counter attack against 
 it. The TACTICAL NUKE can turn the game upside down.
  
  Once you finished the single player campaign and are eager enough to challenge other players, the 
 role-based multi-player game let you experience a new kind of multi-player game: total chaos. When 
 you join a server, select a side and choose a role you prefer, you'll then find yourself entering 
 a life-like battlefield, players completing against each other, the voice chat system made it even 
 more better! After a few loses and wins, you'll then be awarded to be a private, that is when your 
 REAL world in conflict game experience starts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RK-Mara
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:36 am PT
Review:  Ever since the first screenshots and gameplay videos, there has been plenty of hype surrounding 
 World in Conflict and its graphics. But unlike many expected, Massive Entertainment developed a 
 game that delivers on every front. From the graphics to gameplay, there isn't much that could have 
 been done better.
  
  The basic catch behind World in Conflict is the complete lack of the traditional resource gathering 
 which has been around ever since Dune 2. Each player has a specified amount of reinforcement points 
 for buying units and you'll rarely find yourself controlling more than several units at time. If 
 a unit is destroyed, the points replenish and you are back in business in matter of seconds. This 
 might sound too forgiving at first but after playing the multiplayer for a while, you'll notice 
 how crucial every moment is. If an area is left unprotected, it won't take long before it's already 
 under enemy's control and gaining it back is easier said than done. Some old time PC gamers may 
 loathe streamlining but no one can deny that it doesn't work here. The idea isn't unique as we've 
 seen it in Massive's previous Ground Control games but World in Conflict has the best version of 
 the system.
  
  Massive aims World in Conflict to be the Counter-Strike of strategy games, and anyone can jump 
 in and control the small amount of units without anything else important to worry about. There 
 isn't much strategy involved, but tactics, feint, maneuvering, reconnaissance, defense and all-out 
 aggression - and more important than any of them, teamwork. No matter how good a single person 
 is, he can't win games without the help of his teammates. As a result, the game is easily accessible 
 but hard to master.
  
  The singleplayer campaign starts with a cutscene of Russia invading Seattle in 1989. With US forces 
 fighting against Soviet Union in Europe, there aren't many to stand in their way. Cold War turned 
 hot is a nice change from the usual World War 2, scifi and fantasy settings seen in so many strategy 
 titles and unlike in them, you aren't a supreme commander behind everything but just a simple First 
 Lieutenant doing his best to survive under Colonel Sawyer's stout command. As just one of the many 
 pawns of war, you might be given a support mission while the computer controlled players do the 
 dirty work. Your goal is never fully exterminating the enemy but holding them back until you receive 
 the next order. If you have men to spare, you can try your luck with the secondary objectives such 
 as escorting civilians to safety from a nearby shelter or destroying the enemy artillery to help 
 your cause. Although often the primary objective like controlling a bridge or destroying a certain 
 target will keep you fully occupied.
  
  Quarrel between the officers in middle of a battle and humanlike mistakes really add to the experience. 
 Only thing eating the survival immersion is the lack of user avatar on the battlefield. While the 
 other officers actually feel like they exist, your own group can be completely destroyed and you 
 as the group leader still survive. There are plenty of characters in the campaign and some of them 
 go through many stages of character development during the plot, and you'll find yourself becoming 
 fond of characters you hated before, once more of their history and motives are revealed through 
 well executed flashbacks and somewhat clichd cutscenes. Though not the whole campaign takes place 
 on American soil. You'll get the chance to fight on the side of a stereotypical French officer 
 and NATO forces in France and Lapland.
  
  Even with the few flaws, overall production quality really shines through with Alec Baldwin's top 
 notch narration during loading screens and even after the next mission has loaded, you tend listen 
 to everything he has to say. Even if some of the voices aren't as good as Baldwin's, they deliver 
 whole way through the game. As a nice touch, you can hear your units speaking in their native language 
 when you zoom in close to them. Doesn't sound like much with United States or Soviet Union but 
 it does make a difference with the multinational NATO.
  
  As great as the singleplayer campaign is, it only works as a tutorial for the fantastic multiplayer. 
 It's easy to imagine Battlefield 2 as WiC's biggest influence with striking resemblance everywhere. 
 It's hard to blame Massive though, as Massgate is one of the best multiplayer services I've used 
 in years. Everything from the slick UI to rankings and clan support work really well. WiC also 
 offers a crystal clear VOIP but headset is not a necessity as another thing familiar from Battlefield, 
 there are easy to use commands for interacting with other players. Anyone can easily jump in or 
 out in middle of the round without any hard feelings. It can be frustrating at times to find yourself 
 on the less coordinated side as the real fun and enjoyment comes from teamwork. 
  
  Teams consist of maximum eight players and every player chooses one of the four cIasses: air, armor, 
 support and infantry. Each cIass has their weakness and you have to spend your reinforcement points 
 wisely with your team to gain the perfect balance. And unlike usually in strategy games, you can 
 only control several units at time. Infantry is vulnerable to all kinds of fire in the open but 
 can cause massive damage to any opponent. Station few anti-tank squads in nearby buildings and 
 you already have considerable threat against enemy tank forces. Hiding in forests helps too but 
 hide for too long and there isn't much left of your men after a napalm strike has scorched the 
 ground. Air uses helicopters to deal with enemy tanks, but is extremely vulnerable to support's 
 anti-air vehicles. Support also has repair and transport vehicles plus artillery to create mayhem. 
 Anyone can buy units outside their specialty, but it's rarely worth it for the significant extra 
 fee. There are times to use the option though: one infantry squad alone can be enough to protect 
 your precious artillery from scouts. 
  
  Capture objectives, kill opponents and help teammates, and you'll gain tactical aid points, which 
 are used to call in paratroopers, radar scans and most importantly, bombs. Everything from the 
 airstrikes to tactical nuclear weapons is absolutely stunning to look at. Explosions are definitely 
 the high point of the graphics as they have never looked this good and you will always come back 
 for more of the goodness. Tactical nuke is a real cherry on the top from amazing effects to the 
 calm afterwards. You can zoom in to see even the smallest details on your troops and then zoom 
 out for the impressive draw distance. There is such an amount of detail that sometimes you'll forget 
 that you are playing a RTS. Everything from the trees to Christmas decorations is fully destructible 
 and after few carpet bombs and a nuke, you won't recognize the battlefield anymore. It's important 
 to use the environment to your advantage as all units have realistic line of sight and even bomb 
 craters play a small role.
  
  There isn't much music in the game but the little there is sets the mood perfectly and will keep 
 you entertained while you browse Massgate and wait for the map to load. Bombs and weapons sound 
 superb with the nuke taking the trophy again. Flying over the nuclear area after the explosion 
 will chill down your spine. Unfortunately everything feels slighty unsatisfying after the pure 
 awesomeness of the nuclear bomb.
  
  Rather than reinventing the wheel, Massive Entertainment combines two old formulas and makes them 
 better than ever before. The memorable singleplayer campaign takes about 10 hours to finish and 
 anyone with time on their hands can spend countless hours playing the multiplayer. It's easy to 
 recommend World in Conflict to anyone - especially with the low price tag. There aren't many games 
 that can change your opinion of a certain genre but this is definitely one of the few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rometotalwar999
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Over the years, countless RTS games are released in the market. From the classic Age of Empires 
 to the more recent Company of Heroes. However, majority of the RTS just can't break free of the 
 tank-rush tactic that has plagued this genre and WIC is no exception. You can expect what the rest 
 of the game to be like.
  
  Let me start off with the good points first. WIC gets rids of the resource collecting system. WIC 
 uses reinforcement points to buy units of various kinds on to the frontline via air drop. This 
 is a way better system then having to collect scrap metal and crops from around the map to build 
 units. Although the army's C5-Galaxy seems content to just throw heavy tanks and artillery off 
 the cargo deck at such low altitudes, despite it's largely impossible to do so, and the green flares 
 which would have told the enemy the drop zone, the system works just fine. The game also only puts 
 you in control of relatively small combat group, which helps to ease management on the action.
 
  
  WIC also has relatively good graphics and sound effects. With explosions turning the screen black 
 &amp; white briefly when it hits the ground when you zoomed all the way in. The tank shots and 
 AT infantry shots sound more like a snap though.
  
  However, problems start to appear when you actually command your units and play the game. The game 
 heavily relies on one specialized unit to win, and once you find out that the Soviets deploys mass 
 tanks for battle, which is their doctrine, you'll find out that only the AT infantry work against 
 them and a mass of AT is better than one and soon you'll find yourself spamming the AT infantry 
 units almost too exclusively, save the occasional one or two tanks for the secondary objectives. 
 Hold-left click, drag, select all and you get your tank-rush in the form of a mobile super-missile 
 launcher group which never runs out of ammo. Compared to games like Blitzkrieg, where a single 
 tank ambush is highly effective, this game can't offer that, relying on tank rushes. Later in the 
 single-player campaign, when you're limited to tanks and artillery, you'll find yourself spamming 
 the heavy versions only, because the medium and light ones are worthless, and the tank-rush starts 
 over
  
  So much for being outnumbered by the Soviets, the army appears to have limitless units, so long 
 your supervisor gives you enough points. Another point is about tactical aid. Precision artillery 
 is overpowered and the enemy AI is dumb enough not to call theirs but sit there exclusively for 
 targeting. Tanks also love to engage in combat either too far to target properly or too close for 
 the turret to align properly. The storyline is also very weak, with cliche lines. Multiplayer plays 
 the same way on both sides, right down to the same values for the American and Soviet units, which 
 means that they only serve as a team-balance excuse rather than any different strategy.
  
  Overall, this game does not boast anything much vastly different. Tank rushes and superpowers in 
 the form of tactical aid makes this game feel like any other. Even the speed of all the vehicles 
 on ground is very similar, so no harassing tactics for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorkaBonum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  I've seen alot of complaints about the lack of content, deph, innovations, whatever in this game 
 according to other reviewers but they're probably only complaining over the fact there's no base-building 
 here and that limits their broad tactical approach of rushing and just simple whoring. 
  
  To start with, what you'll see once you start it up is by far the best looking RTS game ever and 
 a tight competitor to the best looking games on the market today. Very polished menus, interface, 
 commands and objectives are an other aspect you'll get to see right away - no overwhelming amount 
 of micromanagement and n scouting the screen for new stuff to do. All you need is the reinforcement 
 tab, Tactical aid tab and the small screen which holds your units special abilities such as smoke-screens, 
 AT-missiles, etc. that is all depending on the unit. All the roles has their purpose, but they're 
 not strict to only one layout, all units has a specific effectiveness depending on the threat - 
 but in general the Infantry and Tanks are especially effective against other Tanks, Support is 
 extremely effective against Air-units and their artillery can be a important resource at times 
 and Air is effective against all threats, offensively, but won't take much of a beating before 
 gettings grounded either by AA-carrying Light Infantry squads, Supports AA or other Air-units with 
 AA-capabilities. So you'd really wish to gang up and get some talented and good-responsitive players/friends 
 to gang up with to really make the roles shine - once you've gotten around some good teammates 
 to play with the true action is on when you can feel the thrill of having the team work together 
 to victory rather than you just beeing on your own hoping someone will assist you, which is always 
 a problems with Multiplayer games - there's ofcourse egos everywhere. As mentioned there's no base-building 
 in this game, instead you have a specific amount of resources to start off with, more than the 
 resources you start with you also have a specific amount of additional resources slowly ticking 
 into your accessable resources after time. Once your units on the ground is dead you'll recieve 
 the resources back into a slower refund. It doesn't take too much time for the major resources 
 to get restored, but enough time for you to wish to keep the units alive. 
  
  The more you fight, capture control points and assis your team, the more Tactical Aid points will 
 you get to use for special purposes such as Anti-Tank runs, paratrooper drops, tank-drops, scouting, 
 napalm, carpet bombings, bridge repairs and ofcourse the characteristic Tactical Nuke. With a bit 
 of teamwork and good will it is very possible to send over TA points to a teamplayer to use for 
 a tactical nuke - there's also a very well-working, high-quality VoIP in the game which makes communication 
 about perfect, especially along with a command-rose with a various addition of markers you can 
 apply to the map for teammates to see such as "Artillery Here" or "Cease Fire!" or costumizable 
 markers, but in the end the most effective way to communicate it through the VoIP along with the 
 "Attention Here" marker to make sure nobody misses a bit. There's also a mute function and a Single-Player-VoIp 
 if you're getting tired of the Russians and Germans talking all the time. Audio in the game is 
 about perfect, the only thing I'd want is some better unit command sounds, but you'll get used 
 to it quite quickly. Since the Beta seasons they've done a great improvement though, and most units 
 has their own voice, while some share the same voice but with a few unique commands. Campaign is 
 only touching on the Americans, which feels kind of narrow, but it is done in such a good way and 
 with such a variety of personalities you don't really mind.
  
  All in all, this is the best game I've played this year and I will stick to it until next year 
 without a doubt. Online works perfectly, medals, costumasiblity, friendlist, chatlists and Matchmaker 
 works splendid - they're also launching alot of new content every month here such as the Movie 
 Maker tool and Spectator Tool, which of the later EA talked about for C&C3 that never happened. 
 This game has extreme potential and uses the absolute most of it! If you're getting the game, then 
 just ignore the MSV servers, as they're lagging as hell due to the hosts networking (60+ servers 
 on a single networks screams of pained traffic) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Britannia_IX
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  World in conflict, based on a worst case scenario outcome of the Cold War, is a pretty solid game. 
 It has an interesting story line, following an American Army battalion in two theatres of war, 
 one in America and one in Europe. The campaign is fun, and the use of airdrops and tactical support 
 make gameplay easy to get into, although points do take precious minutes to recharge and build 
 up. Other concerns about the game would be the lack of a independent skirmish mode (you must set 
 up a multi-player game with bots) and some weak units (infantry is a very hard to use in a world 
 of tanks and helos.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blumey
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Great game good solid gaming I have enjoyed playing this game and also enjoy the online gaming 
 as well. I do think they need to add a few more choices of what units you have to choose from. Also 
 would like to see a naval unit choice for the couple of the maps and also an airforce unit would 
 be great make it that little bit more interesting when playing online. Overall though it is agreat 
 game and I will be playing it for sometime yet.. I gave it 10\10 and hope there will be a few expansion 
 packs to buy for it. Hope you all enjoy this game as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsgx3
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I bought this based on the rave reviews. I have steered clear of most RTS lately as they have increasingly 
 become more of the same. I decided to go for it and overall it was worth the money, but only marginally 
 so. The single player story line is very interesting, I loved the attention to detail with the 
 period tech etc, and the voice acting and plot were well done. Graphically this is a great game 
 akin to CoH with impressive visuals all the way to the 'near' first person environment. Unfortunately, 
 much like CoH there is little to no utility in that view point and you spend most of your time 
 looking at small little units from a high vantage point. (When the FPS and RTS merge into one, 
 where you can take over individual units, then I will be impressed by graphics on this scale, for 
 now they are superfluos) . I have read gushing reviews about how resource gathering has been allieviated 
 by this games system. So what? Several other games have achieved the same effect, it's a matter 
 of preference and not an automatically great design addition. Apparently the multiplayer is great 
 as well, and I must question basing such great reviews so strongly on that one aspect. As a side 
 note it seems great reviews are increasingly reserved for those games that have good multiplayer, 
 something that awards flashy graphics and multiplayer interface options and decreases the value 
 of depth, AI and most importantly story. One does not need a good story to make a great multiplayer 
 slug fest. I would tend to agree with those who have said this game is slightly over rated. There 
 is virtually no reason to play it twice in single player, and the multiplayer will lose its luster 
 quickly. Too little depth and too much cosmetics. I will be ever more wary of RTSs as a result 
 of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This is THE strategy game, beautifull in everything, graphics, gameplay, action, storyline, campaign..............
 
  There is nothing I can say that world in conflict makes bad, for the whole time I have been playing 
 it, i haven't found anything wrong with the game, the graphics are perfect and it feels just great 
 to see things blowing up all over the place, the textures are all great and the camera its the 
 best i can remember, you can go all the way down to the floor or all the way up and see the units 
 from the sky, you can also turn the camera around 360&ordm;, from every prespective the game looks 
 amazing, the explosions and nuclear bombs are so cool... I have never seen anything like that, 
 its the best smoke effects I have seen.
  The storyline its cool and immersive and its a long campaign to go threw with a very challenging 
 hard mode.
  The multiplayer its highly addictive, even more than the single player campaign.
  The gameplay 
 feels very natural and its completely diferent from other games, here, you dont build anything, 
 you just call your units and control a small army just like a captain, you can also call airstrikes 
 and things like that, the game as a non stop action rythm that doesn't get you bored.
  World in conflict its one of the best games in its category and one of the best ever, I give the 
 perfect 10 cause even if the game isn't perfect, which game is perfect? nothing its perfect and 
 something with this quality deserve a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwastie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  Love the game, the game story are great fun, but there are 2 points that bug me, 1, no skirmish 
 mode, and 2, one of my pet hates in gaming is resporning bad guys, its such an old cheap way to 
 build a game, they keep coming until you get to a point in the game. Apart from this i like the 
 game.
  
  There has to be i limit to the number of badys who come at you, and this should be one of the ways 
 to beat the bad guys, why do they do it? Lazy writing i think! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Pretty graphics, poor game-play. You'll exceed at this game if you're adept at moving your mouse 
 pointer throughout the map and having the ability to click fast. You won't need any strategy skills 
 or brainpower to mouse click your way through this abysmal game! Everything moves so fast you don't 
 have any time to enjoy it. Move fast, click faster. This should be classified as an arcade game! 
 Zero strategy. Its a scripted point and click arcade game. This game doesnt even come close to 
 the scores it is receiving. Youll be better of spending you money and time elsewhere. Heed other 
 similar reviews as mine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Pros: fluid interaction; action-oriented RTS targeting veterans and newcomers alike; high end graphics; 
 explosions; story &amp; cutscenes; polished single player &amp; multiplayer.
  Cons: experts of the genre may want more unit variety; timid AI control of infantry; many useless 
 rewards for completing objectives; system hog.
  
  It had to be done at last: a modern RTS war sim depicting an alternate reality whereas the Soviets 
 attack the Western world and the US, unleashing WWIII. World in Conflict brilliantly exposes the 
 theme both online and offline. The year is 1989. The Soviets invade Europe, and manage to capture 
 Seattle via cargo ships. The single player links fourteen large maps including some European missions 
 in between, each one requiring to fulfill a certain number of primary objectives ( obligatory ) 
 and secondary ones - often at the same time. The interface excels to ease the learning curve which 
 remains rather short for the genre, fortunately without hampering down in any ways the strategic 
 depth. Out of the four unit types ( infantry, tanks, choppers, artillery ) , the heavy tank may 
 be the preferred unit when available. Otherwise, the anti tank infantry can also offer a potent 
 alternative on some other maps. Choppers may be the most difficult to master, yet aside one mission 
 in New York they aren't essential to complete the game though they certainly raise the chances 
 of success in multiplayer. Overall infantry units seem to be left squandering around without much 
 influence to counterbalance significantly the results of huge battles. But calling multiple artillery 
 raids, thus seeing the ensuing spectacle bring all the cherries we expect to torn a battlefield. 
 Aside the respectable number of artillery barrages offered, the other units only come in three 
 levels or so ( light armor, medium, heavy ) . Concurrently, some naval units/battles would have 
 been desirable enhancements - yet a review must only cover what is available at hand.
  
  As such, the game proposes a simple, slick user interface embellished by a thorough story telling 
 immersive enough to attract non-RTS hardcore addicts. The campaign has a normal difficulty mode 
 easier than usual, yet teamplay is essential in multiplyer. To its merit though, the former often 
 ask to master a particular unit during a specific objective and so on.
  
  On higher resolutions, graphics are truly spectacular and feel true HD: detailed explosions, smoke 
 trails and fluid animations all appear to be optimized above what we normally expect at the release. 
 All that gimmickry doesn't come along without a price, as you can guess: lags aren't inevitable 
 even on a high end machine. As a memory monster, the game demands to any geeky user a stable platform.
 
  
  The audio match of actor Alec Baldwin feels so natural that the player becomes immediately propelled 
 into an interactive movie like experience. Speaking of which, a World in Conflict movie couldn't 
 really be conceivable without that kind of actor as a prominent role. Voice overs of Colonel Sawyer 
 and the narrator also bring a gritty albeit realistic dimension to war torn maps, layer upon layer 
 of commands and explosions professionally crafted for an earful tri-dimensional track devoid of 
 unnecessary distortions at the same time. The little boost effects accompanying some ripple/haze 
 effects along explosions will sound delightful to the ears of the audiophile gamer.
  
  World in Conflict extend some of the boundaries of terrestrial RTS war sims onto something easier 
 to embark, yet as deep strategically, perhaps inherent to fewer units catapulted into battlefields 
 razed by overpowered artillery barrages. Despite some nitpicks and freeze problems reported by 
 many users, it appears a world war sim never looked so beautiful as to enhance the sub genre for 
 a broader appeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spam_spot
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game plays similar to Company of Heroes, without the fine tuning control of the units and 
 poorly balanced game play. The game is highly unbalanced, units are boring, graphics are OK, but 
 the system resource demand is ridiculous for the graphics. COH looks better and runs far better 
 on my system than this game. Unit coordination is awkward, for a game demanding so much coordination 
 between friendly units, the game provides extremely poor mapping, and force location indication. 
 Half of time, you have no idea where your objectives locate, and who is requesting assistance and 
 where. This game's attempt to be challenging is to rush your positions with insane amount of enemy 
 armors, and tilting odds heavily against the players without even a superficial attempt at realism. 
 Boring unit with little personality. Compared to Company of Heroes, it's a shame. If COH can be 
 so good and out in the market more than a year ago, I don't know why this game even bothered to 
 get to the market in the first place.
  Compared to the big hits out there in the RTS game genre, it fails against Command and Conquer 
 type games in troop management and story, and fails even worse against Company of Heroes in developing 
 a mission progression type RTS game concentrating on small unit tactic and quick planning. It's 
 just a mediocre game far out shined by many other games in this genre on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SempiternalTrut
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  overrated, not worth your 50 bucks. go play company of heroes. Everyone is hyping up this new system 
 tanks, infantry, coptors and art. Its really just a lame attempt at creating something they can 
 advertise to the public. The 9.5 that gamespot gave them is outragous, somebody must be getting 
 paid well for that kind of score. At one point gs said that the game touches us (the player) emotionally, 
 but really there was only dry eyes here. I wish i had saved my money for food, the 10 minutes It 
 would take to eat my slices of pizza would provide more entertainment than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabriel_paladin
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  Wow... just finished this game and I can say I really am impressed. As a RTS veteran, I usually 
 expect the usual cycle of resource-collecting, but this game doesn't use resources, you don't even 
 have to capture points like in CoH, it's basically just you and the bad guys. The graphics are 
 awesome, the explosions and eye-candy are soooo good, but you'll need a graphic card powerful enough. 
 The sound is good, it's the usual explosions/gunshots/bombing we are all used to/ The gameplay 
 is what makes this game awesome, you have your rock-scissors-paper unit balancing (heavy choppers 
 own everything excepting AA vehicles.... and AA gets owned by everything besides choppers) and 
 your reinforcement points that lets you skip over tedious resource collection. Camera is great, 
 you can view from what angle you prefer the explosions. The story is the usual russians vs americans 
 story, but it has its moment (Bannon's sacrifice was THE MOMENT) . The multiplayer is a tad imba... 
 I basically choose AIR and own everything with heavy choppers, even AA (using the special ability, 
 of course) My only problem with this game is that it's short. I've installed the game&amp; played 
 a few hours Friday, and I continued for 5-6 hours on Saturday... and the game was over. Skipping 
 the tedious resource collection is nice, but the game is far too short. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This review covers single play mode only.
  
  I am really not sure who this game was trying to appeal to.
  
  If you're a RTS junkie, it is 
 a gross failure. It won't appeal to you at all, for any reason! Just stick with Command and Conquer 
 and other proven titles. This game is not for the hardcore player. It enables very minmal management. 
 Its interface is virtually identical to Company of Heroes with ten times less control and variations. 
 The title called Combat for Atari 2600 had more varied modes and scenarios.
  
  It's a VERY vanilla, boring, uninteresting game wrapped in a beautiful package. It reminds me of 
 a piece of dog dook in an exquisite, handcrafted silk wrapper.
  
  The graphics are decent. Seeing as how it is 2007, they aren't anything mind blowing, tho. I guess 
 they are OK considering all of the rendering going on. You can zoom in to one little guy in the 
 midst of a big, contrived battle. The problem is, you won't ever want to do this. You need to stay 
 zoomed out in order to have any control over your few units. They could have accomplished the same 
 result with 1/10th the graphics. An Atari 2600 engine could have handled the core gameplay... it 
 is THAT simplistic.
  
  The enemy spawns out of thin air over and over again. I was fighting a mission and my men covered 
 an entire area. Tanks just kept teleporting into existence in the CENTER of my men. It wasn't that 
 they were coming from a non-visible grayed out area -- they just step through the fabric of time 
 and space. That's one lovely feature. Very realistic. YEAAAAAAAAh.
  
  If you're looking for a fun war game for someone in the age range of 2 to 7, I'd give it an A. 
 You can put a drooling baby on a high chair and have them punch the keyboard repeatedly. They will 
 probably WIN, too. If you're an RTS freak, this can't even come close to Command and Conquer. It's 
 sad to even compare the gameplay.
  
  If you don't like the management involved with those games and find it to be too hectic, you won't 
 like this game either. It goes too severely away from hardcore RTS to the point where it's just 
 mindless and uninspired.
  
  The storyline and cut scenes are decent, but the flow of the game is very forced and specific. For 
 $50 this is a gargantuan RIP.
  
  I'd play it for 9 dollars. Maybe. I suppose you could argue that it could be used for a LAN party 
 (if you're a winner who is into that kind of thing) . But If you're into multiplayer, why bother? 
 Bust out the C &amp; C titles.
  
  When I look at this game, what it offers, and how it plays, I guess I'm left asking, Why did they 
 bother?? 
  
  Hugely over rated, don't waste your time. Gameplay: 5
  Sound: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Value: 4
  Tilt: 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roken1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for something fresh, and something out of the box, look no further. World in 
 Conflict is truly the next step in RTS gaming. Firstly, World in Conflict provides completely destructible 
 battlefields. Although this was seen before in Company of Heroes, World in Conflict does an impressive 
 and convincing job in graphics and sound so that you could believe in the destruction you are seeing. 
 In addition, the weaponry is modernized, so when you do calling in a tactical nuclear strike, there 
 will be one huge crater with a lot of collateral damage.
  
  Secondly, instead of using 10 or maybe 20 minutes in resource collection and base construction 
 as players must do in most of the last generation of RTS games, World in Conflict has no resource 
 collection or base building to speak of. This is perhaps the most interesting, and most realistic 
 part of the game. In real battles, a commander wouldnt go around worrying about building up tank 
 garages, air strips, and resource collectors, while busily assembling tanks, infantry squads, and 
 even battleships. Instead the commander would be more worried about when will his next reinforcements 
 arrive, or how will his platoon move down that city street without being attacked by snipers and 
 tank traps. However, this does not mean that players will be just utilizing offensive units. Players 
 would need to balance defense with offense as often pushing too quickly through enemy lines would 
 do nothing for the team since the player would not be capturing, and fortifying vital positions 
 (in this game called objectives) . Fortifications will automatically be built. But it will take 
 time to do so, plus the more units you have at one position, the faster fortifications would build. 
 This is perhaps not as realistic as sending in combat engineers to built up specific fortifications, 
 but considering the way objectives work with the main mechanics of the game, the fortification 
 mechanisms are acceptable. Fortifications can play a valuable role early in the game, so it would 
 be a good idea to dig in and wait in a defensive battle.
  
  Thirdly, instead of controlling fighter-bomber squadrons, air craft carriers, battleships, air 
 force bases, and artillery brigades as if you are some 4 star general for both army and air force, 
 while having the powers of an admiral of the navy, you will call in air strikes, carpet bombs, 
 tactical nuclear bombs, and etc. You will be calling in these tactical aids as you would do as 
 a real company captain or platoon lieutenant, by placing markers and hoping they arrive in time. 
 These tactical aids are given more to commanders that make more kills, so players are encouraged 
 to do the maximum amount of damage while taking on the least amount of casualties. The tactical 
 aids also give players a new set of strategies that they might have never employed in current RTS 
 games, including scouting and forward observation for teammates. Also gamers would have to get 
 used to the reality of the aid not arriving for 5 to 30 seconds from the time it was called, as 
 nothing travels at infinite speed.
  
  Fourthly, the single player campaign gives a believable plot with great voice acting and some actual 
 character development. The plot is more revolved around the soldiers, who would be nameless in 
 any other RTS, rather than fancy looking situation rooms and cardboard-linear-minded generals who 
 give you your mission briefings. In most RTS games, you are either given a map and shown what the 
 objectives are or flown into situation rooms that are thousands if not tens of thousands of miles 
 away from the battle and briefed by well dressed generals and with time to spare to be flown back 
 into the theater of war. In this game, mission briefings are brief and often times in abandoned 
 diners, in range of snipers, and in some Southern French countryside. Usually you are briefed by 
 the colonel, as you should be. And in none of the briefings do you catch anyone in dress-uniform. 
 Often times, the colonel has to using tree branches and whatever he could grab to simulate objectives 
 and landmarks. The character dialogs are convincing with no stupid remarks, unless the character 
 is meant to be stupid. And of course the calls home give us a perspective of the soldiers off the 
 battlefields.
  
  However, there are also drawbacks to WIC that got the game a 9.5 instead of 10 from me. One of 
 the drawbacks is the relatively short single player campaign. I can give some slack since this 
 game is revolved around the idea of multiplayer action, but I cant give the game slack on the 
 lack of new maps. This is perhaps why some gamers are complaining about the game becoming boring 
 after a few days. While limited number of maps for FPS multiplayer is acceptable since there could 
 be so many variety of action that occurs in a FPS game, in RTS games, maps and strategy are the 
 heart and soul of the games even for multiplayer. Going over the same map with the same strategies 
 do get boringfast. Sierra and Massive are promising that they will be hosting this franchise for 
 a very long time and are considering coming out with new maps. A suggestion is that Sierra and 
 Massive release a Map Editor tool that allows gamers to create maps for multiplayer. This would 
 reduce the companys workload while increase gamers interest.
  
  So, if you are a fan of realism and hate the resource collection/base building part of RTS or simply 
 want to try your hands on something new, then go for World in Conflict. If you like resource gathering 
 and building bases, why not just play simcity? Perhaps the new concepts of this game scare some 
 people, but werent people scared when classics such as Age of Empires and C&amp; C came out? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grim15
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  OK, well i have always loved first person shooters and role playing games, but this is amazing 
 in every way, graphics are nice, and a relly good, complex storyline, if you are looking for somthing 
 that makes you feel good while keeping your eyes taped open to watch every little detail, this 
 is the game. Personally I LOVE IT. Yet, it is up to you to decide so try the demo, or buy the game, 
 just try it. Hope to see you on the field private :P
  
  ooh, and the multiplayer is an amazing thing, you will have some downs liek when your infantry 
 get subjectted to a chemical strike, and the ups of taking 5 appaches and blowing the heck outta 
 a small transport convoy. :)
  The Multiplayer also has a neat ranking system equivilent to battlefield, just without unlocks. 
 You can achieve medals and compare yourself to any other people, which is nice if your like me 
 and try to destroying your friend while saying HA HA eat this at blasting him with an air fuel 
 bomb :P
  
  I hope you enjoy my review, and if you ever find yourself playing the game and looking for a good 
 competition add me as a friend and play i am ... uh oh either ShadowHunt... or its Sh4dowHunt :P 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KelvinCht
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  exellent multiplayer with teamwork and action. It is based on teamwork, timing and tactics.
  
  Basically instead you are controlling a solder in battlefield2. You controls mutliple squads 
 and you can call air support and reinforce in the middle of battle. So you will never wait there 
 and waiting respawn and quickly become a cannon flood. Making it more satisify than battlefield 
 2.
  
  If you like mutiplayer, FPS and Strategy. This is your game.
  
  Just a note: you need to played the mulitplayer to apperciate why this game is rated so high.
 
  
  The demo contains a fully featured mutliplayer. So if are still unsure just download the free demo 
 and try that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaldoran
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  I thought I should probably write this review for all the old Strategy gamers out there.
  
  First off, I'm a strategy player and often a Turtle at that and when I first saw World in Conflict 
 I was put off, I mean I like to build.
  
  So my first opinion of World in Conflict was a dud.
  
  But I powered through it, first the 
 tutorial, and then the first few Campaign mission. I liked the Campaign, but it was nothing special 
 and I never really got into it like I did Company of Heroes for example. So after a few missions 
 I put it aside and played some other things for a few days, but then I say the reveiw out there 
 and some of the tournaments being played on it and though, that looks like fun, so I went back 
 and tried again.
  
  Another Campaign mission or two later and I was bored again, this just wasn't working for me.
 
  Then I though let me try the Skirmish mod, I mean it couldn't hurt.
  And then it hit me, WOW!! This is fun. Now I understood the hype and reveiw and everything, it 
 all made sense. And many sleepless hours later, here I am writing this review to tell Strategy 
 Gamers like myself to try this game out. Now not everyone will like this style, but if you play 
 strategy games in any sort of multiplay this is seriously worth a try.
  
  This game is an Action game, not an RTS, but an Action game that will appeal to RTS players as 
 well.
  This is a 'Battlefield 2' game, a game meant to be played in multiplayer, that is it's strength.
 
  
  Final analysis:
  Decent Campaign, All round good game, but......
  World in Conflict, 1 LAN, 15 friends..... there goes the weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackbauer203
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I placed a reserve on the game six months before it came out. On September 18, I went down to my 
 local gaming store and picked up my copy of the game. When I installed the game on my PC, I started 
 out on the single player campagin, where you play sixteen different missions as you defend your 
 homeland during a Soviet led WWIII. I beat the game in under five hours. I next tried the multiplayer, 
 which was downright AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Every map in the game is included, along with a few 
 more. You can play as America, Russia, and NATO froces. There are four classes you can choose from. 
 infantry, armor, air, and support. these classes all come in use at the same time if you use them 
 correctly in the heat of battle. You can call in reinforcements if your units die, which come in 
 by parachutes. (It is pretty cool to watch) You can also call in tatical aid points. You can use 
 these to call in naplam, airstrikes, mortar attacks, tankbusters, carpet bombings, and even nuclear 
 warheads. You can share tatical aid points with your teammates to save up for a nuke, which totally 
 destroys an entire section of the battlefield. You can use a mircophone to talk with your teammates 
 and discuss plans and tatics. All in all, World in Conflict is a good game, but don't get it just 
 for the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eu0Snake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  anyways... i think it would be a lot more fun if u could play as tha soviets and if it was a lil 
 more realistic like COH.... i like the graphics a lot... the audio is pretty awsome.... but idk... i 
 think its a lil overrated.... it had everything to be the best game ever but theres sumthing missing... another 
 thing is tat we needed a create a map mode... or a skirmish mode... sumtimes u just dont wanna play 
 campaign no more... it gets a lil boring after a while... iite... tat it.... much luv
  oooooooo ooooooooooooooo oooooooooooo ooooooooooo oooooooooooooooo ooooooooooo oooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooo 
 oooooooooooooo ooooooooo oooooooooooo oooooooooo oooooooooooo ooooooooooo ooooooooooooo oooooooooooo 
 ooooooooooooo ooooooooooooo oooooooooooooo oooooooooo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawgdawg
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Why is it that it is ok for companies to release games that don't work at all for a lot of people? 
 Me and my brother both bought this game today, and it is crashing before I get through five minutes 
 of the campaign. I have to say, though, for the five minutes before it crashed during the campaign, 
 it was really fun. But this is hardly worth fifty bucks, or a wordy review, for that matter.
  
  Someday they will release a patch that will allow me to use this thing I payed a days wages 
 for. Until then, this game gets a sucky score form me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvguyofnature
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought this was a real time strategy. After reading the reviews, people were sorely 
 disappointed with the game play. I would have been too, had it been a real time strategy game. 
 But in reality it is a real time tactics game. i have never before played an RTT, but I have come 
 to love this genre. The game itself is very enjoyable as theres no waiting to enter combat. However, 
 you're supplied with a limited amount of troops and then theres the dropping it all over the battlefield. 
 The fire support is pretty awesome especially because the bombs affect the environment and its 
 just plain fun to watch things get blown up. Some of the videos are awesome while others aren't, 
 but either way I wasn't playing for the videos. The controls are easy to maneuver and you can get 
 around easily but sometimes the camera shifts and thats a nuisance.
  
  The story line is a bit far-fetched, in my opinion, but very innovative. The way the Russians invaded 
 the U. S. does make sense. Overall, I enjoyed the game but minor glitches made me give it a 9.5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  When I heard Alec Baldwin was doing the voice over for this game I figured he was just hard up 
 for money. 20 minutes after playing it I realized he probably jumped on it because of the fantastic 
 storyline.
  
  Graphics - Spectacular detail on every aspect of the game from character, to landscape, and even 
 physics. I ran this game maxed out at 1920X1080 and it crashed twice the entire game.
  
  Gameplay - I am not an expert at using hot keys and this is a game that definitely benefits from 
 the use of multiple hot key setups. This is the only part of the game where I wish that the interface 
 was a little more user friendly for non hardcore RTS people. The ability to pause and take your 
 time just didnt exist. I know, I know, that was the purpose of the game... make quick decision like 
 real life... but still, I found myself a little flustered at times with so many things going on 
 at once. But again... thats just me.
  
  Storyline - Nothing I can say but, wow... the use of cut scenes that didnt need to focus on flashing 
 distracting graphics but just a single picture was fantastic. I was able to sit back and take in 
 the game and absorb the storyline. Voice acting was great, characters believable, etc.
  
  Overall - A must have for RTS fans and a game that has definitely risen the standards for games 
 to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMaStar_99
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Yeah great... ????
  
  
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  but what yeah in the bell with bodotto potto that's otto in the the grotto scraping his lotto!
 
  oh yeah meat loaf, sheet loaf, that's neet, loaf!
  ay caramba, i do good games otherwize but i do thought this good, yes?
  mmmbodotto, yeah that's 
 karotto, fo' shotto in the ghotto, blodotto, whotto? mmmbodotto!
  
  but what yeah in the bell with bodotto potto that's otto in the the grotto scraping his lotto!
 
  oh yeah meat loaf, sheet loaf, that's neet, loaf!
  ay caramba, i do good games otherwize but i do thought this good, yes?
  mmmbodotto, yeah that's 
 karotto, fo' shotto in the ghotto, blodotto, whotto? mmmbodotto!
  
  but what yeah in the bell with bodotto potto that's otto in the the grotto scraping his lotto!
 
  oh yeah meat loaf, sheet loaf, that's neet, loaf!
  ay caramba, i do good games otherwize but i do thought this good, yes?
  mmmbodotto, yeah that's 
 karotto, fo' shotto in the ghotto, blodotto, whotto? mmmbodotto! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Great visuals, fantastic camera, great single player, revolutionary multi player. one 
 of a kind, and a technical and design benchmark for not only the genre but for gaming in general. 
 visually different sides, and historically accurate.
  
  THE BAD: sides play to much alike.
  
  THE RANT (this is my stream of conscious about the game 
 so skip if you care to see how i break down the game just skip the the breakdown.)
  
  Ok, so firstly this is the best multi player game I've played to date, better than halo 3 or anything 
 else currently out there. why is it so good? simply because you can be on a server playing in about 
 60 seconds after clicking the desktop icon, yeah it's fast, a very streamlined but intuitive interface 
 offers stuff up in a good fashion firstly you get the options you need but it's very intuitive 
 to fish through the interface and make clans and buddy lists and jump in and out of games with 
 friends the viop is the best I've ever heard and there is loading screen chat, loading only takes 
 a minute or less though so don't worry. this whole game is so seamless and fluid it feels like 
 the best console game but is more fully featured that the average pc game. this studio need to 
 be teaching other studios how to make the meta game experience as fluid and fun and the actual 
 real time experience. you level up and no you don't unlock stuff but you do get respect and when 
 a general says i need Tactical aid points for a nuke or a triple carpet bomb everyone offers up. 
 the persistence is a great subtle thing it lets you know how you are doing while you play and it 
 lets you know what kind of other players you are playing with. i know that other games like age 
 3 have had a little bit more in depth persistence but world in conflict is a arcade game, so imagine 
 if UT had unlockable weapons then it wouldn't feel right. so this ranking system goes down well. 
 probably my favorite thing about WIC is that it is so easy to learn i mean i never play online 
 with strangers because i don't want to get the crap beat out of me. but this game is so easy to 
 pick up and get the basics, but fairly hard to master, i don't even think you can master it because 
 so much of success requires three people per team to work fluidly together so there is no one man 
 show any lone gunman gets ripped a new one. why you ask well the way the single player works is 
 you get to choose a specialty : air, armor, infantry, or support then you buy units of that type. 
 infantry is by far the weakest by it's self but if you have infantry and Bradley's or you air drop 
 infantry into spawn points then it gets interesting. air is probably the most powerful though the 
 most vulnerable, armor and support are very well rounded, armor is more offensive and support more 
 defensive in nature, your artillery needs range and AA needs proximity. now the way the game works 
 is you get your units dropped in, no base building only advancing. when you kill units or accomplish 
 objectives you get TA (tactical aid) this you use to call in artillery, napalm, nukes, air support, 
 advanced air dropped infantry or armor, and radar sweeps. so when your units die someone somewhere 
 is getting TA for the kill building towards a nuke so yes there is a cost for wasting units but 
 not as immediate or heavy as say company of heroes. there is also unit veterancy i don't know if 
 this affects stats or just lets you know your heavy artillery is committing genocide upon those 
 Russian bastards. at any rate visible recognition of success is a subtle important thing that i 
 appreciate. so the two resources in the game are TA and your money, you know how TA works it's 
 something you earn in a very offensive matter, well the money you start out with a fixed amount 
 that is all you ever get, until units die that is then you get refunded their cost. refund takes 
 time but it's more like seconds instead of minutes for a large portion to be refunded. there are 
 numerous different modes the staple game play mode is a command and conquer style mode with strategic 
 points (hello COH) you capture these points when one team controls all they win the game. or when 
 timer runs out the team with the most wins. there are numerous other exciting game modes a front 
 line mode with capture points that move forward and back word when the front line is controlled 
 there is two attack defend modes, numerous different maps, one in the rockies on in France on in 
 a small town one on a farm on in Seattle. so you have open levels and cramped ones, every level 
 feels well designed while some are destined to be classics. but the key to victory is teamwork 
 if your team isn't working together and the other team is it's game over. for example i was playing 
 with two college buddies, they were armor and air i was support, i moved all my units into captured 
 zones to fortify them this gives me TA and allot of it when I'm fortifying like 6-10 positions 
 at once, so i funnel all this into my one friend and my other friend is feeding him TA too so he 
 is unleashing nothing short of Armageddon on the opposing team. it was like the three of us were 
 taking on the opposing 7 man team by our selves. nothing hurts more than a triple nuke. thats for 
 sure. so enough about the multiplayer more on that later. single player is rock solid a fluid presentation 
 that is sure to remind you of COH, but with better voice acting. the characters and story is well 
 done, and at times rather stirring and heart wrenching. some of the characters are built up very 
 well the games story is told in a kinda pulp fiction style but it works well, though i have some 
 friends who disagree but one thing that we do agree on is that the overall story is solid and something 
 we actually talk about. it's short as strategy games go i beat it in under 20 hours but it is really 
 good few if any of the missions feel like filler. the game contains in engine cut scenes, flash 
 type slide show cinematics and prerendered cinematics. the inengine are very good, the prerendered 
 are downright chilling. one thing i like about the in engine is the caliber of voice work and the 
 animation and camera work. speeking of camera one big topic in strategy games these days is camera 
 like the fantastic camera in supcom or the not so sharp in COH or the horrendous in C&amp; C3. well 
 i think that the camera in World in Conflict should be the standard for COH style of games. it 
 zooms in and out and controls so fluid and seemllessly it's the first great thing you notice in 
 the game and it's so seemless you forget about it real quick the way you should with a camera system. 
 i personally think that supcom and WIC have the two best cameras currently and every strategy game 
 camera scheme should be judged by them. one minor problem with the game i have is the symmetry 
 of the sides, Nato and us and Russian forces are to similar in tactical execution for my liking 
 but they do play slightly differently and every side looks different to their credit. something 
 else to the credit of the game it is very scalable it ram beautifully on my three and half year 
 old rig at medium high settings. my old rig was a 3 gig p4 two gigs of 400 mhz ram and geforce 
 6800 gt 256 mb. nothing to shaby but i could barely play COH and i played this great and it looks 
 better than COH. so there. and on a highed machine this program sings i built a quad core pc with 
 two gigs of 1066 mhz DDR2 dual channel and a 8800 gts 640 mb. i cam run it at 1920 X 1200 on my 
 new dell monitor and it looks too good. all my roommates love watching me play they can't believe 
 the game when they see it. i really feel like this game challenges crysis large maps large armies 
 totally destructible environments. oh yeah forgot to mention you can decimate every inch of every 
 map you can call in a artillery strike then have you infantry use the craters as cover. it's that 
 detailed. honestly try the demo it's the tip of the iceberg.
  
  THE BREAKDOWN:
  GAMEPLAY: Great online and community focus for the game play works well in single player. yes the 
 single player is shallower game play wise but the presentation is something to behold. online though 
 this is a champion.
  9
  
  GRAPHICS: unparalleled, this game is a benchmark for sure. great animations best explosions of 
 any game, fantastic physics. a nuke no one can beat. this nuke is comparable to the chainsaw in 
 gears its horrific and beautiful all at once.
  10
  
  SOUND: voice acting for cinematics is the best we've seen since warcraft. sounds of battle are 
 very good but units don't have the personality of COH units no interesting ambient dialog that 
 i noticed. but battle sounds actually echo and scale dynamically in sound depending on your distance 
 from the conflict very immersive.
  9
  
  VALUE: a very solid sinleplayer with a quality story and great presentation, a simply earth shatter 
 online mode. some mistake ease of learning for strategical simplicaty, they are gravely mistaken 
 if you played with people and were a one man show you were either playing with a very supportive 
 team you didn't notice or you were on a newb server. great game online and off with fantastic depth 
 great voip support great clan and matchmaking great interface. simply fantastic and unique.
  10
  
  TILT: even with everything this game achieves the lack of difference in the play styles 
 makes me sad. so i got to be honest.
  8.5
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS:
  play the demo or buy the game right now! the only reason not to get this game is if you don't have 
 online, you won't find alot of content in the single player once you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayrob706
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Honestly the game hits the ground running and in a very big way. You tend to find yourself easily 
 immersed in the game play, because it is so easily addictive. This game has to rank up there along 
 side of several of the classics like COH, War Hammer 40k Dawn of War, Command and Conquer (the 
 entire series) and so many others. But oddly enough it is the 1st of its kind. Very innovative 
 game play style, and online play is absolute organized mayhem. I tend to expect more from RTS games 
 and I could not ask for any more from this game. Any expansion that they decide to put out for 
 this game will have a very rough road to compete with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game over all, the single player was fun but only just held me to the end. The real 
 part of this game that holds you is the multiplayer but even that didn't hold up as long as I had 
 hoped.
  
  Dont get me wrong, the graphics are excellent and the gameplay delivers many of its promises, my 
 first reaction was a good one but after a few minutes of playing I got the feeling of detachment 
 from my units....
  
  This game brings some new ideas to the table and was well done, but In my opinion this game doesn't 
 hold up well to company of heroes as far as getting the feeling of war..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldman543
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  if you want to play by yourself or online this game is great. it makes you think work as a team 
 and cuts out the long boring and sometimes laggy games of typical strategy games puts a time limit 
 on them. once i got on the only thing that made me get off was i had stayed up all night and had 
 to go to school. the ability to talk directly to your teammates and the numerous different strategys 
 and units makes it always interesting. games go fast and its not too hard to rank up on the leader 
 board. there are plenty of different maps so you won't get tired of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacedog1973
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Yep, this game lack depth, meat - whatever you want to call it. In short, it blows. You see, this 
 RTS game has thought the the interfaces of most RTS make them boring. The gathering resources and 
 building up defenses and all that rubbish.
  
  Its rubbish right? I mean - take all that out of the game and put in some really nice explosions 
 and great voice acting - and you have a great game. Right?
  
  And lets call it world in conflict - because that sounds like it means something new. Right?
 
  
  All Wrong. Badly Wrong. Thing is, this game is shallow.
  
  It misses out on all the things that make such games repeatable - that encourages tactics -strategy 
 and all those important things that make up RTS games.
  
  This game offers Strategy with a small S, and Tactics with an even smaller T.
  
  But is FUN! 
 EXPLOSIONS!!! THEY TEH AWESOME!! Right. For about 30 minutes and then its gets old. Real quick.
 
  
  I mean, the concept behind the game is good - sure there must be a demand for easily accessible 
 RTS games, but surely this watered down is a joke. Give us all some respect - we don't and cannot 
 get off on explosions as the main point of this game.
  
  We need more. A hell of a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost2085
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  What happen to all the important attributes in a RTS? I remember when Magazine would ask for smarter 
 AI, better tracking and more variables between each unit. I thought we all wanted a larger amount 
 of units to control. I thought it was only our computers that was holding us back?
  
  Here is how I grade WIC. Rated 1-11. 1 being the worst, 10 being insanely good, and 11 being totally 
 inventive and NO ONE else has achieve this accomplishment.
  
  AI intelligence Offense 3
  The AI spawn in the same place. If you see it once then you know where they will spawn every time. 
 The game has no ability to change up most actions. Very predictable. For AI to take a sniper out 
 they shoot at the building until it explodes. Games like Company of Heroes you will see the AI 
 shoot at just the sniper and kill him without destroying building. You must micro manage your troops 
 very carefully. WIC does not have auto buttons for simple task like most RTS have. So he will shoot 
 his basic weapon at a tank doing no damage until you tell him to load his specialty weapon to take 
 it out. AI Infantry Defense 2
  They just sit there. Bombs dropping, Tanks rolling on them, they have no ability to move. Defense 
 is not a strong point of this game in anyway
  
  AI overall intelligence 2
  Compared to Company of Heroes they are dumb as a box of Rocks. I found games from C&amp; C Red Alert 
 much smarter, better pathing.
  
  Creativity / originality thinking 1
  There is nothing really original in this game. They just took basic units that existed in that 
 time and implemented them. No secret weapons. Compared to what was really out there. USA has so 
 many weapons to counter act its enemy yet 95% are not in this game. Compared to what was in Games 
 like Red Alert Yuri's Revenge. They seem to forgotten Jet Fighters to knock out bombers that plan 
 to drop nukes or Fuel bombs. They could have added Naval forces as well. Did Gamespot forget all 
 this was in Red Alert Yuri's Revenge? I think if a game that old could do it, games in 2007 should 
 have no problem. After all our computers are 20 times fasters.
  
  Defensive Structures. 1
  I think every RTS on the plant has implemented Defensive structures. 
 Not this game. What would I have liked to see? How about some fighters to shoot down Planes? In 
 the C&amp; C series you could just put your fighters on auto pilot and they would protect your structures 
 from Bombers. I would like to see COH type defensives. Anti Tank and Air and MG nest for infantry. 
 Bases are in every was since the beginning of time.
  
  Creativity of Units 2. You get the same amount and types of units your enemy gets. There is no 
 technology building here so everyone starts off with the same choices. I think this is horrible. 
 Two types of Tanks, Medium, and Heavy . Forget the fact they don't name them. Forget the fact they 
 decided to name them medium or Heavy on almost every unit. Come on... Call them at least their 
 official name. Hell M1 would work. So you have your Anti air tank, Helicopters but not much. Army 
 Size 1. This is the smallest army I think I ever seen a game implement. Depending if you are playing 
 online or SP really depends what you will control. You start of with One Tank and 1 Infantry. THIS 
 IS HORRIBLE. You can then build your force up to a whooping 4 units (3 tank and 1 Helicopter ) over 
 a long period of time. THIS IS BAD. Going from controlling 10's of units in top RTS to this is 
 ridiculous. Also you are limited how many types of units you control. In SP mode you can select 
 an option to choose from all the different types of units in the game, but you still only get control 
 at one time a total of four units. in Multiplayer you only can choose one of four specialized units. 
 Which means you won't be doing much.
  
  Strategy Tactics 2
  With 4 units and dumb AI there is no strategy. The AI does not know how to counter act what you 
 are building no matter how many times they fail. If I build 2 tanks and 2 Helo's that are clueless 
 how to counteract this. Multiplayer is better but its hard to get people organized. I found this 
 more like Rock, Paper and scissors since there was no defense structures, capture points, resources 
 collecting. Every game WAS exactly like the game before it. No variable because the AI is too dumb 
 and too few units in the game at one time. SP you can predict everything they are going to do. 
 They do the same thing every game. Infantry Animations. 2. No where the amount you would see in 
 Company Of Heroes. COH you see guys eyes moving. Infantry running into and a top buildings, guys 
 loading weapons. WIC they run into building but look like they are just standing there. Unit Animations 
 7. The tanks look much better moving.
  
  Game animations 10 . The explosions look amazing. The Buildings explode pretty good but not as 
 good a Company of Heroes. COH you see brick falling and laying all around. WIC has some nice falling 
 debris but in a different way. COH Infantry seem more rag doll like when they are hit with Bombs.
 
  
  Graphics 10
  Everything looked stunning with grass moving in the wind. Clear skies. Sharp images.
  
  Players 
 Interface 8, Its very hard to control units. Its hard to select all your units at once if they 
 are spread out. They also want you to micro manage your units for stuff that should have an auto 
 button. Game Interface 3
  Trying to play a Skirmish was confusing at first. There is no way to adjust the AI difficulty. 
 They allow you to add bots. Dumbest idea I have ever seen. I guess if you play with one bot that 
 would be like playing one player. Two bots, two players. You can't adjust to make one bot play 
 harder. Its very bad. Its the poorest implementation ever for people that like to play Skirmish.
 
  
  Reliability 10. Never had one crash on XP and had good frame rate even on all max settings set 
 at 1920x1200. I even played with a trainer where I had hundreds of units and the game was rock 
 solid, even with the 4 nukes going off at the same time. Amazing good graphics engine. Reminded 
 me of Company Of Heroes engine.
  
  Sound 5. The sound is week compared to COH. You don't hear that boom. Weapons firing sound high 
 pitched. Tanks don't have that feel of power when they shot. Moving units sound week. COH owns 
 them in this area.
  
  Campaign 4
  Very repetitive, boring missions. Poorly executed missions. Half the time you don't know what they 
 want you to do..
  
  Cut Scenes 3
  They have great animated Video but decided to go to hand draw sketches for other parts. 2 year 
 old kids could draw better. In Red Alert Yuri's Revenge they used REAL ACTORS for their cut scenes, 
 no animation, it looked like the news you watch on TV
  
  Single Player mode 2
  Most of the SP games are just plain boring. They AI are so stupid, they are so easy to counter 
 act. Since this game is so poorly executed you can defeat AI just by building tanks and Helo's. 
 They spawn in the same place every time. They seldom build anything to counter act what you are 
 building. They will build the same units over and over. Its just bad. You have no way to shoot 
 down bombers. .
  
  Multiplayer, 4
  What can I say. Finding anyone with a intellect above 20 is almost impossible. Most people don't 
 talk or shut up. When you play with 7 other players they are ALL Generals and don't listen, and 
 do their own thing.. Most are little kids. I would raise this score to a 8 if you play in a clan. 
 Without everyone in your group communicating its just frustrating. The team with the people working 
 the best together always wins. What this means is if you get on a team that is ALL Chiefs, and 
 no Indians you will lose. 95% time its all Chiefs playing.
  
  Online capabilities 10
  Very easy to find a game. Connecting was fast. Voice chat works perfect. Best part of this is that 
 people can drop and come back on during the game. Genius, its just like Battlefield. Overall Gameplay. 
 2. Stupid AI, poorly implemented system for distributing units. You die and order more. There is 
 no time penalty for dying. No defensive structures which forces you to play a Rock, Paper, Scissors 
 type game in multiplayer mode. No ability to destroy bombers. When you fire weapons it alerts everyone 
 in the game where you are. If you are firing artillery you can just trace the smoke back to your 
 location. The dumbest system I have ever seen for distributing ordinance. You can drop anything 
 like nukes anywhere on the map. It does not matter if you have spotters there or not. Just scroll 
 your camera there and fire. This is so bad. Come on at least make them have to see you before they 
 can fire. Just dropping artillery where ever you want seems poorly implemented.
  
  Intangibles 1
  I'm sorry but I like building and defending a base. That is more like real life 
 then this. In Iraq we have hundreds of bases that all need to be defended. Collecting resources 
 is better then giving you everything. How real is it that insurants can just build a tank or Helo 
 and die and instantly build another one? Here you die, you just order more, its unlimited. The 
 AI units just spawn. How real is that? Games like C&amp; C you can build as many bases as you want. 
 COH you capture points so you can build more units. The person that controls the most captured 
 points usually wins. This is still how RTS should be made.
  
  This game is for someone that wants very few choices. Someone that is used to only controlling 
 one or two units. They want no strategy or tactics to control game play. Most RTS you can out capture 
 your opponent in resources, allowing you to build more units. WIC decided this was dumb. It really 
 makes me sick when GS gives games like this a 9.5. This is the biggest injustice, and just shows 
 GS has no clue how to grade RTS games. COH is night and day better. Every attribute above COH won 
 except two. In Fact COH didn't score lower then a 9 on anything except Multiplayer and Online capabilities. 
 Where they scored a 2 and 1. COH actually scored a 11 in several attributes. I don't know what 
 GS was thinking. If you go read their reviews from C&amp; C era they talk about everything above 
 but in WIC they don't mention 98% of the important factors that define RTS games. Now GS says this 
 is the way RTS should be with their score. Please don't support games like this .I can only hope 
 they NEVER build one like this again. It is the exact opposite I would like RTS's to go. This game 
 is not inventive. All it did was take any other war shooter and give you everything and throw you 
 into the action. It took all the strategy out of the game. . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooya_d
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I don't recommend anyone to buy that !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! buy company of heroes
  
  First of all I must say the game is overrated , I know it is a new idea but it becomes boring very 
 soon. same stories and some funny videos between missions... but honestly thanks to them for amazing 
 graphic .some explosions are unbelievingly real . sometimes you think it might come out of your 
 screen. I am not kidding ......
  these are goods and bads about the game in my point of view.
  
  Good:
  1. graphic is GREAT
 
  
  bad:
  1. you have only one option for single player. (where is the skirmish?)
  2. missions are very short.
  3. scenario of the missions are almost capturing and holding... nothing 
 else......!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  4. GAME GETS BORING WITHIN AN HOUR
  
  I am convinced that gamespot scoring first priority is the idea but I think they must consider 
 gameplay as the first one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undead789
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i am a major lover of the rts style of games. I am also very critical of what kinds 
 of RTS' that i allow onto my system. Luckily, this one was able to grace my system with all its 
 awesomeness. First of all, if you want WIC, get the limited edition one. Its $10 more, but it comes 
 with SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO much more. In all it comes with; the game (of course) , the manual, a trial 
 version for a friend, a DVD behind the scenes, The Berlin Wall Modern Marvels DVD, and finally 
 the coolest thing, an actual piece of the Berlin Wall. and it all comes in a cool cloth like box. 
 Don't think that all the hype is in the extras, because thats nothing compared to the game. First 
 of all, it looks AMAZING, second is that is plays just as well. It's cool because you view the 
 battlefield from the side instead of overhead. Not only that, but if you have a killer gaming system, 
 you can appreciate the DX10 look of the game. But, it doesn't stop at the graphics. The game is 
 also incredibly intense and action packed. There is practically non-stop action from the start 
 to end of the game. Not only that, but the voice acting (provided by the Alec Baldwin) move the 
 story seamlessly from one chapter to the next. If I could say anything bad about this game, it 
 would be that it is too short. Luckily, the outstanding multilayer easily deals with that problem. 
 Now it would seem that alot of COH fans don't like this game much. Now, i am a huge COH fan, but 
 it is still the same overhead perspective that all RTS' seem to be. Not only that but the one thing 
 that i hated about RTS', resource gathering, is not present in WIC. they decided to be original 
 and i fully support that. Overall, if you like great RTS' this is an absolute must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tulo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I have to confess that the first time I played WIC it didn't impressed me to much... As I'm a huge 
 C&amp; C fan, I found WIC very different ... But after getting familiar with the reinforcement game 
 style I just couldn't stop playing till I finished the campaign! The cinematics looks very impressive 
 as well the ingame explosions and graphics... The storyline make you get into the war and ask for 
 more... You can see the hole map or zoom in and see the soldiers facial expressions!!! The smoke 
 effect and the physics of the game make me wonder how a game could be so impressive while while 
 other similar games couldn't get any closer... I guess it was made by a real team... However, the 
 game is a must have for any rts fan... This game is a nuclear strike and I hope more WIC is about 
 to come soon.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abledanger
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Uninstalled it literally after a day. Gamespot review is ridiculous. Sounds more like a plug. I 
 always thought their reviews were decent, but this one is making me wonder. All the bad points 
 have been gone over by everyone else. Disconnected feeling from the game being my number one complaint. 
 All you basically do is move units from point A to B. Biggest lesson from this game: Take Gamespot's 
 reviews with a grain of salt. They didnt even list a single con for this game. I wouldnt recomned 
 at all. It's also pretty dumb how Gamespot makes you write so much about a bland game. I am just 
 filling up the text requirement right now, so no use in reading any further. Just a little more 
 to go.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antraxspore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Well what should I say, its defintly something new, and different from other RTS, and thats why 
 its so entretaining. The problem was that for me it didnt last long. After 2weeks of WiC i started 
 to get bored because in the end its almost the same. Picking a speciality and summoning your units 
 to the battlefield and ofc to know when to attack when to retreat. But am I dumb or what while 
 playing the campaign u control like 8+ units at once and makes u fell like a real commander but 
 on the multiplayer its all very limited or at least i havent found a option to get increase summoning 
 points pool and control a army bigger than 5helicopters. In the end i only had fun in farming radio 
 points to take screenshots for my desktop of me nuking the enemy.
  Its not that the game is bad but its missing something: the power to control a huge army.
  Second 
 is the way of winning, on a real RTS u needed to destroy the enemy base. but in WiC its all about 
 holding and conquiering strategic spots.
  Im no saying that the game is bad, im sure it will get very good soon, when some mods arrive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slurry666
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a cracking game The graphics are brilliant and the AI has almost no floors. only played 
 the demo myself but still its a good idea of what the real game is like. The AI in the game is 
 spot on as the AI will send more tanks and send in various air strikes/artillery to your position.
 
  
  The graphics are also obviously very advanced as you have the chance to get right up close to you're 
 troops who are fighting against the invading soviets. This is one of the few, few games i have 
 encountered where the water actually looks like water, just a side note :D
  
  Some bad sides of the game are that the computer allies can get a bit chatty with random remarks. 
 also on the realism side i cant see a massive tank being dropped from a plane via parachute... 
 maybe its possible but to me it screams with unrealistic awe in a very diverse, realistic environment.
 
  
  However this game CANNOT be made to look bad because of the beautiful environments and decimating 
 battle scenes. Definitely a buy for a rainy day :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VladimirIon
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 7, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game I though that i will a game who really worth the 50 bucks but really .... 
 i don't think so. 9.5 from GameSpot i think ia just from the graphics. But they really forgot the 
 others things.
  
  The positives features:
  
  This game have a really good graphics . You can destroy everything at A to Z. Cool Anti-A for a 
 PC game. But you should have a 900 bucks + PC ( i have one) to have this amazing feature. And the 
 older GPU dont support the DX10 shaders and A. A. So don't your money if you don't have a great 
 PC.
  
  Now the negatives features:
  
  You can't build anything. So this is not a really RTS.
  The menus *&amp;*%*^%.
  Boring after 
 10 minutes.
  Waste of time and money.
  I hate the rally points.
  I hate the soundtrack.
  
  Finally, I DON'T RECOMEND to buy it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbisco25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  i had high hopes for this game, RTS are one of my fav games so i was really looking forward to 
 this game. one thing what hits you form the momment you paly the game is the actual scale of the 
 game it really dose feel like world war three has happened. COH is one of may fav game of all time 
 on the p. c and this seem to have taken a leaft out of it books. gone are the resource side of most 
 rts game and in comes tatics and relislam in it palce. and i for like that side more then sitting 
 their wondering how to keep my haverters alive. the atucal game graphic are notthing sort of amzing. 
 the way the somke rise when you bomb a buliding to the gournd. to the way you call in carpter bomb 
 run which lays wased to a city. the muiltpaly is fun as well the way you can jump in and out of 
 it. and you can help you team mates out buy giving them some of your points to which is good. one 
 thing they could have put in the game could have been a solo custom match where you could have 
 palyed agaisnted the computer like in COH but that just nick picking. all in all then one of the 
 best rts game out on the pc, a joy to watch a paly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mobius4077
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best I have ever played. It has a great combination of all kinds of things. 
 Great story, I love alternate history, awsome graphics, fun as hell online gameplay, and a bunch 
 of other things. The only thing it really lacks is a long enough campaign. But it does make up 
 for it in a awsome multiplayer that really brings teamwork up. This game is a mustplay for anyone. 
 Its online play is sure to get in hooked. Join a clan, or go solo. Its still a fun experience, 
 but even better when some one is there to back you up. A real postive thing is how the game requires 
 teamwork. Instead of having everyone just not like eachother, it has them fight side by side conquering 
 the frontlines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teal888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  When I played CoH I didnt think that there would be another RTS just like CoH, until I came across 
 WiC. It may take sometime to get used to the controls, but dont worry sierra entertainment and 
 massive have included an easy tutorial. From the nukes and the constant arty in a 16 player server, 
 there is never a dull moment in WWIII. In addition the single player does a great job of simulating 
 what WWIII would be like. The graphics are just supurb on high graphics, and being able to move 
 the camera freely much like CoH, makes it even better, but as every gamer knows, its not in the 
 graphics that make a game good, its the gameplay, and the gameplay is great. The different units 
 can be difficult to learn, with their offensive and defensive abilities, when learned you can really 
 dominate the war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrilos007
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:18 am PT
Review:  This is not an RTS!!!
  There is barely any strategy involved in this game, it is more like a TPS (third person shooter) 
 no way an RTS. Great graphics but once you play a bit and drop your first nuke there is no more 
 challenge to keep you playing on. This game will not thrill many. It is like a greatly expected 
 gift wrapped up beautifully but once you open it you will be let down.
  Have played multiplayer (which is why you want a game like this, single player is a one time deal) 
 with human opponents as well as bots and it's just repetitive action, spawn units&gt;&gt; send them 
 to combat&gt;&gt; spawn units&gt;&gt; send them to combat&gt;&gt; (you get the picture) . Too bad 
 because it looks great, unfortunately no depth... : (
  There is great potential for the developers to make this evolve into something more immersive. 
 Great visually but a major let down in game play,
  I got bored on multiplayer (which is supposed to be it's strongpoint) after 45 minutes... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryanzbane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Let me first start off by saying that I think this game was improperly rated. 9.5 is a rating hovering 
 in the realm of games like Starcraft, Diablo, Everquest, World of Warcraft, God of War, ect. This 
 certainly is not up to those standards, and it boggles my mind as to why exactly this game got 
 such a high rating. That aside... this game is pretty solid, not exactly your classic RTS (which 
 is good and bad) but has it's own unique style.
  
  The graphics in this game are superb. So if you're a real nitpicker don't worry, this game has 
 all the details you desire. I never zoom my camera down that low (because honestly it defeats the 
 purpose) but if you do, WOW, very detailed textures. So... maybe gamespot was rating this game based 
 off graphics alone... because I'd certainly give it a 9.5 if that was the case.
  
  The story is alright. There are a few awkward, out of place moments in the story line, but in the 
 end it was mildly entertaining, which is good (considering a lot of PC games fail to deliver story 
 wise) . Each character has his own personalities, some good, some (mostly one) obnoxious. The still 
 frame cut scenes were pretty bland. Reminded me of Max Payne but not as entertaining. Pretty much 
 after each fight there is a motionless cut scene of one of the characters and someone he knows 
 on the phone talking. *yawn* Other then that, the action scenes are decent and make up for the 
 lack luster phone conversations.
  
  Gameplay has it's ups and downs. For the most part it's pretty solid though. There is no resource 
 harvesting and mineral farming like in typical RTS's, instead you have a pool of points that you 
 spend on different units and designate a drop zone for them to fly in. Once your units are destroyed 
 those points are recycled back into your spending pool at a constant rate. The objective throughout 
 the game is to either destroy the enemy units, or occupy specific way-points on the map. This gets 
 boring after a while, and they could have really made a 9.5 game if they actually put a little 
 more thought into this aspect. Picking your units is like playing chess, because you really have 
 to pay attention to what your enemy has on the playing field. Each unit has an offensive and defensive 
 skill at your disposal with a cool down timer after you use it. So for balance concerns, this game 
 delivers. You get rewarded with points for destroying enemy units and capturing way-points that 
 you can spend on special powers like artillery barrages or napalm strikes. This adds a lot to the 
 game and without it the game would be pretty bland.
  
  Multiplayer was a complete bust for me. Having played all the way through the single player campaign, 
 capturing way-points, and destroying enemy units, I wanted something a little more compelling. 
 But I didn't recieve that in multiplayer. Just more of the same. Of course, playing against real 
 players as opposed to computer AI is much more challenging, but at this point I was so burnt out 
 on what the game had to offer, I only managed to make it through about 30 minutes of multiplayer 
 before I was bored stiff. Not only that, but I had already played through all the multiplayer maps 
 they had to offer by that point. By then I was through with the game. I had my fun moments in single 
 player, but by the time it was all over, I was just tired of this game. Unless you really like 
 these wartime type games, I can't recommend this game. Like I said before, by the time I was finished 
 playing through, I was so burnt out on this game I just couldn't bother playing multiplayer. Maybe 
 that's just my problem. I'm sure there are people out there playing and having fun. This game is 
 decent, but was certainly overrated, and unless you really like war, then be mindful before you 
 pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reddog007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Is this the best game I've ever played? No, but it has one thing I look for in every game: it's 
 fun and easy to get into. Yet the tactics are deep and if a team plays well together a very satisfying 
 experiance. That said it can get repetitive and a little boring after a while. I would say this 
 is the kind of game you can jump into quickly and have a blast satisfying that craving to push 
 tanks, romp around with infantry, rain lead and rockets on the enemy,
  or fly around with helicopters for a quick and deadly assault. The graphics are gorgeous but don't 
 expect it to hold your attention for very long. It just seems to be lacking that something which 
 would make it a truly great game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadCritic92
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Have we gotten to the point were we'll rate anything at a high level? ... This game is fun in the 
 beginning but once you get on down the line it gets really boring and the game play is alright 
 I guess.
  
  If you want to buy this game then fine, but, I got to warn you. You'll be playing it for like 3 
 weeks and then you'll be saying you want another game or cant wait till another expansion would 
 come out. This game is alright just a little overrated. Hands on I've not had any experience but 
 I have watched my cousin play it for a long time, and it didn't seem to be a fun game. Then I played 
 it at his house for a little while and I didn't like it. So thous for a rating from me of a 6.0. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordo08wii
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  This game is alot different than any normal RTS, its alot better. Will I would say it is alot better 
 because I personally like action packed games. Every second there is something blowing up or being 
 destroyed and it is so fun. Its not just you sit down and collect resources for 2 hours and then 
 got attack. You sit down in your seat and the fight is already started. It is alot different than 
 normal RTS's because there is no resource gathering. You get units and you fight with them. I know 
 it doesnt sound good with out resources but when you play it it is excellent. I give the graphics 
 9.5/10 because it is the best looking RTS ever. Sound, i give 9/10 because it just sounds so good 
 when something blows up. Gameplay i give 10/10 because it is so intense and you wont want to leave 
 your seat for a minute. I give the lasting appeal 9.5/10 because the campaign is long with a great 
 story to it and when your done that you can go play an intense game online.
  Great game, if you like action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomFury_
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  Not in my opinion.
  And before I start telling why I suggest all WIC fanatics, who just open reviews of a 9 or less 
 to rate it thumbs down, to r&eacute; ad it first for a time. The story and idea is great and so 
 are the cinematics. But like many others I expected a bit of a different game when I saw the trailers 
 and videos months ago.
  The RTS, or RTT as some prefer to call it, is pretty good on itself ,but really... is it better 
 than some other games of the same genre ... like Supreme Commander, Red Alert series, Company of 
 Heroes.
  Supreme Commander has too high requirements you might say, although **** rating shouldn't be dependent 
 of this. And Company of Heroes is a WWII game, and you prefer modern RTS's.
  But the impact on the public... can it ever achieve an impact as huge as the one WoW has ? Or a 
 revolutionary concept, like the Sims ? I think not. But still it is rated better.
  The graphics are just like I expected them to be; better but not a huge leap forward. Creating 
 a nice nuke animation has always been a challenge, so it wasn't a surprise it looked better than 
 previous ones made. To sum it up.. the RTS is all right, although I personally don't like RTS' 
 with this 'no-base' style, but that's just me. But the problem is that it doesn't introduce something 
 so revolutionary that it defines the standard for all RTS' of the future; a reason it would be 
 worth a rating of 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iron_will
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the people who gave this revolutionary game an abysmal score. They are mistaking 
 it as a RTS. The feature that places it into my classification of it being a RTT, is that its does'nt 
 have the aspects of base building and the normal cut wood, gold, whatever mandatory for an RTS.
 
  
  There are also some people who said to me that there was'nt a skirmish option like there was in 
 the demo. There actually is! just select multi-player, go to LAN and create a new server, then 
 add bots.
  
  Ok back to the review, now for my impression of the graphics, its is unbelivebly realistic, very 
 immersive and has alot of detail even close up on the infantry. Ok now for the sound everything's 
 has alot of detail just like the graphics. I've never experienced war before but I think World 
 in Conflict brings it very close.
  
  And the campaign, it makes me wonder that if the Soviet Union won, I would'nt be here writing this 
 review. Ok back on my review, the story was well thought-out and very interesting. And halfway 
 through it, there will be a very emotional twist. Although the ending was good if left me wondering 
 whether there will be a sequel to this great game. Please don't mistake me for a WiC fan-boy. This 
 game a great experience for anyone who plays it. (no I'm not saying that babies can play) So if 
 your reading this review because your unsure that this game is worth your hard-earned money I suggest 
 you buy it, if you still unsure you should rent it to see whether you like it.
  
  RTS purists should look for another game than this. This will be the last time I say it -- This is 
 an RTT -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickity_China
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  I was really looking foward to this game after I saw the trailer. The setting of the game seemed 
 ideal for strategy. When I got the game due to the rave reviews by Gamespot, I was totally let 
 down.
  
  World in Conflict is hardly a game at all. Select units, right-click on the place you want them 
 to go, capture control points, and if your units die, just get new ones for free in a few minutes. 
 Yippee for unlimited reinforcements!
  
  That's right, this game doesn't punish you for losing units except for some deductions from your 
 score. Thanks to no base-building and resource gathering requirements, you automatically regenerate 
 points when you lose units so you can order more once your units die. This eliminates all need 
 for strategy in the game. You heard it, a "strategy" game with no strategy.
  
  In the first few levels, I tried to implement some thinking into my tactics but soon realized that 
 flanking maneuvers, different attack strategies, etc. were not needed because is an artillery/missile 
 strike followed by a frontal assault was just as effective. The limitless amount of units you can 
 "purchase" negates the need for unit conservation which is supposed to be a vital part of strategy 
 games.
  
  Another let down is that you only control a small handful of units at a time because you're not 
 even the main commander of the missions. You answer to a Colonel who's always ordering you around 
 and there are other officers who command their units which you have no control of. This just left 
 me thinking, "Why couldn't I control the whole battle?" and made each level feel very scripted 
 and which greatly reduces the game's replayability. At the very least, having full control of the 
 battle would have made the game more interesting because there would be more units to manage and 
 more places to click on.
  
  Lastly, one more gripe about World in Conflict is that the story seems a bit out of wack. The plot 
 requires a ton of suspension of disbelief. Assuming a full out nuclear war doesn't insue once the 
 Commies invade the US, or start rolling tanks into West Germany for that matter, the rest of the 
 story is all over the place and leaves you wanting more depth.
  
  *Spoilers*
  The first few levels sees you defending and retreating from Seattle to the mountains where you 
 make a last stand. Then, when you felt like you were doing good by defending the good 'ol US of 
 A, the game sends you a few weeks before in time where you're fighting the Commies in Europe. What's 
 up with that? I don't want to defend Europe, I want to defend the US.
  
  After a few more levels of point and click in Europe, you're sent to Ellis Island! Apparently, 
 a few Russian Commando's have taken over the place along with the Statue of Liberty and you and 
 your helicopters have to take them out. But, the Commies took over seemingly hundreds of American 
 tanks, missle launchers, anti-air batteries, etc. and are there in full force. How did so many 
 Commies get into New York undetected and take over a whole army of vehicles, and what were those 
 vehicles doing on those islands in the first place? If that wasn't enough, the game teases you 
 with a New York City skyline in the background where you'll never set foot in.
  
  Finally, after that, you're back where you left off. In a few more levels, you're back in Seattle 
 and you push the Commies back where they came from. So basically, in terms of the invasion, the 
 commies don't even get past the Cascade Mountains. What I had hoped for in this game was a full 
 fledged battle raging from Los Angeles to New York City but all I got was a point and click "RTS" 
 that mostly takes place in Washington with a few useless exposition levels in Europe. Definitely 
 not what I paid for.
  */Spoiler*
  
  However, this game is not without merit. The graphics are excellent. The terrain is very detailed, 
 and the vehicles and soldiers look as if they came from a third person shooting game when viewed 
 up close.
  
  The sound is also incredible. Explosions are believable and the voice acting is terrific thanks 
 to actors like Alec Baldwin.
  
  Nonetheless, the good parts of World in Conflict do not make up for its short commings. If you're 
 looking for a good RTS, you will definitely be dissapointed. There's plenty of better options like 
 Company of Heroes, Supreme Commander, and Command & Conquer 3. But, if you're a casual gamer and 
 don't like the complexity of real RTS games, then perhaps give World in Conflict a chance. As far 
 as good strategy games go, World in Conflict barely scratches the surface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpython99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I am not usually one who cares for RTS's where you have to play rock, paper, scissors with every 
 move, I'd rather just stock pile bigger and better untis and over power the opponent. Beating them 
 into submission since they have way of stopping my surperior forces, much lke you can do in the 
 Civilizations or Red Alert 2. This game however surprised me with the way in which this worked. 
 It its quite nicely balanced and while you will loose that matchup, a lot, you really aren't penalized 
 too much since you regain the resources slowly. The multiplayer portion is also nicely developed, 
 and is far better than that in other games of the like. There's none of that waiting and stock 
 piling of resources and units before you can mount an attack. With World in Conflict you can jump 
 right into battle without wasting a minute. And that is certainly a refreshing twist.
  
  However, the real joy of this game are the graphics. They are sharp and clear. The level of detail 
 is amazing, from units on the field to surrounding landscapes. Plus you can't go wrong with the 
 detail put into destroyed buildings. But these are things that are readly noticed, World In Conflict 
 did an amazing job on a lot of the smaller details. From the smoke billowing out of a crumbled 
 building, to the effects of an artillery blast. These are the things that set games apart, and 
 this one has them.
  
  The game play is really good, and you really can go wrong with the story. I mean what's more classic 
 than a fresh spin on the WWIII story? But what did it for me were the graphics. While I still would 
 rather play with the style of Red Alert 2, the graphics alone have endured this one to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_monkey248
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the most amazing graphics (clear and simple)
  The Sounds are nice, the story line keeps you interested for a while, and very easy to just pick 
 up and play, if your a fan of RTS games, or not, it almost has something for everyone.
  
  I played the single player missions first, really enjoyed them. The Cutscenes were enjoyable too, 
 the missions can take a while to do, also you can add custom levels made by game devlopers.
  
  There is no Skrimish mode, as people have said in other review, but you can set up a LAN game, 
 and just add Bots, it exactly the same.
  
  Where this game really shines, is multiplayer, Remember when you played countless hours, on Half-life, 
 Counterstrike, Halo, and games like that? Get ready to add one more to your collection, this game 
 is insane online, Carpet Bombing, Artillery, Nukes you name it.
  
  You can choose from 3 different People, US, NATO, and Soviets.
  
  They have four catagories, 
 Support (Artillery) Infantry, Armor (Tanks) and Air (Helicopters) you can Drop these Units into 
 the battlefield at any time, if you have enough points, and say your tanks got destroyed, it dosent 
 matter the points get refunded into your total. (at a rate) You can also, as I mentioned before, 
 give Tatical Aid, Bombs, Air Drops (Tanks) Aid your Teammates, and Others, the more enemys you 
 kill the more points you get.
  
  This game has no Base building, and Resource Collecting. So you don't need to spend 10 minutes 
 on building defences worrying on being rushed. You join a game, and instanly start playing, like 
 an FPS.
  
  So if your a Hardcore RTS player, You might like something a little more Difficult and advanced.
 
  
  New to RTS, or dont want to spend hours learning to play, this game is right for you. And if you 
 did like this game, I seriously Reccommend Playing Company of Heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I've downloaded the demo to see if it was any good. That was before the game was released. I've 
 played the SAME freaking demo mission over and over again and again. I loved it. The intensity 
 of this game is totally unmatched by anything currently available. If you think Company of Heroes 
 (CoH) was intense, think again! This game totally owns in this respect.
  I bought it the day it was released and am still playing almost on a daily basis.
  
  Just like 
 CoH, this game is not really an RTS. There's no base building, you just send it units and go to 
 battle. That's also why it's a faster paced game than normal RTS games. You don't have to wait 
 for the enemy to attack either, as opposed to for example CoH with it's timed events of incoming 
 enemies.
  Here you're simply always right in the action. The game looks totally awesome, I was amazed by 
 what I saw. Units up close are of FPS quality, actually better than I see in most FPS games. You'll 
 need a pretty good system to be able to run this game at it's maximum settings, but it's totally 
 worth upgrading for. Explosions, smoke, fire and destruction of buildings and so on just look so 
 amazingly life-like.
  
  The enemy AI is reasonably strong, but don't expect to be fighting against anything too intelligent. 
 Usually sitting-ducks are easy targets instead of being reinforced by back-up The game's difficulty 
 is just right though and anyone from beginner to expert will enjoy the intensity. Mission objectives 
 are clear and nice voice-overs and extremely cool cutscenes will direct you and tell the story. 
 They've really looked at the better things of CoH and used it to their advantage, of course mixed 
 with their previous experience with Ground Control 2. This really goes to show, all in all the 
 game is rock-solid and you will be playing it for quite a while.
  
  There are plenty of options ingame and you can try out different tactics and approach the battles 
 at hand in different ways. Often the game will advice you that if a certain combination of units 
 doesn't succeed that you will have to deploy different combinations. Don't worry, it says exactly 
 that and doesn't tell you which combinations to use, but since I've read someone else's review 
 saying that there's no strategy involved.. that's clearly nonsense. The first view missions aren't 
 that difficult, but like I said before it's made just right giving you time to get used to the 
 game quickly and after that it'll become more difficult. This is quite an achievement on itself 
 as in most games it's either a flat-lined difficulty or it gets too steep way to early on.
  
  I would have loved to talk about bad things of this game, but fortunately I can be brief on 
 that. The only thing that's not perfect (no game is perfect) is the camera controls. Now don't 
 get this wrong, because it's not the controls itself that are flawed, but it's more so the need 
 to constant snap from one point of the battle zone to your drop-zones and back. It gets a bit flashy 
 because of it and sometimes chaotic.
  
  ( ( Perhaps a better thing they could have do was implement two cameras in split screen. One camera 
 centered on the action currently in action and the other on for example your drop-zone or whatever 
 other locations you would choose for both cameras. ) )
  
  If you generally like to play multiplayer then you will love this game too. It's all focused on 
 immediate action. This works really satisfying and it's almost FPS-like in how absolutely intense 
 this gets, I simply have no other word for it. Man, 'Intense strategy action' should be this game's 
 subtitle. Expect really cool battles in multiplayer on gorgeous looking maps. Playing against other 
 players is where the real strategy comes in, after all no AI can match players adjusting their 
 strategies just yet.
  
  Technically this game is very solid and stable and so is it's gameplay. Sounds are top-notch and 
 music is epic as it should be. Voice-overs are awesome and really add to the atmosphere of this 
 game.
  
  All in all the pure intensity makes this game a one of it's kind and it really stands out in the 
 crowd because of it. That's the reason why it gets high rating everywhere and it deserves them. 
 If you're not convinced at all, do try the demo and you'll see for yourself. It's one of those 
 games you must not miss. Think of awesome games like Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War or the first Ground 
 Control title, real gems and so is World in Conflict. It's RTS with a twist, but it's a damn good 
 one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the worst 9.5 game i have ever played. There are 8.0 games that are way better than this 
 game.
  
  This game is under the category of real time strategy, but here's the thing. There's no strategy 
 in it! All i did for 12 hours was move units to their target and watch them either destroy the 
 enemy or lose. It's that simple. Move a big army against another big army and watch and see who 
 wins. NO STRATEGY AT ALL!
  
  The only redeeming factors in this game are the good graphics and stability. But if you want a 
 great RTS game, buy Company of Heroes. Trust me, there's strategy in that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiliary
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  BS aside, the graphics are awsome, the sound is awsome, the cut scenes are awsome, the acting is 
 awsome and the concept is awsome but you just don't feel a sense of ownership. Meaning, you have 
 nothing invested within your unit. When a particular vehical/soldiers die u just replace them and 
 thats that. Other then the fact they raise in ranks which can cause you to watch out over them 
 you still don't feel fully invested. One MAJOR dissapointment was when I found out their was NO 
 SKIRMISH. I could NOT believe it when I was looking for skirmish mode and found NOTHING. I truly 
 felt that I had wasted my $$$ on a game that was not going to satisfy my urges completely. Aside 
 from those problems this game is still a lot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:   it just doesnt feel like im bloody playin the 
 game... it feels like im just sort of watching things happen and maybe call in some Artillery. Hell 
 at one point i got bored and just started wandering around with the camera controls with no worries 
 at all because there was nothing else for me to do lol. These are they guys that made ground control 
 2 which was better than this i thought....
  
  Its definately not your typical build base build units RTS and that turns me off, I didnt feel 
 like i had much of an influence on anything.
  
  I. M. O. you would be better off playin CoH or Dark Crusade or CnC3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liraris
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Well what can you say about this game? I ts amazing. Amazing graphics Sepurb game play and great 
 sound all make it a classic. Game of the year hands down. I gaveTiibereum wars a score of 9.9. 
 this game ranks a perfect 10. Even if you are not an RTS fan , if you play this game you will become 
 one. The multi-player is awesome, Single player great. You wll never get bored of this game. The 
 graphics are sepurb provided that you have a great card to see all the details. The houses the 
 trees and mountains all look great, ... and of course the explosions!!! Wow you will see for your 
 self. Game-play is great because you don. t have to worry about resources and you get reinforcements. 
 The air strikes and heavy artillery will get you out of many tough spots. It would be great if 
 it had a Russian campaign as well instead of just American. The sound is great as well. The explosions 
 and voices of your soldiers are very real. All these add up to an excellent game. A game which 
 I think will be the best RTS and why not the Hottest game of the year. Are you still sitting here 
 go and play these game. you wont regret it!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOML
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  however it is a little slow, you get a small number of units to work with and their special abilities 
 are used rarely apart from the TOW missiles, HEAT rounds don't even do that much damage to APCs 
 and sadly its given to the heaviest tank in the US arsenal game wise. The story makes the US look 
 like a wimpy little country with 10 divisions and all that can defend America is a ranger battalion 
 and a few nation guard divisions if not division from the sneak attack on Seattle..... the invasion 
 lasts months so were are the hundreds of thousands of reinforcements fresh out of boot? anyway 
 historical accuracy aside i found the movies to be the best thing in the game, sadly to say i only 
 played to unlock more of them and the painting ones pissed me off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swiftstrike5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Innovative games for me always make a 8.0+ because I like to support improvements to the current 
 genres rather than the milked'nbutchered games like CnC. This game is a lot of fun. I would of 
 given this score a 9.0 if its multiplayer (demo) was more flexible in the options. It really felt 
 like I was forced to do a 4v4.
  The most innovative part of this game is the lack of base/building and resource gathering. Its 
 not that innovative, but its a step. I only limited this game to a 8.7 because GS gave SupCom a 
 8.7 and that was quite a bit more innovative than this game, but that aside. WiC deserves every 
 point of that 8.7. This game has amazing graphics. Each unit has some sort of ability that can 
 change the tide of a normal rock&gt; paper type fight. Also the 100% destructible environment adds 
 a lot to this game.
  1 Negative of this game:
  IMO- WASD map is sluggish and hard to use (I'm used to SupCom zoom-in, zoom-out)
  
  Overall- 
 Great Game, definitely worth $50 to any player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dellboy31
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is Indefinably an entertaining game. World in Conflict offers some of the best 
 graphics and cut scenes I have seen in an RTS to date, however the game is disappointed by its 
 game play and voice overs (very annoying) , The consistent baragment of tanks and infantry soon 
 becomes tiring as it doesn't give the gamer a chance to enjoy the landscape the characters and 
 the environment. The elements that let the game down the most are the map controls, there are too 
 many variable options when dealing with the navigation controls. Company of Heros offered a simplistic 
 navigational manipulation of the map, allowing time to enjoy the game, where WiC is all concentrated 
 on jumping from one part of the map to the other as well as having to deal with relentless attacks 
 from enemy forces. Wic is very pretty and very entertaining but poor in gameplay and fails to hold 
 the gamers attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgobeil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I totally love that game and yes the storyline is totally believable and plausible... Alec 
 Baldwin is doing his best performance ever with his voice on that game. He brings a whole sentimental 
 meaning to the story and the game itself! Pure genius! Everything in that game is good: the FX, 
 the graphics, the game play, all the other voices in the game and even it's 1989 invasion of USA 
 by Russia in Seattle is quite impressive! I'm gonna go find out which genius thought about bringing 
 this gem to life and thank him for a brilliant idea... hey now that computer technology can support 
 that type of game, why not make some more in that style? I'm sure lots of game developers are thinking 
 about releasing games ressembling that but the challenge for them will be to make a game as near 
 perfection as World of Conflict... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slavemaker
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  wow, i know thers some people that doesn't seem to like this game, they even hate it, i guess they 
 were waiting for something, like command and conquer gampley, i think is a very god strategy game, 
 at last something new, well compiled, and with aswesome graphics, the multiplayer is quite something, 
 team balance is just great, want nukes, artillery, big bombs, well you are in the right game, when 
 you start a game you gain command points, each time you repair or kill an enemy unit, u get ponits, 
 to call for tactical aid, you can request, tanks, transport, a-10 support, Air fuel bomb, anti 
 air attack, and many many more. There are 3 multiplayer modes, (AS, DO, TW)
  AS: assault maps, attack your oponents, capture the strategy points, and at the end of the round, 
 roles will switch and it's time to set some defense.
  DO: domination, this is something like KING OF THE HILL, you must capture and hold as many control 
 points as posible, until you dominate your enemy.
  TW: Tug of war: u must hold and attack a front line on the battlefied, if you lost the line you 
 will have less territory and eventually be destroyed by the enemy.
  
  Interface: at the begining you will be lost, but after a while you will find that the ingame interface 
 is great, smooth and very usefull, and last but not less important good looking.
  
  Performance: This is a hungry hardware game if you wish to turn all eye candy on, but is very friendly 
 to mid range computers, is posible to set graphics to medium, and still have an enjoyable experience, 
 so many graphics options may confuse some users, thanks god theres alot of performance guides over 
 the internet. there are some issue regarding nvidia card drivers, if i recall correctly there a 
 big porblem with the 8800GTS 320mb, we just have to wait for a new driver relase from nvidia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chexstryker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Lately you hear a lot about how RTS games are reducing the need for harvesting or resource management 
 in order to allow the player to concentrate on offensive operations. Games like THQ's Warhammer 
 40K: Dawn of War and Company of Heroes encourage players to stay on the offensive to capture strategic 
 locations and ensure access to the resources needed to order troops to the battle. Yes I still 
 find myself concerned about resource management. While I don't actually mind these aspects of RTS 
 games, I was still left wondering when I would see a game that truly through resourcing out the 
 window.
  
  That game has arrived; World in Conflict is a breath of fresh air and stands out even amongst other 
 excellent games like C&amp; C3: Tiberium Wars, Company of Heroes, and Supreme Commander. First things 
 first, the single player campaign is unquestionably the most enthralling campaigns I've ever played 
 in an RTS game... EVER. C&amp; C, Warcraft, Starcraft, Company of Heroes, all have excellent plots 
 but none grip as much WIC. Maybe its watching the Space Needle in Seattle topple in a chillingly 
 realistic artillery strike, or watching MRLS heavy artillery level modern French towns but I've 
 never felt more like a war was going on right next door. It doesn't hurt that the graphics are 
 absolutely jaw dropping. While it will take quite a beefy rig to play on full graphical settings, 
 even on mid settings the battles beautiful. Even infantry is rendered to exacting detail and while 
 you probably wont spend much of the battle close enough to enjoy it, if you take a minute to watch 
 squads get into firefights, you'll watch them take cover, kneel, and go prone while fighting. Zooming 
 out, the flash of explosions, smoke from destroyed tanks, and mushroom clouds from nuclear missiles 
 are detailed you feel like you are in a movie. I'd personally recommend watching some replays from 
 your past multiplayer missions and then your jaw will really drop as you get the chance to actually 
 appreciate the exquisite detail that went into making this game!
  
  It's in the multiplayer elements of WIC where the truly revolutionary aspects of the game come 
 into play. You get 6000 requisition points which you can use to buy troops. This amount is fixed 
 and will never change. When you lose a unit the cost is slowly refunded back to you. The currency 
 which will make and break you is Tactical Aid. The best part is, you get it by killing your enemies 
 or fulfilling vital battlefield roles like repairing vehicles, taking points, or transporting troops. 
 Ultimately Tactical aid will make or break you. The more you accumulate the more powerful attacks 
 you can call to your aid. The options range from a mortar barrage and napalm to a tactical nuke. 
 The result of this unique system is you'll be worrying more about how to more effectively kill 
 your enemy and accumulate Aid than how to best manage your cash. More importantly, the small amount 
 of units you get, and the reduced burden of resource management means you can focus 100% on tactical 
 cooperation. A team that effectively uses combined arms tactics will wipe a disorganized team from 
 the field in a matter of minutes. There are only two drawbacks to this great game. First is that 
 it doesn't come with a skirmish mode. While this encourages more online play, you wont have much 
 of a chance to hone your skills before being placed into a feverish online competition. Ultimately 
 this may limit the games replay value for some people but once the moding tools are released hopefully 
 some good mods will keep single player addicts interested. The second drawback is that the game 
 will take a significantly powerful computer to play well while viewing graphics at their best. 
 Nevertheless, with a useful benchmarking tool, you'll be able to set your games settings just right.
 
  
  All in all this game is one of the best I've played in years. After a five hour session lasting 
 till 3:30 AM last night (I was a bit bleary eyed today) I can confidently say I haven't had this 
 much fun in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cycoknob
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  How can a game that you sick and bored of and eventually end up uninstalling after 3-4 hours of 
 playing.. get a 9.5 ???
  
  This game is repetitive boring and annoying.
  it also suffers allot from lack of instructions during the campaign like do this and do that and 
 it turns out you should have stayed cause you ended up loosing a battle you completely owned in 
 the first place. and that leads to the next letdown&gt; you have to start over again fighting through 
 the same boring battles you have already won to get to that point where you misunderstood the instructions 
 (or lack of) the worse example is the first time you launch a nuke
  if you press the wrong spot it launches but never lands and you get defeated and has to start all 
 over, continue like this until you find out how to press a f***ing button correctly THATS NOT GAMING.. 
 thats wasting my time!
  
  Second is you have US campaign and Multiplayer thats it.. no Soviet camp and no skirmish / custom 
 single player
  Only mult and a boring campaign&gt; 9.5 ???? you must send me a picture of the post lady, that 
 delivered the game to you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 2, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Ive already had my review on this delete for saying
  Gamespot.... 9.5? Are you joking? 
  
 
  
  
  All im gonna say, RENT this game first or get the 10day trial off someone.
  
  If you buy the 
 game, it includes at 10-day-free-trial. Maybe they're are being kind to make your mates think twice 
 before buying.
  
  Just doont believe the hype, honest to god, if you like games like Company Of Heroes, C&amp; C, 
 you really will hate this game.
  
  Big warning to those interested in buying... In my opinion, if you buy and support this game, they're 
 only gonna make more, which means boring games
  
  Spend you money and support games that are good.
  
  Thats all im gonna put,
  
 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aracnid1000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Multiplayer: Fantastic, unique, addictive, gorgeous, you get the idea, with the brilliant system 
 of filling one role in your team, e. g. armour or helicopters, you can really see the adage the 
 whole is greater than its parts demonstrated. At the moment there aren't that many people online 
 here in the UK so get out there and buy it, I hate waited for games ;) . Singleplayer: despite some 
 cool cut scenes you can't help thinking that the mulitplayer was designed first and this was tacked 
 on after, not that its bad but next to the multiplayer it feels 2nd rate. Its the little things 
 which drag it down, for obvious reasons you aren't officially confined to any one role, as you 
 haven't got multiple AI or human buddies, however this takes away one of the best elements of the 
 game.
  
  In Conclusion: Multiplayer 9.9/10 Single player 7/10 (as a standalone I would probably be nicer 
 but next to the Multiplayer it really loses out) Overall 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maxx_2T
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  This review applies to the single player mode only. I'm not an RTS gamer. I admit that upfront. 
 I'm a veteran First person shooter -- also, sports and action games. I decided to give it a try. 
 So i downloaded the demo -- I found myself playing the demo dozens of times. That's when I knew I'd 
 had to get WIC. WIC is a RTS for the non-RTS player. It may not satisfy the veterans of RTS'. But 
 this game is fun and engaging. During battle, reinforcements are available frequently, enough to 
 make up for the you lost a unit refrain. The missions are focused, and with timed assignments, 
 they becomes intense. The battlefield graphics are realistic. Most important, with the constant 
 stream of reinforcements, you're forced to make battlefield decisions regarding air support, armour 
 groups, infantry. That's probably the closest you come to the strategy in RTS. But those are the 
 primary decisions in real war. So the game captures the essence of battle. Like one reviewer noted, 
 this is a whole different genre. I'm hooked. I'll get into the mods, expansions and any game that 
 has the thrill factor of WIC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kubilius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  First of all - i'm 27. I'm not a geek :) Really! I don't play games much due to work load, nice 
 weather, good movies and etc. I also don't usually rate games well as I think that people tend 
 to be cracked on games too much + there are practically no more such good/addictive as they used 
 to make (U. F. O series... good times) . Who can love such games as Transformers or Glory of Roman 
 Empire?! Just graphics and absolutely no essence...
  
  ... and after this short introduction about my view on games and non-geekiness, I must instantly 
 turn back on what I said and shout WOoooooooooooooohooooooooooo, World in Conflict - AMAZING!!!! 
 This game is stealing my time like hell recently and I can't say I regret it :)
  
  Don't know if it's just me, but it resembles me some multiplayer shooters (Counter-Strike, old-school 
 Quake) + some really deep strategy (Ground Control) , graphics and team work. Really new, innovative 
 and very succesful approach to strategy games. This is something that can bring back the older 
 strategy lovers back to the todays world of strategy games :) The balance of game is really very 
 well tweaked. It's like rock-scissors-paper - Air, Ground assault, Support and Infantry troop types 
 have some advantages and flaws against each other. There is no strong or weak military types - 
 in one team there can easily be strongest players playing Air and in the other - Infantry. This 
 is what makes the game so addictive and deep - no match can be the same as previous one as so much 
 depends on your team mates, how they cover your units and how you cover them.
  
  I won't describe the game in detail (i'm sure a bunch of people already did that) , I just wanted 
 to share my opinion that this game is really great, highly addictive, thought through deeply and 
 might be just the thing that is going to attract a lot of strategy lovers, who gave up on new games 
 some while ago :)
  
  Hope I encouraged some people to buy this game - see you on the battlefield! :)
  
  p. s. singleplayer 
 sux, they could have skipped it overall, my review and opinion is based on multiplayer experience 
 only :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7718
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:54 am PT
Review:  Nice graphics, real units, and is fun to play. Every game has tweeking to do, but so far I didn't 
 find much to complain about. You have to wonder about very high or low scores on reader reviews, 
 but that's my opinion. I think the game is great and moves the mark up for strategy type games. 
 I would like a skirmish mode, but online play is very good. You shouldn't be disappointed buying 
 this game at all. I think the graphics are good even in very low mode, and you will need a super 
 computer to play the higher end, but the lowest mode will not hurt your eyes. I hope they can add 
 on to this game quickly in units and skirmish, but I'm not sorry I bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k3s73n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Very, very addicting...
  
  I didn't feel the time pass by ! As with all games i get my hands on , first of all I deal with 
 the campaign and all kind of missions , because I like being told a good story.
  
  Voice acting is good.
  Games like World in Conflict (WiC for short) CAN tell a story with their 
 great voice acting which is in support of one of the Gamespot merits. Many of people who went through 
 the campaign and saw its end were unsatisfied, maybe because of the theme of the whole conflict 
 . I for example have watched tons and tons of movies involving bad Soviets invading the good Americans 
 and guess who wins ... but of course , Americans win , why ? Well in some movies/games , Americans 
 are the developers or the target audience enjoys Yankees win so it won't see the blessed American 
 soil in hands of the Commies . Well some don't mind , but others do and it's the minority that 
 is minding so it will be long before we see the Soviets pwn the Americans.
  
  Some say innovative, but i don't think so ...
  Remember Ground Control ? Yeah, right it's one 
 of the games developed by Massive Entertainment, which basically serves as a core for the WiC gameplay. 
 Call in reinforcements without a base (which kinda prolongs the game) , throw them into battle , 
 try not to get them killed, because you'll be getting green recruits (in other words not so good 
 as the leveled units) which are killed easily by your opponent's superior ones.
  Well there is one innovation, which makes the game differ form the Ground Control. It's the way 
 you get your units, in GC it was by capturing strategical points (hmm... remember this one ? ) thus 
 giving you points to bring more units. While in WiC you got fixed amount of points that regenerates 
 every time one of your active units is killed. The other innovation is the support menu. Although 
 it's more appropriate to say it's an expansion of the very, very basic menu to a sophisticated 3 
 section menu.
  
  Multi is just GREAT !
  Well if you don't fall for the story try the multiplayer, fast paced, explosion rigged, bullet 
 flying and many other terms can be used. I personally have participated in the beta test and I 
 had some of my best games there. Winning requires tactical understanding of the battlefield and 
 the enemies you are against. Also one very important thing , you cannot win on your own. Either 
 you work as a team and win or you loose. Unfortunately i didn't find myself a clan to fully appreciate 
 the game, but the built in VOIP was enough. And let's not forget the option to join in ONGOING 
 match... (present in Ground Control too)
  
  Visuals are just stunning ... but at a price !
  You gotta have a lotta juice in your machine 
 to get the graphics to the max. I sacrificed the water and tree quality and the AA &amp; AS Filtering 
 to crank full texture quality out of my rig and I didn't regret it. CoH vs WiC ...
  The two games don't have a basis to be compared to. Well one could say that they are both RTSs 
 but there is a huge difference between them. While in CoH you have to be in the game right from 
 the beginning in WiC you could join whenever you wish. Also whole take and hold this point for 
 all kinds of perks thingy is present into both of the games but while in CoH it's a resource and 
 population regulator in WiC it's a victory condition. I find both games VERY interesting , involving 
 , gorgeous and good in their own ways. If you wish to compare WiC to a similar RTS game i suggest 
 Ground Control 2.
  
  I hope I have been useful in my first game review. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkey4242
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  The game as most of you know by now has a different style of summoning units and air strikes u 
 dont need to build any buildings or harvest any resources. This sounds kinda lame at first almost 
 like your heating but once you get your hands on the game its easy to see how this works really 
 well. The game is simply one of the funnest rts's that ive played since starcraft and warcraft 
 3 and it definetly ranks up there. The multiplayer is awesome the action is almost always is intense 
 and starts within the first couple seconds of game play. the single player is easy (on the default 
 difficulty) but the story line keeps you wanting more with excellent voice acting and well rendered 
 cut scenes. it keeps you wanting to come back and play some of the funner missions and i intend 
 on re playing it on the hardest difficuilty. if you like rts's and intense multiplayer this is 
 the game to pick up this year hell ill say it i like it more than halo 3 and the fan boys come 
 running XD.
  
  the only thing that i think they could have improved on is giving the soviets more different units 
 as both sides have pretty much the same exact units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  This RTS centers around the time of the end of the Cold War (Think 1989 Berlin Wall) and the start 
 of WWIII (Theoretically between U. S. and Russia after arms race) . There are three playable factions 
 U. S., NATO, and Russia (multiplayer) . Each of these factions has 4 divisions each with similar 
 units: Armor (Tanks, APC's) , Infantry, Air (Helicopters) , and Support (Artillery, Anti-air, repair, 
 and transport) . Each unit has strengths and weakness against opposite units (rock, paper, scissors 
 system) . Each Unit has at least 1 special move (2 at the most) . The Unit system, Tactical point 
 system and unit backup system work extremely well together to create a fast paced and exciting 
 style of play. Graphically this game is very strong. Zoom into your units and you can see the finest 
 of details. Zoom all the way out and take in that spectacular nuclear blast or the maps scenery. 
 Matching the graphics is the sound. Sound is extremely rich. At distance sounds come in various 
 magnitudes adding to the realism. As far as physics and realism this games seems fairly true. Up 
 to 16 players online isn't too bulky, nor 1v1 boring. There are a few minor bugs, but nothing major 
 that kills this game. Look for a small patch in the future to correct these. Other than that, pick 
 this game up now! See you on the battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindburner
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  OMG... this game is way over this period, it's extremely immersive and it sets new  
 are simply too good to find any words that will comparison this game... i'm playing this game since 
 the open beta version appeared... i played the demo and i played the full version and still playing 
 it and can't get enough of it. If you finish the single player part quickly you start playing on 
 multiplayer and then the real fun begins. In my personal opinion i don't think this game is just 
 a RTS because it has a lot of original things on it. In conclusion, this game has simply let me 
 without words totally because of it's innovative  and player to 
 player experience... enjoy :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R4ptor_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  This game has very impressive graphics and the action is fast and entertaining. However, it is 
 by no means a strategy game. More like a Real-Time Action game for people who like flashy graphics 
 and don't want to think too much while playing.
  
  Its all very well to bring a few new ideas to a 'genre', but it doesn't help if you disregard the 
 fundamentals of what created the 'genre' in the first place in the process. IMO that's what happened 
 here. If a guy goes out and buy this as his first RTS game, he won't have any idea after playing 
 it what an RTS game actually is.
  
  If you compare this to a real RTS, (e. g. the Warcraft or Age of Empires series) you have to conclude 
 that they either paid good money to get a score of 9.5, or the reviewer doesn't understand the 
 definition of 'Strategy' (or they have a sexy model delivering the game to reviewers, and she promises 
 to return with a 'reward' if the review is good - in which case I don't necessarily blame him) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matrix_Waple
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  What Can I say about WiC.
  
  Well, it is a redefinition and in a genre of its own. A thoroughbred combination between RTS and 
 FPS. Those hoping for a pure strategy game will be disappointed, but those hoping for something 
 new and exciting, this is for you.
  
  As with any new thing, World in Conflict has taken some knocks and has had some harsh things said 
 about it. In reality, the people that knock it generally were expecting something different. World 
 in conflict is what I would define as Real time tactics, or Real time Combat. There isnt much 
 strategy in here; it is a tactical game, where unit combinations, flanking manoeuvres, and timing 
 is everything. A well balanced force of team mates will achieve victories you wouldnt believe, 
 in fact 4 good well organised players will beat 8 unorganised ones no problem. WiC is a Team game, 
 like battlefield and Counterstrike and all other tactical games before it. Players hoping to take 
 on the world will be in for a surprise shock. The Camera is simply the most impressive in a Strategy 
 type game free movement, and something so easy to use that players from almost any Genre will have 
 it down in under 5 mins, believe me I now find it hard to go back to CoH now wishing the camera 
 would move where I want it too. It is surreal you can look through the beautifully constructed 
 world with ease and appreciate the beauty of it even on medium machines.
  
  For the Real Micro freaks/ hardcore Strategy players there is a mode called Few Player mode, this 
 allows far larger armies, as generally players are restricted to a few units to micro manage another 
 team play element.
  
  The soundtrack is immense, youre talking to an 80s Child, and it was a blast hearing tracks like 
 Everybody wants to rule the world amazing stuff.
  
  The single player story is good, but a little predictable, and a little easy but nice and well 
 polished, and Skermish mode, is in there if people can find it lol. Create a Lan server, and add 
 bots to it, simple and easy skirmish mode :o)
  
  Graphically the game is head and shoulders above anything currently on the market FPS or RTS, until 
 things like Crysis come out it is the pinicle game for graphics, the warning for this is youll 
 need the best money can buy to see it, but when DX10 machines become more common place, this game 
 will still be beautiful.
  
  Multiplayer is where this games heart is, the role system where players get to choose which path 
 to take adds to teamwork being essential, the command and request system makes getting help easy, 
 and the in game VOIP system simply is the most easy to use and configure in any game. All in all, 
 you get some real Muppets as you would in any mainly online game, but everyone is still learning 
 to co-operate, the biggest piece of advice to follow is, find good players, help them out and add 
 them as friends, you will want to play with the same players regularly and be sociable (Which the 
 propriety Massgate system makes simple, more on that in a bit) , as when you find a good team to 
 get into this game really begins to shine and you will see a whole new dynamic appear, strategic 
 options will occur to the teams and some of the best Clans (ie Diginitas and crc) that will be 
 going head to head will undoubtedly have a hoot, and be great viewing for the rest of us as epic 
 wars will be the only way to do the viewing justice.
  
  This brings me nicely to the broadcast tools, and how the massgate online system works.
  Massgate 
 is the companys host system, provides server viewing, MSN style chat system, game pairing, friends 
 system, dynamic ladders, broadcasting, group launching in game, no need for programs like Xfire 
 to get you into a drop in drop out game anymore. There are many more features, simply too many 
 to list and name, Massive have really given players a quality game system there all on its own. 
 The broadcast tools will be released shortly, and these will allow Game TV for tourneys and competitive 
 matches. Be prepared to be stunned there are some amazing telestrating options and it puts the 
 decent attempts of C&amp; C3 to shame with camera angles following tactical aids strikes, options 
 to flash over to the battle hotspots, and draw on screen tactical movements and review before broadcasting 
 out to the audience, as well as Statistics you can release like whos killing what etc. wonderful, 
 the only downside is you will need Vista a DX10 card, and Dual screens to take advantage if you 
 feel like doing a bit of home commentating yourself, but everyone with the game will be able to 
 view it.
  
  I have followed this game, and Alpha, and beta tested it, I can honestly say this is the most stable 
 game I have ever tested, and Ive tested quite a few in my time. Something I have taken for granted 
 though is how easy the game is to get into, it does take some getting used too, relying on not 
 your own skills but team co-operation can be a bit much for some people to be asked to relinquish 
 that control, and it is people that dont really understand this, or wish to participate that seem 
 most disappointed with the game.
  
  If like me you relish the Team aspect of the game, WiC is simply put the game of the Year for 2007 
 and is a must buy, if however you prefer to go it alone or have destiny firmly in your own hands, 
 then this game might not be for you, however I have played this game for nearly 100 hours now in 
 the week its been out, and Ive had to work as well, and Im still loving every second, Ive had 
 some dizzying highs and some bad defeats with my team, and I look forward to tourneys and some 
 huge organised team play to come. I hope to see many of you on the battlefield
  
  A well justified 10/10 bring it on EDIT To my Original Review, It now seems after 11 pages of reviews 
 the vast majority of people love WiC, this shows that it may not be everyones cup of tea, but it 
 certainly deserves the critical Acclaim it is receiving. Gamespot on the Money, I think so, and 
 so do alot of others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edguard
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  First, World is conflict seems such a good game to me which inspired by red alert series. I installed 
 it. Played a bit then uninstalled next day.. Why?
  Here is why...
  Graphics are brilliant, intro movie is perfect but the script is awful, no skirmish mode, slow frame 
 rate even fast computers such as amd 64 x2 with ati radeon hd2600 pro card.
  Subject is so clich&eacute;, you can't select soviets, only one single player campaign.
  So what?&amp;#304; 
 don't want to play with americans what should i do? Nothing... Graphics isnt the whole game.. You 
 can't satisfy game lovers with only brilliant graphics you should give some choice to them such 
 as.. Soviet campaign which is always the evil one i dont know why... CIA factor :)
  
  Anyway, in the end i like the game? No.. I like the graphics? Yes.. I like the sound? Yes.. But it isn 
 all that much simple Mr. CIArra (sierra) .. 10/5.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC1313_9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Excellent gameplay, great storyline. The campaign seemed short though, and it would have been good 
 to play as the USSR.
  
  Multiplayer is particularly good - it's just as much a battle of the minds as a battle of forces. 
 Players need to think fast and act faster. Very immersive, highly addictive and involves plenty 
 of bombs :P
  
  V. Quick load time, full scale battles are up and running within 40 seconds of loading. Graphics 
 are excellent.
  
  I would recommend completing the Single-Player campaign first, so as not to ruin the story by playing 
 multi. The Massgate ranking system is efficient and fast, and allows for friends and entire clans 
 to be added and contacted in-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serpens_Solida
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  real scenarios, units' options like follow unit , enter closest building or enter closest vehicle 
 , maps sizes. But, the cons are lack of in-game strategy, because you can only call for reinforcements, 
 but if they're not available you can't get any more units by any means, infantry is almost useless, 
 so it turns tedious to manage only vehicles that just stand and defend locations, and, you have 
 to use the highest camera view to be aware of what's going on on the field, so the great graphics 
 detail can not be appreciated.
  I wouldn't say it's a bad game, but it's not a smash hit. Alas, it's the best game of Sierra I 
 have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorraid
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict
  World in Conflict... when i saw its review at game spot... i really thought it might be something.. i 
 mean after all even Company of heroes didnt get such a high score... after playing the game id say 
 Comapny of heroes is still the RTS KING with WIC nowhere near it. WIC is not a bad game at all... but 
 if u do compare it with COH.. than ull be disappointed... the best thing i liked about WIC is well 
 it ends soon :D i mean i was tired of this lame game and wanted it to end as soon as possible... 
 Soviet union invadeing USA... id always wanted to see that in a game after freedom fighters... but 
 this was... kinda really lame.. i mean if u look at it... its USA that acctually attacks other countries... and 
 in this game... the soviets r the evil mindless killers and we americans r such a peacefull race 
 that we dont have a army to defend ourselves.. wot a cheap story. WIC has the best camera avilabe 
 to any RTS... even surpasses COH and Dark Crusade. Another word to describe the games sheer size 
 is its Number of units... there r tons of units from modren military... From M1A1s to Bradlys... 
 each mission is like a skirmish.. u start with some objectives and some excellent cut scenes. However 
 the lack of base building does shows its ugly face and soon after the 1st few missions its just 
 the story which will keep u going.. since everymission is like the same... Capture and hold that 
 point. Assist that person.... defend that area... each unit comes with speical abilites... some with 
 2 some with 1... The destruction thing is also very well done.. and within seconds ull find your 
 screen a wartorn battle zone... with vehiles being blown in the sky and infantry rushing for cover.. The 
 graphics being good r no the best... but its the detail of the maps that really impresses... The 
 enemy Ai is so so...... on the easy difficulty... it would feel like u r the ones attacking the russian 
 army.. and them being just silly putty defending aginst u... your units can enter buildings and provide 
 cover fire... however.. with all such greatness comes a huge list of problems...1st is the texture 
 problems... alot of errors in graphics... which make u feel like the game didnt go through proper 
 testing... as a Sign board with one of its pillar 2 feet above ground... the infantry... when stopping 
 slide.. like if they r on ice.. poor detection.. like your infantry can clearly see and shoot the 
 enemy from cover... but instead... they act cool and just sit there and let the russkies pick them 
 apart... than there is a problem regarding management of units... i wish the game had a option where 
 u can from platoons and custom platoons... there r just two formation types which arent that effective... however 
 the game has the ability to do some back up strikes... such as air strikes.. heat seeking bombs.. tank 
 busters... u can rage artillary on the enemy formations.. for some amazing effects... another con 
 in the game is lack of small details... if u enter your infantry in a transport.. say a humvee... u 
 wont see them... the humvee's seats would still be empty :S this and some other Frame rate probs... on 
 systems which exceed the game requirements... is really a bad thing.... also.. the games benchmark 
 is all crap.. dont follow it.. me and a friend preformed a experiment today... we first tested the 
 game on medium detail and than on ultra high.. and guess wot... on the benchmarks... medium detail 
 gave extremly poor results... while on ultra.. some decent results were observed... also the game 
 runs smoothly in mission so dont go for the benchmarks.. they r just designed to make the game feel 
 more heavey...
  overall id say that WIC does follow a nice idea.. but with all the small signs of rushing.. the game 
 doesnt feels that good and if u r really a fan of such games with no base buildings... than i suggest 
 u should buy it.. other wise.. stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is one of them games that come along, that really make me lick my lips, I love 
 tactical strategy games and this is a real good. WoC is in the same genre of Company of Heroes, 
 but has a tougher task to make a war game that is new and modern. If you played Company of Heroes, 
 then you go the idea of the game pretty well. The Soviets attack the US via of Washington state 
 via Seattle, and for some god fore sacking reason, the US wasnt aware that the Russian had a beef 
 with us, and even worst, we didnt have enough troops in the area to make it secure. So Russia 
 takes the Great North West, and its our job to get it back.
  The graphics in the game is very well done on par with CoH, but the terrain and the collateral 
 damage is much better in this game. The sounds are all there, and you know that you in a war when 
 you see nukes used in the game. This is no Iraq War here, its the real thing. The one problem 
 I really have with this game is it, is very confusing and its really hard to coordinate all your 
 units on the map. Also Sierra decided to go with a very open ended viewing system and its hard 
 to move around and see all your units. Its not a bad system but I think I like the Company of 
 Hero system much better, much easier to control. Also the game tend to give you a ton of task to 
 do, some very hard to do while trying to defend another area. It can be very frustrating to be 
 battling it out with the Russians, then be called away to drop artillery on another part of the 
 map. On easy, its not too bad, but on the higher levels, forget about it. This is an excellent 
 tactical strategy game with a ton of very cool vehicles and lots to do. It tend to get a bit tedious 
 but great fun. If you are looking at a strategy game on par with the likes of Company of Heroes 
 then this is the game for you. Well done Sierra 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silencedbyagun
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! The single player missions are great, the multiplayer is even better! You 
 can create/join clans and participate in clan wars. It has a grade ranking system. There are a 
 ton of vehicles and a ton of different weapons (from cruise missiles to nuclear bombs) to totally 
 destroy the enemy. Download the demo and you will no exactly what this game is like. You will play 
 it the first time and want to keep playing. Worth the dollar. If you get this game and are looking 
 for a clan, hit up foxtrot 7 with an invite and I will get you hooked up. be prepared to own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marsvin32
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 29, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The first thing you'll notice when starting World in Conflict is that it's a very, very pretty 
 game. Even when you're just starting the game, explosions are plentiful and leave lovely smoke 
 effects, smoldering trees, ruined houses and sometimes glowing napalm in their wake.
  
  The second thing you'll notice is the extremely fast-paced gameplay. You get dropped right in the 
 thick of things and, although the first few levels aren't terribly hard, you're constantly moving 
 and blowing stuff up. The battlefield is huge and there are almost always tons of little tanks 
 and men running around shooting at each other.
  
  That sounds great I'm hearing you say, so only a 4.0 score? Unfortunately, after you've had some 
 time to get used to the flashy graphics and fast pace, the first problems start becoming apparent.
 
  
  The main goal in most missions tends to be to capture small areas of the map, hold them for a while 
 and then move on. As I said there are a ton of combat units on the field at most times but you 
 usually get control of only a handful. AI troops get reinforced continually (both friendly and 
 enemy) , a bit like Call of Duty games, and will happily continue to blow each other up until you've 
 completed your goals. Even if all your men get killed you can simply call in reinforcements and 
 try again (unless you're on a timed objective.)
  
  The main downside to the game in my opinion is the AI itself. Its troops seem to have no intelligence 
 to speak of and will often blindly rush past your troops (or the enemy's) to get to some waypoint 
 it deems important. The main (if not only) problem you're facing fighting the soviets is their 
 vastly superior numbers.
  
  Finally, something that not everyone will care about but to me was a big disappointment. The game's 
 story is supposedly written by an author and cold-war expert but to be frank there's no depth to 
 either the story or any of the characters. If you've ever watched an old war movie or show like 
 Tour of Duty, you'll be able to point out all of the old stereotypes. The hardnosed colonel, the 
 whiny sergeant who in the end redeems himself by sacrificing himself in a last stand and some more 
 I won't bother going in to. There's not much reason for anything that happens other than that it 
 advances the main plot of the glorious Americans defeating the evil invading Soviets.
  
  Unfortunately I can't tell you whether or not the story improves because I have'nt finished the 
 game and after a little over 10 hours of playing and I can't say I'm very interested in doing so. 
 I've seen all the pretty pictures the game has to offer and neither the store nor the gameplay 
 are compelling me to go back.
  
  So in conclusion, if you're looking for a game like Command and Conquer but without the depth or 
 great story (yes, that's a joke ;) ) this is the game for you. If you're looking for something that 
 actually advances the RTS genre, I would suggest you look into something like Dawn of War or Company 
 of Heroes instead. Both those games have better gameplay, more interesting stories and arguably 
 CoH is even prettier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyLea
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  System: Intel Quad Core Q6600, Geforce 8800 Gts, Windows Vista
  
  FIrstly this game is a great game, the additions to the RTS genre such as TA support and instant 
 action game play make this game quite unique. The graphics are amazing in this game maxed out but 
 you'll need a geforce 8800 GTX or Ultra to get the best visuals. Even with a quad core and 8800 
 (although only 320mb) the game runs slow with all visuals set to high and anti aliasing on. A video 
 came with 512mb is recommended due to the high setting textures being so demanding. Even with most 
 settings on high / medium the game looks great.
  I'm about half way through the single player campaign and I must admit is is brilliant! A very 
 compelling game that keeps you coming back for more. Plenty to do and each mission makes you think 
 about how to handle the objectives. Multiplayer is great as well in this game although at times 
 it seems a bit chaotic. The teamwork needed to win maps in multiplayer works well and will keep 
 you coming back for more.
  Defiantly worth buying if you are an RTS fan but take note that a high end system is required to 
 get the most enjoyment out of it. There's plenty of graphical settings to play with to get the 
 best performance for your pc.
  Hopefully a patch will resolve some of the performance issues with windows vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liliroots
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is a game featuring a FPS-like kind of feel and letting you destroy the world 
 at your world. There hasn't been anything quite like this and I have to tell you it is very good. 
 The sound, music, graphics, gameplay are all very good. Graphics supports DX10, music is excellent (although 
 there are only a few) , the sound effects make the explosions even more devastating, and the gameplay 
 are just superb.
  
  Although it's a new change in RTS games, Massive Entertainment did quite a good job. Using lots 
 of cinematic moments and ingame moments to tell the plot. And with its graphical superiority and 
 amazing voice casting, it tells the story the right way.
  
  World in Conflict is not only a change in RTS, it's also a stepping stone. After you played this 
 you will want all the other RTS to come or surpass this level of quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oflow
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 29, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I was excited about playing this game. While the concept is unique as far as RTS games go, and 
 the game has nice sound and graphics, I find the game rather boring and doesnt really take much 
 skill.
  
  If you are amazed by eye candy but no substance this game is for you.
  
  The approach where you have no resource gather is fun at first, but the game just turns into a 
 'spam your units and everyone pass their collected points to one player to launch a nuke' everytime. 
 Yea its cool the first few times, but it gets bland fast.
  
  I'll be waiting for EndWar which actually seems more tactical than this game, but until then I'll 
 be playing Opposing Fronts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  i mean its rare that i find a review from Jason Ocampo witch i even remotely agree, but this game 
 tops it all, i personally do not even like the grafix on maximum settings - but at least i can 
 see that some people like this kind of perspective, so that i let slide with question of taste 
 ... so thats was about the good stuff , now to the bad: the story is not lacking anything to be 
 dumb, lame, boring, in fact although this game is made in Europe, i cant imagine that this story 
 line is written by a non American, its so bad that even on giga. tv it got mentioned, basically 
 OF COURSE the Evil Russians attack the innocent and peaceful US - how creative and how likely : 
 ) now for the innovative game play: don't get me wrong i like simple gameplay, but not so simply 
 that its just gets repetitive after the 1st 30minutes, i mean there are many years old games in 
 the same genre that are freeware and are better in the same innovative gameplay (like: swine 2001) 
 , you have a handful of units you van move around like playing a round of chess with a hell of 
 a lot less variations... so in short save your self the $50 this game is just about so innovative 
 like using an old newspaper as mousepad, if gamespot gives this game a 9.5 then i have to go for 
 1.00 as this game is a complete waste of money and even the story is so dumb that it hurts.. i 
 had to chose waste of time but if it would have been a choice dumb would describe what i think 
 of this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TA127
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  World in conflict gets you through a thrilling fight against Rusia in a WW3.
  
  Gameplay-
  WiC has a new camera style that is easy to get use to and might be the next generation 
 of RTSs cameras.
  In WiC you dont have an HQ, you can simply call and recall limited number of units. This is fun 
 and also brings moe thinking to the game and prevents hord-attacks (that forces you to think twice 
 before you call one unit over another one) .
  
  The game has various number of tanks, soldiers and artilleries which is fun. Each unit has 1-2 
 special abillities. That adds a lot to the game but most of the tanks and soldiers share the same 
 abillties.
  
  Calling various kinds of air-strikes is realy revolutionary and fun.
  
  Difficulty is quite rare.
  
  -----------------------------------------
  One thing i dont 
 get is that i cant make the Costume missions work.
  ----------------------------------------
  
  Graphics-
  Great explosions and smoke effects. 
 The terrain looks awesome and the animations are realy good.
  But.......... I have a modorate PC and the cinematic's graphs are more then horrible. The animations (movements) 
 are good but the detailing sucks beyond imagination.
  So if you dont have a Super PC you will probably lough when you see the cinematics.
  
  Sound-
 
  AWESOME, great sound effects and wonderful voice actting.
  
  To wrap it up I say Wic is a must buy for RTS gamers.
  
  ------------------------
  I dont 
 know about you but i realy want a WW4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blubadox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  This is the most amazing fictional battle game Ive ever seen and it sets you in-action. Its a 
 different kind of RTS but Im sure gamers will start to like these kinds of games from now on, 
 you are given a scenario where situation is always critical, yes its the same story in War games 
 :D but here you dont collect resources and attack in your leisure instead you are given a set 
 of resources and tactical aid which should be used intelligently otherwise youll lose the battle 
 even before you know it. In this game Russians are attacking U. S and you are Commander Parker whos 
 in charge of one battalion, so all in all its a great story and it has a little emotional touch 
 attached to the story. A good value for money because apart from entertaining single player campaign 
 youve got brilliant multi-player action that is non-stop fun, there are not much rules to follow 
 just use your brain. As for the graphics- they are phenomenal, it has many DX 10 features like 
 particle smoke, ground shadows, God rays etc but it looks brilliant even at medium settings or 
 DX 9. I was also very pleased with the voice acting. I never usually give 9+ rating but this game 
 truly deserves it. so what are you waiting for? nuke em all. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kliu0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  After playing the Closed Beta, Beta, Demo and full game, it is the best game created. The single-player 
 campaign is considerably more intense than most RTS or RTT games on the market now, time limits 
 for completing an objective can be long or short depending on the player. The campaign lets the 
 player use all sorts of vehicles and infantry, and does not feature role selection which can be 
 found in the multiplayer. Campaign contains some high resolution cinematics during the loading 
 time, but its mostly satelitte-ish views detailing the advances and the plans of attack voiced 
 by Alec Baldwin as Parker, and voiced illustrations of various soldiers and their lives. Meanwhile, 
 the multiplayer is very addicitve and intense. As soon as the player logs in, he or she can click 
 play now and get connected to a game straight away, or he can look for friends and clan mates and 
 choose to find a game to play with them. It utilises Massgate a system designed by Massive Entertainment 
 for World in Conflict. It features a messaging system and a player stats system similar to Battlefield 
 2 where statistics, awards, medals and clan information would be shown. Online play features up 
 to 8 v 8 games, a total of 16 players which is twice the amount of normal RTS games available on 
 the market. Players can enter in a middle of a game, not requiring people to all wait and get ready 
 like other RTS games. Roles include Air, Armor, Infantry &amp; Support with 3 factions USA, NATO 
 &amp; USSR. Each with their strengths and weaknesses. Changing conditions also means that the player 
 has to adapt and may change their roles to have a better outcome on the battlefield. The game is 
 fully 3D, featuring destructible environments. Each unit has its own line of sight and can be altered 
 by blocked views such as trees, buildings etc. For example if a unit is inside a crater his view 
 is limited as he is inside. Camera views are 360 degrees fully rotational the player may view the 
 battlefield on the megamap which is a view from the top seeing everything but still containing 
 3D or the player can choose to see the battlefield normally like standard RTS games or can zoom 
 in close to follow a unit/s fighting. Sound is very impressive, units will radio in saying that 
 they are under attack and if zoomed in, players can hear their conversations in English (USA) , 
 French-German-English (NATO) and Russian (USSR) . Graphics are outstanding even on low. Explosions 
 and the awesome tactical nuke are displayed throughout the game beautifully, detailing the destruction 
 and carnage. Overall the game is excellent and an instant masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peljam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Another case where gamespot has overrated a title (compared to user reviews anyhow) . This game does 
 have a great multiplayer experience. However I buy single player games for the single player experience 
 and feel that it should have the most impact on the review. As far as single player I found the 
 action to be much more rewarding in Company of Hero's. COH's graphics and attention to detail are 
 also better. This game does have the most destruction and explosions, and most frantic gameplay 
 in an RTS, but not the best graphics. It's good at what it does but a 95 out of a 100 it is not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunliftor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  After waiting for literally months to see the final product, I was remarkably excited to get my 
 hands on a copy of this game. So i saved my pennies and went to my local futureshop, and picked 
 it up for 50 dollars. I looked at the Box, opened the cover, and the pictures which awaited me 
 got my hopes up to an insane degree; but we've all heard the phrase: 'Don't judge a book by its 
 cover', so i brought it home and fired it up.
  
  Having played the Open beta, and the Demo, i thought I knew precisely what I was in for. A simple 
 RTS with a simple interface and relatively good gameplay. However, when i ran the first mission 
 (which is optimized very well. The graphics are amazing, and run quite smoothly) , I was absolutely 
 stunned by the visuals, the gameplay, and the sheer size of the war. Since you don't control the 
 whole battle, you get a real sense that you are just a small part in a gigantic war. The You never 
 die theory may seem too simple for the hardcore gamer at first, but when put into practise, it 
 is a near bulletproof concept, and you'll be thankful that you have it when your units are destroyed 
 by a surprise attack by the enemy.
  
  The element of the game that really made me come back for more every day was the story. It is one 
 of the greatest stories ever featured in a game in my opinion, and it included everything. Happy 
 points, sad points, Points that made you mad, and points in the plot that made you laugh and laugh 
 until you decided that it was time for more action! The ending, though short, was so fulfilling 
 that I was actually happy that I had finished the game. It made me feel like I had accomplished 
 something.
  
  The multiplayer isn't half bad either. It's got a lot of stuff to fool around with for months to 
 come. You can specialize in one of four different classes to defeat your foe, and with up to 8 
 players on each team, it can become quite an amazing battle. However, straight war is not the only 
 option. Besides the King of the Hill mode, there is also an online campaign where you play with 
 others to accomplish a mission (ex. Taking objectives from your enemy) ; and with 3 nations, and 
 tons of units to choose from (unique to their respective nation) , the game provides a stunning 
 sense of world war, which, in all honesty feels incredibly plausible.
  
  World in conflict is an almost perfect game that delivers on every level that an RTS gamer could 
 ask for, and should be seriously considered by anyone who has 50 dollars to spare. You will not 
 be disappointed with your purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeper76
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for WiC after reading many glowing reviews and playing the demo. This is an excellent 
 game with high production values and superb graphics and attention to detail. However it fails 
 to reach the dizzy heights of Company of Heroes.
  
  The single player campaign is well scripted with some beautiful, even emotional, cutscenes. You 
 will fight across the US and Europe with units that look and sound right. The gameplay is a bit 
 too led by the hand for my liking - Blow up this, now do that etc., but it eases you in and sets 
 a variety of different offensive and defensive challenges.
  
  The graphics are impeccable provided you have a decent machine. You can zoom right in and almost 
 imagine you are fighting alongside your men. Sound is also superb with stirring music and a few 
 '80s's classics.
  
  Multiplayer is what a lot of people are talking about in this and I applaud Massive for taking 
 a fresh approach to RTS multiplayer. The online matches have more in common with a game of Battlefield 
 than a conventional RTS. On large maps players take on different roles: Infantry, Armour, Support 
 and Air and fight for control of flags, sorry, victory points. I have no doubt that with a co-ordinated 
 team a WiC deathmatch could be excellent. Sadly, such players are hard to find on the public servers 
 - the games degenerate into large swarms of tanks and helicopters duking it out with tactical support 
 (artillery etc) often deciding the outcome. Your tanks die, you respawn and you dive into the fray 
 again. Its frenetic, but ultimately not very satisfying.
  
  Company of Heroes remains the benchmark for RTSs - the whole game feels more real and balanced. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavel_dimnik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is near perfect for pace, graphics, difficulty, plot, and realism. I have long been a 
 fan of more sci-fi themed RTS as I've always felt realistic RTS efforts were a bit, well, childish. 
 However, this game marks a coming of age for the realistic RTS genre. A wholehearted two thumbs 
 up!
  
  The best moments are the fact that micromanagement still marks the men from the boys, while at 
 the same time ensuring that the micromanagement doesn't consist of the first five minutes getting 
 a head start with your economy, which is a trap even Starcraft fell into, as great as it was (is) .
 
  
  The one drawback is the camera is a bit unweildy, but that can be fixed by customizng the camera 
 settings (much like the usual FPS need to, albeit in reverse) by making the usual left strafe into 
 a left rotate.
  
  Like I said, this game is awesome and well worth it... I won't even get into how great the multiplayer 
 is, as the ability to take all the content and playability into a multiplayer is mindbogglingly 
 awesome, and clearly where the staying power of this game resides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicguy17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  First of all I would like to say that I weighted since about July for this game to come out. Awesome 
 graphics, awesome sound, and awesome story line, how ever toward the middle on the single player 
 campaign it seems to repeat things a lot. things like kill all Russians in this area and occupy 
 it you can only do that so many times. the other thing is the AI thought it was some what challenging 
 it was not enough it completely ignores infantry going for the tanks. but the multilayer is some 
 of the best in RTS history. The repeating campaign missions are balanced out by it's strong story 
 line and awesome graphics and sound in my book there is nothing more satisfying than to see a nuke 
 blow up leveling nothing standing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperDJ
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 27, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  So I was just as pumped as most of you probably were about the release of this supposedly revolutionary 
 title.... (so much so that I pre-ordered it) . After the greuling 45 minute installation process 
 I started up the single-player campaign, played a few missions, and despite the fact my computer 
 was having a few issues, I got a little bored by the whole thing.
  
  My thoughts:
  
  The Graphics, for such meager demands on your system, are fantastic. The locations in the game 
 are profoundly believable, (As they apparently should be) . Fighting in Small Town, Every Town America 
 was really cool. I was however dissapointed... after playing Company of Heroes the WOW factor just 
 wasn't there on this one. While playing missions both in Single and Multiplayer, you are forced 
 to stay zoomed way out, issuing commands to units you can barely make out... in combat that WOULD 
 be intense if you were up close and personal... I'm sorry, but the sandbox display of most RTS's 
 has survived for a good reason.
  
  Sound: Another strong point in the game. Explosions are great. Radio chatter keeps you locked into 
 each battle, but begins to get a little annoying at times. Nothing like the sound of an A-10 swooping 
 by a column of tanks while buzzing away with its nose mounted chain gun. That was very cool. Overall, 
 the sound was pretty spectacular.
  
  Gameplay: Here's where things take a turn. I enjoyed the Tactical Aids... for awhile. However I 
 got SO busy ordering my units around on the ground that on many occassions I neglected my TA's. 
 This was something that would have made what was already a relatively easy Single-Player campaign 
 even easier. Some of the attacks are so dang hard anyway they're almost completely useless. Perhaps 
 further mastery is needed, but attacking heli's with F-16's was almost impossible, those vaunted 
 A-10 runs I mentioned above were actually not effective at all, a new mechanism might be needed 
 for this, as I would assume an A-10 pilot would likely be able to see what the heck he's going 
 to be shooting before he flies over it instead of blindly relying on the path I lay out for him.
 
  
  AI was a big let down. Like one other reviewer said already. In the campaign, you just face wave 
 after wave of Russian Infantry, Armor, and Air... getting progressively tougher with each wave. 
 Somewhat boring to be honest. It's easy to go through almost an entire battle without losing a 
 single unit and killing an imeasurable number of enemies... Something I would assume to be somewhat 
 innacurate.
  
  Infantry squads seemed useless unless you were using a sniper or anti-tank unit. There needed to 
 be an option in Multiplayer to have Bradly's in your Infantry unit, instead of just trucks and 
 harmless Humvees.
  
  Overall, I think it's a game that will impress those that haven't experienced a better RTS like 
 Company of Heroes, but for veteran RTS gamers... it is a giant let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lb1781
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  While it plays just like the Ground control game the units are not sc-fi
  and also you can't play the soviet side in campaign which is a huge dissapoitment to me. Also no 
 skirmish maps. Not realistic gameplay while you get always reinfosment points. Could have been much 
 better game with diffrent aprouch to it. Maybe with the Cuban missle crisis game play. it could 
 have been very interesting game.
  Good graphics not enought to make it good game.
  maybe it is good for the multy player
  bad game... bad game... bad game ... bad game... bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla blab bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalesoo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  The game is so amazing that it will rock you on way or another! But it has one big problem which 
 is its over even before you would know! Still it delivers an amazing visual effect performance 
 and nice animation that will amaze you! Also the performance of the game works fine on any computer 
 since I have tried it on my computer and on my friends computer and it will give you the right 
 performance depending on your computer and its capability!
  Finally I would say that the game has something new to give and its more than amazing for those 
 who like strategic war and command games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaartenVC87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  how disappointing Gamespot
  but your score of 9.5
  (a score that is only given to the best games ever)
  is sooo overrated !
  
  14 missions of 
 each about 30mins makes like only 7 hours.
  multiplayer might be fun, but it's not wauw at all...
  and you only play with the USA, what's 
 like 15 units.
  and it's not that tactical at all: just deploy the most expensive units, make a constant use of 
 all their abilities, and bomb them to hell.
  
  one + point: nice graphics for low requirements
  
  it's not a great game at all...
  RTS Games 
 that are better and you could better spend your money on:
  Company of Heroes, Command &amp; Conquer 3 Tiberium Wars, Supreme Commander,... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killath303
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  To start things off, Brilliant! It has to be somthing that could bring EA and the Command and Conquer 
 series to thier knees! I am a fan off RTS (real time strategy) and RTT (real time tactical) games 
 alike. When it comes to games, this is the frontline. The only downfall i can see is that it may 
 not work on all systems. The multiplayer is friendly and cooperative. I can safely say that the 
 game is its first of the next generation of RTT games. Command and Conquer ( i have nothing against 
 CnC) is based on building a base, defending it and rushing units into the opposing base. Once the 
 enemy is destroyed, that's it. World in Conflict, however, involves no base building and reduces 
 the pressure of constantly guarding a base and attacking another, at the same time. Despite it 
 being a slight struggle at times (In aid of putting the difficulty as hard) it is TONNES of fun 
 and keeps the player constantly aware. I don't have long, so ill have to wrap it up now by saying 
 this: If there's a planned sequal to this, i WILL be buying it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Direwolf9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  Now I'm a fan of RTS games. Though I can't say I've owned them all, I've played a fair amount of 
 the titles available. The Command and Conquer series, Battle for Middle Earth, Supreme commander, 
 Empire At War and Warcraft 3 all grace my collection. But the problem for me has always been that 
 the basic objective is usually just build up your base, whack down a load of defenses and build 
 as many of the most powerful units as possible, then roll over your opponent. In recent years, 
 games have at least offered variety in units with them having strengths and weaknesses against 
 various other units. But its still the same formula. Build, dig in, build, build, build, smash, 
 smash, smash.
  
  World In Conflict is different from all of them. not least because it is in fact a Real Time Tactics 
 game more than it is a Real Time Strategy game. The emphasis is on combined arms rather than just 
 digging in and rolling out the toughest units available to you. Admittedly, the objectives can 
 be a little simplistic, but real warfare is often about taking and holding the most strategic locations 
 available. Granted, some can be a bit stretched out, exposing your units to enemy fire, but careful 
 deployment is the key here.
  
  Unit choice is also the key to success. Most players (A fair percentage who might also include 
 those who have given this game a low rating) probably just rolled out the most powerful units avalible 
 to them at the time. Yes, a force of Abrams tanks will cut through an opponents armor easily, but 
 they are vunerable to helicopter fire and rocket infantry. Likewise, a bunch of Apache gunships 
 can wreck havoc, but will be cut to pieces by anti-aircraft fire.
  
  The game is meant to be played intelligently. Buld A-A units to clear the skys, repair vehicles 
 to keep you assault units going and a mixed force capable of dealing with both armour and infantry 
 should form your main phalanx.
  
  But I digress, what of the actual gameplay itself? Almost straight from the word go, you're thrown 
 in fighting. Yes, the game is intense, but that is its strength. Constant action. Nothing can truely 
 beat the joy of watching your handful of troops hold off a much larger force. And you'll feel every 
 loss keenly. Missions, are fairly straight forward, but careful planning can offer you a multitude 
 of options that can bring you success. Graphics wise, the visuals are nothing short of stunning. 
 When the nuke first goes off the effect is breathtaking. Smoke curls up towards the sky after explosions 
 and units spark and burn under fire. And the best part is, even on a min req system, the game can 
 run pretty well after some juggling with the settings.
  
  Soundwise, battle effects are impressive and zooming in close up allows you to hear conversations 
 between troops and orders being shouted inside tanks. All in all, because I'm having to cut this 
 short World in Conflict is definately worth the money it costs. Unless these game graces your collection 
 your life will never be complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok... let me start off by saying after playing this game a good amount of time it is one of the 
 best games Ive played it quite a while and I am NOT a rts fan really.
  
  A bit of background.... Ive been playing computer games since Commodore days. Ive played many of 
 the old classic RTS games just to name a few ... Warcraft, Red Alert, Dark Reign, Generals and 
 more. Im always the first to admit Ive never been very good at most of them and never really get 
 into them. I think what always turns me off eventually is that 98% of the RTS games boil down to 
 one of two things...
  
  1) Who can dirt farm the fastest and pump out 40 tanks (or equivelent badarse units) and storm 
 the other guy.
  
  2) Who has the fastest reflexes to mass produce X and Y units and storm the other guy.
  
  I 
 guess I always have done bad in these games because I try to be too deliberate and try to keep 
 organized and setup a neat strategy to use specialty units and do this and that. What happens is 
 the game lasts 5 minutes and then I have 20 units and buildings and defenses etc... but the other 
 guy comes in with 60 units and steamrolls me.
  
  One of my favorite RTS style games of all time was Myth. this game has similarities to that old 
 title. You start off with a set of units and the game is more about strategic placement and tactics 
 then it is about mass production. Also you did simply only play 90% of your games 1 on 1. Many 
 times it was 4 on 4 which made the whole affair much less stress intensive as you had a team of 
 other players to help out allowing you to be more deliberate in some strategies while playing.
 
  
  Anyway.... WiC is this type of game. Its not a game for your hardcore RTS players. Those are most 
 the people you see giving this game the 6.5 ratings. They are those guys who love playing C&amp; C 
 games and rolling 15 tanks on you in 2 minutes flat. This game doest cater to that play style.
 
  
  For me I love this game. Especially in multiplayer as it allows you to go into a game with say 
 10-12 other people and you can have fun playing in any style you like. You like to be more deliberate? 
 Sit back and play support having fun firing long range artilery. You like to get in and mix it 
 up? Play armor and build a squad of tanks and APC's and roll around picking up bases.
  
  You like micro managing to gain advantage a bit? Play airborne and swoop around with your helo's 
 picking off opponents tanks and infantry with hit and run tactics. It has a little bit of everything 
 depending on your playstyle. And its easy to get into since you have teammates to help out.
  
  This is the game for all the armchair generals out there who want to play war without having 
 to be a master of tech tress or be able to build 40 tanks in 2.2 minutes.
  
  To wrap it up a few other items.... the graphics are amazing especially if you have a newer system. 
 The sound is also done very well with everything you would expect. the interface is easy to master 
 and get used to although it may take a while to get quick and your tactical strikes as there are 
 quite a few. Online play is easy and fast with a much lower stress level then most RTS games. This 
 is a game about having fun blowing stuff up without the insane stress or rush rush attitude of 
 all the dirt farming RTS games of the past.
  
  Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DennisKumfi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is not your classic C&amp; C-like RTS approach. There is no base building, ressource 
 gathering and rushing the enemy with the population cap reached. Instead, you are awarded points 
 for performing actions on the battlefield which you can spend for several types of units. Units 
 are airlifted to the battlefield. While this isn't very realistic, it surely adds flavor. Rock, 
 Paper &amp; Scissors is the deal here, as every unit is weak against and strong against another 
 type. This isn't new, but very well done here. You also get to spend tactical points on artillery 
 and air strikes which is a very neat feature and absolutely necessary in order to win.
  
  The fourteen missions are quite diverse and have some nice twists. What you do in each mission, 
 apart from blasting everything Russian on sight, is capturing command points which you can fortify 
 and use as a fallback and to secure your drop zone. The campaign is well paced and exciting. There 
 are also secondary objectives which award medals and sometimes give you extra units or support. 
 I must say though that I found the campaign a little bit too short.
  
  I found my pulse going up several times while in the thick of combat with action all over the map 
 and explosions everywhere. You also don't control all the units on the battlefield. This is good 
 as it allows you to use the units you have to full effect with all their special abilities. One 
 could wish for naval units, though.
  
  Things can get very hectic and I found myself reloading several times on normal difficulty, particularly 
 in the last mission.
  
  Graphics: Spectacular. Explosions and crumbling buildings are erverywhere, The units are well designed. 
 You basically are able to zoom 360&deg; and it looks good in every direction. DX9 version looks 
 good, DX10 even better.
  
  Sound: Great Soundtrack, better voice acting. There is no support for surround sound, though, but 
 they will patch it in.
  
  All in all 9/10 for the best game this year so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  One of the most fast paced and best strategy games ever, the world and its detail is massive, the 
 game play is great and simple, good imagination and great storyline, amazing graphics, great script, simple 
 controls, great even for a strategy game beginner, war to the core, there is no waiting.. you step 
 into non-stop action straight away and will hold on to your seat till the last level,10 out of 
 10. waiting for world in conflict 2..? perfect balance of difficulty, learning curve, game  
 a level of war at sea though.. but still holds out.. just flawless!! gives a scary thought about the 
 future.. would congratulate the entire team at sierra and massive for bringing an excellent game.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Dukes
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Well i think this is easily one of the best RTS's ive ever played, i like it as much as SupCom, 
 and COH. i cant say i like it more then those games because its so different... ive never played 
 anything like it. The visuals are breathtaking, the requirements are low (my PC is two years old) 
 and i run the game maxed out everything w/ perfect framerates! the sound is great, the gameplay 
 is awesome, especially if you have people on the multiplayer that actually work togather! actually 
 i bet the morons who gave this game a 6 or lower are the people who dont work w/ anybody and just 
 do there own thing in multi-player, and they dident get a good experiance because they suck and 
 got trampled by guys working togather! i bet! i couldn't find a single reason to give this game 
 anything other then a 10, i had a very intreging single-player campaign, and multi-player is out 
 of this world, one of the best games ever develeped IMO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LnWolf61
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  WIC is a very pretty game to be sure and I'm sure if you are young the multiplayer is fast, furious 
 and fun. That being said not all gamers are in their teens or twenties. I am 45 and quite frankly 
 can't react that fast so I avoid the multiplayer/online gaming experience. I do enjoy the multi 
 player against bots but there should be an option to pause and command. I can understand having 
 no pausing during a human on human map but player vs bots the pause and command should be an option. 
 What is the sense of the unit special abilities when you are scurrying around trying to issue orders. 
 I have to say that I enjoy the replays of the battles more than I do the actual battle because 
 I then have time to enjoy it and really see the wonderful graphics involved in the game. This game 
 has incredible potential for all age groups and hard core detail type RTS gamers if you simply 
 add the ability to pause and command. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcarelli
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I love RTS games. However World in Conflict is not a game that 
 I can love. The Good
  -Graphics: The visuals in this game are very nice unfortunately good graphics to not make good 
 gameplay.
  -Sound: The sound is decent The Bad
  -Gameplay: The whole game revolves around taking command points however the AI is totally unable 
 to develop a plan to do so. It sent a hand full of tanks at one point (where there were killed) 
 and then a another. Repeated for about 20 minutes until I decided to quit.
  -Variety: With only 2 factions each with only a handful of units I quickly at seen every unit and 
 thus a sense of wonder was lost.
  -Feel: For a game about WW3 commanding just a handful of units does not give the sense that the 
 World is in Conflict.
  
  Basically this game took the ideas and game styles that Codename Panzers and Company of Heroes 
 brought forth and did it all again in the Cold War but without the freshness that made the other 
 two games fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugo116
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 4:01 am PT
Review:  WiC is a decent game in and of itself, but it isn't the grand pubah that so many game sites are 
 touting it as for a number of reasons..
  
  1) Story. Sorry guys, but there are so many holes in the story that it becomes a distraction. Now, 
 if it were Chinese ground forces backed by the Russian navy? Then you're getting somewhere.
  
  2) Gameplay. Despite what many are touting as a major innovation on the RTS front, it's simply 
 the same old scene under a new mask. While, yes, you do not have any base building or resource 
 gathering, the unit limit and purchase rate is still significantly controlled in a much more static 
 way via resource point trickle. The pace of unit building doesn't differ from the RTS' of old very 
 much at all.
  
  3) Voice acting. This is so hit and miss, it hurts. Many of the voice acting jobs are done beautifully, 
 especially Baldwin doing the between mission narration. On the other hand Bannon and the Colonel 
 strike me as a bit weak especially in the banter amongst themselves.
  
  So what does WiC have going for it?
  
  1) The graphics are incredible. The almost completely 
 destructible environments coupled with excellent unit detail and particle effects make it a true 
 beauty to watch in action.
  
  2) Multiplayer is a blast. Imo it's this coupled with the graphics that keep this from being a 
 mediocre run of the mill RTS clone.
  
  3) Pace. Much faster pace than previous RTS games. While it is still bottlenecked by unit point 
 caps etc. it can be pretty fun when it seriously hits the fan.
  
  Verdict?
  
  I would only recommend this to big RTS fans. Those folks will probably get more than their money's 
 worth here. Those who are on the fence or generally shy away from RTS games? Keep moving.
  
  A score of 9.5 puts this game into Bioshock, Half Life 2, Starcraft country. Unfortunately, 
 it doesn't hold a candle to any of these titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axsuul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Wow, World in Conflict is fun. It is wonderfully presented in a cinematic sense and the story is 
 pretty engaging too. The game engine is pretty damn good at making the whole experience as immersive 
 as possible. There are tons of explosions going off, the maps are highly detailed, the environments 
 are wonderfully done, and even the clouds look real. The helicopters actually fly pretty realistically 
 as they hover and perform maneuvers that are only physically possible. The sound is awesome and 
 overall the game is very polished. The menus and interface are very well done, smooth, and seamless. 
 I have to give props to Massive Entertainment to their relentless attention to detail in which 
 it definitely does pay off and allows for a much more enjoyable experience. In campaign mode, I 
 found this game to be pretty challenging even on normal mode. I have yet to try out multiplayer 
 but I don't plan to anyways. I recommend all RTS fans to give this game go! It's not your average 
 RTS... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pistonite
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict has to be one of the most original and best RTS's to date.
  
  It's compelling original what if story line makes the campaign mode worth playing and keeps you 
 playing at that. Not only is the campaign mode fun, online is a blast as well. There are however 
 a few disconnects from time to time and some idiots that speak into the mic (every game has them 
 lol) but it still is a great time to play online.
  
  The graphics are stellar even at medium (which my PC runs at) . I can't even imagine how great it 
 must look on very high. If you have a high end P. C you are a lucky dog. The smoke effects are wonderful, 
 hell everything looks great!
  
  Gameplay is one of the most original in an RTS game. It plays almost like a FPS at times which 
 is great but also has that RTS element tied into it. Sound is amazing as well. If you zoom in close 
 you can hear your soldiers talking about stuff. Also if you zoom in during a combat sequence it 
 feels as if you are right in the battle with them with bullets flying by, explosions, and the whole 
 bit. Also watch your screen to flicker when it is hit by a flying bullet, very cool effect.
  
  All I can say about this game is you owe it to yourself to give it a try. Download the demo 
 (that's what I did first) and give it a shot, you will be addicted! Once you are addicted you have 
 to buy the game to continue the sweet campaign and to get new online maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is great!!! Just great!!! No time wasted on building a base or wasted on resource gathering. 
 Don't get me wrong... I really like the standard RTS game but it is nice to have a breather from 
 it. This is WAR!! You don't have time to build an economy or set up a base. You are under attack 
 you you have to use what you have available to you!! I can't believe the people you gave this game 
 anything lower than a 8.0. They all suck and have no business even talking about the game. It just 
 burns me when people trash a game by giving it an unfair review an d giving it a score of 1.0 or 
 something stupid like that.
  
  Anyway... this game is one of the best out there!!! It looks amazing and plays really well. It 
 can be a hard game but wars isn't easy. The games adds a type realism to it and make you feel like 
 you are really defending the country against a surprise attack!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthony9000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is one of those very few RTS games that promote action and strategy over resource 
 gathering and unit spamming. Not only does it redefine the way we look at RTS games, but the way 
 we look at how a realistic campaign, solid multiplayer with teamwork, and skirmish with a very 
 smart AI... can take down games like CoH and the AOE series. Ofcourse the game still has its pros 
 and cons, for some it seems overrated, others underrated, and some..... a perfect score for a great 
 RTS expierence. The review you will about to read will list PROS and CONS for the game (GRAPHICS, 
 GAMEPLAY, AND REPLAY-VALUE) along with a very small descrption for each. First is Gameplay.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game has an exceeding amount of Pros for the gameplay that it almost covers 
 up the Cons, although its stll not perfect.
  
  PROS
  
  -Action-packed RTS that promotes intensity and action over other things like building and resouce-gathering.
 
  -Campaign is great, long, and lets u do many things u wouldn't be able to do in multiplayer and 
 skirmish
  -Almost at ALL times u will be fighting along side someone, even in the campaign mode
  -Teamwork 
 as been a huge aspect of the game in all modes
  -AI is smart for campaign and Skirmish
  -3 factions all with a good amount of units and all different looking ones
  -4 Roles u can play 
 as and find the advantages and disadvantages of as u play as them
  -A good number of maps to play in
  -Lots of strategy in all modes
  -No factions or Roles seem 
 overpowered
  -The forums have lots of Devs and Admins that can help u with problems in the game VERY fast
 
  -Multplayer has 16 players in battles
  -Good online ranking system
  -Lots of ways to get points like fighting and repairing ur and ur ally's units
  -Even mountains 
 can become hills (or even flat land) from the craters that are caused from explosions (adds to 
 strategy)
  -Forests can be burned down
  -Good pathfinding for units
  -Most aspects of the game seem Bugless
  -Good community that is helpful
  -Lots of cinematics 
 in the campaign, all of which are good
  -Solid Multiplayer
  -Multiplayer works like an FPS game (no waiting to join a game)
  -Could be one of the best optimized 
 games ever
  -Actual actors in campaign mode
  -Millions more Pros
  -Overall gives u a great Expierence
  
  CONS
  
  -INFANTRY IS BUGGY
  -deforming land is 
 taken out of skirmish and Campaign modes becuase of AI problems with pathfinding
  -No actual skirmish button, u have to start a LAN game and just put Bots in it
  -Some graphical 
 bugs that effect gamplay
  -The LIBERTY map in multiplayer is terrible
  -The factions need more differences gameplay-wise
  -More beautiful looking cinematics like the 
 New-York one would be nice and would help make the campaign longer
  -Very limited options in all modes
  -Campiagn and skirmish/Multiplayer maps are ALL THE SAME
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics in WiC (World in Conflict) are very beautiful (even on lowest possible settings) that 
 were drawn from scratch. Yes, drawn, so they look very pretty and have an artistic feel to it. 
 Although this doesn't effect the fact that it is an all-out war, it does make the game seem like 
 more effort was put into it.
  
  PROS
  
  -Everything was DRAWN
  -Very pretty
  -Best explosions EVER
  -Sound effects are good and are all new (not taken from other games)
 
  -Best graphics in an RTS today
  -The graphics are good enough that the game could be turned into an FPS easily
  -Water effects 
 look Beautiful as can be
  -DirectX10 can make the game look simply amazing (so it makes buying a good graphics card worth 
 it)
  
  CONS
  
  -Some VERY SMALL graphical bugs
  
  REPLAY-VALUE
  
  PROS
  
  -Campaign has different medals u can earn so it makes it worth replaying it again
  -Skirmish
 
  -Multiplayer
  -Ranking in Multiplayer
  -Lots of maps
  -Collector's edition has the history channel DVD and the 10-day free trial (to give to friends)
 
  
  CONS
  
  -The game can get repetitive easily
  
  So there it was. My review of World in Conflict. The game is Awesome in almost everyway but it 
 still has its problems like every other game. Plz note that i played both of the betas and the 
 demo before getting the game so the actual rating would be a 9.3 if u didnt play these extras. 
 Thx for reading my review too and sorry if it looks kinda sloppy, i'm not that good at organizing 
 things and i get carried away easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  It seems today that reviews are becoming less trustworthy than they used to be, maybe i'm becoming 
 a bitter old gamer sick of all the new shallower crap compared to what it used to be. However the 
 general feel of gaming today is make it fast and stupid with lots of explosions and it'll attract 
 sales. This makes for great eye candy but it doesn't make for great gameplay and while it'll keep 
 the reviewers happy who lets be honest arn't hardcore gamers and they only play them for 5 mins 
 then decide to review them without playing through the troubles.
  
  WiC isn't your normaly RTS of base building but you just call in reinforcements and the more you 
 kill the enemy the more points you get to spend on reinforcements. While i love developers trying 
 out new things, it just doesn't work out too well in the long term of things. I had fun on WIC 
 multiplayer for about a hour or two and then decided it's just gotten boring and i have no desire 
 to play it again. It feels like less about strategy and more about fast paced action, all i have 
 to say is this isn't a FPS it's a RTS, it's not all about eye candy.
  
  The problem with the reinforcement system is the fact that it's all preset for youa nd theres no 
 strat in base building or anything like that, it's all preset for you with no options to customize 
 or micromanage, you just call it in and send it into action and rinse and repeat. while watching 
 the battles was great for a couple hours, after that i wasn't having fun anymore.
  
  The single player is the worst point about the game though because it's soo scripted and doesn't 
 allow for any strat. You'll just follow preset paths backed up by friendly's that even on hard 
 setting you wont struggle to win the battles. It's quite annoying because i want to do things my 
 way and work out the best ways to do things, insetad i'm being told by the computer of what to 
 do. It's all just too scripted like COD2 and doesn't suit the RTS.
  
  The graphics are all top notch though a little generic and performance is great. I'm impressed 
 that they added in features like dual screen monitor and window mode into the menus which most 
 pc games don't bother with anymore for some reason. The menus were all great and it felt like a 
 PC game and not a game going to be ported to console or just rushed. The sounds are all good although 
 the voice acting could have been less cheesy lol....
  
  So all in all WiC is a good game for about the length of a FPS but it wont last as long as other 
 RTS games online and the single player isn't even worth looking at. It's quite a shallow game that 
 seems to be all about eye candy rather than gameplay and i wouldn't reccomend it over other RTS 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgalvan
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 25, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  To call World in Conflict an RTS would be like calling Diablo 2 a deep RPG. Are there similarities 
 to being an RTS? Sort of. I mean you get to control units. When I think RTS, I think resource gathering, 
 I think of building huge armies and laying out strategic defenses so as to give my opponent a hard 
 time breaking said defenses to get to my honey pot. There is none of this in WiC. No gathering, 
 no setting up defenses no RTS in other words. It plays very much like a hack and slash type RPG 
 in that it's set in the same feel of an RTS without all the elements that make it one. This game 
 plays more like an action game. If I am going to call it an action game, I'll have to call it a 
 mediocre one at that. Using cut scenes to keep the story going, it sort of makes you want to keep 
 playing to see what happens but it doesn't feel like your actions change the course of the preset 
 history / story in any way. The action on the field can get intense at some points but after you 
 master flipping back and forth between calling mortar barrages and air strikes then quickly flipping 
 back to your platoon to give them orders, the game gets kind of easy.
  
  I wasn't impressed with the AI of my platoon either. There was plenty of micro managing. So much 
 so that it made me feel like our highly trained United States of kick butt and take names army 
 troops were dullards. Leave them alone for a few seconds to scout out a drop zone or laser bomb 
 a building and you come back to half of them gone because they weren't smart enough to target tanks 
 instead choosing to chain gun troops while the Russian tanks made easy work of them. Gorgeous layouts 
 though. The graphics are top notch so if this is your thing, you'll love this game. And the sound 
 is satifsying. Nothing like calling in some Nape and then pulling back to your platoon and listening 
 to the whoooosh of the hell fire that was unleashed. Tread lightly and don't believe the hype. 
 If you are looking for a fast paced RTS or any semblance of an RTS other than being able to control 
 troops from the sky, pass on this. If you are looking for an action game that allows you to control 
 troops from the sky and let you decide what to bring into battle, then this'll be for you. Me? 
 I'll go back to C&amp; C3 and wait for SC2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sal-paradise
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  The game runs well, looks good, sounds good has an insipid plot if you're into that. The problem 
 is there's no way to manage your time efficiently so that you can apply any form of tactics. The 
 gui is insufficient for the pacing of the game. Units will stand around and die if you don't specifically 
 command them and there's no way to shift quickly enough around the battlefield to command all your 
 positions with any finesse. So you're left with the dullards battle of attrition and half baked 
 tactics.. simplified tactics. That makes it boring. If they'd perhaps spent a few more weeks on 
 the gameplay this would have been an inspired title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phanhuybach14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  I was play Company of heroes cool game too But WiC was a revolution in RTG I hate Strategies games 
 but i love CoH and WiC
  Anyway 9,5 for this game :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silver_2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  A top notch ! simply breath taking , earth shaking , jaw dropping , mouth watering , addicting 
 game ! TWO THUMBS UP! What else can I say? JUST DEFINITELY GO AND GET IT! The Graphic detail is 
 outstanding , the story is unique and the cinematics are state-of-the-art ! I doubt if any game 
 company on any platform can do such an amazing pleasant miracle in the gaming world.
  Just behold the explosions , the dream like , yet realistic space around you , I believe this is 
 the first flawless game ever!
  A big hug and warm congrats to these artists rather than game makers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twitch007911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  There are so many bad player reviews on here so I decided to have a go. This game is great at what 
 it trys to achieve, which unfortunately what many RTS gamers don't want. So here is what the game 
 is about...
  
  The overall concept of the game is an action game, with real-time tactical gloss. Yes an RTT not 
 an RTS. This means you strickly control units and place them on the map so they can be the most 
 useful. Arty on hills, infantry in forests, and tanks on the open battlefield. WIC pulls this off 
 very well. Especially in the MP aspect. Now for the good... WIC is fast-paced, gorgeous, tactical, 
 and thrilling with amazing production values. Is it deep? Yes from a team-based stance. The game 
 forces players to take the role of a platoon leader, not a general. These leaders muct work together 
 to achieve victory. The story is great as well. Multiple skirmish modes enhance the game. And for 
 RTS'ers out there, the few-player mode allows you to control masses of units for huge brawls. Overall, 
 simple, beautiful, accessable fun.
  
  Now the bad... I really didn't like WIC when I first played it. I felt like many of the trolls 
 on here. I said yes it is pretty, but no substance. I played the demo and beta a few more times 
 and changed my mind, becuase I finally realized what it was and what to expect. The cons though. 
 The single player should have the USSR. Missions shouldn't jerk you all the time with cutscences. 
 hmm... Wish the sound range from units was better (can barely hear if zoomed out) . Longer campaign. 
 Thats about it. Play this action strategy game and realize that is what it is, and it is something 
 quite new in gaming. Try rushing units frantically or try and keep each and everyone of them alive 
 like me. The choice is yours. But don't pass up this game if you understand what it is and what 
 it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkerswill
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The game is left wanting. With so many other games eg: blitzkrieg, panzer, rush for berlin and 
 the list that continues. This game had a benchmark to compare it's self and it failed.
  
  Lets start with the good.
  1. the graphics are pretty
  2. the story line is orginal and acceptable.
 
  3.????
  
  THE BAD
  1. Unit control - when telling a unit to do something while the action is thick, the unit fails 
 to perform the task given. this happened quite offend.
  2. base defense - It needs for user input for the establishment of defenses. Any defense that are 
 automatically established are useless and I found they restrict your ability to command.
  3. Command - I can only be in 12 places at a time. While it is necessary to manage the strategical 
 position I found it hard to manage the unit detail at the same time , whislt being attacked trom 
 several directions at once and managing an offensive at the same time. This is not realistic as 
 you would have junior officers to manage the smaller tasks.
  4 repair - how frustrating is at have too order every single repair. I needs to be changed, so 
 that you can move a repair vehicle to area and it automatically repairs any vehicle within a given 
 radius.
  5 unit defense - when placing a unit in a defensive position, it would be nice and realistic to 
 be able to build so physical barrier or to have the unit shoot from behind a pile of rubble.
  6. Model detail - it is apparent that the makers got the 6yr olds to draw the models to cut back 
 on the cost of production.
  7. off screen resources - to be able to fix artillery to continous fired on a position, instead 
 of the $1.50 worth of fire support.
  8. the sniper - is about as useful as falling off a cliff.
  
  There goes my lunch break so 
 i can't write any more.
  
  In short, spend your money on a pair of shoes instead of this game as you'll be more satisfied.
 
  
  Bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bribud
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Kind of disappointing to me. It seems like you are just moving all of your units to circle areas 
 on the ground to control a specific area. All you have to do to win is put your forces in these 
 circles and have a repair vehicle sitting there repairing anyone who gets a low health bar. Once 
 you have held off those circles long enough, they give you another set of circles somewhere else 
 on the map to sit at. The Russian tanks just keep coming from some sort of endless reproduction 
 machine somewhere off the map. Sit in the circles and wait, they will come to you when you are 
 holding a position. Of course the graphics look good, the sound is good, the destruction is good. 
 But the gameplay is where it is lacking, and that is why I like to buy games. Doesn't give you 
 any rewarding feeling that a lot of strategy game players like to feel when they are progressing 
 through a game. I mean, that is why you are playing a strategy game, right?? It does some things 
 good and some things bad. Could have been much better though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billyfozz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I really do think gamespot and other online reviewers went overboard with the scoring on this one... 
 Company of heroes is better. Maybe gamespot were given lots of freebies like all these review places.
 
  I really do think gamespot and other online reviewers went overboard with the scoring on this 
 one... Company of heroes is better. Maybe gamespot were given lots of freebies like all these review 
 places.
  
  I really do think gamespot and other online reviewers went overboard with the scoring on this one... 
 Company of heroes is better. Maybe gamespot were given lots of freebies like all these review places. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GregGlidden
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This isnt your typical mass and swarm RTS! The single player storyline is rich and compelling. 
 Youre going to have to think about your unit mix, terrain, and mission. It is amazingly pretty 
 to look at and the game play is spectacular. Despite the initial draw to armor, the other unit 
 types make the game dynamic. With the different mixes of infantry, armor, and support requires 
 your tactics to change and creates new paths to success. There is nothing to compare to the tense 
 thrill of a well timed tank buster on an advancing armor line or the satisfaction of decimating 
 an infantry filled building with a laser guided bomb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james28893
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Just don't listen to the idiots giving it low scores. They've only played on the single player 
 campaign. That's less than half the story. Multiplayer is where its at nowadays and this game knows 
 it. Firstly YOU NEED TO WORK AS A TEAM. If not YOU WILL make you and your team look like complete 
 and utter fools. Four main areas. INFANTRY (Jack of all trades, not particularly good at anything) . 
 AIR (High risk, high reward) . SUPPORT (The sniper of the game, artillery and anti-air) . ARMOR (Good 
 against everything except AIR) . Each is very good against something and very bad against others 
 (excluding INFANTRY) . AIR can obliterate ARMOR but faced against anti-air it will die in seconds. 
 SUPPORT good against everything unless they're close up and so on. So you really need to come together 
 online. AI is intelligent enough. Graphics are almost completely unblemished. Sound is superb. 
 Nukes are small, though realistically a nuke would blow up the whole map. The single player is 
 preparation for the multiplayer (sorry Alec Baldwin) . An awesome experience. Don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahvyn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  The game was fun, I'll give it that. The graphics were awesome, especially the explosions, and 
 artillery was just plain fun to watch. But a 9.5 from Gamespot?!?!? I dont know about that. After 
 playing Supreme Commander, I have found its hard for other games to stack up. The gameplay in WIC 
 is decent, but it lacks depth. I do like the jump in and fight. Not dealing with resource collection 
 is nice every now and then. The storyline was decent, the cutscenes of all the phone calls were 
 pretty lame though. They were good for the story, just lame on the graphics. I would recommend 
 the game, just not over SupCom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppp606
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  It has amazing graphics even on a mid range pc with medium settings it looks amazing. It is fast 
 paced and if you arent paying attention you will get lost. Don't believe the people saying it has 
 no strategy, because they simply havn't discovered it yet. It has lots of strategy it is just different 
 from most RTS. No resource gathering, so you are in the action quickly, and it takes a little bit 
 for troops to come in, so you can't just run your troops in let them die and rebuild because if 
 they find your deploy spot you will be destroyed on deploy. It's gameplay is great with everything 
 like artillary and airstrikes taking different times to deploy you have to anticipate the moves 
 of the enemy and then decide to use a bigger attack that takes longer or a smaller one that takes 
 less time. It is all strategy. Great Graphics, unique and addicting gameplay, and fast paced strategy 
 action that is best said similar to the strategy one must take in BF2 to be a good player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wannabe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  How can you dislike a game as epic, as thought out, as well planned, and as good as this game is? 
 It doesn't make any sense.
  
  Massive Entertainment is preceeded by two great games, the Ground Control Series. Their latest 
 installment here, World In Conflict reeks of both of those games, and then some. This is a good 
 thing. A very good thing.
  
  A very, very good thing indeed. Lets start by discussing the things that matter. You say the graphics, 
 sound, presentation matter, and they do. However, you can go check those things out easily just 
 by playing the demo or watching the videos and pics on this very website. The thing that you can't 
 experience however, is the great background, the great story, and the emotions that this game fills 
 you up with. From the moment you begin to hear Alec Baldwin's voice describing the situation in 
 retrospect, you begin to realize, this is not your average video game. This game is serious. It 
 has probably done the best job of making a What if scenario come to life out of any piece of entertainment 
 that has attempted to do so in the past half-century. For all you people who say, Oh WiC is just 
 another angelic Americans save teh world from teh evil guuuuuyz you obviously do not understand 
 history, and do not appreciate the story of this game. This game is about human beings caught up 
 in an extraordinary time that, thankfully never happened because at least our world leaders at 
 the time were smart enough to know what would have happened. Yes, it does focus on the American 
 point of view, but Americans are humans too people. This game shows fairly accurately I think a 
 hypothetical situation if the USSR did invade Europe. The United States provided the bulk of the 
 economic aid to reconstruct Europe after World War II and continued to be the backbone of Western 
 forces in Europe at the time, so it's only natural that the game be played from their perspective. 
 It's also a nice touch that the devs did swift justice by adding the NATO forces in to pay homage 
 to our allies. NATO forces consist of West Germany, United Kingdom, France, Norway, and a multitude 
 of other NATO countries that would have undoubtedly helped fend off Soviet aggression against the 
 democratic west if this war were to have had happened. The story presented though, I reitterate, 
 is largely the tale of human beings struggling to come to grips with the current situation they 
 find themselves in. They wonder about their loved ones, they urge to strike back against a foe 
 they do not truly know for what they have done to their countries, they wish to protect their helpless 
 families trapped and surrounded by this war, they wish to do service to their brothers in arms 
 and make them proud of what they have become. They wish for forgiveness for the pain and suffering 
 they have caused in this war. It truly is amazing how Massive makes all of this seem so real and 
 touching. I love it.
  
  The multiplayer experience is also amazingly well done. I'm telling you right now, though, you're 
 not going to have any fun if you just jump in and start rushing units into get killed. This IS 
 A STRATEGY GAME PEOPLE, YOU ACTUALLY HAVE TO THINK. Oh and, you actually have to communicate with 
 your team mates in order to truly be successful. If you do somehow succeed without communication, 
 coordination, and cooperation with your team it was luck. Not skill. Pure luck. Combine those three 
 elements of which I aptly nick name The three C's and you will undoubtedly have a 100% better multiplayer 
 experience in this game. Guaranteed it's going down.
  
  All in all, this is an awesome game, epic does not even do justice to this magnificent piece of 
 art here. You all owe it to yourselves to not only play this game for it's multiplayer, but also 
 its single player because of the emotions, hardships, and brutal realities of war that it conveys 
 to the player.
  
  An awesome game. The only bad thing I will say about it is that it does demand a heavy system to 
 get max graphics potential, but that's very minor since it will still run and play very well only 
 medium settings on most computers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ES45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game after seeing it at a friends house. I have played all the C&amp; C under the 
 sun and am bored to death of collecting  and bread. Whilst 
 I do enjoy a good economic game (like Civ Rome) I have to say it grinds my beans to collect all 
 that stuff, make an army and get wiped out by a tank rush .
  Don't get me wrong, I have used that tactic before at work on my lunch hour but the first 30 mins 
 are spent gathering resources . This is not so with WiC. Battle starts, you kick some ass, you 
 get yours kicked order more troops more destruction, quit and have your tea!!!
  
  Whilst I am only up to the first 5 mission or so I have yet to indulge in multiplayer. I want to 
 get up to scratch before being embarrassed! The GUI is really intuitive, the free look with the 
 middle mouse can get a bit erratic but thats probably just my sensitivity setting. You have to 
 get out of the traditional RTS mind set though, and pretend youre playing BF2 in commander mode. 
 You also have to try and forget that you can replenish units quite quickly. I often send a couple 
 of M1s to defend a repair truck and its just not needed. You can just order up another in a few 
 minutes and try again (if you have a few minutes, some missions are timed) .
  
  The game runs very smoothly on my machine (P4D 3.6, 2gb, 7900GTX on MCE) , even when pounding the 
 crap out of a town center with naval guns, airstrikes, napalm, daisy cutters and artillery barrages 
 and then spinning the map around 360 degrees!
  
  I will certainly be playing this for sometime, I purchased the Collectors edition that came with 
 a Creative headset, a piece of the Berlin Wall with certificate and a History Channel DVD. Not 
 got around to watching that yet!
  
  I have noticed the Mod section in the game and cant help wondering if there is going to be a WW2 
 or even WW1 edition!
  
  I gave this game a 9.5 as the whole package is truly spectacular. It didnt get a 10 as I have 
 to agree with some of the other users comments as to the story and the one sidedness of it all.
 
  
  Move over C&amp; C, this is my new toy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teflon59
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 24, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  this game is basicly you assembeling a bunch of units in one area or control point then waiting 
 a bit til ur ordered to go to another.
  
  the graphics are awsome make no mistake but there is absolutly no game play or strategy in it.
 
  
  u are limited to a small groupe of units and if u ever think of leaving a spot to attack an enemy 
 from behind... u will end up restarting the middion from the beginning that is if u havnt saved 
 ur progress.
  
  as for the ennemy, the AI seems to have unlimited number of reinforcement
  that will just drop 
 on the map and attack u.. always from the same spot that it was spawned.. there is basicly no AI 
 intelligence.. i think thats wht the game force u to run from one spot to another because the AI 
 has no sens of where u are unless ur in the spot that ur forced to deffend/hold
  
  my honest opinion is dont waste ur money on this game and if u really have to then at least try 
 to play it at a freind's house first.. dont trust the demo on this as the demo is like a tutorial 
 and doesnt show anything about the crappy gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oozubek_TR
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  an absolute frustration! OMG! First of all, please quit using storied that starts with invasion 
 of U. S. There's a gamer public out there who disgusts these kind of crappy material. while playing, 
 you're being rushed from one cheap, easy to accomplish objective to another. Only after wasting 
 some hours, you just stare the game and realize that this is just a crap.
  
  Your RTS skills are not meant for this easy game which fails to utilize even 0.00001% of your brain. 
 Just send some artillery strike and that's it. your path is open..
  
  Heeeey, game makers over there. The Cold war together with Rambo is OVER, it is HISTORY! Please 
 quit recycling this concept and come up with new ideas. If you need aspiration, just play some 
 C&amp; C.
  
  Lastly, if you can not stand tanks having health bar please stay away from this game as well. come 
 on guyz, we use to have health bar for Age of Empires 1 when we have 2Dimenstion games. Soldiers2 
 showed us the fact that tanks can blow up with just one good salvo from behind or get immobilized. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabytiro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  So this is my first review of a pc game. Lets get started right away. I will try to cover all 
 the major aspects of the game as objective as I can. The graphics of the game are with no doubt 
 beautiful, especially the explosions, smoke effects and destructive environment tend to create 
 the feeling of brutal fighting. About the system requirements of the game, well at my E6600 , 8800 
 GTS at 640mb and 2 G ddr2 it runs at 31 fps (average) at 1440*900 with 16 AA and all details at 
 full on dx10. Of course sometimes (aka tactical nukes) it falls a bit but jumps right back in. 
 The Story of the game is one of the best I have seen in a rts with beautiful voice acting (the campaigning 
 is too easy even in hard difficulty) and offers a huge area of feelings (excitement, anger, sorrow 
 and so on) . It would have been interesting a campaigning from the Russian perspective.
  The gameplay. Well the gamplay represents multiplayer vs human or/and bots opponents. Of course 
 the single player is good but multiplayer is where u understand the complexity of the game and 
 specially the role of teamplay. At first it looks like all u need to do is a rush, make 15 tanks 
 and go forward and maybe sometimes it works, but u can have the surprise of losing all your tanks 
 in 5 seconds from an artillery barrage . This game is more than a rock-paper-scissor rts. It is 
 an information war where u need to know when to attack, retreat, hold the line when to sacrifice 
 some units to give your teammate the time to mount a surprise attack and so on. In many ways it 
 is the rts counterpart of Counter-Strike. I recommend it to everyone who wants a very good modern 
 war rts that focuses just on the one thing that matters: the war part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beebs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Single Player:
  
  Graphics are stunning, no doubt, best i have seen.
  Maps are decently large.
  Everything is destroyable... very cool.
  Sound is very good. Some 
 acting is a little silly.. not to bad.
  Controls are a little clunky, but not to annoying.
  
  In the reviews Bones13 nailed it on the head.. not much flexibility,.
  Its very very scripted. 
 It gets kind of old for me quick.
  Since i tend be a control freak, its the only part of the game that seriously is a downer for me. 
 I would probably fail miserably in the military, since i cant follow orders well :D.
  
  It is a great game in every sense.. very flashy.
  Soon i will try the multi-player, see if it 
 changes my mind :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 14, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I was very interested in this "RTS" ever since I first heard about it, however, I'm highly disappointed 
 with it. The graphics and effects are OUT STANDING and the sound is very good as well but that's 
 all the good I have to say about this game.
  
  HORRIBLE voice acting. It's full of clichs ripped out of horrible military movies from the 80's. 
 Anyone was has ever served in ANY branch of the military will roll their eyes at the voice acting 
 in this game.
  
  No strategy/use of tactics. 99% of your objectives are achieved by simply placing units into objective 
 "circles". Leaving these circles to setup a better tactical advantage will show you as LOOSING 
 the objective point (even though you are right next to it) so it's best to just stack all your 
 units into these circles. Also there's no penalty for loosing units either. Even in the last battle 
 I had lost EVERY SINGLE UNIT. I was wiped off the map. However I did not loose. I simply waited 
 for the resupply and sent more to the meat grinder until I won. What the hell kind of strategy 
 is that?
  
  Never enough units or no access to much needed units. You seem to always have a ridiculous small 
 amount of units for certain situations. Also a lot of time you'll have to go up against heavy Russian 
 armor without any heavy armor yourself. 
  
  HORRIBLE map controls. You have to use WASD keys to move the map but the angle of the camera typically 
 doesn't match the direction of the keys or where you want to go. For instance, I found myself pressing 
 W to move north... however actually I would be moving east because the way the camera was position 
 and there's no compass that shows what direction you are currently looking at. Very frustrating 
 and pointless. 
  
  The game is VERY easy. You have an endless supply of units that never run out. Just drop in troops, 
 march them to their death, and repeat. While this might appeal to the FPS genre... this game is 
 in no way a RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weewalio
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  To the point; I haven't bought the game, and I must thank the developers for releasing a demo so 
 soon. I downloaded that, gave it a whirl, and know now that I won't be buying it.
  
  WIC is indeed beautiful to look at, but a strategy game it is not. Essentially, you load a map.... order 
 up some units from a more-or-less endless pool of units... and toss them at whatever comes your 
 way. For sure, there's more to it than that, and I'm simplifying.... but no game that ever called 
 itself an RTS has ever turned me off so quickly. Something's missing for me. I can't quite put 
 my finger on it, but WIC just feels like a big sandbox game where you get to blow everything up... in 
 admittedly glorious, particle-and-physics accelerated glory. Those gamers who get a real rush out 
 of games like Battlefield 2 and its ilk (games I also despise like a bad toothache, by the way) 
 will probably love this. People who enjoy more traditional RTS games like Company of Heroes, the 
 Warhammer games, or even older fare like Homeworld or Starcraft, will probably get the same sort 
 of empty, what's going on here? feeling that I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denverrms
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This just another overrated rts which makes the 9.5 rating puzzling. No strategy just frantic reacting 
 to fairly mundane scenarios. It's not a bad rts, it's just not special and certainly not a 9.5. 
 A 7.5 rating would seem more accurate to me.
  Perhaps the standards for rts have dropped to 'anything pretty is better than substance.' If so, 
 then it's time to reinvent the genre and offer some originality. Nothing new here, just more of 
 the 'let's throw masses of armor at the player and call it strategy'. The demo gives enough of 
 the gaming experience to make a purchase one for the bargain bins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bo_3li_h
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game worth every penny , it competes all the games in the market now from the same category 
 , the stunning Graphics , Sound And even Controls makes this game the Game Of The Year To Me Even 
 If i'm An loyal Fan to the C&amp; C game series but this game stoled the lights from the other games 
 :) It gives you the feeling that this game story could happen anywhere and anytime the voice acting 
 the soldiers feeling the commander's actions and last and all i can say for now please play this 
 game , give it a try and thank yourself for listening to me and for the developers for creating 
 this wonderful game otherwise you will miss half of your life without , i'm not over reacting i'm 
 just pleased that there is still some companies gives us and telling us that there is still wonderful 
 games are waiting for us and the game market didn not die, this game brought it back to life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiQuiD_PReDaToR
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  It's been awhile since there's been a good game driven by a great story. These types of games 'suck 
 you in' as you're also playing it as if it were a movie. The gameplay is great - however, some 
 minor setbacks with the AI when moving backwards. I know it has a move-backwards button, but it 
 should do it automatically if the enemy is located in front of you. I like how they skipped out 
 on the 'building' part and kept it to all war. Imagine Total War was like this? Skip the building 
 and go straight to the action. Lastly, it would be really cool if there were a variety of different 
 campaigns i. e. Chinese + USSR campaigns, different war fronts, etc.
  
  I see this game expanding really well into various expansion packs... I wonder if they can do a 
 Vietnam campaign.
  
  Anyway, great game overall. It's been awhile for a game to be out like this! Worth every penny! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  WIC is not a traditional RTS - Its RT without the S , In fact, it's best described as a top down 
 view of an FPS. This is not necessarily a criticism but fans of C&amp; C or Company of Heroes may 
 find themselves severely disappointed with this game.
  
  As others have said , there is no building or resource management, its simply a matter of rush 
 in with your units, die respawn, rinse and repeat. The graphics and sound are absolutely superb. 
 The title is however let down by its gameplay - lack of strategy and simple tank/heli rush tactics.
 
  
  The single player game is good fun but I'm surprised there have been no comparisons to the Sierra 
 release last year of Joint Task Force - the single player game is very similar, just with better 
 graphics. If you like this game, you should give JTF a try.
  
  Some of the cutscreens are just drab pictures - others are graphic videos with poor voice acting 
 and a corny story line
  
  Multiplayer is pretty cool as you can just dive into the action without waiting ages to connect 
 to a sever. The thing is , the game is ok for half an hour or so, but I find it very quickly becomes 
 boring. That said the game is certainly worth owning, but lacks longevity. It would be nice to 
 see an unlock system giving you access to better units as you rank up, in order to keep people 
 playing. In my view this is a glaringly obvious omission which prevents a good game being great.
 
  
  Graphics 10
  Sound 9
  Gameplay 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bones13
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Oh how this game sounded perfect for me. A tactical strategy come action game, and not based on 
 WWII or the 23rd century, but fairly present day. Unfortunately I'm really disappointed.
  I'll give 10/10 for the graphics, they really are superb. You will however, need a fairly beefy 
 machine to see the best the graphics have to offer.
  The sound is fine, 8/10.
  The gameplay, aahh. The problem I have is that each mission, and each scenario within each mission, 
 is too rigidly defined. Go here, attack this, defend that... it's too micro managed. I don't have 
 a problem with micro managing my units, in fact I love it, it's the fact that the way to achieve 
 your objectives are too finely managed for you.
  My preference would be for big detail maps (which they have) , your set of units, with ways of getting 
 reinforcements (which they have) , and one big overall objective, e. g. take that town over there. 
 Unfortunately, while the end game may be to take a town, instead of deciding how you're going to 
 go about it yourself, it's too scripted. First you have to take a specific bridge, then attack 
 a specific petrol station, then defend a specific building, then rescue specific people.
  This is too detailed, and doesn't allow you to use your own brain to reach an overall objective.
 
  Shame really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feran
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Having followed this game from I think it was last years E3 maybe bore that (cant remember now :) 
 ) , and played closed &amp; open beta I think the developers have put a lot of effort into the game, 
 and tried to respond to the feedback they where given. With stunning visuals and graphics this 
 games runs like a dream. That being said people looking for a traditional base building RTS will 
 not find it here, but if you go into it with an open mind you will find it an intence game packed 
 full of strategic and tactical elements. The multiplayer part of the game is very team-focus and 
 as most of the units have a kind of rock-paper-sissors effect going on, I would advise to try and 
 least work with your team or better still join a clan as playing against players that work together 
 is and uphill battle and can turn you off the game. The singleplayer storyline is also very well 
 put to gether and a joy to play.
  Overall a quality game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  In few words- it's the best team oriented MMO for the current day and for the near future. The 
 most surprising for me is that you actually do want to play in a team, even if you a player on 
 your own (like in my case) . Nothing and nobody forces you for teaming up (like in WOW- how I hated 
 that!) , but in WIC I found myself looking how I could help my team mates. The graphics are gorgeous. 
 The landscapes are so picturesque that you could find yourself wondering around the landscape and 
 enjoying the created artwork. The explosions and other visual effects are one of the best I have 
 ever seen in any game. Massgate is the GENIOUS invention! That was one of the most important selling 
 points for me- no browsing through a vast amount of servers, no 'Server is full'- you are just 
 jumping in and playing in no time. Lots of MMO FPS are so annoying in this case. I hated that even 
 in my the most favourite UT 2004, not not talking about the recently released famous demo of team 
 based FPS (I intentionally do not mention the title) .
  
  The game is balanced just superbly- there is a class for everyone's taste. I personally prefer 
 air units for the fast action and the great damage they can do. But there are classes that need 
 more strategical approach or for more team-based play. I think I will try to learn to master other 
 classes too :)
  
  No resource building! How it would be unrealistic if commanders on the battlefield would have to 
 worry about the financing, building and all other tidies stuff? And again, if you are more strategy 
 oriented person, you will definitely find what to do in this game- all you have to do is to find 
 the most appropriate class for you :)
  
  Awards system is neat as well. Well, maybe it is not as ground-breaking as Massgate, but there 
 is not only top list with points and all other statistics about each player, but you are receiving 
 nice medals as well.
  
  Voice acting &amp; sound effects are simply flawless! They are very engaging and add lots of atmosphere. 
 I personally think (please note that it's a personal opinion only) this game is the killer of the 
 upcoming Starcraft 2 which is oriented to the previous generation of RTS.
  
  Overall WIC is one of the best gaming and visual experiences I have ever had. It is engaging, it 
 is atmospheric, it is chaotic, it is fast paced and never ending- everything that you would expect 
 from WWIII 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Some people may tell you there is something about this game that is special. well I will tell you 
 the same. graphics are special, sound is special, the gameplay is special. but all these cannot 
 justify this game to be rated 9.5!! there are a lot of unfinished things with this game! To give 
 you a head start I should say that fps is absolutely lacking. I have a geforce 8800GTX running 
 with a dual core cpu at 5 Mhz. the game runs at an average of 23 in the benchmark (the 3d cutscene 
 designed for you test the graphic setting for the best performance) !! even in the gamespot's review 
 movie you could see that at certain moments the framerate dropped massively. I downloaded the new 
 driver for my vga and it didn't help! this game must have been optimized more. then comes the gameplay 
 itself. the game becomes so easy at some points and that sucks the whole fun out of it. at higher 
 levels the gameplay might get repetitive since you will just have to capture a point and defend 
 it untill you are told to do otherwise or just go to some place and kill the bad guys. the story 
 is so great though, it can emotionally touch you at points too.
  when you get a game like bioshock or even warcraft and play them, you have the feeling that you 
 are playing a 9. x rated game, but it's not the same with the World In Confilict 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict has finally came out for the PC. World in Conflict has a single player that will 
 break your heart. The Soviet Union was about to go to Econnimical calapse but in World in Conflict 
 they dont. In World in Conflict the Soviet Union evades Europe and the berlin wall doesn't fall. 
 Here is the bad part the invade the United States. So you have two super power military foghting 
 on U. S. Soil. The story is they invade the U. S. and the National Guard fails to stop them. I really 
 dont want to spoil the story for you. You are going to have to get it for your self and find out. 
 So thats the single player but the multiplayer is a little different. You probley have played the 
 part of the multiplayer in the two betas or the demo. If you haven't you are in for a treat. The 
 Multiplayer is 16 players joinable anytime. So if you find a game thats open it click and join. 
 The multiplayer is a blast you love to rain down fire on your enemy from your squad or you can 
 use your tatical aid. What tatical aid is firepower that you dont control you can only set a target. 
 Stuff like napelm, Attilery, carpet bomb, and my favorite the tatical nuke. The graphics in World 
 in Conflict is amazing. Everything is destroyable and its just a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lapogo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  After playing the DEMO online countless times I was already immersed with the game's system and 
 immediately grabbed a copy as soon as it released. The beautiful creation of the game's graphics 
 does a great job in presenting battles really well and the attention to detail is just remarkable 
 even to the smallest infantry. Airstrikes, Ballistic Strikes, &amp; most especially the Nuclear 
 strike visuals are quite a marvel to see which also creates a grey like atmosphere depicting a 
 hazardous environmental zone.
  
  The game offers more than just visual eye candy, &amp; effects as each unit has its own unique 
 uses and set of abilities. Unlike most RTS where micromanaging bases, creating units from each 
 structure, and gathering resources was the key, The game uses requisition points which regenerate 
 over time and ceases once the maximum limit of units in the field has been reached. Commanding 
 these few units you have on the field either by taking cap points, aiding your allies, or destroying 
 enemy units makes this game take you straight into the action rather than spending time gathering 
 resources 1st to build up a formidable battle force. Now the game's camera is in free look which 
 practically controls similar to 1st person shooter games. It allows players to see whats going 
 on in the Battlefield even in the farthest reaches of the map, which is especially useful in spotting 
 hidden artillery units. However despite this advanced feature some players may find it annoying 
 and prefer the standard top perspective view like most RTS games.
  
  The only visible flaw probably the game has is the fact that all factions in the game don't offer 
 much variety as the US, Soviet and NATO forces have very similar units which probably only have 
 small differences in their artillery, but yet it barely damages the game's fun factor as it practically 
 balances the game making it a competitive game that can hopefully make it in cyber competitions 
 and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: za_wanted
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  for me the sound and graphics r the masterpiece, the sound is very really, i finish the game in 
 2 days isnt hard, but is very attractive
  9.5 is the best mark, cuz he entered in the list of 95''-2000 year.. is a very good game
  is 
 the 2nd world game... is cool and inovate
  and for ppl whos sad IS NOT A RTS .... the game is a REALLY RTS!!! cuz u cont have to build... u 
 have to call for rainforcement, to bambard and attack, this is real RTS!
  Another game is Company of Heroes.. is 2 ool game like WiC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xb0Xer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning of playing it, it was very easy to grasp the controls and get right into it, 
 the story line is very well created and thought up, makes you wonder why there never was a movie 
 before the game.. Which is a good thing because of the bad movie to game mock ups now a days... 
 But all i can say is if your a hardcore gamer the game will last you 10 hours or maybe alittle 
 more on easy.... it gets intense through the whole game so you always at the edge of your chair 
 shooting up the commies. All that is just on the single player, i haven't played the retail of 
 the multi-player but after trying the beta of the games multi-player i can't expect nothing but 
 greatness.. so if you love Intense RTS war games and wanna trying something new other then FPS 
 war games this is the game to be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRooskie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Then again; it is difiicult to place this game onto the genre RTS. While it's hard to describe 
 what puts this game into it's own genere, perhaps it will be best to describe what the game does 
 best. World in Conflict places you, a Lieutenant in the US Armed Forces named Parker, in the midst 
 of World War 3. While many RTS's place thier titles in the near future, Massive Entertainment has 
 aptly set the stage for WiC in an alternate reality where the Cold War went from a major economic 
 struggle to all out fire fight. The sides? In WiC campaign you will command the battlefield as 
 Lieutenant Parker, a seemingly one dimensional character, on all fronts and wage war against Communist 
 Russia in 1989. While the campaign does not have a Russian story-line, all of that muss will be 
 made up for in WiC's multiplayer companion as you have the option to play as NATO, the United States 
 or the Soviets. Voice acting in the campaign is top-notch featuring voice talent such as Alec Baldwin. 
 As you continue through the 14 missions you somehow cannot help but to feel compelled about the 
 other characters fate. This games single-player has real depth to it, and is almost a little strange 
 when you go from a beautiful pre-rendered cinematic, to the birds eye view of a scorched wasteland. 
 In any case, you will discover that this is an excellent balance of storytelling and raw gameplay. 
 By far one of the best RTS campaigns I have had the honor of enjoying. As far as the gameplay is 
 concerned, it is flawless. Each role, Support, Infantry, Air, and Armor, has a seamless balance 
 to it, and if you know your way around the boards, it isn't difficult to dominate with any class. 
 Each role comes equipped with it's own unique units for different tactics and strategy. And of 
 course you can take any of these units and mix and match them for whatever the current situation 
 calls upon. Your units getting harassed by Heavy Helicopters? Bring up some reinforcements capable 
 of shooting those sorry asses out of the sky... that'll teach em'. When each game starts you get 
 a set number of reinforcement points, which are used for purchasing units. Whenever your units 
 get picked off your reinforcement points will automatically be replenished. This provides for unfettered 
 gameplay. Unlike other RTS's you wont have to bother with scrambling to resources around the board 
 so u can purchase units and buildings. This isn't Sim-City, this is war!!!
  
  The graphics to this game are stunning. The DX10 is well utilized and definitely shows when it 
 is enabled (For those Vista Users out there) . You can really zoom in on an any individual unit 
 and make out the seam in their tactical vest. Or pan out and witness the incredible draw distance, 
 complemented by one of the most dynamic sky-boxes I have ever seen. The shadows of clouds scurry 
 across the landscape, sun rays pour in from the heavens upon scorched earth. I know it all sounds 
 like poetry but when you finally see your first tactical nuke detonation... I'm sure you will know 
 what I mean. Bottom-line, the game is gorgeous, and almost every GFX setting imaginable can be 
 modified even for low-end users. On my final note: I never liked RTS's. The last one I played seriously 
 was C&amp; C: Red Alert... yeah. If you even own a Half dencent PC, I strongly recommend picking 
 this one up no matter what preference of gaming you come from. I'm all about FPS's, never really 
 strayed away from them, but World in Conflict was just my cup o' tea... son. Yeah, that didn't 
 really come out the way i wanted it too. Pick this Frickin' game up!
  
  Side note: The only reason I put a 9.5 there and not a 10 was for the x-value in that slight chance 
 that a massive exploit is discovered that ruins the content of this game to whatever extent. (Like 
 lean walking in Rainbow Six 3) (For whoever knows about that bs) (Okay, I'm done reviewing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dpdp8887
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is an action game wrongly named as a RTS. The camera control sucks. The game developer 
 should learn it from Company of Heroes.
  
  In single player game that I tried, you can do very little to change the result of the game. The 
 units respawn all the times and what you need to do is to move the units from the drop zone to 
 the fighting area. You only have 4-5 units in control, and you need to use their special skills 
 to kill enemy faster. You also need to make use of the tactical aid points and the fire support. 
 But that's it. The game requires too much micro-management and too little strategies. That's why 
 I would rather call it as an action game.
  
  When playing the single player game, I feel like I am watching a movie, and the storyline goes 
 on as I completed one objective after another. But I don't feel I am playing a game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict (PC) Review World in Conflict is simply one of the best RTS games I have ever 
 played. The gameplay feels new and innovative, many features not seen in other games. Graphics 
 are simply superb... best in any RTS... EVER.
  
  PROS:
  - RTS Graphics King
  - Innovative Gameplay
  - Fun Gameplay
  - Easy to get into, hard to master
  - Great single 
 player campaign
  - Great multiplayer
  
  CONS:
  - Hefty PC requirements
  - Requires a really good PC to run at 30FPS at high
  - Needs STATE OF THE ART PC to run this 
 game at MAX and steady framerate
  - Cheesy voice acting
  - Main Menu could be better This is simply a game that shouldn't be missed. The graphics alone 
 make this game worth getting, the explosions are more realistic than in any game I have played 
 in 2007. The gameplay is very easy to get into and learn... but very very difficult to master.
 
  
  I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME TO ANYONE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbryant
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I've read the negative reviews and a few of the positive ones. Look, if you're in search of a game 
 that encompasses all potential aspects of modern combat on the battlefield, then join the Army 
 or Marines. You're not going to find a computer game that can capture all of what you're looking 
 if that's your complaint. There are just too many variables that cannot be effectively recreated 
 on a PC or game console. If, on the other hand, you're a fan of RTS and have the bonus trait of 
 being a Cold War vet like me (USMC) , then you will be drawn to this game and, in my opinion, you 
 won't be disappointed. It's the movie that we wanted, but was never made, and you get to play a 
 role in it. The balloon has gone up. Enjoy the game for what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midfingr
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  When I read and watched GameSpot's review of World in Conflict, I immediately downloaded the demo. 
 My first impressions were that this game is worth purchasing. However, after the first couple of 
 objectives, I noticed quiet a number of things that were taken from different games. There was 
 a similarity to C&amp; C Red Alert 2, ala Russia vs. the U. S., then the holding and drop points 
 were very close to a favorite game of mine, Ground Control II. The comic book style scenes were 
 akin to Max Payne.
  
  In saying this, I felt let down, because the game looked great on the surface, but turned out to 
 be just another cookie cutter production. As for the voice acting, I found it to be immature, scripted 
 like a Saturday morning cartoon, not at all like a military operation being threatened by annihilation. 
 The pace of the game play didn't seem to flow very well, as orders were given amongst meaningless 
 conversations, I couldn't tell if there was an objective or just more dialog. In the end, I quickly 
 became bored and had no desire to continue playing.
  
  The plus sides of the game are the graphics, which are very well done as are the audio portions. 
 The tutorial, for me, was the best part of the game, being very well thought out, giving you a 
 sense of great things to come. I liked the camera controls and flat top drop map. However, the 
 military unit icons in the drop menu seemed to be an after thought and not very intuitive. Your 
 allied units were sometimes a distraction, not in a strategic way, rather more of an annoyance, 
 getting in the way, adding to the confusion and frustration.
  
  A couple of notes to the game publishers. I noticed two things that I feel are unnecessary and 
 consider these to by a no sale point for me. One is the instance of publishers using problematic 
 copy protection, in this case SecuROM. A person only has to visit a few forums to see the frustrations 
 placed upon the customer, it really makes no sense.
  
  The second beef I have about they way this game was published is Dynamic In-game Advertising, where 
 ads are pumped from a server in to the game in real time. I find this to be intrusive and an insult 
 to the consumer. I could understand if these games were free, but to purchase a game only to be 
 invaded by Ford or Burger King, is not my idea of a good business practice, it's pretty sneaky 
 in fact.
  
  With that said, it's up to the individual to decide, but it's not to my liking. As for the game, 
 good graphics, sound, and tutorial, but the main part of the game seems to be rehashed from other 
 classic titles, with some executive decisions I can live without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keycodewanted
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  great campaign and excellent multi player get this game now good graphics and storyline its amazing 
 when a nuke blows every thing buts its annoying that all your tanks got hit but you get refunded 
 for every thing you lose its amazing you see hundred of soviet tanks but cool if you hit them with 
 artillery everything amazing in this game this is truly a next gen game the smoke is also great 
 if you have a helicopter you can see the dust and everthings like todays milatary but sometimes 
 there are hicups in the game if your pc cant handle it but you can still lower the graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apsalus
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Go download the demo, NOW. Without a doubt the greatest strategy multi-player experience I have 
 EVER had. I have only been playing the demo, but World in Conflict is already my favorite strategy 
 game of all time. If you have any doubts, before buying this game try out their demo at this website 
 (contains both single and multi-player aspects) . While it's downloading, you can burn time and 
 read this review. Briefly, here's a introduction into the game. The USSR invades the United States 
 on it's home turf: the cold war has turned into a hot war. You choose to play as the Russians or 
 the Americans and fight for your country. What makes this game so good? Let's start with the gameplay. 
 There is no more boring ore digging, no more annoying city construction, no need to wait 5 minutes 
 while you build a sizable army. It's just pure, unadulterated violence. You don't need to be an 
 economist anymore, you don't need to be a miner, you don't need to be a city planner or civil engineer... 
 the only thing you need to be in this game is a really good MILITARY COMMANDER. And that profession 
 is a lot more fun than any of the rest. So, how does this translate into game play? It means that 
 the fun starts in the first 30 seconds of a multi player match, not in the first 10 minutes. You 
 get a few units to start out with, send them towards the enemy and if you win you get even more 
 units to add to your growing horde. Of course there is a unit cap, so that even if you loose the 
 opening skirmish and your opponent has a larger army you can quickly bounce back by ordering up 
 different units to counter your opponent. Here we reach the greatest strategic element of the game: 
 the 4 different types of units. While you play a commander in this game, you can only play as one 
 of 4 different types of commanders: infantry commander, tank commander, helicopter commander, and 
 artillery commander. That means that even if you are good, you'll still never be able to win alone. 
 For example, even if you have five heavy tanks (strongest ground unit in the game, capped at 5 
 units per commander) you can still be potentially chopper raped by a rookie helicopter commander. 
 That is, unless you cooperate with your artillery commander buddy who can build anti-air platforms 
 that shoot heat seeking missiles at enemy choppers and take them out in 3 seconds. Don't forget 
 though, anti-air platforms are vulnerable to tanks, and tanks are also vulnerable to infantry in 
 houses... I hope you're starting to see the tactical aspect. Not only is the strategy fun, it's 
 actually REALISTIC. For instance, your tanks are vulnerable from the rear but nearly indestructible 
 from the front. That's the other wonderful thing about World in Conflict: everything in this game 
 is built to scale and rendered in jaw-dropping 3D. You don't even need to have DirectX10; I only 
 have DirectX9 and my eyes still glaze over as I see the chaotic beauty of battle unfold. The learning 
 curve is very short to get into the game, but it can take days to master the different types of 
 roles. It took me a week just to understand how to correctly use infantry, but now that I do my 
 enemies will never engage me in an urban setting again. Yeah sure anybody can play choppers, but 
 how do you maximize their effectiveness? After all, they can't even capture enemy command points 
 (circular areas you need to control in order to win) . But units are just part of the game; the 
 second important tool you have at your disposal is tactical aid. With TA, you can call for tank 
 busters, napalm, air strikes, paratroopers, nuclear missiles, etc directly onto the field of battle. 
 You get TA points for successfully capturing command points, destroying enemy units, and doing 
 other useful tasks. The game design is also perfect. For instance, you can immediately tell whether 
 the USSR or the US is winning just by looking at the domination bar : if the red flag dominates 
 this bar, then the Russians are winning. If old glory is flying overhead, that means the Americans 
 are ahead. You can literally glance the tide of the battle in a millisecond. This game is just 
 so well designed. Let me talk a little bit more about the two factions. One of the criticisms about 
 this game is that there are only 2 sides, and they both have the same units (that the differences 
 are just cosmetic) . In other words, it's not like Starcraft. I would respond by saying that there 
 are actually FOUR factions in this game: infantry, tanks, artillery, and choppers. They are each 
 very different to play. So in that respect, there are even more factions than in Starcraft (which 
 has only 3) ! The fact that there are 2 countries fighting with nearly identical war machines just 
 means that you can quickly switch from one team to another without having to relearn the whole 
 game. The last and arguably the most fun aspect of this game is team play. Because of the way this 
 game is set up, you will need to effectively communicate with teammates in order to win. For instance, 
 if you're being overrun with tanks, ask your helicopter buddy for an air assault, or your infantry 
 teammate for a few spare anti-tank soldiers. You might be the best commander in the land, but without 
 teamwork you still won't win. (In fact this has happened to me: once I was the best player and 
 racked up the most points, but my team still lost) . Thankfully, the ladder ranking doesn't care 
 about whether your team wins, just how many points you get. That doesn't punish you if you only 
 end up with noobs on your team. Sierra Entertainment (makers of Homeworld) is not your typical 
 RTS game designer. Homeworld was a groundbreaking landmark in the video game industry: it was the 
 first game to successfully make a space RTS in full 3D. Homeworld spawned a slew of knockoff games, 
 the latest of which will be the upcoming Sins of a Solar Empire. Now Sierra has turned the RTS 
 market upside down again with World in Conflict. You'd be crazy not to play this new revolutionary 
 war strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowolf_12
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Well I have played some pre release versions of WIC and I did have some tech problems to start 
 out with, but if you tweak your advanced graphic settings, it soon becomes AMAZING!
  
  The game not only throws you right into the combat and keeps you in it but the combat is intence 
 and mind blowing. Some times I have to just sit back in my chair press F10 (Closes all other things 
 around screen, including mini map and stuff) and just watch the amazing battle taking place.
  
  Im pretty sure if you have a decent computer you should be able to run this game, considering 
 I have a radeon X1650, 1gig of ram, and a P-D 2.66 and I can succefully run game at about medium 
 levels and I am still tweaking it to see how much I can get out of it. The single player campain: 
 For as much as I'v played (like 1/4 of it) It kicks some major butt and makes the game fun and 
 realistic to play. It convinces me of this tradgey and how it should be succefully fought of the 
 commies.
  
  Mulitiplayer:  Well........................ Im speechless and 
 you will be too whaen you expeirence one of those perfectly balenced multi player battles where 
 it is the most intence thing you've seen in a game, Tactical nukes going off all over the place, 
 air stikes, napalm, helecoptors stafing chargeing infintry. Ya and there are plenty of maps to 
 choose between, like they need them beacuse with the pre release versions i was content with one 
 map for hours, just because every battle and combination of players makes for a diffrent battle 
 each time. Combine this with like 20 maps........ Ya I'm ganna be playing this FOREVER! (or atleast 
 tell a expanxion come out or something lol)
  
  All in all this is an awesome game with everything needed to make a Awesome RTS game. (Finnaly) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightsoul_1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  I play games since Xmas of 1984, and I can tell you WiC is a new milestone in gaming history.
 
  Wonderful graphics, breathtakin' explosions, complete freedom on the battlefield, top notch storyline 
 and inspirin' voice actin make this game a winner and let it enter the Olympus of Games, just beside 
 games like BF2, System Shock 2, Sid Meyer's Alpha Centauri.
  The single player mode is great with its fantasctic cutscenes and well written storyline: it really 
 represents how would have been the 3rd world war in the 80s if happened.
  But remember that this game really shines in multiplayer: there are no better multiplayer games 
 on the market at the moment.
  Do yourself a favour and go buy World in Conflict. You'll have an unforgettable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jertsy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  This is my first mini review, or comment I've made on any game. I'm not a hardcore strat gamer, 
 tbh I don't even play online. But this is a truly great game. The graphics and atmosphere set this 
 game apart from a lot of others. Any person giving this a &gt;=3.0 is just being stupid, and somewhat 
 erratic. My only gripe, from a person that plays only the single player, is that there is not enough 
 levels, and not that much replayability. Still, I might just try on-line with this game and see 
 how I fair. But even with these slight deficiencies this game deserves nothing less than an 8.5 
 from a single players PoV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drew232
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict was an eargerly awaited game and Vivendi Studios certainly delivered with stunning 
 graphics and amazing gameplay.
  
  Red Alert loyalists will surely recognise the over-used story about the Red Army invading North 
 America, with a smal group of Americans leading a counter-attack to eventually topple the Soviet 
 war machine.
  
  despite the bland story-line the gameplay is revolutionary. World In Coflict doesn't use the mainstream 
 build-a-base mechanics, instead it focuses on the fighting side of RTS. The brilliant single-player 
 campaign is only beaten by the solid multiplayer experience.
  
  The graphics in World in Conflict are amazing, whilst still being able to hold a decent frame rate 
 on systems wich only just make the minimum requirements. The effects from acts such as calling 
 in a napalm strike or blowing up houses are absoulutely breathtaking.
  
  Even with the dried-up story, World In Conflict is definitely the best game of 2007 so far. This 
 game is a must-have for any RTS Veteran. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalay_BG
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  At firstly it was grate game . Lets start with the story , heard it so many times , the all-mighty 
 Americans againts the bad mother Russia , man thats so boooring . The single-player was interesting 
 in the first missions but after some time i felt the game way too easy . And never mind they are 
 enough missions the game is easy and that make it short and boring . Multiplayer was great ... 
 at first . But all the matches are the same and there is no real difference between the units of 
 both sides . Also the names of the units are stupid , American heavy tank ?? wtf thats stupid . 
 I've liked the voice acting and the graphics / they are stunning if you have a pc for more than 
 5000$ / . Btw so many bombs , thats **** stupid . The Russians dont use any special skills or any 
 kind of air support , they just rush ?? The AI is really stupid some time they stuck . The Infantry 
 is not very usable , i didnt liked that they cant enter in the buildings to clear the enemy forces 
 . they are justing shooting at the building . No Skrimish .
  The game has the style of GC2 , but not implented very well . I really enjoy GC2 more , at least 
 i can play it at max graphics without buying a pc for so much money . Good game , must try it but 
 too many cons . I expected much more . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flameboy118
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  like others, i had high hopes for this game. The tutorial made it look very cool. But after actually 
 playing the game, i realise that theres nothing here.
  
  I mean 'a great multiplayer experiance' goes like this
  
  1. choose a drop zone nearest to 
 where the battle is happening
  2. drop as many units as you can there (the most units you will be controlling is probably around 
 4 if you dont count infrantrymen)
  3. move them into the battlefield
  4. have little control over them, as they kill or be killed in a 'too fast' blur of shooting (you 
 dont even know which ones your units are, let alone use them to any good)
  THERE REALLY ISNT A LOT TO YOU CAN DO TO INFLUENCE WHAT YOUR GUYS ARE DOING. IN MOST RTSs, YOU 
 CHOOSE WHAT UNITS TO BUILD, WHICH BUILDING TO BUILD, AND MUCH MORE. IN THIS TERRIBLE GAME, YOU 
 SIMPLY SEND YOU UNITS IN THERE AND TRY TO CLICK ON THE 'TOO SMALL' ENEMIES FOR THEM TO FIRE AT. 
 BUT ESSENTIALLY, YOU DO NOTHING TO INFLUENCE THE BATTLE. YOU JUST CLICK ON THE UNITS TO BUILD ( 
 IF YOURE PLAYING ARMOR, THEN ITS 3 HEAVY TANKS, IF YOURE AIR 3 HEAVY CHOPPERS ETC) AND DIRECT THEM 
 TO WHERE THE FIGHTING IS.
  
  ITS TERRIBLE!!!
  
  i can see that it has good production values, great cutscenes and good graphics, but it might as 
 well just be a movie for all that you influence the online mode
  
  And can i just say, WELL DONE RTSFANATIC FOR YOUR 1.5/10 REVIEW SAYING ' THERE IS NO GAME HERE' 
 YOU COULDNT BE MORE RIGHT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roonekoos
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  You have to think carefully within this game and use your troops on the right places. You have 
 great air support that gives it an extra exploding thrill :) . The opponent is strong but if your 
 using your troops well it can be done easally. The grafics are great and the sound is perfect. this 
 game will give you a lot of hours of playing fun and it is a promise you won't get bored (there 
 is simply no time for when playing :P) . You have to use a stong pc with enough memory at least 1,5 
 gig and a very strong videocard to enjoy this amazing game.
  Greetings Ronald (holland) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doriko11
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  I dont really like this game. this game is not so good in his genre. i mean, i played the demo 
 and the controlls were sucks. you cant even controll your units - you see the war and do nothing. 
 I think there are better games then this game like Warhammer and more. Ihwg anyway, if you want 
 a good RTS game try another game. i tryed the demo and it sucked. maybe its because its the demo, like 
 Age of empire's demo. My words.. dor. Try company or heroes or another game. but i didnt try the full 
 game yet. The game is confusing - you cant take controll or use Left or right mouse button for units, but 
 again, maybe because its the demo version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistwraithe
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  I find it amazing that a few people have stated this is the Best RTS Ever . Maybe the person who 
 gave it a 10 and said it Redefinded the RTS genre actually had it right... in that it made it impossible 
 to find the RTS genre any more.
  
  Because this isn't RTS. There is no broad sweep. It is battle management pure and simple. The closest 
 it gets to strategy is troop selection but given how quickly you can rebuild your entire army with 
 a different composition when you lose it (and you will lose it) even this barely counts as strategy.
 
  
  I can see why some people like the game. It has fast paced action and micromanaging your forces 
 correctly can make a difference. But if you want a game where actually thinking and making good 
 strategic decisions under pressure is the key to victory then pass (try something like Kohan 1 
 or 2, Total Annihilation or even at a pinch Supreme Commander) .
  
  WiC is merely pretending to be an Real Time STRATEGY game and I'm disappointed the Gamespot review 
 failed to make the distinction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmflood1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is very good! BUY IT NOW! I just finished beating the game about an hour ago. The 
 game is about 10-12 hours long. It is better than most RTC games I have played this year, and World 
 in Conflict storyline is the best, hands down. It is actually fun and not tedious like a normal 
 RTC, no resource gathering! THANK YOU Sierra game developers! Very fun, top notch graphics, and 
 I don't know what more I could want! It is worth buying that is for sure! Multiplayer is also ok, 
 but I really haven't gotten into it that much, since I keep losing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrome_carbonxs
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  its really a fantastic game. i've played such a marvelous game after a very long time. and i really 
 liked it.
  all the strategies were excellent, i mean i don't have words to express it. i like it so much :)
 
  i really like to thank Sierra &amp; Massive for this Os-um release.
  its really good to have such kind of games after a long time and i am really enjoying palying it.
 
  Those guys who haven' t played it yet, atleast download the demo, and see yourself that what a 
 great effort its made.........
  i think it is one of the greatest game that i've ever played....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travder
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is a great game, pure and simple. It's Campaign is thrilling and exciting stuff, 
 and game play is fun too master. It's Company of Heroes combined with Codename: Panzers set in 1980-90's
 
  
  You don't have massive amounts of control over your units like in Company of Heroes, but the core 
 game is different, especially as its more fast paced action you can enjoy it in a hurry, and don't 
 need to get stuck with serious tactical situations. you get objectives, and you aim too please. 
 When the story line has characters like this, you really can get enticed into the campaign. its 
 not just mission after mission, but there is actually a storyline to follow.
  
  I have noticed you never really get too see yourself though, (you are acting as a in game lieutenant 
 named parker ) you never get too see his (your) face, which i find rather intriguing :)
  
  it's very graphically intense however, and you WILL need a rather top-of-the-line PC in order too 
 play it at its full potential,
  
  I have a Pentium D 3GHz (dual Core) processor, running Vista Home Premium
  2GB of kingston DDR2 
 RAM
  and a ASUSGeforce8600GTS graphics card, and i can only just run it on High detail with average 
 frames per second.
  
  and my PC is only 3 days old. So i wouldn't like too see it on a even slightly out-of-date PC.
 
  
  Even though it requires heaps, it sure delivers when you can play it. Although it could probably 
 do a bit better with the DirectX10 that is available to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeStarkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a rts like that before, the story line is great and suck you in, it has a great 
 multiplayer and the outstanding graphics and envirovment makes this game one of the best rts game 
 I have ever played. World in Conflict may involve a total revolution in rts games to date. Its 
 very easy to play (great game play and camera managing) , and it has a real strategy content. Multiplayer 
 is also revolutionary IMO, and has a lot of potential. Its actually funny and inmersive. Im sure 
 we will talk long about this game. You must try it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ministerpaul
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is a blast from the past and ahead of its time. Too keep this review simple I 
 put it in the form of pros and cons and conclusion.
  
  PROS
  
  --- State of the Art graphics... Smoke and Fire look real in every explosion which is accurate to 
 the physics of each ordinance. The only thing missing are the smells.
  
  --- The sound effects are very realistic and change in volume depending on proximity. The nuclear 
 explosions are frightening and spectacular. The constant radio chatter adds to the chaos of war.
 
  
  --- The control are fluid and very responsive as unit usually obey your every command.
  
  --- The gameplay is superb and should increase with mods and expansion packs.
  
  CONS
 
  
  --- Maps are small compared to Battlefield 2142 leaving little time for planning and strategy. 
 It's either fight or die. This makes scout unit pretty useless... unless searching for artillery 
 location and troop movement.
  
  --- Players use of foul language and obscenities goes unchecked in multi player games and must 
 be addressed quickly. This would not be tolerated on a Battlefield 2142 server.
  
  --- No single player skirmish game to help newbies get used to controls and form strategies for 
 multi player games.
  
  --- The balance of units are off and favor attack choppers. Anti-air missile have an unrealistically 
 difficult time shooting them down.
  
  Conclusion World in Conflict is a superb RTS game that should be around for a while. But the word 
 Massive is an overstatement that should be reserved for the Massive King Battlefield 2142. With 
 some descent mods and expansion paks WIC could become King of the Hill in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghettoness23
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly DoneAmazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly DoneAmazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly 
 Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly Done, Amazingly  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DietCool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Everything about the game is amazing, the graphics-beautiful, the balancing-wonderful, the story-my 
 favorite, the units really do reflect he tech at the time. If you are looking for a game to hold 
 you till the 2008 holiday season, let it be this game! Glad to see Sierra finally getting back 
 into RTS with such a strong showing! ruly spectacular, the only bugs or glitches I've experienced 
 so far are with ants crawling on my food and some slight typos in the subtitles.
  Hooray! War is FUN! BTW if there are any clans looking for experienced rts players, come check 
 me out, I'm a Scot so the whole clan thig was kind of our idea :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acemasta21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  1. addictive
  
  2. no lag multiplayer
  
  3. long story line
  
  4. great story line
  
  5. amazing storyline!!
  
  6. destruction i havent seen since mercs hjd fjdsfk sf jhsfej fejf 
 j j f ejf es eskjfh ekjfhejkfhekjsfhkje fekh fekj hf eh kjeh fekjsh fekjfh ekj hfekj hfgkj hfekjh 
 fgkjeh fkj fhjh fkjehfkejfhejfheriurhiugh ru g g erihgrughrughdkjfhdklsfnkjl esfhu rw hruofh ruofh 
 ru ghhgruogh roghrowu gherou ghu ghruoehg erough eruoigh rieugh roufh osgh rkg ore ghuoh reuogh 
 roo giorwhwgiohriog hreogh ough rw guoh uhwroug 
 
  
  just filling the blanks a a a a a a a a a a a a 0a a akj akj hia gig aig ah oag o`h agh aiuag u 
 ahga u aug aoig ag yag yg ayu guag ayu aug yuag yua o ay a aug aggahga gogu nfrnr rr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbirchse
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I was upset to find that the lackluster entertainment value discovered in the demo was an ideal 
 representation of the final product.
  
  There are no tactics, no mission planning or problems to solve. Simply hours of annoying radio 
 chatter and an aggressive invasion methodology which escapes any believable scenario for realistic 
 urban combat.
  
  Its a pretty game that holds some marginal multiplayer value for friends at a LAN game which are 
 bored with traditional FPSs. I would buy the game for half of what it shelved for opening day. 
 Unfortunately, its too late and I have bought it at full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbsy
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 21, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  First off I have to say the game is probably one of the worst games I've ever played. I hate it 
 with a passion. The game is bereft of anything compelling. The game also runs really badly on a 
 4600+ X2 with an 8800GTS - pathetic optimisation. The Gamespot review got my hopes up for a great 
 game but the review is so biased it's scary. Normally I agree with Gamespot but they have missed 
 the mark badly with this game. Combat is tedious and uninspired, voice acting is good but who cares 
 about the clich&eacute; d storyline? Dreadful stuff. I returned the game to the store and got a 
 full refund. Worst game of the year. Enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COUTUDAC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  The Cold War has been a major part of my life from kissing my ass good bye under my desk at school 
 to realizing just how fragile the times were. World in Conflict create a panorama of how things 
 were and how volatile they could be. Game play is similar to the joint chiefs of staff war game 
 on a micro level. The imagination and the interaction force a cause for pause in the hectic pace 
 of life. The ability to understand and each individual element of the razor edge of single units 
 molded into squads and Pattlions to form companies and battalions Growing and learning has defied 
 the imaginations of most that have come into contact with me. Ive always enjoyed the search and 
 the quest for new ways and ideas. World in Conflict simulates combat on all levels the physics 
 of the graphics engine take us to the battle and fore us to do the intelligence work to know how 
 to win each battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malkavain4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  The game is just amazing to play, very fast paced and addictive. My only problem is that even though 
 my rig meets the requirements I keep having to Alt-Tab in and out to get the game to reload its 
 resources to get rid of the God Rays and other graphical oddities that appear. Now that all the 
 bad stuff i have to say is out of the way let me say that the game play is addictive, I have a 
 hard time making myself stop playing. The audio and sound effects are perfect and the story is 
 engrossing, feels like Red Storm Rising with a twist. As soon as Massive gets the graphic problem 
 solved this game is worthy of a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku_of_Nite1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this short, but sweet. WiC is probably one of the best RTS or RTT if you wish game out 
 there. The game strips away the dirt farming found in other games of the series, and improves upon 
 everything else. The story is first class, sure it seems a little far fetched, but if you realize 
 that the Cold War could have turned out this way, it really makes you think. Online play for this 
 game is rock solid, and really addictive. A lot of people though mainly falls of Company of Hero's 
 have been knocking this game for some reason. But don't believe what they say. Trust me this game 
 is really great. Even if you are not a fan of RTS games you should still check this game out. It 
 is a true breath of fresh air to a otherwise stale genre.
  
  As a guy who started playing RTS with Dune II, I must say this game really delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Wow, i have been playing this game since the 2 betas. and have seen the progression they've made. 
 Always improving upon an already amazing and spectacular game, massive has outdone themselves with 
 the final release. The story is inspirational and quite lengthy. Graphics are amazing and get better 
 as you destroy the battlefield. The destruction and ground deformation system adds depth and difficulty 
 to the battles. Multiplayer is team oriented and with the right mix of roles, a superior army with 
 numbers can be overcome quite easily. Highly recommend this game to everyone.
  
  alk; gfhsd
  g
  \sdfg
  sdf
  gs
  fdg
  sf
  gs
  dfg
  sfg
  sefr'gnslfngsf
  gs
 
  fdgfde
  Just filling 100 words :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindlles
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  Well their is alot off ppl prasing this game, atleast all professionals are giving it awsome reviews. 
 On the player base their is some that have not figured out how to play it and bash it for being 
 to easy and boring. And not good done, and bla bla. Some off them are saying things that they actully 
 havent checked out. Witch i guess is commen in the stupid internet world we live in.
  
  Some facts
  +Grafics are some off the best off anny realsed game at this date, specilly if u 
 look at the RTS genre. This may offcurse change, but as this is written it is.
  
  +Their is a skrimish mode, alot off ppl are claming it aint, But they are wrong it is one. Its 
 just abit thucked away in the menues go to lan and u find it. and u can fight up to 8ai on that 
 .
  
  + 20 multiplayer maps have been thucked in for the realse with 3 diffrent game modes wich all are 
 a blast if u play with a good team. + Multiplayer in the begging off the realse will not be as 
 good as it will be in a couple off days really. Every realse demo/betas at the begining have abit 
 more choppy online play becouse ppl dont know how to act. that will offcurse change as said in 
 a matther off days.
  
  + 14 singelplayer maps witch are tought thrue and well writen. Not the longes singel player campagin 
 out there. But its great fun and very well writen.
  
  Then we have the fact about no station building, resourse gathering. Well their not much on that 
 part, Well the command points witch u capture become fortiefied if u hold them for a longer time 
 and act as a defense for the other part. Tho can agree that WIC is not for everybodys liking as 
 its phaste paste action and not 4hours building station and fighting ala a convational rts game.
 
  
  Tactics in online playing is a big part. But yeah its fast phaste tactics. U will have to decied 
 what to do and how to do it fast. No sitting around making up a eassy on it. Its about acting fast 
 and doing so with ur team m8ts. The tactical aid system is a threath to fun. where u can buy annything 
 from satalite reacon to nukes is a great addtion and very good balanced. And no going nuke wich 
 is most expenisve aint the way to do it everytime. The nuke can really turn the battle, but using 
 other ta can be a much better choise.
  
  It might not be a online game for u that are slowthinking and really like to build ur base and 
 attack 3 hours later. But for u that love to play a fun and addictive multiplayre rts with ur friends 
 this is a choise for u!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunder350
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Right from the beginning you are sucked into the story, with amazing graphics, and sounds. The 
 video clips makes it seem even realer! You literately are holding onto the edge of your seat while 
 watching and playing! The story of Russia invading the USA with China also seems to far to real 
 in todays world. It really makes you think with current world events. The units and buildings match 
 100% to their real counterparts. The only reason I give this a 9.5 is because the amazing story 
 isn't long enough! They could of took it further and led us into Russia/China to fight back. I 
 see a sequel coming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiNwOrM
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is a very pretty game. It's very very pretty. In fact, when fully zoomed in, 
 you can see details such as items you can order on a small texture on the side of a Burger King. 
 And you can zoom out quite far. So it is quite pretty. But how does it play?
  
  Like ass, basically. It's just boring. There's really not much to do.
  
  All you do is send 
 in units. Hope they win. If they don't, it doesn't matter, because you get all the money you used 
 on those units refunded. Then you buy them again, and send the new ones in.
  
  That's the entirety of the gameplay. That's it. That's all there is. I wish there was more folks, 
 but there isn't. You can call in things like airstrikes too, but all that is is waiting until you 
 get enough points, clicking on the airstrike, and clicking where to have it hit.
  
  There's just no fun to be found here. There's nothing to do. This review is pretty short, but that's 
 because there's so little to talk about.. The gameplay is simply lackluster and boring. The graphics 
 are fantastic however, but this game just proves that graphics don't make a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffreyCor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have seen in a long time. Is it almost perfect! The only lacking 
 area is in non-campaign play, the ability to set up a skirmish play is extremely hard to use. The 
 campaign itself though it very well done. It have great graphics, intelligent AI, and a very compelling 
 story. You really feel the situation. The controls can be a little difficult, only because you 
 have so much control. The camera is free floating so you can change from an overview down to seeing 
 the dirty, rotate and tilt all you like, and move around to see the action. The combat is fast 
 paced, but not so fast that you can't keep up with everything that is going up and direct your 
 forced accordingly. This has all the elements of a RTS with a very new way of implementing it that 
 works. If you liked the demo, you'll like the full version for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dice387
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Awesome play it and live life of destruction tatical nukes and wahat not freak all haters and have 
 fun so let loose . high replay value itll last forevr mutlipalyer rocks hahahhahahahahhahahahahha 
 awesome graphis lol lolo lol lol lol lol lol lol lo lol ol o l oo lo o l o o l o o olo lo ol ol 
 lo lo lo lo lo lo lool ol ol o ol o lo l ol o loo l olololol olo l o llol lool lol l ol llol lol 
 lo lo lo l o l ol ol o l lll o l o l olo l o l o l o l lo k oxcjn vuifb sfbv i bdbfh jksfhbajkdhvusjhdfh 
 busij hbsdu sfuvhsujvhusohcuvij vhsuocvhsuf hsiuoh suf h us fb suifvbfdu sbdfujbfu fu bsuf suf 
 usof bu suf bv su su su bsf su su s u suf uo sfu su su us u us su su dsuu so s u lolo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaphan3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game left me speechless. I just finished the Story mode less then 20 minutes ago. Anywho, 
 this game takes the cake for any RTS game out there. Ill get on to the review. xD
  
  Graphics. Wow I dont know where to start. Being a Dx10 game the graphics are as real as real gets. 
 xD. Every thing is sooo clear, and detailed. This is also the most detailed RTS I've ever played. 
 You can zoom in on your guys and see everything on their uniform, insignias, patches, EVERYTHING. 
 same goes for all the units, buildings and the surroundings (foliage etc)
  
  Sounds. If you have a kicking sound system, 7.1 or 5.1 you'll hear like you actually there. I'm 
 not lying. Everything has its own sound. You can hear your troops marching, trees swaying and whatnot. 
 Its even really interesting when you zoom in on your infantry and you hear their conversations, 
 some are quite funny. If you know your 80's music you might hear some licensed songs in there too 
 xD COUGHWhite SnakeCOUGH
  
  Gameplay. I dont really know how to put this. Perhaps, RTS on crack? Or maybe, a deathmatch styled 
 RTS? Either way this game is an uber fast paced RTS. There are 4 roles in World in Conflict (WiC) . 
 Infantry, Armor, Air and Support. Each with there own strengths and weaknesses. The multiplayer 
 portion of game is highly addicting. Trust me, once you play you'll be hooked. Its amazing. Also, 
 there is stat tracking and ranking similar to BF2. There is badges and medals and such.
  
  If you are a veteran RTS player or maybe you're new to the whole RTS thing. You have to buy this 
 game. You won't regret it, trust me. It will run on about any computer, low or high end. This game 
 sets the benchmark in RTS games similar to what Half-life did to FPS. Buy it, you wont regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  First , the graphics are very good. The cities and landscape are realistic as well as the battle 
 animations. One thing I find odd is that you may have a helicopter sitting over an enemy tank, 
 and it just sits there. You have to tell it to fire on that tank3, I was expecting it to just do 
 it like most games.
  
  For me the interface is very awkward to use. It took me forever to discover how to play against 
 the computer but not in the campaign. The option to add bots is particularly confusing, partly 
 because there is no mention of bots that I could find in the instruction manual.
  
  Creating a local server is I guess a skirmish mode. Why there isn't an obvious skirmish menu option 
 in the single player menu is beyond me, very odd.
  
  I have no interest in playing the campaign at all, in this game or any other. Campaigns are just 
 boring stories that you have to wade through. I also have no interest in playing against other 
 people in this version, when it comes to Xbox Live then maybe.
  
  What I was looking for was a game I could play against the computer in scenarios I create. But 
 of course your not allowed to, I have to pick maps that are only for certain game types that I 
 am not interested in playing. So for me this game has very little replay value. Hopefully some 
 cheat codes will come out to allow me to play it the way I want to, not the way the developer wanted 
 me to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Fade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  So World In Conflict is finally out, as i have been waiting for this game since the first trailer 
 hit the net. Here is my review for the game.
  
  First of all after the beta i was skeptic to the game, the multiplayer didn't like i that much 
 at first (probally because i sucked a** in it at the start) . But now after the demo which was just 
 owned. The game became a must buy, now after completing the Single Player campaign today. I'm just 
 about to get ready for some online a** kicking.
  
  So onto the graphics which was pretty damn sweet, all though i played at low. Since my PC is crappy, 
 i tried it at normal for a while. After what ive have seen of in game experience of the game, the 
 graphics on this game is the best out on any game to this date. Yeah and i HAVE to mention the 
 nuke because its simply some of the most awesome thing you will see inn a game EVER.
  
  The sound quality is also rather awesome, i especially liked the Norway misson , where they had 
 gotten it down to the very last detail on the language of the rangers. When the spoke English you 
 could even here the Norwegian accent. The sound is also great if you has the speakers high, the 
 first time i heard infantry fire in the tutorial i was blown away. It sounded extremly authentic, 
 it was like somebody was shooting and blowing up stuff in my own room.
  
  Now on to the gameplay which in the singleplayer was fun and variated. This is the most innovative 
 game in the RTS type games for years, and they
  manged to pull of the no base building moments. Me myself is a huge fan on the base building RTS 
 games. I never had as much fun in those games as i had with this game. Its all action, strategy 
 and intensive situations. Basically its fun as hell. Now i haven't played much of the multiplayer 
 yet since ive been busy finishing up the singleplayer. But from what i played from it in the beta 
 and demo it was fun and easy to connect. It went fast to join a server etc.
  
  Now on to the overall experience, well by starters people don't think there are alot over strategy 
 in this game because of the none base building. But i can assure there is. If you don't know the 
 right ways to play you will get chewed up en spitted out. Thanks to the developers its not hard 
 to get into the gameplay itself. And once you get it all you will garanteed have lots of fun playing 
 this game. As for the multiplayer goes for the same thing, the first times its a little boring 
 since you start out like a total noob. First you will get owned and wanna quit playing, well don't. 
 When you get good at the game, i assure you, you will love the game.
  
  This is a must for all RTS fans, most Counter-Strike and Battlefield fans might enjoy the game 
 aswell. But i sure know i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plasmaron2003
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  First the game has amazing graphics. The engine they use is one of the best. Very stable but then 
 again graphics can't make a game fun now can it?
  
  
  A lot of people are saying this is the best strategy game ever, but there is NO STRATEGY. I have 
 been looking for it for 3 days now. I have all the RTS games in my library, and this one I found 
 has the least strategy of any of them. I purchased it based on all the initial reviews. I should 
 have stopped and read the negative reviews first from people that bought the game. I find the team 
 player part frustrating. WIC does an excellent job trying to get players into games but unfortunately 
 WIC can not make people communicate. Most people won't shut up and play the game, or no one talks 
 and you lose real fast. Some people don't speak your language or don't have a mic. Then I thought 
 what PC game has ever worked where team play communication was key, unless it was with your friends? 
 ---------------
  
  People say this game immerses you into the action. If there is no defense and everyone gets troops 
 right off the bat... well duh.... Any RTS could do this. Push this button for 10 units, when they 
 die push it again. Keep doing this until you are board or win.
  
  --------------------
  
  Campaign mode was easy and a joke. Good story but it is fantasy. Cut scenes were a combination 
 of good animated cartoons to horrible drawn sketches. In Red Alert and up they had real live actors 
 in their videos, not cartoons. I think we should come to expect this.
  
  -------------------- I don't feel connected with anything going on. I'm zoomed out most of the 
 game and all I see are little dots for infantry, tiny squares for tanks. Zoomed in you see very 
 few animations with the ground units. I don't like how they take out snipers or other infantry 
 that garrison a building. Instead of shooting the sniper they shoot the building until it is destroyed. 
 In Company of Heroes you can see every little detail. They actually shoot just the sniper sure 
 you can take the building out but that takes way longer. In COH eyeballs moving. Infantry running 
 into and atop a buildings. Infantry loading weapons, infantry move out of the way when something 
 is shot at them or a bomb lands near or a vehicle tries to run them over. WIC they just sit there. 
 All the good stuff was saved for the explosions I guess. ---------------------
  
  Most RTS use a system of collecting resources, base building, investing into various technologies, 
 upgrading units. All these different options will create a constantly changing evolving game. No 
 two games alike. WIC takes all this away. What you are left with is , is EXACTLY what your enemy 
 has. Same choice and same number of units. WIC does not allow you to build a large attacking force. 
 Instead you start off with 2 units, maybe a tank and 6 infantry men. That's it. Then they feed 
 you very slowly more points to get more units. Depending on the game, lets say multiplayer you 
 will get about 4 to 8 units tops depending on what units you chose. Tanks cost more then infantry 
 and you are only allowed 6000 total points. Since tanks cost 1200 you can see you get very little. 
 Heavy artillery cost 1900. You also have to pick a class, which mean if you chose infantry you 
 don't get to pick a Hilo's or tanks. You do get a option for a weak tank and weak Hilo's but those 
 suck if you go against any heavy unit. -------------------- Most RTS build their game around a 
 good Skirmish play. This game decided not to. You do get one option in Skirmish play that allows 
 you to get all the units available in this game at your finger tips but you have to give up how 
 many players you can play against. You still only get 16,000 points which mean roughly 10 tanks, 
 two helicopters, one anti -air and two infantry. That's it at best. They only give you 2000 points 
 to start with and feed you points over the entire game which takes a very long time to get to 16000. 
 Very lame. Once you accumulate enough points from occupying a capture area you can order in all 
 kinds of ordinates. Normally the more powerful stuff like nukes take quite a while. Regardless 
 once your dead from a nuke just click a button and instantly you have them running back to that 
 spot without penalty.
  
  ------------------
  
  Really what this comes down to is how fast you can react to the situation at hand. You will die, 
 and die, and die. For instance if you get killed by 6 helicopters, you just click a button, order 
 3 anti air vehicle and go right back and kill him, He will then return with 6 tanks to wipe you 
 out, and you soon find yourself just playing rock, paper scissors. Its sad there is no penalty 
 for dying. If you have good team mates they can help you out that is until the enemy decides to 
 drop a nuke or carpet bomb you. Another amazing thing Massive forgot or left out is a way to shoot 
 down planes that are coming to blow you up. Sometimes you will see twenty planes flying around 
 but no option to attack planes that plan to drop ordinates on your location. You can not defend 
 your location at all. If you sit still or camp you will die. You also get know advantage for adding 
 infantry into vehicles like most RTS. You units have special abilities that YOU must micro manage. 
 Which can be very time consuming since most of the time you are zoomed out. They should have a 
 button to automatic control these abilities. No need for me to zoom down, select the unit, Hit 
 I and then click on a tank to use a anti-tank weapon. He should do this on a timer automatically.
 
  ------------------
  
  Massive seems content on everyone dying over and over with no way to defend your position. It does 
 not matter how good you are if its your time your dead. There really is no way to strategically 
 get an advantage. Team work is key since you might have all rocks and need some scissors to help 
 you out. Even if you use long range Artillery from and Artillery tank, Artillery shoots in a way 
 that it alerts everyone on the map where it is coming from. Again NO hiding once fired. -----------------
 
  
  I really dislike a game that does not let me out think my competitor or gain an advantage by cutting 
 of his resources or letting me get the right technology to win a decisive victory. You will never 
 have a overwhelming force to win game. So few ways to really win. Same game over and over. Massive 
 wants this game to appeal to people that like to be thrown into the action. No base building or 
 collection resources. You can not get a tactical advantage by developing better technologies. You 
 can not defend your positions or try to counteract a plane coming in with a nuke. In fact there 
 is no way of wining unless you like to die over and over and being the fastest player back to a 
 set spot with the right rock, paper or scissors. If you can get rid of all the little immature 
 kids online then maybe you could have some good online games, yet what game have you ever played 
 that was the case? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIP-Jerry
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is 2007 and what we got, mirror sided armies, complete lack of strategy , uninteresting 
 and boring multi player , you have some small bugs running around representing your units.
  
  I just cant express my disappointment with this game. This game is so unoriginal so im wandering 
 how can someone give this game more than 7.
  
  RTS genre matured during last decade. We had Starcraft introducing us with 3 new original and completely 
 different races, than we had C&amp; C with its flows, Warrhammer showed us how great RTS game can 
 be without resources, we saw Heroes than we sow COH with its micro strategy and destruction engine 
 and than 2007 came and we got World in conflict with its original idea - lets strip everything 
 possible from rts game and make it stupid as strategy game can me .
  
  So If you are looking for handicapt RTS game with life span probably 2-3 months than WIC is right 
 game for you otherwise there is so many great games on the market today that giving 50$ for WIC 
 would be nonsence.
  
  P. S. WiC concept isnt original at all and it was implemented so much better long time before in 
 game called Shattered Sky but unfortunately graphics was bad but its free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blonderambo
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo for this game having high expectations so that one of my favorite conflicts 
 (the cold war) would come to life in a hypothetical sense. So 2 hours waiting for the download 
 and when I was finally able to play... I was extremely confused. Why did WASD move the camera I 
 couldn't even use the conventional arrow keys, how dumb. After the tutorial I started the campaign 
 (cuz there's no skirmish in the demo) after 3 cinematics (the graphics were very good though) I 
 finally started a battle... or did I? You see, I couldn't control my own units! What the **** I 
 just wanted to see an actual battle unfold against my Russian comrades (yes I am Russian) but they 
 kicked my ass, my whole platoon was defeated and why? Because the controls sucks ass!!! it also 
 went very slowly because I don't even think my computer had all the requirements for the demo. 
 I can't blame them for making a very graphically detailed game but it was virtually unplayable 
 on my computer. Immediately after I uninstalled the 2 hours of my life wasted in a game I looked 
 forward to. Oh well, World in Conflict was a MASSIVE (get it? hahaha) failure in my book. It looked 
 amazing though and coming from someone who only played the demo this game is waaay overrated I 
 immediately took it off the My Games list on Gamespot. This game just sucked and I was majorly 
 dissapointed despite the ingenious story and revolutionary graphics. I hope my Russian comrades 
 will burn this game for making a mockery of a widely anticipated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkreign2424
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  To say WiC is a total letdown is an understatement. I have been following this game since I heard 
 of it (about a year) . I d/led the demo the day it was released in anticipation.
  
  The demo sucked. But it wouldnt be the first demo I have played and disliked, only to really enjoy 
 the full game.
  
  Not the case with WiC. The demo is a very, very accurate representation of the game. Boring and 
 dull with absolutely no tactics or strategy. Its Zerg rush with as much firepower as you can hoard 
 while still harassing your enemy (s) . Then, just unleash hell, drop a nuke, game over. Whoopety-doo!
 
  
  Every decent RTS ever made had a skirmish mode. THE pinnacle mode you played over and over figuring 
 your build order, early rushes, early counters, when to tech, when not to, etc.
  
  Well, WiC felt all that stuff wasnt necessary. No building, no resource, no startegic map worth 
 anything more than window dressing, nothing.
  
  I have always trusted GameSpot's ratings. I always, always try things out for myself regardless 
 of a game's rating. But a 9.5 for this?! I have had my disagreements with other ratings, but not 
 this..... far and wide. This game isnt worth $50, its bargain bin material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volk13
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  Awsome game, finally an RTS I can wrap my chops on:) It really tests your skills and knowledge, 
 keeps you thinking, trying different strategies - there is more then one way to skin a cat!:) Even 
 with the single player demo I played the mission several times trying different strategies to minimize 
 my losses. I have been playing since the Alpha nad there is a lot of improvement in the final version. 
 Both Single and Multiplayer are great and there is a lot of replayability. Massive has outdone 
 them selves. Even after I finish the game will be replaying singleplayer and skirmishes. Not to 
 mention vast multiplayer opportunities. And with ability to create your own maps and other stuff 
 - this game will never become boring.
  
  Volk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KellyMc26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Perhaps I am beginning to show my age (I'm 36) , but MP as a substitute for great AI and varied 
 single player skirmish modes just doesn't appeal to me. Of course, WiC has a lot going for it in 
 terms of the graphics, pacing, and SP storyline. But what about strategy for the single player 
 experience?
  
  Mostly the game boils down to a glitzy version of Who can throw the most bang at the other guy 
 the fastest? The fact that units are relatively simple and can't be upgraded, etc., isn't necessarily 
 bad, and certainly some of the units' special abilities DO have great use (like smoke cover) . But 
 that the single player AI pretty much just runs down predictable paths means that this becomes 
 less of a strategy game and more of a puzzle ... it's not how do I best combine my units for an 
 effective attack, but how do I get more fire power faster so I can hit my obvious AI staging areas? 
 This point is made all the more clear when you consider that you are only allowed to control a 
 certain number of units at a time and are, in fact, encouraged to throw units in the meat grinder 
 as your reserve NEVER ends. It's like a shootout in which nobody ever runs out of ammo or really 
 worries about getting hit.
  
  Yes, that type of game simplifies things and makes for good action and visuals. It doesn't, however, 
 make for a good strategy game. The nail in the coffin, for me, is the lack of a solid skirmish 
 mode. What? Campaigns are almost always, in my view, little more than mega-tutorials in how to 
 play the game. The Gamespot review also notes that the campaign is designed to get you into MP 
 tactics ... but what if you don't want MP? Well, you're stuck. Perhaps this philosophy is behind 
 the lackluster AI? Perhaps high-profile voice acting and good graphics sells better than bread 
 and butter AI programming and single player options? I guess, but this just isn't my kind of game. 
 To WiC's credit, it doesn't pretend to be the next great thing for the single player. Also to its 
 credit, the campaign IS well done. It's just clear that once you finish the campaign, you'd better 
 get busy with MP or put the game back on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e5mikey
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  I will keep this short, so here I go. WIC is an amazing game!!! Its rare to see a game of this 
 caliber, everything has a deep polish and although the basic concept is simple it takes skill and 
 teamwork to master this game. With some of the best sound ever heard in a game, compelling single 
 player campaign and story, lasting multi player appeal that screams competitive gaming, revolutionary 
 game play, and some of the most impressive graphics ever, this game is worth every penny. Despite 
 the previous run on sentence, do not ignore what I said. I have been bored with the RTS genre for 
 a while, and World In conflict reminds me of the days when I was having a blast playing Red Alert. 
 Go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helios_Five
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  Though the multiplayer is great at first it grows dull quickly. The units for the different sides 
 are almost exactly the same, the sides differ more in Supreme Commander than in this game and that's 
 saying something. For those who like fast paced 10 minutes matches this might be their game, the 
 game plays more like a fps in multiplayer than an rts and that is not a bad thing. When you played 
 some matches you start to feel that you do the same thing again and again. If you want a fast paced 
 rts with a good campaign and solid multiplayer buy company of heroes instead. This review mainly 
 based on playing the demo as well as the beta. All in all it is not a bad game, far from it. There 
 are just better games out there more worth your time, and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  As i get final version of the game i realize, its lot better optimized then demo, true new age 
 RTS graphic, great special effects of explosions, highly rendered units, finally we got airplanes 
 and helicopters looking like real ones, it is a highly addictive games that every strategy lover 
 must have in his/her collection. In two words WELL DONE Sierra. Much micro management to handle 
 with in game, but never enough for us true RTS gamers. In the other side of the game... maybe i 
 missed some making of buildings and units. I would like it even more if they made it like C&amp; C: 
 Tiberian sun, making your own base, but maybe its just my needs. Points you made gives you reinforcements, 
 and some special ability that affect your further strategic or tactical moves like seen in Sudden 
 Strike or Blitzkrieg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugupo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  I play the demo over dozen of hours, i also got the full game now. I must said gameplay whilse 
 is the same ! no new unit, only thing you get for 50bucks more ! is 19 more maps, and full campaign, 
 i must said unless you can afford and like the demo alot then is worth it, if you play the demo 
 and expect alot more from full game then is not a good choice to spend most $, cause even with 
 the map and assault and tag of war, sometime had me thinking whether was a smart move to spend 
 so much for a game is not alot more offered than the demo, you should definity try the demo first, 
 it has multiplayer and ranking just like full game except is separate. Graphic is very good, extreme 
 details on close, yes graphic is similar or better if you dx10 than coh. But this game main suffer 
 in graphic is that most unit are way too small to see in normal map view, like infary is like size 
 or arts really. the camera control is excellent and very quick. Thanks to easy hotkey for it, If 
 you a hardcored rts gamer don't expect this rts game to be a challege for you, also is totally 
 diffent, since teamwork is so important at this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  Yeah! Sierra has been away for a long time but they're back with a great release from Massive Ent. 
 !
  
  Thank you RTS-developers for making a game that is capable of doing the things right! Great gameplay, 
 the graphics are fantastic and well everything feels right.
  
  I think C&amp; C has been beaten by this release; far and beyond!
  If you are looking for a new 
 revolutionary game World in Conflict is the game you are looking for! Go buy it and you won't be 
 disappointed. But keep in mind you need strong hardware to play it in full detail! But who doesn't 
 know right ?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buxboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Since the days of Command &amp; Conquer Red Alert 2 passed, I have been waiting for a modern USA 
 Vs. USSR game. Finally, it has arrived. The cold war has always been of great interest to me, seeing 
 it in a game would be like combining 2 great loves. World in Conflict captures this. This game 
 blows my mind.
  
  I picked it up yesterday, came home from my classes and played it up until a few minutes ago. This 
 is the first game in a few years to grab my attention like this one. I have not rushed home to 
 play a game since the days of Starcraft, Call of Duty I, and even Battlefield 1942.
  
  Gameplay is great, graphics are great, story is great. The only problems I have are that I wish 
 you would zoom out a bit more and the flying dynamics are quite unrealistic, but of course being 
 an actual pilot, pleasing me on that would be tough.
  
  Great game, deserves it's great score. See you on the battlefield! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Space
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry to say it, but I honestly don't get the hype behind this game whatsoever. I've tried 
 single player, wasn't impressed with it. So, I thought I'd try multiplayer as that seems to be 
 where the games strength lies. Wasn't impressed with that either. Basically, there is no resource 
 domination control. Sure, you are supposed to control waypoints on the map by endlessly zerg rushing 
 your opponents, but come on, that gets old after a while. No base building, no nothing other than 
 purchasing units and sending them into battle. In a way, it reminds me almost of Warhammer: Mark 
 of Chaos, in that you don't control any resources, but instead engage in a mindless rush for domination. 
 After you get over the graphics and spectacular nukes and other effects, you'll find the gameplay 
 to leave a lot to be desired.
  
  If you want a real STRATEGIC game, you'll need to look elsewhere. WiC is definitely not a thinking 
 man's game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villerainamo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The first time I read about World In Conflict I wasn't really expecting it all that much. It seemed 
 interesting sure, but nothing groundbreaking. However when I got my hands on the demo, I was instantly 
 in love. I found a game that succeeded in striking the balance between realism, tempo, atmosphere, 
 gameplay and innovation all combined in a beautiful shell of modern graphics. I logged over 250 
 multiplayer matches in less than three weeks, nevermind the fact that I had only two maps which 
 I could actually play with. Then came the full game. I was immediately pulled in by the story and 
 the sheer feeling of being in the middle of a conventional Third World War. Watching my infantry 
 engage in urban combat, or my tanks plow through Russian units in the middle of a large field, 
 or my attack choppers slash in and kick the butt of some hapless vehicles, is extremely exciting 
 to make a mild description of the feeling. The Single Player Campaign in itself is already immensely 
 addictive. The story is well laid out and presented and the missions continue to be interesting 
 and different throughout the whole experience. Multiplayer is another thing entirely. Its as addictive 
 as a drug and damnably enjoyable. The gameplay system makes clan building pretty much necessary 
 and the true experience one can gain from multiplayer comes forth only when you play it with your 
 clan buddies, all working as a cohesive entity to achieve victory.
  
  There are very few bad things I can think about World in Conflict. The militarist in me would have 
 liked perhaps a little more realism, but thats pretty much it. One of the greatest games of the 
 21st century for certain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRecruit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  But this game has an awesome single player campaign and it's multiplayer is some of if not thee 
 best in the RTS genre. The multiplayer is just breathtaking on how it really makes you feel likes 
 there's a war going on. There's so many fights on so many fronts on a map. Tactical aid is just 
 so fun yet so balanced because you have to use your units to get it in the first place. To get 
 used to this type of RTS, I HIGHLY recommend playing the multiplayer ATLEAST FIVE HOURS. That'll 
 help you get the feel of the game. Some people just log in, say wtf camera controls suck, wtf I 
 keep getting artillery-ed and just log out because it's so differant from normal RTSs.
  
  The singleplayer- top notch. Most RTSs don't usually have compelling singleplayer campaigns. Like 
 in Supcom, when your ally died (didn't really die as you find out later) I was just like meh... he 
 sucked anyway . In WiC it actually immerses you into the story.
  
  The graphics as you might've noticed are also top-notch, along with detailed sound affects. Like 
 when my artillery hit a heli once, they actually said something like A chopper just got hit by 
 one of our shells sir , didn't expect there too be a voice line for that. All in all, WiC is an 
 EXTREMELY refreshing RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onishchuk4
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Hi everyone! This RTS game is amazing. I've been patiently waiting for it's release since it was 
 debuted at E3 2006. This is by far the most amazing game I have ever had the chance to experience. 
 From the graphics, storyline, to the game play itself. This title is just perfect. Some people 
 say the rating that was given to it was way to high and others say that Sierra payed Gamespot off. 
 Whats the point? I've seen other games get better ratings then this such as Grand Theft Auto, or 
 even Tony Hawks Pro Skater 3 which got a 10.0! Are you to say that Activision or Rockstar payed 
 Gamespot off. Its the editors opinions!! The rating I gave this game is a 10 not a 9.5. I think 
 it's flawless. No one payed me off to say that. So to those of you who are thinking of purchasing 
 this game, don't wait. Go out and buy it now! You won't regret it one bit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigheman
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I just got done playing the demo and all I have to say is wow or should I say finally =) this game 
 is pretty bad-ass I'll give it that. The only thing stopping me from running to the store to pick 
 one up is the fact that I've still got my last class to goto, and it ends the same time the store 
 closes! Over-all I'd say download the demo, and give it a shot... either you'll love it, or theres 
 something wrong with you. Only jay kay, but seriously, give it a try, I found it pretty amazing 
 when I stepped into a multi-player game with 15 other guys and before I knew it a nuke had dropped 
 and blown half the map away, even with the warnings like A-bombs about to drop, get the hell outta 
 there I was still suprised on how just about anything that existed on that side of the map had 
 just been obliterated. How many other games do you know have that ability, not to mention the unique 
 style of troop-deployment. Two Thumbs Way Up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheeseinator
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Best game ever. This game actually feels like real war. No resource gathering, no building fortresses 
 in a few minutes. It's all about mobility and intel. Just like real war. My only complaint about 
 this game is that there should be more foucs on the USSR. In other words. Playing as the USSR in 
 singleplayer. The only other thing it could have used is maybe some little things like when the 
 infantry load into the vehicles it should actually show them getting inside instead of just dissapearing. 
 Great game. Amazing. words cannot describe the fun of playing this game. The collectors edition 
 is totally worth the extra cost. It comes with a history channes DVD and a piece of the berlin 
 wall. something actually collectable! But the box is the coolest. I love the box, I'm gonna keep 
 it forever. FOR MOTHER RUSSIA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedaltoqi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  in brief the game has nice graphics intance battles lots of explosionsbut it lacks some elements 
 that would of made this game one of the best stratgey games of all time first of all the units 
 are not memorable i mean try playing company of heros and you will understand my point when you 
 zoom in you will notice the diffrence between the units in both games game play is nice but at 
 some point it get so intance that you dont know where your troops are and what they are doing i 
 realy like the camera though its offers lots of free rooming it has one of the best camera engine 
 out there one thing i realy didnt like in this game is lack of units u have only two or three types 
 of infantry, and tanks this is realy disappointing and also the number of units that you control 
 at a time isnt that much so thats another let down : ( in general if you are looking for a game 
 that has nice graphics nice explosions lots of smoke i advise you to check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epakille
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  INNOVATIVE?
  How can you say that? What's new? That you cannot build structures? Thats not new, and hardly a 
 good thing either.
  
  GAMEPLAY? ECONOMY?
  Ok its fun with so many options of airstrikes/bombards etc but the gameplay quickly gets boring. 
 And there IS resources/economy, the only thing is that you cannot effect it yourself making it 
 kinda pointless.
  Buy some tanks, move them to the point you need to hold. Repeat. Gaaa... SP-Campaign is also really 
 uninspiring and repetative.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Stunning. The only good thing with this game. System hog though...
  
  If you're not an american 
 nationalist liking the propaganda value i dont see any point in buying this game over any other, 
 better rts.
  
  Cheers
  Erik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazexx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  There have been many RTS games out there that has tried to get the approval of the multiplayer 
 masses. This is the first RTS that really manages to keep the adrenaline level up all the time, 
 instead of 30 minutes of base building and 3 minutes of mass attacks. From the start of the missions 
 there are only a few seconds before the first rounds are fired. Even though the tempo is furious, 
 players that goes for a no-brain click-fest will be punished. Careful team play and a concern for 
 all of your units is a must. No lasso selecting a bunch of the biggest tanks and clicking the enemy 
 base here! All units have their weaknesses and they have to be used in the correct way.
  
  This is to the RTS genre what Battlefield 1942 was to the FPS genre, and many of the BF ideas have 
 been lovingly adopted to the RTS format. Stolen with pride! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IndianaAway
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  A few of my friends and I picked up the game figuring we would play it in parallel of Company of 
 Heroes. I had not seen anything about the game other than just a few in game videos movies which 
 looked amazing.
  
  So let me just get a few things out of the way up from for people who are trying to determine what 
 the game really compares with....
  The game is NOT a resource gathering RTS like WarCraft, StarCraft, C&amp; C, etc... nor is it completely 
 like the old fashion Close Combat games. It is more of a combination between Company of Heroes 
 and Command and Conquer Generals set in 1989 (think the movie Red Dawn) . That is about as close 
 as a comparison as I could make.
  
  Key things to note about the right off the bat in my limited play last night with some friends 
 and the tutorial... * The camera angles can be up close and personal as well as a stand off view 
 of the battlefield. If you hate change (i. e. vs what all the other RTS games use) then you will 
 not like it. Some people just dont like change. My advice, pick a view you like and make it work 
 for you. No rating on this... just different and takes a bit to get use to, its not hard.
  
  * Very nice graphics (units) ... similar to C&amp; C3 but a bit better perhaps. Right now I give 
 this a Good rating with an ~8 of 10. The only down side would be that zooming out makes then hard 
 to see what they are, but at the same time at the bottom of your screen you can see which units 
 you have and can always zoom right to them. Again, once you get use to the camera controls, this 
 will be less and less of an issue, like any game. I didnt check to see if you could customize 
 your controls. I would give higher marks if you can.
  
  * Graphics effects... AWESOME! Never had I had so many ways of blowing things up and look so cool!! 
 The Gas, Nuke bombs and others are CRAZY!! Very realistic effects and explosions. 9.5 of 10 here. 
 The only reason it didnt get a 10 was because there is no perimeter shock wave when the nuke goes 
 offnow THAT would have been very cool.
  
  * Sound... More and more games seem to be improving their surround sound as well as making them 
 immersive. This game puts you right in the battlefield as if you were there!! Some people might 
 think the sound is to low but if you are paying attention then they would notice that would be 
 distance combat and in surround sound. If you are on top of the battle, you can hear it perfectly. 
 Put on the headphones and crank it up!! 10 of 10 for sound.
  
  * Game Play.... Well I have only done the tutorial and about 15 multiplayer matches. This will 
 make or break the game for me in the long run. I. e. how much am I going to replay this with my 
 friends online. Thus no rating on this yet to be fairjust too early to tell. * Multiplayer.... 
 2 to 16 people I believe. It isnt your standard pick a side and go. There are basically 4 types 
 of your side to play... Infantry, Armor, Support (Artillery) and Air. Pick 1 and best to work together 
 and not have all your team pick the same thing. The multiplayer server/game setup is a bit long 
 from what I could tell but you only have to do it once. What do I mean by that? Well you play timed 
 games and the lengths you can set but when they are over you go right on to the next game. No resetting 
 up to play the next game like other RTS games (I REALLY like this feature) . It can be random or 
 which ever you pick... lots of options. Rating at this point on Multiplayer is an 8.5 of 10 and 
 only because I have played it just 1 night so far and still pretty early. Havent seen any lag 
 or game slow down on 3 v 3.
  
  * Maps, Battlefield Surroundings... Great map setups (some maps a re quite large) , hills, trees, 
 buildings, etc.. All of which BTW can be destroyed and used in some way in battle... i. e. cover, 
 defense, etc.. Rating this a 9 of 10 thus far. In summary a given that I purchased it for $49 which 
 came with a History Channel DVD of the Berlin Wall, I think it is a good to great game, but not 
 ground breaking. It is too early to give a complete rating on the game though my rating thus far 
 over all I would have to say is an 8.5 of 10. I personally can not judge whether the GameSpots 
 review of 9.5 is accurate, though that seems pretty high.
  Comparing this to Company of Heroes, the 2 are similar but different .. ie. Similar in the fact 
 that there isnt unit building/resource gathering like typical RTS games and you get instead reinforcements. 
 Though different in CoH tends to use less units and more tactics (i. e. a bit slow paced and more 
 unit visualization) . Thus I personally would give CoH at least a 0.5 advantage over WiC.
  
  Bottom lineis it worth shelling out $49 for the game. Read aboveif that sounds what you are into, 
 then yes if you have the money to burn. If what I wrote doesnt sound like your cup of tea or you 
 are hurting for cash then past on it and wait for it to be $29. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The game is very good in every way you see it. It has big depth
  It makes Command and Conquer 3 look like some cheap arcade for little kids
  
  -Graphics are 
 awesome both in DX9 and DX10 with amazing detail of the units and of the ground
  Even that nuclear blast is GREAT !!
  -Gameplay is simple and it makes the player focus in strategy 
 and not in building
  -Sounds are awesome you can hear details from every unit
  and music just fits
  
  The game is simply a great experience both in Single player and in Multiplayer
 
  
  The only bad side of this game unfortunately is the game engine....
  
  The game engine code is not so good..
  
  You will need a powerful PC to really enjoy this game 
 with full graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hotshot-1
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 19, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  The idea of an RTS with modern units is great, because I really think that there aren't enough 
 games in the sector.
  
  I'm generally a fan of reality in games and that's why I was very excited when I played Company 
 of heroes. Having already played a very good game based on real-life units, I couldn't help my 
 self but comparing the two games.
  
  The first problem are the names of the units. Example: American heavy tank How in earth am I supposed 
 to know what that tank is? I have to zoom in a lot (Another problem here: The units are extremely 
 small) to see that this is an Abrams.
  
  The idea of controlling the camera the way it's controlled, isn't very bad, but since the game 
 lacks a Lock camera key , It's possible that when I do find a good perspective, I'm gonna lose 
 it sooner, or later, because of the awkward camera controls.
  
  As far as the single-player story is concerned, I do think that's pretty well presented (For Americans. 
 The rest of us are getting really bored with the Evil Soviets scenario - They didn't even have 
 the brains to toss in Soviet campaign, despite the fact that the spokesmen of Massive entertainment, 
 kept saying: This is a story of a superpower vs superpower, not a story of good vs evil - Who are 
 they kidding anyway?!?) , but the multiplayer portion of the game, seems a bit boring, as many players 
 (Me included) cannot distinguish one unit from an other (Due to their small size and bad naming) 
 and are sending everything they have against you in waves (They don't care, they're having infinite 
 ressources) which means that there isn't a lot of strategy there.
  
  The environment graphics are top notch (Some of the best explosions ever and real craters!) , but 
 I didn't like unit design.
  
  The music of the game is my favorite part of it, but the sounds aren't very convincing and they're 
 not loud enough.
  
  My opinion is that you should buy this game, only if you're an American who's more interested in 
 the single-player campaign of the game and not in it's multiplayer part. Otherwise, it's just not 
 worthing it's price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanno555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the trailers for this game I decided to upgrade my system to DX10 just so I can 
 play this game and I don't regret it. The visuals are simply outstanding. I liked the cutscenes, 
 something I normally detest. When that cops started shouting 11-99! 11-99! Officer needs assistance! 
 I was hooked. Even though this isn't supposed to be a for-real wargame, I found that using real-world 
 tactics and not just a Zerg rush like so many other RTS's force you to do was rewarded. Example, 
 advance infnatry with a tank and they support each other. To add icing to the cake the voice acting 
 was excellent. Maybe Alec Baldwin has found a new calling as his narrative was spot on.
  
  I don't know what the guy who gave this game a 4.0 expected, but he/she obviously never read any 
 of the pre-release writeups! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: modai119
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  First off its been a while for a good collectors edition games been out...
  
  Graphics 10 - The smoke barrages the ruins EVERYTHING is extremely detailed.... There is NO flaw 
 except I get 15 fps on average on the last level which looks damn gorgeous....
  
  Sound 10 - From arty barrages to voice acting again EVERYTHING sounds so realistic... I haven't 
 heard sounds like this since Company of Heroes....
  
  Gameplay 9.5 - Well it's easy but timing strikes can be difficult sometimes.... Where single player 
 AI lacks the multiplayer mode picks up... Supports up to 16 players too!!!
  
  My final comments are if your an RTS fan or even like stuff that goes BOOM!!!! buy this game it 
 would be worth the $50 or $60 you spend.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enver_majid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  A sublime experience. One that won't be forgotten anytime soon. Its no Company of Heroes, but then 
 again it doesn't even try to be. The campaign's a little short and fairly easy... although I haven't 
 tried it on the hardest difficulty yet. Spectacular graphics, sound and a surprisingly good back-story 
 all combine to form a thoroughly enjoyable entertainment package. Minor pathfinding issues, and 
 a couple of bugs that made the game crash randomly are about the only complaints I have (all my 
 drivers are up to date, and I've got a fairly good gaming rig) . I'm already looking forward to 
 expansion packs and sequels. Oh and lastly, I don't how, but for some reason i picked this game 
 up on the 12th from a local GameStop... i thought it was coming out on the 18th. Perhaps they unpacked 
 it early? Dunno how the logistics work with 'em, but I wasn't complaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This game's Soviet aesthetic is nothing short of ironic: World in Conflict is the Russian Revolution 
 of RTS games. Its an earth-shattering rejuvenation to a genre that has become mired in boring resource 
 micromanagement and base-building exploits. Somewhere in the past decade Real Time Strategy lost 
 its emphasis on strategy, and started favoring cheap gimmicks that drew more inspiration from RPGs 
 than real tactics or teamwork. Playing more like a shooter than an RTS, WIC dispenses with tree 
 chopping and tower building, and replaces them a faced paced, ridiculously chaotic tactical chess 
 match that calls for sharp wits and cooperation between teammates. The entire experience is more 
 analogous to Battlefield 2 than any RTS you've played before, with an emphasis on area control, 
 and as far as the server browser is concerned, easy game access (i. e. no waiting for rounds to 
 end) .
  
  As a final perk, this game is simply visually stunning, and in the middle of battle looks downright 
 incredible. There is nothing in gaming today that can equal the majesty of the triple nuke. In 
 you have a passing interest in the game's era, loved BF2, or are just looking for some good strategy, 
 you owe it to yourself to get ahold of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerDan04
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I must have played a different game than all of you, because I thought WIC sucked. (This is the 
 first time I've felt compelled to write a review) I was really excited to play WIC! I jumped right 
 into the tutorial it recommended I run, but quickly became bored with the drawn-out camera instructions. 
 I left to try a skirmish only to find myself so lost, I went back to the tutorial. While the game 
 does have a distinctly detailed visual appeal (the individual soldiers look AMAZING) , the camera 
 you need to enjoy this was clunky at best! I couldn't get the angles I wanted to see the action! 
 The gameplay was unintuitive (resources = RTS staple. Where are the resources?) and the objectives 
 had nothing to contribute to the enjoyment of this RTS game. I mean occupy this zone with a couple 
 troops, was an objective I could only do only a couple times before I was fed up with this game. 
 Also, while flying in everything is a cool idea, it limits the flow of troops to the battle (due 
 to drop zones) , dramatically changing the way you will approach movement. I hoped I was wrong, 
 so I had some friends check out the demo to see if I was nuts- every person I've talked to (11 
 now) has not liked this game. Why do all the online posts praise this boring junker? Maybe I'm 
 biased as an avid Supreme Commander, but I've already uninstalled and sold my WIC back for credit. 
 Please tell me I am wrong and that this game is cool and that I just hadn't downloaded a patch 
 or something. I'm REALLY dissappointed. For those sharing my dissappointment, I would direct you 
 to supremecommander. com (or gamespot of course!) to get the Supreme Commander demo. Short review- 
 a dull headache 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazycrav
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  World in Conflict is an amazing new spin on the RTS genre. It really puts the word strategy to 
 good use. If a player rushes in too quickly, then their team and team are spread too thin and are 
 overwhelmed. If they sit back and wait for a large group of reinforcements, it may be too late 
 for them to take back the area and to push back the opposing side. I played the demo for quite 
 a while and thoroughly enjoyed the one map that was offered. With the retail version, every different 
 map requires a new strategy for each class due to not only the terrain of the map but the size.
 
  
  My preference seems to be small close quarter maps right now. Its a lot of action in one area and 
 makes you constantly think of what you have to be doing and where you need to be to keep you and 
 your team alive. Large maps are still fun but I find myself searching around for places where I 
 can help or just watching battles and, well stuff just blowing up. I am an avid RTS player and 
 am a big fan of slowly building up your army and base to defeat your opponent but World in Conflict 
 is a whole new spin on RTS that is fresh and innovative. I recommend this game to RTS players who 
 like to have constant units in battle rather then waiting for a huge army and for all your tech 
 levels to be completed before attacking; you just cant do that in World in Conflict. I plan to 
 enjoy WiC for quite a long time and cant wait for what the future hold for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximus_2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This is THE ONE game that ever one MUST have!!!
  its just amazing game you cant belive that you actually palying an RTS game.
  game paly is superb, 
 graphis are outstanging
  controls are easy and comfortable.
  camera cantrol is great.
  Waht about Singly Players is good, well desinge levles and etc..
  but what Im really whan to 
 talk about is MP!!!!
  Its jsut mind blowing!!!! its so fun and well made.
  you can;'t go on your one and win a game in MP like your won't be able to do
  the same in real 
 life.. you have to be a team player!
  you have to select a spasific role . if you use chappers you have to give cover to tanks or vis 
 vers. and there is still many things that makes this game fantastic!!!
  so my final word is GO GET THE GAME!!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grihn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Before picking up this title, I knew little about it, so I didn't know what to expect. I am a huge 
 fan of the RTS genere, and I own most of the popular titles, and many under the radar titles. I 
 bought this game based on the few commercials I saw, and the fact that it's an RTS.
  
  I could not be more pleased! The gameplay is refreshing... no base building, no resource management... just 
 select the units you need and fight to the end! Now, this is not a new idea, but it is definately 
 uncommon in the RTS genere when you consider the bulk of the titles play relatively the same.
 
  
  I also love ordering in air strikes and artillery support. Having a birds eye view of the battlefield 
 is the perfect vantage point for these strikes, and not is it only exciting to watch your opponent 
 blased to pieces, but it's b-e-a-utiful! World in Conflict features some of the best graphics of 
 our time. I run this game on an AMD FX-62 processor, 2GB of RAM, and an 8800Ultra video card on 
 Windows Vista, so I am able to completely max it out, but out of curiosity, I tured the settings 
 on low and set the screen res. to 1024x768, and it still looks surprisingly well.
  
  World in Conflict is not a game any fan of the strategy genere should pass up. It's simple and 
 quick to learn, yet fun and challenging to conquer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  WIC is a great game. I started and looked around at the start menu and clicked campaign. I overlooked 
 the stunning graphics and was in shock how utterly awsome they were. The gameplay is solid and 
 freakin sweet. With Arty here, and the Seattle King Dome collapsing on it's self, it provides the 
 most stady and stunning graphics of our time. Not to mention the sleek controls and map. On a down 
 note I have been suffering from crashes. The game audio keeps playing while it stays in one position, 
 causing me to give it the old, Ctrl, Alt, Del. This really damp my spirits. Also, there is no skirmish. 
 This really was a big dissapointment, because like many gamers, I like to figure thing out on my 
 own. Big Mistake by Massive. But that can be solved by creating a LAN party with yourself. Stunning 
 graphics, sexy effects make me give this game a peerty 10/10, no Q's asked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memrie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  As soon as the game fully installed, I was anxious to play. For the first time in a long time I 
 was not disappointed by the pre-release hype of a PC game. -The visuals we're immediately stunning, 
 from the cut scenes, to the gameplay itself. I'm sure you all saw the hype on the visuals, and 
 if your computer can run it, prepare to melt. I was visually shocked at how amazing the first level 
 looked as the Soviets invade Seattle!
  
  -The voice acting and narrator (Steven Segal) sounds great and go well with the tone of the game.
 
  
  Some of the negatives I have from my first few hours of playing World In Conflict are the following: 
 -The default control setup may need some tweaking by some players (I haven't set mine up yet since 
 I am too into playing it but there are options of course) .
  
  -Sometimes it can be difficult to target/attack yours or enemy units. It seems sometimes my mouse 
 click just doesn't want to attack the unit I am clicking on.
  
  As I said in the beginning, I have only played a few hours, but this is an amazing game that is 
 not going to let you down if you have some CPU power. Definitely buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erlova
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Masterpiece, that's the exact word to describe this RTS. I feel all this years I was playing anything 
 except RTS games (And I have a lot in my list) . This is because Strategy is on the table in this 
 game. If you really want to know how it feels to be in war, World In Conflict must be your choice. 
 From it's gamplay to the best graphics in RTS I've ever seen, this must be THE game of the Year 
 (including Crysis :) ) . Good work SIERRA and MASSIVE ENT. This game Rocks. A 10 for everything, 
 from single play to multiplayer, be in war wiht your friend and scream victory or I need help really 
 is what I need for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pitts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I might be one of the minority of people that would read this review with bona fide memories of 
 the perceived threat in the United States by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. A World War 
 III scenario with a Warsaw Pact attack into Western Europe, either accompanied by, or escalating 
 to a strategic thermonuclear exchange was a very real fear here. Luckily, neither of those scenarios 
 ever became reality, but the slug match between the two mighty superpowers makes for a great premise, 
 and after approximately three hundred and fifty thousand World War II themed games, Massive Entertainment 
 brilliantly elected to visit this overlooked period of history.
  
  Set in 1989, the Soviet Union is facing economic stagnation and an uncertain political future, 
 much like the real 1989, and must change the course of their nation. Unlike the USSR of our world 
 however, the Politburo decides to attack NATO, reasoning that the seizure of Western Europe will 
 stabilize their tenuous hold on power, and elevate them to the premier superpower. Since the United 
 States is the greatest threat to their plan, and seeking to disrupt the US response in Europe, 
 the Soviets open a second front through a sneak-attack into the continental United States via Seattle. 
 The player takes on the role of a young officer in the conflict, fighting a two-front war; the 
 US must push back the Soviet invasion at home and bring the fight to the enemy.
  
  Graphically, this game is simply stunning, one of the best looking games seen to date. The detail 
 on the units and terrain is incredible; the smoke and explosion effects are some of the best I 
 have ever seen. All ground and terrain is fully deformable, buildings as well, adding an element 
 to gameplay that is too often missing. Little details are everywhere, zooming into look at an individual 
 infantry squad sees them decked out with the weapons they are supposed to be armed with or hear 
 them chatting with each other about trying to bum smokes. While tanks and armored vehicles leave 
 deep treads on the ground that can be used to locate them, and infantry deploying from a transport 
 helicopter can be seen kicking out zip lines and repelling down into the battle. All of it can 
 be astounding to see. Sounds also are incredibly well done, and the soundtrack deserves special 
 attention, there are a few tracks that those of us that recall the 80's will be delighted to hear, 
 including 'Everybody wants to rule the World' by Tears for Fears, and a few other surprises.
  
  Gameplay is where this game truly escapes the banality of most of the RTS games out now. There 
 is no base building, no one needs to chop down trees, and there is no resource management. The 
 game's focus is squarely on combat and it shines. During the campaign, you truly feel like you 
 are a part of a massive battle, controlling your small number of units in concert with the AI, 
 much like the Call of Duty games single player.
  
  In addition to the various tanks, helicopters, personnel carriers, infantry, artillery and anti-air 
 the player can call upon; support is also available in the form of tactical aids. Destroying enemy 
 units and capturing objectives rewards the player with tactical aid points that can be utilized 
 for off-map support. These range from simple radar scans to reveal enemy units, to napalm strikes 
 that can burn down a forest hiding infantry, to a fighter sweep to shoot down exposed helicopters, 
 right up to carpet bombing by heavy bombers, and the feared tactical nuke, the best looking nuke 
 in a game yet.
  
  The campaign is brilliant, if a little brief, but multiplayer is where this game shines. In normal 
 multiplayer matches, players assume a specialty role, be it armor, infantry, air, or support. Careful 
 cooperation with your teammates is the key to victory, and native VOIP and a brilliant communication 
 system make that teamwork possible. You can even pass tactical aid points to other players on your 
 team, saving up for that nuke or bombing run which might be the key to victory. The game has a 
 very low learning curve, but is difficult to master, a great combination. In many ways, the multiplayer 
 is reminiscent of an RTS version of Battlefield II, choosing a role, capturing points, and trying 
 to work with your team to defeat the enemy. You can even join games in progress, a first for RTS 
 to my knowledge. Lastly, native clan support, an incredible stats/awards system and a great multiplayer 
 interface with Massgate round out the great set of multiplayer features.
  
  For all the great features of this game, there are a few nitpicks to bring up. Most important, 
 is the lack of a campaign where you play as the Soviets. This is a major letdown that will hopefully 
 be addressed in a likely expansion. Second, a little more unit variety between the three sides 
 really would have been nice. While balance is always paramount, especially in a game built from 
 the ground-up for competitive multiplayer, the sides are a little too similar in capability, and 
 differ generally only in appearance. Lastly, while during development Massive tried to suggest 
 several times they weren't picking sides in this tale of World War III, there can be no doubt that 
 the US ended up the 'good guys', which is a little disappointing as it is such a clich&eacute;.
 
  
  All in all though, this is one of the best games to come out in recent memory. It is a frantic 
 and amazing looking 'RTS' in a great setting. With a deceptively deep gameplay that shines especially 
 in multiplayer, action fans and RTS vets alike should find plenty to like here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolspikes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  World In Conflict is a revolutionary new RTS and i got to say the Sierra did a great job, this 
 game is different from any other RTS that i have ever played. There is no things to build or resources 
 that you have to gather. the game starts by spitting you into action, so get ready for some real 
 fun. The only thing that i can say is kindof messy is the camera, it gets a little messed up but 
 thats really about it, other then that its like other RTS's you can do training and there is multiplayer. 
 The storyline is very good even from the beggining 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llakallaka
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  World in Conflict, the name of one strategy game, but this is the one... say good bye to food and 
 wood gathering, say good bye to factory building, cause WiC is nothing about those things. Here 
 you get the chance to put to test since the very first second you play it all the mighty power 
 of 3 factions, USA, NATO and USSR. The very instance you start the game you are put directly into 
 the battlefield that quite frankly is our own backyard. Yes all the maps you're gonna fight into 
 are all areas from our own cities, our own towns and neighborhoods. The visuals are fantastic. 
 Massive has elaborated the graphics at such a great detail that you might even see the rebelious 
 graphitis on the walls of some neighborhood building, to the flying newspapers in the hollow space 
 left in a deserted town. The units you fight with are detailed to the maximum way possible known 
 today, very high rendering gives us a really great view to play in. Then again it doesn't stop 
 here, if you have a cutting-edge graphics card then you can pop the game up to DirectX 10 rendering, 
 giving you visuals you won't ever forget. From ground deformation, cloud shadows, high-processed 
 physics, volumetric light, HDR... and the list does not stop. The campain is limited to 2 factions. 
 You can play only as USA or/and Nato vs. the invading USSR. It takes place on year 1989... yeah 
 right when the Cold War was supposed to end... but the russians didn't think of so... You have to 
 defend you own backyard, and repel the russian invasion from Europe. Unfortunately, they are releasing 
 it only with 2 factions available on SP, due to not post pone the date, but you can really easily 
 play the USSR faction on the MP. And to mention it the multiplayer is a bomb, and there have been 
 several ways to show it. First the fortunate one to play the Alpha Test and as an Alpha Tester 
 it did a very good impression on me. Second Massive released a Beta Test but Closed MP, only a 
 few keys were released and they did a lot of changes in there from the Alpha but it was a great 
 adventure playing it. Massive then having the reports releases the Wide Open MP Beta that was a 
 fully integrated MP where most of the players (by the ending date i counted 216000) had a great 
 time with the game, then demo comes with the final touches and a SP mission. On MP you can create 
 clans with your friends and match other clans to earn points and reputation worldwide, or you can 
 be the solitare wolf and kick***. Massgate grants the good players with ranks and medals, and they 
 already have a ladderboard going on since demo. Personally, the fun i had and will have with this 
 game, is immense... so i'd get it at any cost. In short terms like the leader of massgate told to 
 all of us expecting this great game: World in Conflict The Most Intense Strategy Game Ever Crated... and 
 I STAND BY IT... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
