-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worldwide Soccer Manager 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/footballmanager2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Amazing depth.
 Great long-term options.
 Realistic match engine.
 Improved scouting.
 More help for beginners.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fairly basic sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,140 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sports Interactive
Genre: Soccer Management
Date:     October 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sports Interactive's best game to date combines stability and variety in a truly immersive football 
 experience. 

  Football Manager 2007 is Sports Interactive's third game since leaving the Championship Manager 
 name behind, and while it's a case of evolution rather than revolution, it turns screens of statistics 
 into something so absorbing that it is possible to lose entire hours, days, and weeks of your life. 

  The game, like most of its genre, thrusts you into the front line of football management at a club 
 of your choosing. Where that may be is entirely up to you, and FM 2007 provides an almost endless 
 list to choose from. You can choose from the glamour of Barcelona or AC Milan, head to smaller 
 clubs such as Accrington Stanley or Woksop, or take a punt with clubs from leagues you've almost 
 certainly not heard of, such as the Hong Kong First Division. You can manage any of these clubs -- and 
 even international teams, should you so desire.  

          Feeder clubs are just one of the many little additions that add realism.     

  After 
 you're installed in your new job, you'll need to inspect your squad to work out where your team's 
 strengths and weaknesses lie. That's something that may be much easier to do with big clubs, especially 
 those with players you're familiar with, than it would be in lower league teams, so if you're a 
 beginner you might find it easier to start off with either a top team or one you know well.  

 
  You'll also start your management job with some idea of what the board and fans of your chosen 
 club are hoping you'll achieve over the course of the season. Managers of football clubs live and 
 die by results, so if the board is expecting promotion and you're delivering too many losses, you 
 may find that your first contract ends prematurely. However, if that does happen, it's not the 
 end of the game; you can apply for jobs with other clubs that have vacancies at any time, and you 
 can even throw your hat into the ring anywhere if an incumbent manager's position is looking shaky. 

  Once you have a feel for your players, either through real-life knowledge or some careful inspection 
 of the players' relative statistics, you can begin to construct your title-winning team, choosing 
 a formation and tactics that best fit the level at which you're playing. This can change from division 
 to division, but while world-class players might prefer slick, fast, passing manoeuvres and elegant 
 counterattack play, you'll probably be happy for your inexperienced, unfit, part-time lower league 
 players to just lump the ball unceremoniously up the field at any opportunity -- hit and hope.  

 
          The scouting module now breaks down experience into regions.     

  As well as deciding whether to play 4-4-2, 4-3-3, or one of any number of other formations, you'll 
 need to keep an eye on the financial state of the club, as this will give you an indication of 
 what your transfer budget might be. Again, this reflects directly on the level at which your team 
 competes, but unless your club is in debt, there's usually something in the kitty.  

  Having financial acumen is crucial, especially at smaller clubs, and you'll want to send out scouts 
 to watch prospective transfer targets. FM 2007 introduces a new format to this section of the game, 
 adding in knowledge bars for scouts based on their past experience. Some of them will specialise 
 in certain countries or regions, and while smaller clubs might confine missions to a relatively 
 local area, if you want to compete on the world stage you'll want a good depth of global knowledge 
 at your disposal. Particularly important are staff members with South American experience, which 
 may let you tap into the potentially priceless players of the Brazilian and Argentinean leagues 
 and uncover the next Pele or Maradona before anybody else -- and before the price gets too high. 

  Larger clubs will also have youth academies, which will give you an influx of youngsters each year, 
 some of whom may make it through the youth and reserve teams and even break into your first-team 
 squad over time. And another nice addition this year is the option to ask the board to consider 
 setting up a formal arrangement with another club to send or receive players on loan. These agreements, 
 known as feeder or parent clubs, can be very useful for big teams, allowing them to farm out promising 
 youngsters for valuable first-team experience, and for small teams that would never normally be 
 able to attract the young talent. It's something that has been around for a few years in real life, 
 and it's great to be able to see the relationships transfer into the game.     

  The matches themselves are where the real action happens, and FM 2007's match engine has been refined 
 further to create the most realistic re-creation of player activity to date. The games are presented 
 in a top-down view, with players as numbered circles moving around a pitch, which is usually green 
 but can deteriorate into patchy brown to give you an idea of conditions on the ground. It's not 
 the most sophisticated method of displaying a football match we've ever seen, and other games such 
 as LMA Manager 2007 certainly pull it off with more aplomb, but the crucial aspect of it is that 
 you can actually learn something from watching a match. The movement of players is almost bulletproof 
 when compared to watching a real-life game, and it's incredibly easy to forget you are in fact 
 simply watching a bunch of circles move around inside a green rectangle.  

  In this respect, FM 2007, in sacrificing visuals, does a far better job of providing a useful tool 
 for analysis and entertainment than any of the fully 3D match engines. What's more, the rest of 
 the game presents you with information in a clean and efficient manner, and it's clear that extensive 
 work has gone into making sure that the most important screens are always easily accessible in 
 a logical fashion.  

  Sound in the game is still fairly basic, with a dynamic crowd noise that rises and falls depending 
 on what's happening in the game. Football management games don't have a massive scope for advancement 
 in terms of audio, although many years ago Sports Interactive did briefly flirt -- unsuccessfully -- with 
 spoken commentary. But while the impact of sound in the game is minimal, there has been no real 
 attempt to innovate in this area. Crowd noise cuts off suddenly at half- and full-time, and no 
 attempt has been made to brighten the many menu screens with music or other sound effects.  

  That said, it's obvious where the focus lies in Football Manager 2007, and thankfully it's on 
 the most important part of the game -- the feeling of immersion. News items which alert you to goings-on 
 from around the world are sensibly tailored to your own part of the world, while still keeping 
 you in touch with important developments globally. Depending on your progress, journalists may 
 approach you from time to time to ask you to comment on your situation. If you're on a winning 
 streak, you might like to gloat a little, or maybe praise the players. If you're not doing quite 
 so well, you might prefer not to comment at all. Everything you say and do, especially where the 
 media is concerned, can have an impact on the morale of your players, so it's important to consider 
 the bigger picture when talking to the press.  

  Team talks returns once again, allowing you to have some influence on the performance of the team 
 on match day. While you can fire the players up or give them the hairdryer treatment, you're relatively 
 powerless once the whistle goes. You can change basic tactics on the fly, as if shouting instructions 
 from the touchline, but bigger changes and substitutions can take place only when there's a break 
 in play.  

  Players, teams, league setups, and even competition rules are accurate for all of the 116 leagues 
 across 51 countries that exist in the game, something which not only adds massively to the feeling 
 of realism, but also gives you the scope to learn more about world football as you go.  

          The FM 2007 world is more involving and immersive than ever.     

  Once your career 
 is under way, the football world carries on around you, giving you as much attention, or as little, 
 as your current managerial position deserves. From the moment you begin, FM 2007 creates an environment 
 that's based on reality but allows you to forge your own path and create your own stories. Whether 
 you choose to join Manchester United as a former international footballer with a glowing reputation 
 or to join a semiprofessional team of part-timers as an ex-Sunday-league player, you have the scope 
 to do almost anything within the confines of what a real-life manager would do, and setting yourself 
 targets -- or just seeing where "life" takes you -- is one of the best parts of the game.  

  For a game as complex as FM 2007, you'll be pleased to know that there's plenty of in-game help 
 to be had, as well as a decent-sized manual that sets the scene well. Undoubtedly newcomers to 
 the genre will find the sheer depth of gameplay a little overwhelming at first, but it's possible 
 to ask advice on things like team selection from a member of staff, and you'll also get valuable 
 feedback on training schedules and performances from a number of sources. Invest a little more 
 time in the game, and the many screens and statistics will begin to become second nature.  

  Overall FM 2007 is a game that you may well still be enjoying when Sports Interactive is releasing 
 the next version in a year's time, and football fans won't find a more rewarding and realistic 
 tool for fulfilling their sporting fantasies anywhere else. The addiction of playing just one more 
 match, season, or career won't fade anytime soon with this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (52 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mattyphair2K7
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  My Xbox 360 broke recently so i started to play this game, which was a total mistake. number one 
 the a. i. is nowhere to be seen as half the goals i concede or score are wen the keeper lets the 
 ball roll through his legs, fumbles it or when your defencee for some reason passes to the other 
 team inside the six yard box. There is very little realism either as when i was playing as liverpool 
 i beat man utd 3-1 at old trafford but a week later with the exact same liverpool team i was beaten 
 in the F. A. Cup 4th round by Oldham at Anfield. WTF! can someone please explain how that happened. 
 On e thing i do like are the way the transfers are dealed with but its ruined as the teams have 
 very little money at the start of the game. The game is very repetitive as i could tell you what 
 the player will do before he does it and the half time team talks are all the same.
  
  Realism= 1.0
  A. I.= -2
  Transfers= 4.5
  Everything else= 2.0
  
  A lot needs to be changed!!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  If you don't like soccer or football then leave this game alone, thats first thing I have to say. 
 If you are interested in learning about the game and players then its recommended you don't sit 
 down on your own and play this game. Find a friend and sit down with them and go through a two 
 player season to start with. Or else you'll get lost and frustrated quickly. If its your first 
 time playing and you think you know your footie trivia then this game is ultimately aimed at you. 
 Although generally its fun for anyone playing. Football manager 2009 has integrated female gender 
 selection for its game. The difference between FM07 FM08 FM09 won't differ hugely in graphics or 
 gameplay, the two big differences will be the price. You can buy FM07 in a charity shop for 3. 
 Where as FM09 when it is release will sell for up to 40 (full retail price) . You can download 
 updates from fan sites for 07 to add the new transfers from Real World Transfers although not user 
 friendly it needs a bit of dedication to update.
  
  Frustration will hardly set in, in Football Manager because in the end of the day its only a computer 
 game. But loosing a game can be upsetting if you really need or expected to win. To find a winning 
 tactic you will often have to keep a steady team for a long period of time.
  
  I played as Ukranian side Arsenal Kiev for two seasons and could hardly purchase any new players. 
 Although I learnt some interesting tactics! You could find it a bit dull just to have to be so 
 patient in order for your team to make a break and do well. Its a bit of luck over managing skill 
 sometimes and this is probably the most frustrating thing about your team loosing, or a player 
 wanting to leave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donners22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  It is difficult to review a game such as Football Manager 2007. Though it is by itself an astonishing 
 game, with a massive database and plethora of options, these factors are mostly the legacy of previous 
 versions. Therefore, assessing a new version depends firstly on features added, secondly on existing 
 issues refined, if not sorted out altogether. The former is a mixed bag in FM07, the latter is 
 an issue.
  
  Of the new features, the most impressive is the scouting. The idea of having players only available 
 if they are well-known or revealed through your club's knowledge is a good one, and creates an 
 interesting challenge particularly for smaller teams. Though it can be cheated somewhat - the assistant 
 will still provide a fairly accurate opinion of an unknown player's ability - it does add a sense 
 of scale and realism to the game world.
  
  Club affiliations have their flaws. Though it can be nice to have a larger team sending down players 
 as a parent, feeder clubs are often of little use. First-option on their players is next to useless, 
 since they often have few players and are a drop in the ocean of the game world. Sending your players 
 to affiliates to get work permits is a laborious and ultimately pointless process when you can 
 sign so many EU players. The inability to direct the type of affiliate you want is also a flaw.
 
  
  Team talks are limited and frustrating. Why can you not tell a player they are playing for their 
 spot, or that the team needs a win? The extremely limited options mean there is little challenge 
 or variation in this feature. Most frustrating are the problems that have been reported long ago, 
 and are still not fixed. The link between performance, ability and reputation is inadequate, and 
 players can go for ridiculous sums without ever performing on the pitch. Worse, computer player 
 show little understanding of contracts. The user's players can be uncontracted, performing at the 
 highest level and still be ignored by the computer. For instance, I had one who was third as Players 
 Player of the Year in the Premier League while on a rolling contract, and was never once approached 
 by another club. The computer also makes baffling decisions, such as keeping a third-choice keeper 
 on massive wages at their club after his contract expired. Player AI with regard to contracts is 
 also frustrating, with demands often jumping wildly out of proportion to performances. Manager 
 contracts are both pointless and again do not reflect performance.
  
  These are not new issues, and would be far better to focus on than new features. The lack of decent 
 feedback on games, such as breakdowns of where shots come from (think the PES series) is baffling 
 for a game which is supposed to promote in-depth strategic thinking.
  
  Until these problems are resolved, the progression of the FM series will be impeded no matter how 
 many new features are tacked on. Each game is still terrific, but the flaws continue to hold it 
 back from true brilliance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GillsMan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  Ever since Sports Interactive and Eidos divorced after many happy years of marriage making and 
 producing the world-famous Championship Manager series, there has been some debate about whether 
 fans will stick with the well-known Championship Manager title or move to Football Manager.
  
  Those in the know went immediately to Football Manager - after all it was Sports Interactive 
 who had made the game and if anyone could keep the same addictive qualities it was SI. Now, though, 
 it's football's worst kept secret that FM, and not CM, is the game to play to get your football 
 management fix.
  
  SI's mantra of evolution, not revolution has been followed for a while now, and so it is that FM07 
 (or Worldwide Soccer Manager for our American cousins) contains a few completely new features, 
 but mostly the introductions are simple tweaks.
  
  The scouting system has been completely revamped and scouts have limited knowledge bases of certain 
 countries - however the scouts can now learn as the game progresses, helping you uncover the next 
 potential star. The old regen system has been scrapped which means that, when new youth players 
 are introduced, they are no longer simply recycled player stats from recently retired players.
 
  
  Other improvements include pre-match team talks, more board/player/media interaction, including 
 the ability to comment on an opponent's player before and after the match in a bid to unsettle 
 him.
  
  So how does the game feel to play? Well, it maintains the familiar style we are all used to , once 
 you have picked your match day squad it's time to go to the match where the roar of the crowd awaits 
 you. Having said that, the sound is still of very poor quality and could be massively improved 
 to give a greater match atmosphere. The match engine is still one of the most sophisticated simulations 
 around and can produce some very impressive results.
  
  That said, there are still major frustrations especially when your players perform inexplicable 
 actions - such as a player through on goal in a one-on-one situation, suddenly deciding to pass 
 to a player forty yards behind him. The latest patch available from the SI website fixes some but 
 not all of these nuances.
  
  The option to make and download custom content is a good addition as it adds to the game's ambiance.
 
  
  Overall, this is a good game, it lacks some of the addictive qualities of previous incarnations 
 which would cause you to ring in sick to work, but it's still got relationship-ending potential. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Since Championship Manager 04/05 whenever ive tryed to buy the latest version of the same type 
 of game ive been very very dissapointed they were... well rubbish! Football Manager 07 changed that 
 finaly found a management game that was relistic! the lovely toutch of manger interaction with 
 other computer players and managers are fun! me being an Arsenal supporter Jose Mourinho would 
 interact with mind games and try and put you off in your next game agaist Chelsea you can respond 
 and your players will react accordingly!
  Match play is very entertaining you can choose to play the full match or speed it up to just key 
 moments in the game, you can also download real matchballs and team faces and logos to make the 
 game even more realistic!
  
  This management game will be hard to compeate with in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangerklm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Football Manager 2007 is the latest installment of Sigames hugely successful series, and it is 
 a big improvement in virtually all areas. Although many say this game is far glitchier than previous 
 installments, die hard fans are able to work around this in their journey towards footballing success.
 
  
  Naturally, you'll start as your favourite team, for me Birmingham City (please, save the lols) , 
 and try to bring them as much success as possible, through careful selection of tactics, shrewd 
 transfer market wheeling and dealing and effective substitutes used to maximum effect. However 
 the beauty of this game is that once you reached the top, or become a stagnant mess of a football 
 club (the latter applied to me at Birmingham) you can head back to the main menu and start all 
 over again as a different team, fair enough you'll enjoy some teams more than others, I personally 
 have had much joy playing as Tottenham, and the Spanish Spurs - Athletico Madrid, as well as Arsenal 
 and AC Milan. The joy of this game is the endless possibilities, whether you start at a club with 
 a sugar daddy chairman and strive for that ultimate dream team, a feat I feel I accomplished at 
 Arsenal, with Galacticos such as Podolski, Aguero, Messi and Kompany, or starting small and thinking 
 big, as I am currently doing with Conference North Team Lewes, theres something for absolutely 
 everyone. The game is unbelievable easy to pick however it is extremely addictive, my advice is, 
 before you start to play, phone work and tell them you won't be in, say goodbye to your friends 
 and girlfriend, get a helluva lot of food in, and brace yourself. Just be warned, you may never 
 know the joys of real sunlight again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikepearson85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  I was an ardent fan of the CM series, I'd played (and actually quite enjoyed) the premier manager 
 series, but LMA and all the others were rather disappointing.
  Then the CM series began to slip, their player stats weren't always spot on, the formerly user 
 friendly interface vanished, and it was SO slow.
  
  Then I went to a mate's house and saw his Football Manager game, so I grabbed a copy for myself 
 to check out.
  
  Well....
  
  Several days of sleeplessness later, West Bromwich Albion are crowned premier league champions 
 in 2012... hooked. Totally.
  
  This is the best football manager I have ever played, accurate, with massive amounts of options 
 without becoming overwhelming...
  
  Quality. Go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaiserjacko
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: very addictive. Hundreds of teams to choose from. Huge database. Lots of available downloads 
 and patches. Non-linear so possibilites are endless. Realistic. Team talk additon is very good 
 provides extra depth and angle to mangement.
  
  BAD: Some glitches. Hard to get used to and understand. LIfe consuming be prepared to lose your 
 life. Some annoying aspects which are uncontrolable and maybe for players who like complete contorl 
 this may not be for u. no graphics or sound just numbers and circles.
  
  Overall: Very good game. Best in series. Great new additions. Available very cheap now. Overall 
 a good game but only if football managment is your idea of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos_Cruxis
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  Sports Interactive have done it again with this years instalment of Football Manager, working on 
 masterful foundations laid during the 2006 season they have built a golden palace that simply blows 
 away the previous incarnations and any competitors that dare to step into its genre.
  
  Football Manager as ever comes with its impressively large database containing hundreds of leagues, 
 thousands of teams, and hundreds of thousands of players. The many teams will cater to your many 
 needs be they to spend millions with Chelsea, bring your home town team to the forefront of global 
 football or just taking the challenge of bringing a minuscule blip on the football radar to the 
 pinnacle of the Champions League.
  The management interface implements drop down boxes and links situated at prime locations to make 
 navigation of the game much more simplistic and easier to grapple with. Tactically the game is 
 superb, making changes using the tactics page shows when it comes to match time, and in match you 
 can see where your teams weaknesses are and change accordingly. Of course dont expect and easy 
 ride. The AI of the game is responsive and well coded and will see your tactics and counter them 
 with what they see fit. Also the AI works exceptionally when it comes to transfers and other communications 
 between User and CPU controlled teams being both fair and taking into consideration many different 
 factors such as club rivalries.
  The in match engine is rendered onscreen as a 2D pitch with markers indicating players and officials. 
 Although many of its competitors have 3D match engines it can be argued that the 2D engine is more 
 effective, it takes much less time to load, gives a better overview of what is transpiring and 
 each player is easily identifiable.
  The game also contains online features which can add length and community to the experience, however 
 online games can be very difficult to initiate and set-up, it requires one user to act as the server 
 and all users must run the same patch.
  
  Graphically the game does not amaze due to its nature as a Football Management sim, however it 
 does meet its purpose with aplomb. All menus are clear and crisp giving the game a professional 
 feel that allows the gamer to feel at ease with the game and not constantly distracted with the 
 blandness of the interface. As previously said the game engine is 2D but this in no way damages 
 the playability of the game compared to its competitors but instead enhances the experience. The 
 game features photos of players and logos of the teams in many cases but some do not (the one glaring 
 example is the English Premiership) . However this problem can be rectified though downloads that 
 can be found online which add files to the database that will incorporate these features. This 
 modding feature extends to many other parts of the game like the interface and sounds.
  
  The game features little sound but the sound that exists is to the highest standard. The match 
 sounds are the primary example and are both relevant and intuitive. The sound will change should 
 the situation in the match change, such as if the home team scores it will be greeted by rapturous 
 applause but if the away team scores then a quiet rumble will ripple from your speakers. Many teams 
 will have their respective chants played during the match which adds to the realism of events.
 
  
  For value this game cannot be beat its length is incomprehensible as you can take thousands of 
 teams through seasons that can span decades if not centuries. The variety available ensures that 
 a single style of play does not become repetitive and each situation you are thrown into means 
 that you must devise a new way to conquer the championship and please your board and fans. This 
 game will easily keep you content until the next instalment arrives in the following fall.
  
  In conclusion this game promises hours of unparalleled addiction and immense entertainment 
 and in both cases this game meets this boast and will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgbogdan
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  There are some really good features in the game like player interaction but you are not really 
 talking to players you talk with the press and you can do little to change morale of them.... that 
 disappointed me. If you are an soccer addicted you should play it if not don't you don't really 
 miss anything.... It is average!
  And the sound of the game sucks big time ,nothing special! Another bad part of it is that you can't 
 rate very easy players and you should know a thing or two before starting to play this game.
  I think fifa manager is a better option to start your managerial career! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcone
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  Even though graphics and sound are basically non-existent, this fact does not come into play when 
 rating Football Manager since the variety of actions you can perform is so vast you completely 
 forget that sound exists.
  
  This game is highly addictive and you will sit in front of your screen for hours at a time, trying 
 to figure out the best tactics to use in order to beat your team's arch rival or scouting for young 
 players in remote continents to find wonderkids for cheap and develop them into world class players 
 or begging your board for extra time before they can your behind for losing too many games, either 
 way, you're in for quite a ride.
  
  Despite its many faults, such as the lack of any sound except the roar of the crowd in a match, 
 and lack of graphics except those little running dots in a match, and the fact that you need a 
 strong computer with a lot of memory in order to run this game without having to wait for hours 
 for each screen to load, this is the best Football Manager game to date.
  
  If you think that playing one season is enough, you're sadly mistaken. One season simply isn't 
 enough to explore the game thoroughly and by the time you finish playing one season, you will be 
 so into the game that you will be in the year 2012 before you even know it.
  
  There are many things that the game needs to improve: Firstly, it's the steep and ridiculous prices 
 that teams ask for players, which pretty much make it impossible for you to have a world class 
 player before he is over the age of 32 and basically past his best. Another feature new feature 
 that needs working on is the Player Interaction. While comes in useful to reprimand players who 
 are in poor form and used to instruct youngsters to learn from experiences first team players, 
 this feature needs more options since you rarely get to use it.
  
  The game is highly addicting and a whole lot of fun. It can get extremely frustrating at times, 
 so frustrating you will want to punch something, anything, especially your players, but that same 
 frustrations will be replace with joy and pride when you win your domestic league or a continental 
 competition and you will be praised endlessly by your players, your boss, the media and club's 
 past players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmecbe
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Football manager 2007 adds fun gameplay and realistic managerial situations to bring your team 
 to the top of the tree and rule the world in football. Firstly the game has a massive engine when 
 it comes to players and you can have all the players you wish to use on your managerial experience. 
 The trinaing section is realistic you can hire your own staff and workers you can handle the finances 
 and the game has a detailed finance section with a board room where you can get the opinion of 
 your board and the fans. You can also have interaction with the players and comment on there performaces 
 and rate them as players. All of the teams are present in the game and you can manage any league 
 you wish in the world. The game is enjoyable and has too many features to mention or id be hear 
 writing about this game forever. Overall highly recommended as a manager game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsHeavenIsWide
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 18, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  ok so my first review for gamespot and its on the amazing game football manager 2007 (worldwide 
 soccer)
  
  i got this game after i brought championship manager and tbh champ was too easy so yes FM is def 
 better then Champ.
  
  The Good
  
  ok so the best thing about this game must be the endless things you can do. you can interact with 
 managers, team talks, praise players, interact with the media its all good.
  another good thing is that once you have a winning tactic after about a season the oopsition will 
 have a tactic to get around yours, so the game is always changing.
  the transfer system is good aswell the money is realistic and players are valued right and wont 
 move unless they want too.
  the game is better then champ 100%
  
  
  The Bad
  
  it takes some time to get use to the screen movement but there are hotkeys to get too certain screens. 
 also the sound aint amazing, but i play my music in background. also the game can get abit slow 
 in pre-season and if you set lots of playable leagues it can take a while to load.
  
  Overall
  
  this game really isnt for n00bs...... n00bs can play it if you choose a top team 
 as you have all the amazing players. the game is better then champ i have both games so i would 
 know. lets just say a whole season can take a week tocomplete and its ver realistic. you also have 
 alot of forums on net to download tactics and training scheldules.
  
  p. s buy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  football manager is the third football game from sports interactive and is realy impressive.
  
  this years managment system runs nicely and has cool new features which will bring you back 
 again and again.
  
  unfortunatly somethings have been changed that realy didnt need to be changed, injuries are now 
 a lot more annoying also theres no editor included, or not that i've found, so you cant update 
 the roster, also the online play still hasnt been fixed and still doesnt work.
  
  however the good is that they've also made a lot of good improvements, even tiny improvements that 
 realy make a difference, like now at half time players dont lose 40% percent of there health and 
 now have a new way of what seems like AI like going to the press but saying things a little more 
 accurate, the game play is also great, realy putting you on the edge of your seat
  
  overall football manager is at its peek with 2007 although some people may dissaprove the changes 
 and stick with 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nedkok
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 16, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  It is possibly the most addictive game out there for any soccer fans. I've been a die-hard fan 
 since 1999, and am still playing. It provides everyone the opportunity to do their own thing and 
 select their own difficulty - whether it's taking Chelsea's millions and conquering the Premiership 
 or taking a team from the second division of Bulgaria to the top of Europe by winning the Champions 
 League.
  
  It will give you exactly what you expect out of the FM series - preserving the good things from 
 the previous versions, updating the players' database, and adding a number of crucial and interesting 
 innovations that will make your game that much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshymack
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  The only boring part of this game is the sound of it. Basically, its no sound at all, till you 
 play a match and could only hear the crowd sound of it. That's it! Th graphics are not very fascinating 
 as well. You know, the above are the only worst part of this game! I promise anyone could actually 
 ignore those above issues once they have played the game through as you will be so focused and 
 busy in your management of your team, that you dont really take noticed of those stuffs at all.
 
  
  I love this game scouting system! It really gives you so much of detailing from the players you 
 wanna scout to the club or nation you wanna scout. But it also depends on how well your scout knowledge 
 has for that nation, through their knowledge bars the scouts have.
  
  You could manage from Big Huge Clubs to Clubs that you have not even heard of! Not to mention that 
 you could manage nations as well. This game database is that HUGE!!! It really gives you the depths 
 of soccer management. Another great thing is the interaction between you to the world. Your players 
 to your board to media to other managers in the game. Of course you could interact with other players 
 in the game as and when you want, by speculating your interest to showing your negative views about 
 others. Oh! Of course there's half time talks and before after a match talks as well. It really 
 helps.
  
  The match engine is superb! Although it doesn't have simulation 3D engine like others but it still 
 gives you the feel of realism of your players (numbered circles) moving around the pitch. Don't 
 worry, you won't feel stupid or weirdo watching those circles moving around because you will soon 
 forget about it as its rather realistic on the formations and tactics you used and you wanna keep 
 an eye on how well they played. What you do, say in this game, really gives an impact on players 
 morale to your board reactions. This game makes it so real! This game is not hard to play with, 
 due to advice are just there for you to see it! I think this game gives me the thrill to play more 
 and not willing to let it go even i had to go work. This game is FANTASTIC! Should own a piece 
 of it to get a feel of how addictive you can get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordancarter23
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 5, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  this game is the best ever football managment game you will play this year. it is much better than 
 champ manager 7. a must buy. i would recommend this game to any one who likes to think they are 
 a better manager than the professionals. and think you can handle the pressure of relegation battles, 
 then you must have this game and see what its like for the strugglers. its well worth the money 
 you pay and more :) . so see you on the touch line mr jose mourinho i look forward to beating your 
 team of overpaid losers soon ;p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jichaelmackson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Its the best football management game ever its that simple..... very, very addictive and constantly 
 leaves you wanting to play one more game. I often find my self falling asleep thinking of new tactics 
 to try. I have been playing football manager since the original championship manager and they just 
 get better every year and closer each time to really feeling like your in charge of the club. There 
 really can't be that many more features they can think off to put in to the game these's days.
 
  
  So there's no graphics so to speak other than watching small blobs move around the screen and the 
 sound is passable at best. Yes EA sports may own the rights to the premier league teams so there 
 is no logo or kits in footy manager for premier teams, and have there pretty in game matches, and 
 championship manager is getting better (it still a long way to go though) but neither come half 
 as close to completely immersing you the football world as well as footy manager does.
  
  One quick word of warning though if your in a relationship decide if you love them or not before 
 you buy this game cos once you do you won't see your other half again for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skojic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  Worldwide Manager 2007 was a surprise package from SEGA. Did anyone think they would make a manager 
 sim better than FIFA? Even with the fact that it came out before FIFA Manager did, it still surpasses 
 FIFA in almost every way. Pros:
  
  It's way more realistic
  
  Finance problems and team talks have great influence on the happiness of your players. Some think 
 they should play more while others praise you - but in the end it all amounts to your skill at 
 handling press, players and payment.
  
  It works on almost every computer!
  
  No need for a high-end computer. Your Mac will do just fine at running this beautiful game.
  
 
  Cons:
  
  Poor display
  
  With no photos and (sometimes) original kits to speak of, it is inferior to its FIFA rival, but 
 some people consider that to be a good thing.
  
  All in all, choose this over FIFA if you're a experienced manager, but consider FIFA if you're 
 a rookie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendKiller64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Sports Interactive have made one of the best games around when they made Football Manager. A friend 
 of mine recommended it to me and after trying the demo I immediately got my hands on the full copy 
 of the game. It takes an hour or so to understand everything and to get the best out of your players 
 can take forever (I still haven't got the hang of it) which is good because if you got the best 
 out of your player the game will end up being very simple. The games is unpredictable, realistic 
 and surprisingly addictive. It would be good if you got the highlights of your match like in LMA 
 manager but you can't have everything. Overall an amazing game which every football fan should 
 have a copy of! Can't wait for Football Manager 2008! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiwieaglefan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  This is truly the best soccer management game i've played. Its slightly different from EA's Fifa 
 manager as it has no 3d graphics but the gameplay i thnk is really good. What you do is you choose 
 a team to manage and then manage them (of course) . What you do when you manage is chhose your team, 
 buy players, get feeder clubs, sign staff, apply for other jobs etc. My favourite part is buying 
 players to strenthen your club. It makes me really proud when my recruits play well.
  
  It runs better than EA's game especially if you have no graphics card like me. EA's game is slow 
 as most of the game is high quality graphics. In this game its just a green background. It takes 
 a while to get used to but then is really easy to navigate
  
  I would give this 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divine_donkey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  The Football Manager franchise has come a long way since its first appearance. In every series 
 it never fails to deliver its goods. Other titles which allows users to take control of teams are 
 totally uncomparable to the FM. Its distinctive flavor in its gameplay sepearates it from the rest. 
 Although sound and graphics is still as bad as its predecessors. Its gameplay however, make up 
 for it all. The only glitch is the unlicensed English Premier League teams and the use of scrambled 
 names in some of the national teams. Luckily, all these can be solved by downloading some third-party 
 softwares which alters its database. Apart from this glitch, it is still the best. On most occasion 
 you will be stuck to your computer for a few hours hoping your team wins the league. Explore the 
 endless possibilities with the Editing Software and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buttmonkey9000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  Football Manager 2007 promised to be realistic, hands on football management simulation experience. 
 And certainly Sega have kept their promise. Football Manager 2007 is an improvement upon the 2006 
 version on the grounds that this time it is more realistic. For example, manager comments, team 
 talks and attitudes have a greater psychological effect upon players. The new tutoring system whereby 
 one player can tutor another player in the squad adds to the realistic experience. At a first glance, 
 Football Manager doesnt appear to be a vast change or improvement upon the 2006 version. For example 
 all thats visible is a new skin and menu at first. However, if you dig deep the hidden realism 
 becomes apparent. For example, when viewing a club, by clicking on information you can see the 
 overall share value of the club, its favoured players, and senior stadium, reserve stadium, predicted 
 position in the league table and the chairmans happiness. These unique touches combines with team 
 talk improvements significantly contribute towards the realism of the game. For example you can 
 comment on a poor referee decision in a post match interview whilst also giving your views upon 
 a predicted result before the game. All of this having a psychological impact upon the players. 
 Although it may seem complicated, previous players will find the system easy to grasp, whereas 
 first time players will experience a learning curve of about one hour to really take advantage 
 of every feature.
  
  Football Manager is still as addictive as ever, but this time round its more relevant to the real 
 world of football management. If youve played and liked previous versions, then I recommend this 
 to you, however if youre not particularly a football fan, but you like the simulation idea, then 
 I suggest that you look elsewhere But I would have no doubts in saying that this is the best Football 
 Management simulation yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cozo_hawk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Football Manager 2007 is the best from his series. Well there you meet with that basic sound but 
 you will be impresed about the gamplay. I prefer to play with R. Madrid but every team is good if 
 you know to manage it. In my opinion are 3 superbs players: Ronaldinho, David Villa &amp; Steven 
 Gerrard. But there are some wonderful wonderkids like: Aguero , Javi Martinez, Gago , Higuain , ...
 
  Play it because you will enjoy every minute spended on the game. We all knows that Chelsea London 
 are the richiest because there is Abramovici but the money means nothing because the best league 
 to play is Primera Division and Serie A. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Since the revival of the Football Manager series took place with the release of FM2005 the games 
 have just got better and better every year. Each new installment is essentially a season update 
 with a few new features thrown in to keep us happy, but this years' edition is quite simply the 
 best managerial game ever made.
  
  Gameplay - To those of us familiar with the series, Football Manager 2007 is relatively easy to 
 play as things are pretty much as they always have been with regards to finding your way around 
 the game. However, for those who are new to the big world of Football Manager it could take a while 
 to get to grips with everything, so if you've played either FM05/FM06 expect to spend around half 
 an hour learning the new features and so on, and if you're new to this game expect to spend an 
 awful lot longer doing so. It's rewarding if you do though. The new updates the the game are just 
 about enough to warrant handing over your cash for the game, with some nice touches like 'player 
 interaction' to add a little more depth to the gameplay.
  
  Graphics - It's difficult to give a good score here, as the majority of what you'll see on your 
 monitor is text-based. You can supposedly view a '3D pitch' when watching a game, but this is literally 
 22 dots running around chasing a small black and white dot. However, graphics aren't at all necessary 
 in this game.
  
  Sound - Again, nothing fancy here. All that's really worth mentioning is that crowd noises add 
 a nice bit of atmosphere to a match, but other than that no sound is present throughout the game. 
 Your best option is probably to turn the sound option off completely and listen to your own music 
 while playing. I've given this and the graphics score a 6/10 because otherwise the overall score 
 of the game would be lower than it deserves to be.
  
  Value - Put it this way - I've spent over ten consecutive days (around 250 hours) on this game 
 over the past three months or more, so in my opinion this is well worth your money. There's so 
 much available to keep you coming back again and again, and once you get bored with managing your 
 favourite Premiership club you can simply choose to manage a club anywhere else you like, from 
 League 2 to the French National.
  
  Overall, this game is well worth owning if you're a fan of football and/or management games. You 
 will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steved87
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  This is definitely an improvement on FM 2006, club affiliates were a good addition, team talks 
 were slightly altered however there are still problems with these as the team talk options differ 
 from match to match so it can be hard trying to get your message across. An example is your team 
 could be trailing 0-1 at half time and you want to give your players some encouragement, and the 
 closest option would be 'sympathise with team'. It would be good if we were given all the options 
 at all times. Also I still have a major gripe with international management. In charge of clubs, 
 you can issue press releases talking about the next or previous opponent, or declare interest in 
 a player. International management has none of these options. The only interaction you can have 
 with the press is if they ask you something, which is usually about a controversial selection or 
 some other factor. It would make it much better if you could comment on a fringe player and say 
 'If he keeps playing like this I'll have no choice but to pick him' or 'He has to improve alot 
 before I even consider picking him', something along those lines where you can interact with the 
 players at the same level as the club managers. Graphics and sound can still improve (havent changed 
 much since 2005) , perhaps the introduction of audible commentary could be trialled but will definitely 
 have to be optional as any commentary would annoy the hell out of someone after a few hours of 
 playing. Keeping the players from looking like little circles with numbers on them would also be 
 helpful as sometimes controversial penalties are given that require a reaction post match, so any 
 comment you make to the media would be based purely on your assistant's advice. It would be nice 
 to see them a little more as footballers and a little less and numbered blobs. Still, and improvement 
 from last year, I suppose adding affiliation, updating stats and playing squads etc may take all 
 year. Worth a decent look, and a definite buy for any FM fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musclassia
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Football Manager can be so cruel sometimes. 2-0 up with 4 minutes plus stoppages to go, you take 
 off your amazing stirker who's taken a knock and you want to rest him. Guess what? The pathetically 
 poor opposition somehow muster up two goals out of nowhere are you see 3 turn to 1. Does that happen 
 in real life. Not unless you're Arsenal.
  However, it can also make you scream in delight as well as in fury. Managing Ipswich into a 3-1 
 lead against Liverpool, the scousers peg you back to 3-3, until with 1 minute left, Danny Haynes 
 completes his hat-trick to lead the Tractor Boys to their 4th win over one of the big four in 2 
 seasons.
  
  The gameplay is as you would expect. Choose your club, buy the players, pick the team, scout out 
 future stars, then go through a season. Then another, and another. And then another. You may get 
 bored eventually (or give up in frustration as you get work permit applications for Lebohang Mokoena, 
 Freddy Adu and Nicolas Millan all turned down) , but it will last, and you may take it up again 
 later anyway.
  
  The graphics annoyingly lack in the match department (though it is understandable, since as it 
 is doubtful they would be able to get player models for Nationwide Conference North/South, Singapore, 
 India and the like) , but it has good enough visuals for the menus, which are easily navigatable 
 for a game this size, so no complaints. The sound lacks, but it means you can play your own music 
 in the background with iTunes rather than putting up with the rubbish EA would give you.
  
  So, all in all, it's as quality as you could predict, and for a football fan, the game for taking 
 a go at managing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akyanyme
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  La vdd, cuando comprobe q el juego era de estrategia, dije vaya, no van a saber plasmar la emoci&oacute; n 
 de un juego tan popular y mundial... Oh sorpresa...
  Me quede atonito, al ver los clubes, estadisticas, lo real, lo q tu sientes al ver q tu equipo 
 no camina, la emocion de una final, o el luchar por una copa!!!
  
  Altamente recomendable!!
  
  Incluyen todas las ligas habidas por conocer, la jugabilidad es 
 excelente, puedes ser el manager desde el mas rico y poderoso club como Arsenal, Chelsea, Real 
 Madrid, Barcelona, Inter hasta Boca Juniors, Chacaritas, America (Mex) .
  
  Sumamente adictivo, podras ser quien maneje a un club desde las juveniles hasta los de primer orden!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakaroti4
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  There is no denying it. Football Manager 2007 is almost perfect in every sense of the word. It 
 has almost every aspect of the real Football managing world. When I first started the game, I was 
 not sure, how it would be, I had always loved football, but that did not necessarily meant that 
 I would love this game.
  
  - Gameplay
  Everything you will ever need. So addictive that you need to check the clock, now and then just 
 to make sure you are keeping track with time (A real time-killer)
  
  - Graphics Nothing really special, but that is also good, because you need to focus on other things 
 instead of fancy graphics. - (Descent)
  
  - Sound
  Again nothing too impressive, but it still cuts the deal, with nice sounds of the crowd cheering 
 in the stadium. - (Nice)
  
  It is just a shame that not all clubs have their logos, but you cannot ask too much, and I believe 
 that this is the best football game to date. Nothing more and nothing less. So if you like football/soccer 
 then don't miss this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellers23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  I have now tried to review this game 3 times. My problem is I have far too much to type, it may 
 take up to 2 days to write a fully in depth review which would cover all of the available options 
 and features which are included within the game. But to be honest you would be better having a 
 go at it yourself and finding them all out for yourself.
  After all you can download a demo for free, so what have you got to lose?
  
  I'll simply break 
 this review down into the 4 standard scoring chunks.
  So number 1) Graphics and sound
  To be honest this game isn't about graphics or sounds and there aren't many that are worth noting, 
 so I'll re-brand it presentation.
  Colourful and easy to use screen's are everywhere with official club logos and player photo's. 
 The simple 2D match screen is also easy enough to use. Crowd chants are about the only sounds you'll 
 encounter when playing this game. 8 points awarded, if only for the simplicity of controlling such 
 an option filled game.
  
  2) Gameplay
  I touched on it earlier but the gameplay options are simply far too numerous to get into. From 
 scouting players to transfering them in, hiring/firing staff to dealing with the media, half time/ 
 full time team talks to full out player revolts, running a youth academy, improving facilities 
 and organising wage bills and budgets and everything in between are included in outrageous detail. 
 10 points EASY!!! No less than 10 points can be allocated here. Simply wonderful, you'll be playing 
 this game for years to come... or until FM2008 is released anyway.
  
  3) Value.
  With a free downloadable demo to break you in gently. The &pound;20 or equivalent is IMO outstanding. 
 With all of the features above and thousands upon thousands of teams to manage the replay potential 
 is massive. Again 10 points awarded here. How could I possibly go lower?
  
  4) Reviewers tilt.
  My own opinion on this game is that whilst brilliantly laid out and the features 
 provided are all top notch, it just requires too much time to play through. In my last career, 
 it took me almost 3 entire days to bring in my coaching staff, organise training, assess the youngsters 
 in my academy, look over various budgets and set up scouting missions. By this point I had only 
 played 2 friendlies and was absolutely nowhere near the regular season. Should you choose to view 
 an entire match you are looking at upwards of an hour to play through that particular match. When 
 you include team selection, pre match-half time and full time chats and tactical re shuffles when 
 necessary.
  If you have the time to spend on this game then there is no more rewarding experience available 
 and I suppose there is the option to allow your assistant manager and coaches to oversee various 
 things but why would you want to is my question?
  While this game may enhance peoples life's I fear it may have a detrimental effect on some others. 
 You'll get out of it what you put in is what I'm trying to say. So for me I'll award this title 
 9 out of 10 in this category. As for the mini categories
  Difficulty- Easy enough to operate all of the functions and options. Unfortunately it isn't always 
 easy to manage, even great teams. Just ask Sven Goran Eriksson.
  
  Time Playing to Date- Easily upwards of 100 hours since early November. I'd touch on nearer a 1000 
 than 100.
  
  Learning curve- Competent players will find their feet easily within an hour but you'll still be 
 finding new menus and options in weeks, even months to come.
  
  As for my classification, I'd personally go for Unbelievable but that particular option isn't available 
 to me. So from the options that are there for me to choose from Immersive or Highly Addictive would 
 both do the title justice.
  
  I'm going to lean on the former. A truly immersive title. My final word on FM2007??? Brilliant. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedragon99
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Yes it has been improved alot!!! thank the lord that SI saw the problems and improved them, any1 
 who thinks its over rated or poor then buy the 2nd rate football managers that our out there. Football 
 manager has it all the new feeder clubs which allows you to be able to look and even get 1st chance 
 on their players sign player from other clubs, improved help from your Ass. Manager by displaying 
 where your team talks helpped or worsen moral of your squad, and improved ways to upset and improve 
 your chances of getting players u like and want 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickbeckham
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I have always been an FM fan but im disappointed.
  This game is terrible and unrealistic.
  When you play a match the opposition will score 1 - 3 goals in the last 10 minutes of the match.
 
  Even when i am winning 3-0 in the first half my rival team end up beating me 4-3. The commentry 
 is horrible and repetative. The graphics haven't improved since FM2005. The pre-match, half time 
 and the full time team-talks are always the same. This game is very boring and not worth buying. 
 DO NOT BELIEVE THE HYPE. I enjoyed all the previous football manager games and they where so much 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lrawles
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid soccer management title. Probably the best out there. I, however, will not be purchasing 
 another SI futbol title until they add a fantasy draft option like most baseball simulations have. 
 It is one of the most enjoyable aspects of any management game for me and its lack of this functionality 
 is a deal breaker for me.
  
  Seriously, the lack of the fantasy draft functionality is the only downside. But its absence is 
 a real downside to the game. That said, if this feature is not important to you, you cannot do 
 better than this title. I prefer the PC version to the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Football Manager has you as the Manager of a football team. You can start unemployed and work your 
 way to the top and try to get a top club. Or you can just go manage any club you want from the 
 beginning. It is like real football really. Say you manage Sheffield Utd .You just probably need 
 to get them to survive every season. Take on a top job like Chelsea, Aresenal, Liverpool or Man 
 Utd and they will demand success and Champions League qualification. You fail to deliver that and 
 your gonna get sacked. When you also mange these top clubs like Baracalona, Real Madrid and Chelsea 
 they want world class players every season from you. This game never seems to end and it's very 
 addictive and some teams will have takeovers which might mean your club want someone else instead 
 of you. If you sell your top players the club wouldn't be happy. It is just like you a real manager. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_hazy_basic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The long running series has produced another stunning game! Football Manager 06 was a really good 
 game with too many flaws to really make it up there with the greats. This time around SI games 
 has really pulled out the stops. The numerous bugs have (almost) gone and especially with the release 
 of the patch the game is breathtakingly addictive. Perhaps the 2 biggest innovations are the scouting 
 system and squad interaction. More so than ever you really become imersed in your team, able to 
 interact with indiviual players, give team talks before during and after games and you really get 
 a feeling for the squad and players, which was for some reason sort of lacking in 06.
  
  Scouting is a giant leap. In previous games scouts were worthless and incompetant. Now sending 
 scouts out gives them knowledge of areas, revealing players hidden stats and giving you an in depth 
 report of their strengths, weaknesses and potential.
  
  The graphics might not be up to some games, and the sound is little more than a few cheers, but 
 if you like these games this is an irrelevance. Also this game is not for the weakhearted, new 
 players and players unfamiliar with football (soccer) could well find it tough going at the start, 
 but as with everything worthwhile perservance will pay dividends. I could rave on for hours about 
 howe great this game is and go into the minute details but its better if you discover it for yourself. 
 A must buy for any aspiring manager ou there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Football manager. In the past few years it has clearly been the best football management game as 
 it offers the most realistic engine and most depth. Also this offers team talk and the media interaction 
 which really gets you engrossed, really makes you feel youre in charge.
  
  The gameplay is realistic and the team talks relly affect youre players morale, affecting how they 
 play in the matches which is vital of course, so games are totally down to your managerial ability. 
 Also the game has incredible depth, feeder clubs for example is a great addition, and the option 
 to add and delete them makes you feel in charge. Of course unlike championship manager, it is impossible 
 to buy a star player the first time you play as you have no reputation, that adds to the realism 
 whereas in CM you can buy anyone you want anytime you want.
  
  The games interface remains the same, easy to use and easy for newcomers to use which is great. 
 Also during the matches you can see a birds eye view of the pitch as usual, but now its more detailed 
 and you can view particulars which makes it so much better and doesnt ruin the winning forumula 
 by going for something too ambitious, its got it spot on.
  
  Of course there is no sound but the fans cheering during a match. Works for me because i play music 
 in the background while playing. The lack of licsenced premiership teams bugs me but still all 
 the names are intact and the players arent named strange things and doesnt get in the way of the 
 gameplay, just could make finding an english player a bit harder.
  
  You will have to put everything to one side, your work, girlfiriend and social life to play this 
 game, you will find yourself at your computer for too many hours on end playing this game, it takes 
 over you life, its EVIL the creators of this game know how to make a good football managerment 
 game unlike CM creators who have done nothing to improve their game apart from prozone which doesnt 
 work that well. This game must be played no matter what if youre a fan of football, buy it now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafftle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  my scout say :
  This Game is a priceless signing. You must play it all cost!!
  This game have the potential to be the gratest simulation manager games ever. Added with fm scout, 
 you can always find tho most appropriate player with the affordable player for your teams from 
 a very huge player names. Plus the scout now can tell you the prediction of the player value so 
 tha you don't have to bid as high as you can to get the tea where the player you want accept your 
 bid. Anyway, you must not compare this game to CM 2007 since this game is far greater than that 
 junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  In today's world of realistic graphics and intense action games requiring huge amounts of processor 
 power, the Football Manager series is something of an anomaly. Here is a game that revolves around 
 a database of people and 2D representations of football pitches, - surely this cannot be a formula 
 for success? But it is. In fact, almost anyone who has properly played this game (or any game from 
 this series) will tell you that it is one of the most addictive games ever created!
  
  The formula for this latest Football Manager (or Worldwide Soccer Manager, for the Americans) is 
 very much the same as for its predecessors - you create yourself in the game as a football manager, 
 take charge of a team and try and lead them to glory. As your career progresses you may change 
 jobs, you may go from managing on the lower rungs of the football ladder to clinching the Champions 
 League with Barcelona (or vice versa!) . Your success depends on a combination of your tactical 
 ability as a manager, your financial sense (no use signing Ronaldinho if its going to bankrupt 
 your club!) , and a little bit of luck.
  
  While there is nothing radical about this update to the series, Sports Interactive have continued 
 to fine tune the Football Manager experience to make it more realistic and enjoyable. They have 
 updated the media engine and players reactions to comments from the press and other characters 
 in the football world. They have also improved the match engine so that the movements of players 
 are in line with the positioning and movement of real people in real football matches. Two notable 
 differences are the tweaking of the scouting system and the introduction of club relationships. 
 To find the best players at the best prices it is now necessary to educate your scouts by sending 
 them around the world on scouting missions. This builds up a greater knowledge base within your 
 club, resulting in a wider range of results when you search for players. For example you will not 
 find that talented Argentinean striker that would be ideal for your club in your search if your 
 scouts know nothing about the Argentinean league. Club relationships sees the ability to create 
 parent and feeder clubs. Small clubs will benefit from a relationship with a big name team by having 
 easy access to players on loan and lucrative friendly matches, while a big club will do well to 
 affiliate itself with a smaller local team through which youngsters can gain first team football 
 experience.
  
  In terms of graphics, this years Football Manager sees a slightly new look and an improved user 
 interface (which takes some getting used to for series veterans!) . The sound is very much the same 
 as before with generic crowd sounds given at different volume depending on the amount of people 
 watching the match. Graphics and sound aren't what this game is about though and aren't integral 
 to it's success. It is all about the gameplay and the ever changing, never-ending world of the 
 game. Much like the real world of football, there is no way to reach the end of the game and win 
 or lose because the game will continue to develop new players forever. This open-ended gameplay 
 means that the game keeps on dragging you back to it for just one more season!
  
  I haven't encountered any bugs with the game. It has a few little quirks (like only recording player's 
 league appearances in their history, and a few minor syntax errors in media messages) , but there 
 are no major problems. I did find that the recently released patch for the game detracted from 
 my enjoyment though as it messed up a lot of the club colours and made the match engine less realistic. 
 I have now gone back to playing without the patch. Hopefully the next patch will fix all of these 
 new problems.
  
  So in all, Football Manager 2007 is nothing revolutionary, though fans of the series will become 
 even more addicted to this game than they did to it's predecessors. Kiss goodbye to your girlfriend, 
 your social life, your personal hygiene and the world outside as a whole, because now the next 
 few months of your life are going to be spent playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humilde_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Well, first of all, this is my first review, so ill try my best to make a great review.
  Second of all, im from Argentina, so... sorry for my bad English jaja
  Ok, now the review,.
 
  Im a sick football Boca Juniors fan, ive been playing football games like Pro Evolution Soccer 
 and Fifa for ages, but i&acute; ve never tried a tactical non-playable game like this, i mean, ive 
 always controlled the players. Ive never tried this kind of games because i thought they were rubbish, 
 that they were boring because, where was all the fun if i wasn't able to control the players.
 
  But one day a friend of mine told me to try it, and inmediatly he introduced me into a new kind 
 of soccer gaming, extremely addictive, full of contents such as players training, club managing, 
 finances, buy players, real life championships, and everything that this game has.
  Ive started with Football Manager 06, i can say that im an addict now, and when Football Manager 
 07 came out, i didn't stopped to think when i bought it.
  Its one of the greatest games i've ever played. You learn a lot of things that you don&acute; t 
 know playing Pro Evolution or Fifa.
  You also have the option to take the control of the reserve squad and the junior squad, create 
 tactics for your team, depending on the attributes
  of your players, winning the best cup's and leagues, manage national teams, and if you're lucky 
 and a good manager, you can manage the best's club's of the world such as Manchester United, the 
 one that im in charge of now after winning lots of tournaments with Boca Juniors and Argentina 
 National Team.
  It doesn't have great graphics, but you can mod it downloading club's logos, kits, and player pictures, 
 and they have sound only when you are playing the match, this might be the worst thing of the game.
 
  So, if you like football and you never tried this game, think twice, because you will be an addict 
 inmediatly jajaja
  This game is excellent!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranjan_united
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to start of by saying that Football Manager 2007 is the most adictive 
 game I have ever played... and this comes from a guy willing to finish No One Lives Forever 2 in 
 one sitting... so you know what I mean. What really impressed me about the game was its large database. 
 The number of players seem to be infinite and if you install with the 'large database' option, 
 you will find any player you can think of. And it doesn't just stop at players, but also Managers 
 and coaches. Also, I really like the number of options available regarding player contracts; from 
 enquiries to mutual terminations, fantastic. This is the first ever manager game that has caused 
 me to break a sweat while pulling transfers; its that realistic. Match simulations are good and 
 the sound, well, let's just say it's passable.
  Overall, a fantastic game, worth every penny, though your girlfriend might not agree and most definitely 
 leave you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  This is probally the most addictive game ive ever played, and still is by far the best managment 
 sim ever created.
  
  The gameplay is really really addictive, ive played over 100 hours of this game and still going, but 
 i was dissapointed with the lack of change from the last fm game its still great but mainly the 
 same as last time with mabe a few tweaks here and there.
  
  The graphics are dissapointing as championship manager have moved on to 3d now and this game is 
 still 2d. A little dissapointing.
  
  The sound....... there is no sound apart from the matches, and when it is matches there just a 
 little roar of fuzziness! By far the worst part of the game.
  
  Its definatly worth your money as you will be playing it for time to come. I have to say i was 
 a little dissapointed with the lack of change from the last game but still without a dought a great 
 game for any football (uk) lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vojkan80001
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Well there is no HUGE difference between this manager and previous from 2006 but just some small 
 things can make a huge difference in gameplay, and that is more than enough to appreciate FM 2007!
 
  
  Match engine is basically the same, graphics, sound, all of that keeps same stuff from previous 
 one. You are probably asking, than what is new about this game? Not much when it comes to esthetics 
 but other small things, like revamp scouting, better movement of players (more realistic) , changed 
 training mode, less stupid unrealistic things in match engine is what makes this game much better. 
 Also you are now able to speak to your players before the match, you werent able to do that in 
 previous FM games. I have not noticed any huge effect on players but its still nice add on. Of 
 course talking in half time is still there.
  There is huge amount of leagues, very detailed and excellently done for the most part.
  Well 
 thats it not much to say, it very nice solid manager. There is no better Football Manager out there, 
 some try to copy FM and fail, badly! But still as much i praise this game i have to say that i 
 want something NEW! Yes its best manager game, yes its like blood to vampire if you are fan, yes 
 and yes and yes... But i want new MATCH engine, last 3 FM games were 90% same game i think a lot 
 of people are getting fed up. I for example spend 3 times more time on previous FM2006. Why? Well 
 that DEJA VU feeling returned very quickly. We (fans) need revolutionary FM game, next gen is here 
 its time too make next gen FM game! Dont you agree? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiers_jimbo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  Never will there be another activity that has made so many grown men cry. Even watching from home, 
 you can taste the tension as 40,000 hopes hang in the balance of 11 men, hopefully utilised to 
 their strengths by the master tactician sat in the dugout.
  
  And no, we're not talking about the guy with the magic sponge.
  
  This game allows you to help 
 mould the fortunes of your favourite club, or work your way up, gaining renown and influence along 
 the way. If you have ever questioned a substitution, formation or playing style, then now is your 
 time to put up or shut up.
  
  I find that working from the ground up is a lot more rewarding, and although controlling a team 
 with crowds of 11 at your local recreational ground can be pretty boring, moving them to their 
 nice new plush stadium is a lot more rewarding, knowing that this is all down to you.
  
  However, you need to make the best of the funds available to you. Teams will offer you players 
 left, right and centre, and you have to know what to avoid, whether it be a high price tag, or 
 simply someone who plays with two left feet - especially if they're on the right wing.
  
  And of course there's all the other pressures handed to you as manager - in a world of inflated 
 price tags and sky high wages, debt is more than a distinct possibility - your tactics must extend 
 beyond the pitch.
  
  As the matches go, you can do almost anything - except perhaps leaving David James upfront in the 
 final minute. The possibilities are more than numerous, and although it's not exactly beautiful, 
 it conveys every single moment of the game, leading to out of your seat moments of pure joy, or 
 anger induced Teddy out the pram incidents.
  
  This game is immersing, enjoyable and everlasting, and will carry on until you finally get bored 
 of winning everything - but by that time, they'll have probably brought out the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acewb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so here's my review for the game FM2007.
  
  Basically the most comprehensive and interactive FM in the series.
  
  The interface is not 
 changed much from the previous FM, giving users a very easy time familiarising with the controls 
 and configuration of the game.
  
  There is also Pre-Match pep talk added to the previously only Half-Time / Full-Time team talk. 
 Pre-match interviews also let players have a feel of giving comments about how they feel about 
 their forthcoming games.
  
  The training section is unchanged so you can use back your previous training tactics from FM2006 
 if you have one that you think works the best for the player.
  
  Your scouts now give you details report cards of players you are interested or asked to scout. 
 If you have no idea who to purchase, turn to the helpful report cards!
  
  The AIs have also become much more intelligent and human-like and is not easy to defeat. They change 
 their tactics frequently so make sure you change your team tactics accordingly to win the game.
 
  
  The only bad thing is that you have to download your own packs for the players and teams and nations. 
 That's a easy thing to do if you know where to download the packs.
  
  All in all, it's the best FM in the running and prepare to spend hours sitting in front of the 
 computer just to preparing and bringing your team to football glory! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VW2k
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  Well, another year, another football manager from Sports Interactive.
  But does this game worth? I would say YES.
  In fact in my opinion is the best in series this 
 year's manager.
  They developed many things but nothing has a big impact on the game. Which I should say is a good 
 fact. The football manager 06 was very good, and this one needed only a few adjustments, that... came.
 
  I want to say that releasing every year a new manager is not de best idea. I am afraid that they 
 chase EA sports footprints, and it is not good.
  Football manager is a great game, don't missunderstand me. But the improvements and adjusments 
 weren't too many.
  They consolidated an excelent game. That is all.
  The gameplay is as usual an excelent one. The graphics are as they should be. But what about the 
 sound? Here they should of improved things. It is so poor the sound. In matches the supporters 
 have I expected to hear the fans chanting their favorites name, but i was dissapointed here not 
 to see this.
  As a conclusion a would say that this game attracts the veterens in series but newcomers not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JankoiTom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  Now, you noticed that I put hard in Difficulty, I'll explain that later on.
  
  The first thing you notice when you take install and start FM with your first (and probbably favourite) 
 team is that most off the squad looks just like IRL, the only difference can be in the youngsters 
 but that is not important
  
  The game itself is pretty complex to newbies, but if you played FM before and (even better) if 
 you have your own personal playing style, you will master that game in a matter of hours
  
  Master is probbably the wrong word and I should have used it in the last paragraph, because you 
 can never maste FM, you can be a begginer, an experienced player, a geek who has played FM all 
 his life, but you still won't be able to take Shrewsbury to the title in a matter of seasons (If 
 someone did that I must say I am impressed) .
  
  The graphics and sound part of the game hasn't changed for a long time, but to me it is probbably 
 the perfect solution, because you have control of the entire game in your hands, you can see the 
 entire pitch and what player is out of position and correct that later.
  
  Now, to make things short, YOU MUST BUY FM2007, if you like soccer that is, because it is a great 
 game that deserves to be played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Football Manager 2007 is the latest installment of the text based manager franchise. Football Manager 
 06 took the best parts from the Championship Manager series and added a lot more! This series is 
 definetly in a different league when compared to the shocking Championship Manager (post 03/04) . 
 Sadly I find it disappointing that we need to pay at least &pound;25 for a game which basically 
 is the same as the previous one with some cool new features and updated graphics. I still don't 
 think it's enough though. GAMEPLAY 9/10
  
  This is one addictive game. You can take control of any one of thousands of clubs worldwide. I 
 won't go into detail describing the point of the game, you can read a Gamespot summary for that. 
 New features include feeder/parent clubs, player interaction and updated scouting. All of these 
 are impressive. You can play for years and years, you can play that long that players like Wayne 
 Rooney and Arjen Robben will be retired! This is definetly the same type of gameplay as the previous 
 effort. Even with the new features you will still be able to jump straight in and play easily if 
 you have played the previous game. GRAPHICS 9/10
  
  Even though this game is like a giant spreadsheet, it looks great. You may have to find some player 
 facepacks as many faces are just blackened out. Lots of official club logos and the ability to 
 download many custom skins from the internet. It definetly looks smart. The in game pitch looks 
 nice but I can't help but wonder why they don't update and make a 3d pitch with Fifa or Pro Evo 
 style players running around, it would be a huge game but it would be worth it. SOUND 2/10
  
  Sound? I find myself listening to many many albums whilst playing, which is good but you shouldn't 
 have to. The only sounds are the crowd cheering when the game is starting up and the crowd during 
 matches. It's tough to think of what else to add but what about real voices asking the questions 
 you receive news? It is almost silent.
  
  VALUE 7/10
  
  If you own Football Manager 06 and are wondering Do I really need to buy this? . Then I can tell 
 you that you really don't need to. It does have a bunch of new features but nothing worth the price 
 tag. It definetly has loads of replay value, but so does Football Manager 06 with a transfer update.
 
  
  ------
  I give this game a 8.0. It is more of the same but is one of the most addictive games you can play. 
 From playing as Rosenborg, Barca or Scotland you can have lots of fun and many hours away from 
 friends and family. Recommended for die hards and people who love the previous games and have the 
 money to spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Its been a long time since I played football manager. The last time I played a game of this series, 
 it was still called CM4. Eventually work commitments and other games prised me away from it. When 
 I saw FM 07 in my PC store, I was curious about how far the series have advanced and decided to 
 take a look.
  
  Gameplay: Stats, Stats and more stats. The core of this series is the thousands of players u can 
 sign and their stats, in terms of skill, costs etc. It is incredibly engaging to read about a player's 
 skill &amp; stats and to compare them with your current player to see who's tops. The interface 
 for the game is very intiutive and I managed to pick it up in only a few mins despite being away 
 from the game for so long. Matches are more of the same but for some reason, they are still able 
 to convey the same excitement &amp; passion of a real soccer match. The training system, my pet 
 peeve in previous editions, has been revamped and for the first time, I actually found it useful 
 to tinker with it to squeeze out that last bit of potential from my players. I can go on and on, 
 but in short, playing this game will made u forgot you have a life in the real work. 5 stars for 
 addictiveness rating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I love football, football is the language that spreads across the world and when you play Football 
 Manager 2007 you'll see why....
  
  I'll begin by saying that FM 2007 keeps to it's founderies by providing fans with the great same 
 gameplay and abilities that past games have polished off. Everything is in here and improved in 
 some ways, some in bigger ways then others.
  
  SO WHAT'S NEW!
  of course Sports Interactive can't release a new game without some sort of improvment on how you 
 play the game, so this installment as updates rosters and teams (which is expected) and they have 
 also made the media an even more important part of the game. In my view the media is one of the 
 best features in the game now since they introduced it. There is more interaction with the media 
 and with your players through the media, it works well and really makes you feel as if your someone 
 in the world of Football (and what a great world that is.... when your winning of course) . One 
 of the best new addiions to the game makes me think 'how did they not have this in the past installments?' 
 basically once you press 'continue' you get this browser appear while the computer processes into 
 the future days, it's a fantastic thing, it provides you with daily news and scores. This is great 
 because you could be managing in Germany (like I am at current) but still read information from 
 the English Premier leagues and media news on your favourite team. It consists of transfers made, 
 Results and injuries and a number more things will also appear. Tips will also appear and are very 
 useful for new players to the series.
  
  WHAT SOCIAL LIFE!!!!!!!
  many fans of the series will tell you 'Once you start playing you'll say goodbye to your social 
 life?' and there right. This game gets very addictive and you won't realise it until you fall asleep 
 at your computer drooling on your keyboard. The game should have an 'addicition' warning. Sports 
 Interactive could release this game with just updated teams and leagues and it would sell like 
 hot cakes but the fact that they introduce new things shows that it just won't be beaten by any 
 games. LMA Manager and Championship Manager have NO change!
  
  THE WAY YOU PLAY!
  one of the greatest things about these game is that even after playing them for years theres always 
 something new and a new challenge to take on. For instance as much as I love Aston Villa Football 
 Club I don't usually become there manager straight away (I'll leave that to Martin O'Neill) and 
 take the unemployed approach which I love. Knowing that I have to start from the bottom and go 
 up is great and a really challenge. For instance I tried to get the job at a number of English 
 teams such as West Brom, Leeds and Bournmouth but had no chance as I'm a no one with no managing 
 history. So I was given an oportunity at managing Elversburg (think I have spelt it right, sorry 
 if I haven't) in Germany which I didn't expect. It's a really challenge as I wanted to manage in 
 the English leagues but I need a job right! You can still jump straight in and manage any of your 
 fav clubs......
  
  SAME OLD LOOK...... BUT WHAT A GREAT LOOK!
  i'm a big fan of the look of FM, in fact I was a fan of it when it was called 'Championship Manager' 
 as it's great to navigate and use, 2007 improves again and actually looks much better overall. 
 One thing I don't like is the team logos next to the team names, ok it looks good on the championship 
 and lower teams but looks wrong on the Premiership teams as Sports Interactive don't have the right 
 to put them on. But I'm sure some community people will sort that out. Overall it looks great and 
 matches look as nice as they have. (Never go 3-D Sports Interactive)
  
  ALMOST EXACTLY UP TO DATE!
  i was surprised to see how up-to-date FM2007 was, although there 
 are some small transfers that have been missed it's all real good. Take Aston Villa, Stillian Petrov 
 is in the team and so is Didier Agathe. The only man misisng from the team is Chris Sutton who 
 signed only recently, the board is all there in our new owner Randy Lerner (MONEY, MONEY, MONEY) 
 and the other two Americans. Also you'll find Mr O'Neill leading the team to victory.
  
  OVERALL!!!!
  i'm a big fan of this series and Football Manager 2007 is easily the best in the 
 series so far, it takes what made the series great and justs adds sensible, simple additions that 
 work well.....
  
  Bravo Sports Interactive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GGDanny
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  This is the best manager game i have ever played on. I used to buy championship manager but last 
 year it was so poor i sold it nearly soon after i bought it. This season i tryed both demos CM 
 and FM, CM was still very very poor and FM is like real managing. It kicks cm's and LMA's arse 
 they might aswell give up and let FM have the market. If every football fanatic tryed fm they would 
 get it and no other game its that good. You can do so much stuff its amazing every day i find something 
 new to do. I you havnt played it before like me it takes time to get the tatics right but once 
 that is done your off winning :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -James-
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  I can confidently say that I love and hate this game. Love, because I am so engrossed it in that 
 my life just becomes that of a dwindling zombie with a keyboard and mouse. I hate it, because for 
 the next 3 months I've just said goodbye to my social life.
  
  From the instant you start playing the game you realize how in depth it really is. The new features 
 like additional team talks give you a much more control over what you say to your players. Secondly, 
 the increased level of media interaction provides the sim with a new lease of life. Lets start 
 from the top. The fundamentals of this game are the same. The interface is still very accessible, 
 and I think that even FM Virgins could come to terms with it quite quickly. The replay system, 
 in matches is very similar to FM06, but it provides a purpose. The ability to comment on poor refereeing 
 decisions is also novel. The fact that you can opt for the infamous. I didn't see it excuse is 
 golden.
  
  The introduction of Feeder clubs is also interesting. As it enables you to send players who wouldn't 
 be considered for First Team football at your club and make sure they are playing competitvely. 
 Its a novel approach and its another step in the right direction for the series. I also like the 
 new graphics, with the integration of badges in the league tables. Yes, its slightly infuriating 
 that none of the Premiership Teams are licensed, but I'm sure somebody will get to work on a graphics 
 pack for too long.
  
  For anybody who has never played an FM before, this is the chance to get immersed in a series that 
 will literally take over your social life. For those who have, it won't be long before you invest 
 in a copy. I would highly recommend this game to anybody! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubleobenny
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 21, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  OK, lets go step by step.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  It's perfect, hands down. There's very little more they can add. Apart from the fantasticly easy-to-use 
 GUI that makes the entire game great to play, you've got all of the little things they add in from 
 riots on the pitch from rivals to official warnings from the FA for saying that a goal was offside. 
 It's really great fun and easy to play.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The GUI, as I have said before, is brilliant. There are (I think) 3 skins to use, each one a little 
 bit different, but it can really change the style of your game. In the matches you have the regular 
 CM-style matches (view from above where everyone is a circle) . However tacky it may sound, it's 
 a really good experience and the whole setup is really well down.
  
  SOUND
  There is none. That's right, NO SOUND. The only time you'll hear anything from the game is the 
 music of the crowd during a match. Otherwise there's nothing - no music, no SFX on button presses. 
 Nowt.
  
  VALUE
  Lets face it, you can only play a manager game for a few months before it gets boring for EVER. 
 This is different - there's always something new for every day you play, and instead of AGES loading 
 theres just a small pause. You really can last for years playing this fantastic game.
  
  Not only this but there's multiplayer - not just on one computer, but you can play over a network. 
 Fab!!
  
  Overall it's a brilliant achievement, buy it now!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
